Our Quality Energy for Your Blue Sea and Sky 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. REPORT INTRODUCTION [P11-34] Promoting Economic Growth Special Topics Following its launch in 2005, this is the framework, management process for on Better Fulfillment of Corporate Social Ensuring Energy Supply thirteenth consecutive issue of annual sustainable development and our subsidiaries Responsibilities issued by State-owned CNOOC and SDGs P08 is available on the Company’s website at Assets Supervision and Administration Emphasizing Sci-Tech Innovation sustainability report of China National Offshore Oil Corporation. It is an accurate www.cnooc.com.cn as sustainability and Commission of the State Council of People’s Intensifying Safe Operation LNG: Technological Innovation Leading Development P24 reflection of our fulfilment of economic, annual reports over the years. Republic of China with reference to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of Improving Quality Management Internet +: New Experiences of Fast Service P32 environmental and social responsibilities Improvements: In order to reflect the undertaken in 2017. Some pertinent the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Green Refinery: A Beautiful Life Made by fulfillment of CNOOC’s responsibilities in information about the report is as follows: Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of Oil a more objective, comprehensive and Intelligent CNOOC P37 and Natural Gas Industry (2nd Edition, 2015) Reporting Entity: China National Offshore intensive manner, the compilation of this jointly issued by the International Petroleum CNOOC Welfare Foundation: Complete Devotion Oil Corporation report is based on site investigation on the Industry Environmental Conservation to Moving Ahead with Warmth P54 responsibility fulfillment of CNOOC’s affiliates Alternative Reference: China National Association (IPIECA) and the American and the selection of real cases. Opinions Offshore Oil Corporation is herein also Petroleum Institute (API), the Guidelines Caring for Children: CNOOC’s Benevolence and suggestions from the stakeholders are referred to as “CNOOC”, “the Company”, on China’s Corporate Social Responsibility [P35-46] also incorporated to give an active response Lightening the Future P56 “we”, “our” or “us”. to their concerns. The report is presented Reporting (CASS-CSR 3.0) by the Corporate Enhancing Environmental Protection Social Responsibility Research Center of The Belt and Road: CNOOC’s Heart with the Reporting Period: January 1 to December with the themes of “Our Quality Energy for the Economics Department of Chinese Energy “Silk Road” P64 31, 2017. In order to ensure the continuity Your Blue Sea and Sky” and three issues of Green Operation Academy of Sciences and the ISO 26000 and comparability of the information “Promoting Economic Growth, Enhancing Social Responsibility Guide (2010) by the Tackling Climate Change disclosed, the applicable period for certain Environmental Protection, and Driving International Standards Organization. information may be extended forward or Social Progress” to demonstrate CNOOC’s Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction backward accordingly. sustainable development. In addition to Language: This report is published in both the independent release of “CSR Report Chinese and English. In case of discrepancies, Water Resource Management Reporting Cycle: The timescale of this Overseas” and “Country Report: CNOOC the Chinese version shall prevail. Biodiversity Conservation Country Report report is a calendar year. in Iraq”, seven special issues about social Accessibility: This report is available in print Reporting Principles: To meet the needs of the responsibility are highlighted in the report: and electronic formats. The digital version stakeholders and general public by disclosing “CNOOC and SDGs”, “LNG: Technological CNOOC in Iraq P75 can be downloaded from the Company’s key information of the Company in a true, Innovation Leading Development”, “Internet website at www.cnooc.com.cn. To obtain objective, timely and comprehensive manner. +: New Experiences of Fast Service”, “Green a print version of the report, please email Refinery: A Beautiful Life Made by Intelligent Data: All 2017 data disclosed herein is report@cnooc.com.cn. See also CNOOC CNOOC”, “CNOOC Welfare Foundation: annual statistics. In case of discrepancies WeChat Public Account for the H5 version of [P47-62] Complete Devotion to Moving Ahead with this report. with the data in the annual report, the latter Warmth”, “Caring for Children: CNOOC’s Driving Social Progress shall prevail. Unless otherwise specified, all Benevolence Lightening the Future” and amounts are expressed in Renminbi (RMB). “The Belt and Road: CNOOC’s Heart with Caring for Employees and Stimulating Vitality the Energy ‘Silk Road’ ”. Reporting Scope: Unless otherwise specified, all information disclosed in the report is from References: This report is prepared on the Devoting to Public Interests and Remaining Summary Chairman’s Letter P02 True to the Original Aspiration President’s Letter P04 official documents, statistical reports and reports basis of the SDGs and “Ten Principles” of of fulfilment of responsibilities by CNOOC and the United Nations Global Compact, the Providing Voluntary Services and Strengthening About Us P06 our subsidiaries. The information has been Guidelines to the Central GovernmentBlue Force reviewed by our management, supervision owned Enterprises on Fulfillment of Key Performance Indicators P07 Integrating into the Community and Creating a department and various subsidiaries. Moreover, Corporate Social Responsibilities and the Stakeholders P10 information about CNOOC’s management CNOOC WeChat Public Account Better Life Guidelines to the State-owned Enterprises THE LOGO OF CNOOC [P63-81] The corporate logo of China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) encompasses the basic design CSR Report Overseas elements comprising the letters that make up the company’s initials CNOOC, enclosed by the blue curves and ripples that represent China’s seawaters. The design in red, formed by the capital letters CNOOC, depicts an offshore drilling rig silhouetted against the rising sun, symbolizing prosperity in the offshore oil Overseas CSR Strategy Annex Outlook on 2018 P82 industry of China. Creating Socioeconomic Value Third-party Assessment P83 Strengthening Safety and Compliance Management Glossary of Terms P85 Protecting a Balanced Ecosystem Index of Reporting Indicators P86 Building Platform for Employee Development Feedback Form P88 Promoting Enterprise-Community Common ABOUT THE COVER Development The platform chief manager of “Kenli 10-1” in Bohai Oilfield is commanding operation at the production site. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 02 03 / CHAIRMAN’S LETTER CHAIRMAN’S LETTER achieved a series of breakthroughs of We adhere to the concept of “Lucid talents, protecting their legal rights and We put the safety and compliance as key technologies in the entire industry Wa t e r s a n d L u s h M o u n t a i n s a r e interests and caring for their physical a foothold for overseas business. We chain. For example, we officially released Invaluable Assets”. Therefore, we and mental health. always abide by laws and regulations of the first international standard Standards actively respond to the Paris Agreement the host country, deeply integrate into the We actively fulfil social responsibility for Modular Offshore Drilling Rigs on and participate in global environmental globalization and manage to maximize by repaying communities with our Fixed Platforms , constantly improved the governance to tackle climate change. the value for our stakeholders. We strive development outcomes. We effectively management system, such as promoting Meanwhile, we adapt ourselves to the to promote local economic development improve the living quality of local innovation to enhance lean management new requirements of building a “Beautiful and provide better products and services residents by carrying out heartand innovating business model to China” and strive to fulfil the promise for overseas customers. warming projects. We are committed create a new industrial formation. We of emission reduction. As a result, to promoting rescue capacity, such as We a t t a c h g re a t i m p o r t a n c e t o a also effectively expanded our service CNOOC Sustainability Report 2016 won construction of a state-level Subsea balanced ecosystem in our operation network which helped us implement the “2017 Golden Bees Excellent CSR Pipeline Rescue Base and an Oil Spill area and strengthen energy conservation, the market leading strategy focused on Report – Environmental Responsibility Emergency Base, meanwhile we actively emission reduction and carbon reduction “Market Leading, Customer First, Service Information Disclosure Award”. participate in foreign assistance and management. We have taken various Foremost and Value Creation”. We always take energy conservation, marine emergency rescue. means to protect and restore the We regard safe operation and quality emission reduction and environmental ecological environment, so as to achieve We a re e n t h u s i a s t i c a b o u t p u b l i c management as the lifeblood for protection as important ways to coordination among all parts of the welfare. On the platform of CNOOC corporate sustainable development. We transform development pattern and ecosystem. Marine Environmental and Ecological adhere to the core values of “Safety First, en h an ce s o ci al res p o n s i b i l i t y. We Protection Public Welfare Foundation We strive to optimize overseas recruitment Environment Foremost, People-oriented manage to build a clean, low-carbon, (hereinafter referred to as CNOOC system, actively promote localization and Equipment Intact” and strive to safe and efficient energy system and Welfare Foundation), CNOOC provided of overseas employees, build career raise the corporate safety culture and implement ecological protection by lifeRMB 93.04 million for targeted poverty ladders and help local employees cultivate the “Spirit of Craftsmanship”, cycle project management and green alleviation, marine protection and social develop together with the Company. We which helps us constantly provide the supply chain building. We effectively cooperation for public interests. We work together with the communities to society with comprehensive and high improve the recycling of water resources make efforts in building Blue Force a create sustainable development. quality energy products and services. As and enhance the efficiency of the use of famous brand of our voluntary service, a consequence, CNOOC was awarded water resources. We also attach great In 2018, been placed in a new historical implementing the marine environmental the honorary title of Best Organization importance to protecting the biodiversity starting point, CNOOC remains true to protection and promoting the Unit of National “Safe Production in the vicinity of the operation area and our original aspiration, keeps the mission popularization of the marine knowledge, Month” campaign and “Safe Production strive to achieve harmony between firmly in mind, forges ahead, overcomes assisting students in difficulty and Wanlixing” campaign respectively for operation and nature. difficulties, launches a new journey of Dear all, Persevering in Innovation, Providing supporting education. Dedication of love three consecutive years. energy revolution, composes a new epic Quality Energy is now a common practice in CNOOC. Conforming to the trend of the world Implementing Humanistic Management of social responsibility, strides forward energy development, CNOOC has been CNOOC always makes it a point to Advocating Green and Low-carbon Life to Gather Blue Force Extending International Cooperation, Joint the strategic goal of building an alldevoted to the new era since 2017, contribute high quality energy to the Style for Clear Water and Blue Sky CNOOC adheres to the talent strategy, Development for Bright Future around world-class energy company society and has decided to stabilize oil has undertaken new missions and got As a main promoter and practitioner of re g a rd i n g t h e t a l e n t a s t h e m o s t with Chinese characteristics, makes production, increase yield of natural gas CNOOC adheres to the internationalization new achievements. As a member of the energy revolution, CNOOC adheres valuable asset of the Company. We are contribution to achieve the national “Two and vigorously develop clean energies. strategy. Guided by the Spirit of the Silk the United Nations Global Compact, to the concept of “Innovation, Harmony, committed to sharing our development Centenary Goals” and to realize the We aim at promoting the reserves Road, “Peaceful Cooperation, Openness CNOOC adheres to the “Ten Principles” Greenness, Openness and Sharing”. outcomes with employees and society, Chinese Dream of the great rejuvenation and output of oil and gas, in particular and Tolerance, Mutual Learning and in human rights, labor, environment and We adapt ourselves to the low-carbon pursuing common development with of the Chinese nation! increasing the supply of LNG (liquefied Mutual Benefit”, we have actively anti-corruption, actively takes measures trend of the world energy development, all stakeholders. For example, we natural gas), coordinating the industrial extended international cooperation with regard to the 17 sustainable actively implement the green and lowwork hard to enhance employees’ upstream and downstream business so and worked together with partners to development goals in 2030 Agenda for carbon development strategy and strive sense of happiness and acquisition as to constantly meet the growing social pave a new Energy “Silk Road” in order Sustainable Development United Nations to build world-class green and lowthrough establishing a fair and equal demand for high quality energy. to interlink the whole world for better and strives to get a balance between carbon operational capability, so as to recruitment mechanism, building career We take the innovation-driven strategy resource utilizaiton on the basis of e c o n o m i c g ro w t h , e n v i ro n m e n t a l create a better ecological environment. ladders for employee development, mutual benefit. That is our response to Chairman Yang Hua protection and social progress. to lead the energy industry. We have maintaining an environment of respecting March 16, 2018 building a community of shared future. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 04 05 / PRESIDENT’S LETTER PRESIDENT’S LETTER We continue to improve the system of Persevering in Green Development and as protecting human rights, pursuing Initiative; meanwhile, it promotes local scientific and technological innovation. Fulfilling Environmental Responsibility equality, creating a fair and open economic and social development In 2017, we increased investment in R & D CNOOC implements green and low-carbon environment for the employees, making overseas. In 2017, CNOOC’s overseas to strengthen research on key issues strategy through green procurement, green professional development pathways output of crude oil and natural gas and accelerate commercialization of production, and green supply chain. In clear and unblocked, establishing a reached up to 32.73 million tons and sci-tech achievements. The Research 2017, the Company was awarded the 4th “Four in One” talent cultivation system 11.6 billion m3 respectively. on and Industrial Application of Key term of “Excellent Energy Conservation involving selection, training, assessment, CNOOC upholds international conventions Drilling and Completion Technologies and Emission Reduction Enterprise” issued promotion and certification. The Company and business ethics, as well as strictly for HTHP Wells in the South China Sea by the State-owned Assets Supervision attaches importance to the assistance to abiding by local laws and regulations. The won the first prize of the State Scientific and Administration Commission (SASAC) employees in difficulty and implements Company has strengthened compliance and Technological Progress Awards. of the State Council and was designated targeted poverty alleviation on the side of management and improved the internal More than 20 key research projects such by the Ministry of Industry and Information everyone. audit system. The localization rate of as the “Study on Fracture System and Technology the unit for formulating CNOOC Welfare Foundation is regarded overseas employees kept increasing in reservoir-forming in the West of Bohai industrial standards in the Green Factory as the unified management platform for 2017, with 9 percentage rate higher than Sea” and the “Rules of Gas Accumulation Execution Guide. public welfare projects. Highlighting its 2016. The Company also makes efforts and Key E & P Technologies for HTHP We take an active part in the formulation particular positioning and expanding the to build career ladders for overseas Gas Fields in Yingqiong Basin” achieved of low-carbon industrial standards; scope of assistance, the Foundation employees and continuously provides breakthroughs, the independently and actively build a carbon asset insists on targeted poverty alleviation, local employees training courses in terms developed LNG tank technologies were management system and a carbon asset marine protection, and other special of safety, technology, management and successfully applied, the production of management information platform to public welfare charity. Consequently, so on. 6-inch bottom hose achieved localization strengthen the management of carbon the Foundation has won various honors and the solid fluidization method was We have set up good communication trading. The Energy Conservation and like “China Women and Children Charity proved effective to extract offshore natural and cooperation mechanisms with the Emission Reduction Monitoring Center Award”, “Guangming Medal Award”, gas hydrate. There were 840 patents local government and people. We jointly of CNOOC was successfully became “Award for Organization and Group with granted for the entire year, of which 508 create opportunities for sustainable the “National Industrial Energy Saving Most Caring”, etc. were patents for invention. development through a set of efforts and Green Development Evaluation We actively advocate and organize “Blue including job offers and skill training in We take safe production and compliance Center” in 2017 and led the formulation Force” voluntary services. The Company local communities, donation to local o pe ra ti o n a s the pre c o ndi ti o n f o r of standards in the Guidelines for sends support to the vulnerable groups schools, and assistance to the local business. In practice, we tamp the Assessment of Green Factory in the in the society through voluntary charitable people in difficulty. All these activities foundation of safety and environmental Synthetic Ammonia Industry . donations, popularization of the marine were proved helpful to promote local protection, strengthen the safety culture The Company saved 2.221 million tons knowledge and other caring services. economic development. Dear all, innovation for corporate transformation building, implement the safety production of water in 2017. CNOOC also takes an We establish regular communication and industrial upgrading. We improved responsibility system at all levels, carry Dear friends, we thank you for your In 2017, with the faith of the new concept active part in environmental protection mechanism with communities. The quality and enhanced efficiency for out safety capability assessment and support and trust all the time. In 2018, of development, CNOOC endeavoured to initiatives, focusing on study and Company requires that all of its safe operation, and improved services strengthen the contractor qualification with your support and our joint efforts, we fulfil corporate responsibilities of economic protection of biodiversity. The Company new projects are evaluated on the by promoting new types of business, management and the process have the courage to face new challenges growth, environmental protection and has promoted resource restoration environmental and social impact. CNOOC so that we achieved high business management for engineering projects. and fulfil our responsibilities. Let’s social progress, in order to achieve the and environmental improvement in its Sustainability Report 2016 was awared performance in 2017. For example, the contribute our value to create a better life! wonderful vision of “Our Quality Energy We carried on the activity “Quality and operation areas and strived to create again the five-star (highest) rating. annual output of crude oil and natural for Your Blue Sea and Sky”. Benefit Year” for four consecutive years better ecological conditions for building gas reached 75.51 million tons and 25.9 Enhancing International Cooperation and and effectively increased the products a “Beautiful China”. Ensuring Energy Supply and Fulfilling billion m respectively. Imported LNG 3 Fulfilling Overseas Responsibility quality and the efficiency of projects Economic Responsibility reached 20.46 million tons. Natural gasby realizing quality control in the whole Sharing Development Outcomes and CNOOC emphasizes overseas business fired power output was 21.3 billion kWh. Delivering high quality products and process of production and management, Fulfilling Social Responsibility development with prudent operation 35.92 million tons of crude oil was services is the unremitting pursuit of so as to improve professional technical CNOOC adheres to the “People-oriented” and keeps on improving international processed and trading volume of oil CNOOC. Faced with difficulties and service as well as brand image. philosophy and earnestly undertakes management capabilities. The Company President Liu Jian products amounted to 92.5 million tons. challenges, we carried out reform and responsibility for the employees, such actively implements the Belt and Road March 16, 2018 CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 06 07 / SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT ABOUT US KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Company Overview win Benefits, Credibility and Innovation” personnel better apprehend the internal 2017 Source of and the ethos of “Safe and Efficient control system and constantly improve Item 2015 2016 2017 National National China National Offshore Oil Corporation, Data Data Operations, Green and Low-carbon the executive power. CNOOC highlighted the largest offshore oil and gas producer Growth, People-oriented, Courage to comprehensive risk management, Crude Oil Output (10,000 tons) 7,970/4,773 7,697/4,555 7,551/4,278 19,151 NBS in China, is a state-owned mega Innovate, Charitable Giving, Openness strengthened interaction among risk Natural Gas Output (hundred million m3) 251 245 259 1,474 NBS company operating under the control of and Transparency”. The Company management, internal control and audit, LNG Imports (10,000 tons) 1,316 1,652 2,046 the State-owned Assets Supervision and has systematically built a CSR model made overall audit plan with risk and Crude Oil Refining Capacity (10,000 tons) 3,262 3,229 3,592 Administration Commission of the State on the lines of “Economic Growth, problem orientated, and enhanced Crude Oil Trading Volume (10,000 tons) 5,616 7,941 8,637 Council of the People’s Republic of China Environmental Protection and Social informationization, standardization and Fuel Oil Output (10,000 tons) 576 435 372 (SASAC). Progress” and applied the concept normalization for internal audit. Ethylene Output (10,000 tons) 90 107 108 1,822 NBS Headquartered in Beijing, CNOOC of sustainable development to daily Methanol Output (10,000 tons) 156 151 153 operation in dimensions of organization, Economic Fertilizer Output (10,000 tons) 418 370 384 6,065 NBS was founded in 1982. After more than institution and management process, Internal Audit Growth Natural Gas-Fired Power Output 30 years of reform and development, 223 215 213 (100 million kWh) it became an inter national energy with the support of the three level CNOOC enhanced the universal Direct Contractor Casualties 2 2 5 company with prominent core business, CSR management structure including coverage of auditing supervision on key Employee Casualties 0 5 0 a complete industrial chain and the leading group, departments and domains, factors and projects, which Recordable Injury Events (case) 72 65 47 business spreading across 30 countries subordinates. Moreover, the Company provided a solid guarantee for improving R&D Investments (RMB100 million) 31 21 27 and regions. The five main business promptly evaluates, adjusts and the perception and preventing major Science and Technology Employees improves the effectiveness and results risks, the loss of state-owned assets, 8,975 9,097 8,529 segments of the Company are oil & (people) gas exploration and development, of its sustainability strategy through as well as improving risk management, Granted Patents (awards) 999 834 840 professional technical services, refining benchmarking and making comparisons efficiency, compliance operation and Energy Conservation and Emission 2.9 4.1 3.5 Reduction Investments (RMB100 million) sales and fertilizers, natural gas and with global business leaders and sustainable development. In 2017, Comprehensive Energy Consumption per power generation and financial services. historical data. the Company completed 525 internal RMB10,000 Turnover (tons of standard 0.2731 0.3519 0.3805 In 2017, it was ranked the 115th in projects, 1,955 audit findings and 1,004 coal equivalent)1 As a participant of the United Nations Fortune Global 500 and the 31st in audit advices, created a total of RMB Environmental Energy Savings (10,000 tons of standard 30.8 23.0 33.5 Global Compact, CNOOC has always Protection coal equivalent) Petroleum Intelligence Weekly (PIW)’s 787 million of direct economic benefit. been adhering to the “Ten Principles”. By Sulfur Dioxide Gas Emission (tons) 8,844 5,796 4,710 World’s Top 50 Oil Companies. At the focusing on safer, more environmentalChemical Oxygen Demand (tons) 1,723 1,075 1,074 end of 2017, Moody’s and Standard & friendly and more efficient operation and Anti-corruption Nitrogen Oxides Emission (tons) 15,187 10,654 10,268 Poor’s rated the Company with credit management, CNOOC always strives Ammonia Nitrogen Emission (tons) 149 109 66 ratings of A1 and A+. Both outlooks are CNOOC kept tough stance on corruption for a balance among economic growth, Headcount (10,000 people) 2 11.8 10.6 9.8 stable. and dealt with cases violating laws environmental protection and social Rate of Conclusion of Employment and the Company’s regulation with 100% 100% 100% Contracts progress. an iron hand, besides enhancing antiRate of Social Insurance Coverage 100% 100% 100% Strategy of Sustainable corruption awareness on a daily basis Percentage of Employees Joined the 100% 100% 100% Development Compliance Operation and carrying out training for preventing Labor Union Employee Satisfaction Index As one of the specific implementers of crises before they emerge. The Company 7.74 7.62 8.15 In 2017, the Company strengthened the (10 point system) the national energy strategy and marine conducted internal patrol inspection Percentage of Female Employees 24% 21% 20% risk investigation and established the strategy, CNOOC shoulders the crucial in headquarters and subsidiaries for Social Incidence of Occupational Disease initial major risk tracking and reporting (cases) 4 3 4 mission of ensuring national energy checking problems and acting as a Progress mechanism. CNOOC continued the Rate of Physical Examination for security, developing marine resources deterrent, thereby urging them to deepen Occupational Health 99.6% 99.9% 99.7% rolling update of the internal control and protecting marine ecology. The rectification, reinforce reform and promote Average Training Duration per Employee system by combining full update with 81.3 86.0 74.0 Company regards economy, environment development. CNOOC continued to (hours) partial (focal) amendment for dynamic improve the institutional system, focusing Employee Turnover Rate 7.4% 2.6% 2.0% and society as the most solid cornerstone adaptability. Meanwhile, the Company on the supervision and inspection of Charitable Donation (RMB10,000) 16,822 13,608 9,304 for energy development and value optimized the investment decisionProfit and Tax (RMB100 million) 821 741 957 contribution. the implementation, comprehensively making system and the working Number of Foreign Employees 7,664 4,864 4,767 strengthen the internal control and CNOOC adheres to its corporate vision procedure of the Investment Committee. Localization Rate of Overseas Employees 85% 71% 80% corporate governance, and resolutely “Energy for All”, upholding the philosophy Moreover, online and offline training correct all kinds of violations of disciplines Note: 1 The data of comprehensive energy consumption of production value per 10,000 RMB of 2016 and 2017 is calculated by taking the data of “People-oriented, Responsibilities, Winwere both launched to help business and regulations. of 2015 in comparable price as the base; the data of 2015 is calculated by taking the data of 2010 in comparable price as the base. 2 The staff size includes foreign employees. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 08 09 / SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT CNOOC and SDGs As a member of the UN Global Compact, CNOOC adheres to the “Ten Principles” in human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption and takes effective measures referring to the 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs) in Transforming Our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, proposed Clean Water and Climate Action Underwater Terrestrial Four Areas of Global Compact Sanitation Facilities Creatures Creatures by the UN. CNOOC makes every effort to fulfil social responsibilities according to the characteristics of its business in order to achieve the 2030 SDGs. CNOOC Sustainable Development Model 33.5 6 fresh water energy saving biodiversity conservation pay taxes according to laws, 9,639.1 consumption for the (10,000 tons of research projects (items) whole year standard coal) care for employee development (10,000 tons) investment in marine Increase public welfare contribution, water saving 21 ratio of sulfur dioxide 1,580 environmental and 221.2 emission reduction (%) ecological protection compliance operation, repay shareholders promote community harmony energy consumption, emission reduction (10,000 tons) (RMB10,000) 4 reform and innovation, increase value ecological balance, biodiversity ratio of nitrogen oxides Environmental emission reduction (%) Economic Growth Protection Sustainable Development Management maintain regional ecology, improve working environment, enhance resource efficiency tackle climate change Social improve environmental quality, Progress control environmental pollution, develop circular economy adhere to the sharing of resources No Poverty No Starvation Health and WellQuality Education Gender Equality labor rights, multi-culturism being community harmony, employee satisfaction Affordable Clean Decent Work and Industry, Responsible Energy Economic Growth Innovation and Consumption and Infrastructure Production 4,075 poverty alleviation in Tibet (RMB10,000) 99.7 ratio of physical examination for 5.4 training (10,000 courses) 20 ratio of female employees occupational health (%) trainees 265 volunteer teams incidence of 180 0 employment of 4 (10,000 people) child labor occupational disease assistances to employees training time 605 in difficulty (households) 659 (10,000 hours) 37 pre-evaluation of occupational hazards 286 11,260 27 7,551 sales of LNG total assets R & D investment crude oil output fixed-point poverty (cases) international talents (100 million m3) (RMB100 million) (RMB100 million) (10,000 tons) 4 alleviation (provinces) 270 training (person-time) turnover science and technology 745 5,505 8,529 259 sales of gasoline natural gas output (10,000 tons) (RMB100 million) employees (people) (100 million m3) staff 861 9.8 840 3,592 sales of diesel granted patents processed crude oil (10,000 tons) (10,000 people) (awards) output (10,000 tons) sales of aviation kerosene 0.3805 invention patent 278 100 employment contracts(%) 508 ratio of conclusion of comprehensive (10,000 tons) (awards) energy consumption per RMB10,000 turnover (tons of 100 ratio of social insurance standard coal equivalent) disabled employees coverage(%) Inequality Reduction 515 (people) Sustainable Cities and Communities 1,166 service stations locations of natural gas Peace, Justice quality and QHSE management Partnership to 36.8 ratio of overseas assets 3 ratio of ethnic minority employees (%) 70 business (cities) and Powerful 100 system certification rate of supplier and contractor (%) Promote Goal (%) Institutions Achievement 957 profit and tax crude oil overseas 3,273 output (10,000 tons) (RMB100 million) natural gas overseas 116 output (100 million m3) localization rate of 80 overseas employees (%) 1 CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 10 11 / 促进经济增长 STAKEHOLDERS CNOOC has built a service and i mp l e me nt a ti o n o f o ur stra te g i e s, In 2017, CNOOC kept on the theme of communication system for stakeholders, policies and plans. We also take various “Our Quality Energy for Your Blue Sea including governments, employees, measures of information disclosure to and Sky” and undertook sustainable shareholders, customers, industry echo their concerns. A series of key development through three dimentions partners, suppliers and contractors, performance indicators are used to o f “ P ro m o t i n g E c o n o m i c G ro w t h , financial institutions, media, communities ensure our actions and communication Enhancing Environmental Protection and non-governmental organizations, with stakeholders effective. We believe and Driving Social Progress”, in order to etc. We pay close attention to their that trust and support of stakeholders better meet the needs and respond to concerns in the formulation and are impetus for our further development. the concerns of stakeholders. Information Disclosure PROMOTING ECONOMIC Paper media Microblog WeChat Mobile APP Website: www.cnooc.com.cn GROWTH Stakeholders’ Voice Thanks for the event “CNOOC Open Day”. It is the I shall say thanks a lot to CNOOC for its first time that diplomatic envoys has made a study on CNOOC Welfare Foundation provides contribution to poverty alleviation and the state-owned central enterprises after the 19th CPC a lot of support to legal aid cause and socioeconomic development in Hezuo National Congress. The event was well organized and makes great efforts to comprehensively city. With the support of CNOOC, the the wonderful presentation let me know the history promote the law-based governance level of education, health and medical of CNOOC, developing from a domestic upstream so that more people in difficulty and care in the city has been effectively company to an international integrated company, with vulnerable groups feel the warmth, care improved. Besides, the new countryside operation from shallow water to deep water. The event from all sectors of the society. Thanks construction has made evident progress. was extraordinary significant to me as I have a deeper CNOOC for making justice deeply and We hope that CNOOC could further understanding on the confidence in our path, theory, firmly rooted in the people’s mind. intensify its supports to Hezuo city. system and culture. I hope to strengthen exchange and China Legal Aid Foundation cooperation with CNOOC and want to provide as much Zhou Mei, support as possible for the Company to “Going Out”. Deputy Secretary and Mayor of Hezuo City, Gansu Province Song Aiguo, China’s Ambassador in Egypt Communication with Stakeholders CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 12 13 / PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH ENSURING ENERGY SUPPLY Oil and Gas Production Bohai Oilfield strengthened innovation to stabilize production over 30 million m3 for 8 years consecutively In order to ensure national energy In 2017, faced with multiple difficulties Bohai Oilfield reinforced lean management CNOOC continues to provide the development of unconventional gas, In 2017, CNOOC produced 75.51 million security, CNOOC actively responds such as increasingly complex external in the less productive, less efficient and longmore diversified, greener and more increase the supply of LNG and make tons of crude oil and 25.9 billion m3 of to the severe challenges in the low oil environment and difficult control over term closed wells, established a database environmental-friendly quality energy, a great contribution to ensuring energy natural gas, imported 20.46 million tons price environment. Adhering to the declining rate of the old oilfields, Bohai for three types of wells, cooperated with strengthen the conventional oil and gas supply and control of air pollution. of LNG and generated 21.3 billion kWh innovation-driven strategy, the Company Oilfield promoted comprehensive innovation various sectors such as reservoir, operation exploration and development, promote of natural gas-fired power. implements safe and efficient lean of both management and technology. A list of and production, thus achieved stable output management, optimizes technical plans responsibilities involving 14 work units and over 30 million m3 for 8 years consecutively, and contract modes, takes effective Oil and Gas Exploration 4,348 key points in the working process was which hit the historical record. Bohai Oilfield m e a s u re s t o i n c re a s e p ro d u c t i o n put forward. The detailed responsibilities were backs the development of Chinese economy Being led by regional development In 2017, CNOOC continued to keep 19-6” and “Kenli 6-4/6-5”, of which according to local conditions and assigned to the work units in departments. as its cumulative production of oil reached planning and guided by exploration the domestic self-financed exploration “Bozhong 36-1”, “Ledong 10-1” and maintains high production time efficiency Besides intensive cultivation in old oilfields, 350 million tons in the past 50 years. for medium and large-scale oil and and newly discovered reserve at a high some others were expected to be large and high utilization efficiency of oil wells. gas fields, CNOOC has optimized its level, with 25 commercial discoveries and medium-scale oil and gas fields. The cumulative production of oil and gas in eastern South China Sea In 2017, the domestic output of crude oil Oilfield exceeded 300 million m3 exploration investment portfolio and and 8 potential commercial discoveries, The Company also achieved 2 overseas was 42.78 million tons, and natural gas achieved breakthroughs in multiple successful evaluation of 19 oil and gas commercial discoveries and successfully By the end of 2017, the cumulative gas explorations, besides advancing E&P was 14.3 billion m3 (of which the output regions. bearing structures such as “Bozhong evaluated 4 oil and gas bearing structures. production of oil and gas in the eastern South activities from shallow water to deep of coalbed methane was 1.15 billion m3). China Sea had exceeded 309 million m3. water, from simple to composite oil and gas reservoirs. CNOOC has successfully A 100 Million m3 Level Oilfield Discovered in the South of Bohai Sea CNOOC adheres to the strategy of promoting developed 32 oilfields and 7 gasfields, which self-financed and cooperative operations “Bozhong 3-1” was approved a 100 million m3 Thereby, the history of no 100 million m3 million m3 level oilfields in the east, west, effectively ensure the national energy supply. simultaneously and parallelling oil and level oilfield by national authorities on August level oilfield discovered in the south of Bohai south and north of Bohai Sea respectively and 28, 2017. Sea was ended. CNOOC has now four 100 has created a new prospect for development. Western South China Sea Oilfield achieved stable output over 10 million m3 for 10 years consecutively In 2017, Western South China Sea Oilfield technological innovation and management overcame the problems such as long periode optimization. of development, fast decline in output and Western South China Sea Oilfield achieved difficulty in production growth, in addition stable production over 10 million m3 for 10 to negative factors like typhoons, overhaul, years consecutively, since its first membership etc., and made efforts to achieve 100.2% in the “10 Million m3 Level Oilfields” in 2008. of the annual production target through “HAI YANG SHI YOU 981” departing from port for propeller test and FMEA Successful Lgnition of a Super HTHP Exploration Well in Deepwater of Western South China Sea “Ledong 10-1-3”, a natural gas exploration HTHP well at 4,079 meters depth and nearly exploration in deep water and CNOOC has well in Western South China Sea Oilfield 200℃ at the bottom where the pressure a full set of technologies and management in Yingqiong basin, achieved ignition on coefficient is 2.3. This achievement signifies abilities for geological study, drilling and October 9, 2017. The well is a typical super a breakthrough of Chinese natural gas logging under the condition of super HTHP. The maiden voyage of China’s first mobile offshore production test platform CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 14 15 / PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH Refining and Chemical Production Service Network CNOOC always takes customer of customer complaints and common continues to explore new service modes CNOOC makes full use of the production plan management, in order to tons of crude oil, produced 8.78 million satisfaction as an important indicator to development with customers on the and strengthens the construction of advantages of production and marketing ensure the stable and efficient operation tons of refined oil products, 6.94 million measure service quality. Fully integrating basis of mutual benefit. service stations, gas stations, bulk plants, integration, focusing on upgrading the of equipment and achieve the overall tons of bitumen, 1.08 million tons of internal with external resources, the LNG receiving terminals and natural gas In order to allow its customers to enjoy its quality of oil products, advances major value maximization of refining and lubricants, 1.08 million tons of ethylene, Company actively develops and pipeline network. products and services, CNOOC strives projects according to plans, strengthens chemical production. 2.72 million tons of sodium carbonate improves service network. We attach to build a service network centering on By the end of 2017, the Company had policy study on the industry, optimizes and 3.84 million tons of chemical fertilizer. great importance to customer information In 2017, CNOOC processed 35.92 million “Two Deltas and One Bay” (the Yangtze owned 1,166 service stations, 170 gas process engineering and intensifies protection, and continuously improve River Delta, the Pearl River Delta and stations, 9 LNG receiving terminals, and service for better customer satisfaction. the Bohai Bay region). The Company 4,685 km of onshore natural gas pipelines. The oil-refinery engineering of Phase II Project of Huizhou Refinery was successfully started up in one go CNOOC strives for 100% resolution rate The oil-refinery engineering of Phase II 14.18 million tons of crude oil. It capacity of more than 20 million tons, helps Project of Huizhou Refinery of CNOOC accumulatively processed 100 million tons CNOOC further optimize its industrial Petroleum Products Supply with annual capacity of 10 million tons was of crude oil and paid more than RMB 100 structure, improve the coordinated In 2017, based on the market-oriented to improve the operational efficiency of and Two Railways” (Yangtze River, put into operation in one go on September billion as taxes since it had started operating development of industrial integration and concept, CNOOC strengthened integration management of production Beijing Guangzhou Railway and Beijing 30, 2017. Thus, Huizhou Petrochemical’s 8 years ago. It becomes the Chinese refinery promote Chinese petrochemical industry to coordination between production and and marketing. Kowloon Railway). processing capacity of crude oil reached up to which processed 100 million tons of crude oil be high-end and intensive, in order to meet marketing, gave an impetus to the 22 million tons per year, ranking in the top 3 within the shortest period. the fast increasing demand for high-end CNOOC constantly enriched products, In 2017, CNOOC won recognition and market by enhancing the leading role of Chinese refineries. petrochemical products in the South China improved product and service quality, favor of more customers by selling The overall completion of Huizhou of the producers, actively built up the and even all over the country. extended service network and basically high quality oil products conforming to In 2017, Huizhou Petrochemical processed Petrochemical, a refinery with the processing marketing system, innovated end-user formed a marketing network for oil higher standards and extending service development mode, made differential products, aiming at covering “Two network, with quality, efficient and Daxie Petrochemical processed annually over 8 million tons of crude oil for Taizhou Petrochemical was supply strategies and optimized resource Deltas and One Bay” and extending considerate service. The Company sold the first time awarded the “National Prize for allocation according to consumption to the Central region along “One River 18.84 million tons of refined oil. High Quality Engineering in the characteristics of local markets, so as In 2017, Daxie Petrochemical processed over for “Three Optimizations” in terms of raw Chemical Industry” 8 million tons of crude oil for the first time, oil resources, production management and with a year-on-year growth of 23.8%, and product structure. As results, the company A series of refinery devices of the integration “CNOOC 36-1” Asphalt Used in Multiple Highways in Yan’an , on the CNOOC provides Guangzhou project of Taizhou Petrochemical, such as Snow-covered Plateau and in the Desert Baiyun International Airport with reached a record high. greatly improved key economic and technical the continuous catalytic reforming unit with pipeline jet fuel performance indicators including yield of light In 2017, “CNOOC 36-1” asphalt was used to build Wuding Highway in Yan’an, National Daxie Petrochemical intensified and annual processing capacity of 1 million tons, Highway 349 (Zetang to Gongga airport section) on the snow-covered plateau, Jingxin Highway, oil, comprehensive mercantile rate and the Lisha pipeline for refined oil is CNOOC’s optimized both operation and management. the aromatics extraction unit with annual the road in the desert, the world’s longest highway across the desert, the Asian largest single loss rate of processing was reduced evidently. first self-financed onshore pipeline. It starts It made efforts to tap the potential and processing capacity of 400,000 tons, the fuel highway construction project, the landmark project of the Belt and Road Initiative. Breakthroughs were made in product quality, from Dayawan and terminates at Lisha bulk vigorously explored and applied clean oil hydrotreating unit with annual processing energy saving and environmental protection, plant, with a total length of 163 km. technologies and techniques in production. “CNOOC 36-1” airport asphalt was successfully used to the construction of Middle Runway resource utilization and other domains so as capacity of 1.7 million tons, the hydrogen Targeting at key points in company-wide Maintenance Phase III Project of Beijing Capital International Airport which undertakes more In 2017, CNOOC Dongguan Sales Logistics, to contribute actively clean energies to the unit with annual processing capacity of working processes, the managers strived than 40% of flight and landing volume of the airport. The newly developed damped asphalt subsidiary of CNOOC Oil & Petrochemicals, East China. 50,000 Nm3/h and the paraffin wax-based was successfully put into the market for the production of acoustic insulating material for world accumulatively transported 172,000 tons of lubricating oil hydrocracking unit with famous automobile manufacturers like Mercedes, BMW and GM. jet fuel by pipeline to Guangzhou Baiyun annual processing capacity of 400,000 International Airport in a way of safe, tons, were awarded National Prize for High convenient and zero pollution, so as to meet Quality Engineering of Chinese Chemical the increased demand of jet fuel of the airport. Industry on September 13, 2017. Taizhou Petrochemical’s integration project uses naphthenic oil and paraffin waxbased oil resources with foreign patented technologies to produce high quality naphthenic, paraffinic wax-based lube base oil and many other petrochemical products. The project helps the company achieve a comprehensive utilization of resources and an excellent engineering quality. Night scene of the project site of Huizhou Refinery Phase II CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 16 17 / PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH Natural Gas Supply Ensuring Supply of Natural Gas Centered on “Two Deltas and One Bay”, the coastal natural gas pipeline network CNOOC has developed the natural CNOOC continues to extend natural gas and providing sustainable economic gas business in 18 provinces and 70 supply network and actively builds LNG development with clean energy so as to prefecture-level cities while its LNG receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines build a “Beautiful China”. receiving capacity reached up to 33.9 and gas stations, striving for building up million tons per year. Enhancing Supply Capacity in Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei Region Offshore Natural Gas Landing in southern China with a Volume CNOOC Mengxi Coalbed Methane is divided into three phases. Once the project over 20 Billion m3 Pipeline Project was approved by National finishes, Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region and Ensuring Natural Gas Supply for Emergency, Assisting “Blue Sky Defending” In 2017, CNOOC Gas & Power Group sold Development and Reform Commission. Xiongan New Area will be able to receive 23.2 billion m3 of offshore natural gas in The project is a major measure for CNOOC the coal gas produced in Ordos and Datong Global deployment, real-time peak southern China and achieved extraordinary to respond to the national strategy of as well as the natural gas in Tianjin LNG shaving, reserve and supply capacity effects of green and low-carbon development Coordinated Development of Beijing-TianjinReceiving Terminal owned by CNOOC Gas enhancement by replacing 28 million tons of standard coal Hebei, with supply of clean energies for & Power Group. In mid-August 2017, CNOOC forecasted and thus reducing 60 million tons of carbon regional socioeconomic development and the demand for gas in the forthcoming The project will further improve the supply dioxide (CO2) and 500,000 tons of sulfur Xiongan New Area. winter on the basis of scientific analysis. capacity of clean energies by interconnecting dioxide (SO2). The project starts from Hangjin Qi, Ordos with other natural gas pipelines in the region The Company settled arrangements in The natural gas came from offshore gas fields City, Inner Mongolia, via Shanxi, Hebei, to promote the regional socioeconomic advance, such as purchasing and stocking such as “Liwan 3-1”, “Huizhou 21-1” and etc. Tianjin and ends in Huanghua City of Hebei, development and air pollution control so as to millions of tons of LNG, coordinating They were transported to downstream power with the total length of 1,279 km. The project help build a “Beautiful China”. upstream resource sellers and optimizing plants, industrial and urban gas users through shipment date, to ensure the availability Guangdong pipeline network. of more than 20 billion m3 of natural gas “Menu Service” of LNG Sales Filling the Delivery Gap in the “Last Mile” for winter. In addition, CNOOC leased a FSRU and let it berth at Tianjin LNG LNG fueling stations of CNOOC Gas & September 20, 2017. Receiving Terminal. The FSRU provided Power Group in eastern China adopted We now use natural gas provided by The service innovation is appreciated as an additional capacity of supplying 14 more flexible mode, designed the station for CNOOC while we don’t need to pay even timely assistance by industrial users who used million m3 per day to Beijing-Tianjina pence for infrastructural construction any small LNG cylinders groups and a “Menu Hebei region. Another two LNG carriers high quality and clean energy from CNOOC more.The quality gas ensures the quality of Service” to help deliver techniques and LNG were leased and ordered by CNOOC to to timely alternate coal with no investment on our products, and improves the air quality to customers, filling the delivery gap in the in our plant as well. So we no longer suffer wait at sea for further instructions, which building new stations. “Last Mile”. The first delivery succeded on from the pungent smell of coal. also enhanced regional reserve and supply Pipelines interlink for transporting natural gas from south to north, finding new Mr. Du, boss of a mould factory capacity for emergency. solutions to ensure natural gas supply for emergency provision On December 6, 2017, under the coordination and support of the National Development Strengthening self-discipline, price and Reform Commission and the Energy Bureau, Binda Gas Pipeline Project, a joint supply stabilization and co-maintaining the project of CNOOC, CNPC and Tianjin Binda Gas Industry, was put into operation. Hence, market order ” “Menu Service Tianjin LNG Receiving Terminal could meet the daily demand over 5 million m3 of natural Facing the sharply increased LNG price, gas for nearly a million households in Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region. CNOOC assumed political and social On December 16, 2017, CNOOC transported its natural gas from Guangdong Aotou responsibility and achieved to keep the transmission station to the Second Pipeline of China’s West-to-East Gas Transmission LNG liquid price within price range at Medium and Project (reverse to the normal direction), so as to replace a part of natural gas of CNPC Small-sized RMB 4,500-5,100 per ton. On December Enterprises with its offshore gas from the South China Sea and the imported LNG for the supply to 3, the sales branches of CNOOC Gas & southern China area. Together with the replacement of natural gas with CNPC and Sinopec in Power Group took a lead in responding to Zhejiang, Fujian and Tianjin, the supply of natural gas to northern China maximally increased the government’s call for joint efforts to 17.5 million m3 per day by the nationwide joint action. stabilize the LNG market price during the La the winter by issuing a Group’s “Reminder In the face of up roaring demand for natural gas in the North China, CNOOC carried out st Letter on Stabilizing the Market Order of a “Transporting Natural Gas from the South to the North” action by organizing about 250 e M Natural Gas Price” to all their gas users tankers to transport natural gas from Guangdong Zhuhai Golden Bay and Yuedong LNG of il th e M and tanker carriers. Terminal to the North China in a reasonable manner of resource allocation. a r k et CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 18 19 / PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH Supply Chain Management EMPHASIZING SCI-TECH INNOVATION CNOOC strengthens green supply chain and classified supplyer management, management in terms of bidding management, maintaining a prudent shares supplier information, enhances admittance, product and service quality Technological Innovation manner and strict standards with regard training and supervision and optimizes control, performance assessment and Technological innovation is a core driving heavy oil, oil and gas E & P in deep Technological Progress Awards. CNOOC to selecting suppliers and contractors, performance assessment as well. The elimination of disqualified suppliers and f o rc e f o r e n t e r p r i s e ’s s u s t a i n a b l e waters, the low-permeability tight gas Gas & Power Group won the CWC LNG valuing more concepts and actions in Company applies a whole process contractors. development. Majoring in oil and gas E & P, constantly explores new types Technological Innovation Award 2017. fulfilling social responsibilities, including dynamic management to ensure 100% In 2017, the Company eliminated business, CNOOC actively implements of marine energies, in order to provide CNOOC’s declaration of building “Natural Q H S E a n d l a b o r s t a n d a rd s , t h a n compliance of economic contracts. 136 first and second-tier suppliers, the innovation-driven strategy and s t ro n g g u a r a n t e e f o r s u s t a i n a b l e Gas Hydrate State Key Laboratory” was product quality, service capacity and Based on “Open, Fair and Transparent” because of regulation violation, major constantly improves the technological development of economy, society and approved by the Ministry of Science and corporate reputation. CNOOC upholds bidding principles, CNOOC managed risks or disqualified performance, so innovation system. Meeting the major environment. Technology. CNOOC led the drafting the concept of “Cooperation for Win-win to prevent and solve supply chain that ensured supplier and contractor and important demand of the state of the ISO 18647 Oil and Gas Industry Results and Common Development”, The Research on and Industrial Application risks by applying online procurement quality and QHSE management system and the Company, CNOOC focuses on Specifications for Offshore Modular thus implements centralized, unified 100 % of Key Drilling and Completion Technologies and strengthening the whole process certification rate 100%. research on a series of core technologies Drilling Rigs on Fixed Platforms, which for HTHP Wells in the South China Sea won such as efficient development of offshore was released as an international standard. the First Prize of the State Scientific and Building a Global Supply Chain for Drilling Materials Outsourcing In 2017, COSL Drilling Department worked complementing logistics in the eastern and out an outline document of Procurement western hemispheres, to realize the global Quality of Supplier and Contractor and QHSE Management Regulation for global Internet, 60% of purchasing time of some Management System Certification Rate The “Research on and Industrial Application of Key Drilling and Completion Technologies for HTHP Wells in the South materials outsourcing, started up purchasing orders can be saved, greatly shorten the China Sea” won the First Prize of the State Scientific and Technological Progress Awards and procurement centers in Singapore, procurement process and increased the The “Research on and Industrial Application most advanced technology in the world. the recognized equipment trade center, purchasing efficiency. of Key Drilling and Completion Technologies and Houston, the recognized equipment The achievement was widely applied not only for HTHP Wells in the South China Sea”, led manufacturing center. The department also in China, supporting the discovery of 5 gas by CNOOC, won the First Prize of the State built a dynamic global supplier database fields, but also applied to HTHP oil and gas COSL can get fittings stored anywhere Scientific and Technological Progress Awards. which allows users to input information reserve areas in many countries including the in the world ready to delivery within 5 of all drilling wells and suppliers into the minutes. This huge scientific research project has solved US, the UK, Indonesia and Burma, which AMOS system and to build a high quality four world-class problems and achieved the produced extremely high economic value. Mou Jun, and efficient global material supply chain Manager of Singapore Purchasing & by linking the single suppliers in the world, Procurement Center complementing manufacturing and trade, “Research on Oil and Gas Exploration Technology and Practice in the Deepwater development enters Marginal Depression of Bohai Sea” has made great breakthroughs the world’s advanced ranks COOEC was selected in the Informationization for Procurement Achieving Remarkable Results national key system integrated CNOOC adopts a new idea of exploration depression of Bohai Sea and thus increased Demonstration projects such as Liwan projects of green manufacturing In 2017, CNOOC conscientiously Gasfield Cluster and Liuhua Oilfield Cluster that the focus of oil and gas exploration is the value of exploration in the marginal COOEC’s project Green Supply Chain implemented the Guideline to Further moved from hydrocarbon-rich depression depression. The overall achievements reached have developed Chinese engineering and System Construction of Typical Marine Promote “Internet+ Governance” put to marginal depression. A single marginal the international advanced level and were construction technology systems with Equipment was selected in the national forward by the State Council and “Internet+ depression is shallow-buried with small area successfully put into practice to discover one independent intellectual property rights for key integrated system projects of green Bidding & Purchase” Action Plan (2017and the formation conditions are complex, oilfield of 100 million tons level and two deepwater oil and gas development. The manufacturing in June, 2017. 2019) put forward by the National while all the single marginal depressions oilfields of 50 million tons level, with 284 technologies have been fully implemented Development and Reform Commission. The together cover one third of the Bohai Sea million m3 of geological reserves (3P), in by CNOOC in the deepwater operation of The project realised green design and Company actively advanced the Electronic area. CNOOC organized research on key which 195 million m3 is the proven reserve, the South China Sea. The achievements manufacturing of typical marine equipment Bidding System (EBS) project. technological problems and broke bottlenecks contributing to stabilized oil production in made the country’s history, marking that to improve key techniques for production in oil and gas exploration in the marginal Bohai Oilfield. Chinese deepwater oil and gas engineering and energy efficiency. The achievement of CNOOC’s Procurement Business System and construction have the ability of offshore the project enhances systematic management was issued three star class (highest) oil and gas development in 1500-meter of the green supply chain of design, certification by Chinese Information Security depth under water. Hence, CNOOC enters procurement, production, transportation and Certification Center, marking CNOOC’s the world’s advanced ranks for deepwater installation. The implementation of the project informationization stands at the forefront in petroleum engineering and construction. will set a model of green development for the central enterprises. Since January 1, 2018, marine engineering industry. CNOOC has operated paperless office in the whole procurement process. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 20 21 / PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH Project Main Achievement Equipping the Ability of A new coating invented by Changzhou Institute, subsidiary of CNOOC Independent Development in EnerTech, was successfully applied to Chinese high-speed trains Formed an integrated engineering technology system of natural gas hydrate resource Marginal Oilfields Marine Natural Gas Hydrate Production Test by On June 26, 2017, the weather-resistant The coating technology not only ended the investigation, evaluation, sampling drilling and solid fluidization test; successfully Solid Fluidization Technology On April 24, 2017, CNOOC achieved implemented the production test polyurethane elastomer with high abrasion long-term dependence on foreign protective breakthroughs in the marginal oilfield resistance was successfully applied to coating materials for important parts of high Research and Application of Key Technology for production equipment development project High Precision Imaging Processing of Overseas Successfully applied to the 300 km2 imaging process in Brazil deepwater Libra block, “Fuxing”, the new cornerstone of Chinese speed train, but also widened the application Offshore Pre-salt Oil and Gas Reservoirs in confirmed the newly discovered barrels of proven oil in place in this block Design and Application Direction of A new high-speed trains. field of the weather-resistant polyurethane Deepwater Cylinder-shaped FWPSO won acceptance, elastomer with high abrasion resistance. indicating that China has the ability of Effectively guided the favourable play selection and new venture evaluation in the drift Study on the Evaluation Method of Marine Source independent development in 500-meter depth sequence of West Africa passive continental margin basins selected 3 favourable Rocks in the West Africa Passive Continental exploration plays and 5 favourable exploration blocks in the Lower Congo basin, Niger under water in marginal oilfields. COOEC completed for the first time the domestic underwater control Margin Basin delta basin and so on system integration test Established hydrocarbon pooling patterns and a technical process suitable for the study COOEC completed the domestic underwater the first time in the domestic subsea control Study on Fracture System and Reservoir-forming on reservoir-forming in active fracture zones in the west of Bohai Sea; guided by the in the West of Bohai Sea control system integration testing for the system integration testing, marking that patterns and process, obtained 4 commercial discoveries like “CFD 6-4” first time. CNOOC has mastered the complete design Oil and Gas Geology and Key Exploration Discovered 3 mid-size oilfields like “Lufeng 14-8”, with 37.83 million m3 of new added capability of subsea control system, as well as Technologies on the Continental Margin of the proven reserve in place; discovered 20.2 million m3 of 3P reserves and potential On October 13, 2017, COOEC’s “Subsea Pearl River Mouth Basin resources in “Liuhua 34-6” structure integrated construction capability of 500-meter Control System and Key Equipment Research depth control system and the test devices. Study on Accumulation Mechanism of Tight Newly added 5.6 billion m3 of natural gas geological reserves in E & P integration test and Development” project succeeded for Sandstone Gas in Linxing-Shenfu Block area, and the cumulative production reached up to 78 million m3 Online profile control & flooding technologies and their supporting system have been COOEC achieved for the first time the completely independent design of floatover technology Online Profile Control & Flooding Technologies for estimated and applied in C17 and other wells in “Qinhuangdao 32-6” Oilfield with Oilfields with High Water Cut in Bohai Bay 12,530 m3 of total incremental oil On May 31, 2017, the barge “HAI YANG bottom of the sea. technologies. The self-developed LMU Achieved series of achievements in geophysical characterization for reef limestone SHI YOU 228” of COOEC jerked the upper and DSU were for the first time applied to Study on Enhancing Oil Recovery of the Reef reservoirs and high precision logging evaluation in the east of South China Sea; applied The floatover technology used in the platform of “Wenchang 9-2/9-3”, weighed production, which achieved localization of Limestone Oilfields in the East of South China Sea the achievements to 2 adjustment wells including C7H3, and accumulatively increased operation was independently designed by 770,000 m3 of oil production up to 12,800 tons, and firmly embedded it key equipment of their kinds. COOEC. It broke the monopoly of foreign on the jacket which was grounded on the Developed a large diameter MRCT and applied in 5 wells onshore and offshore, obtained Large Diameter MRCT 103 cores; the performance reached the international advanced level Formed a short radius side drilling technology system specially for “Suizhong 36-1” Key Technologies of Short Radius Side Drilling Oilfield development and adjustment, successfully applied in 5 wells including “SZ36-1and Completion in “Suizhong 36-1” Oilfield E19H1”, whose project duration was saved by 4.54 days, footage by 1,120 meters and cost by RMB 6.527 million Developed the first set of CWHE for LNG in China with the capacity of 300,000 m3 per Development of Large CWHE for LNG day, intended to use in Xi'an LNG project, which is estimated to save tens of millions of RMB for the project owner High Temperature Resistant Cementing Slurry Achieved industrialization; developed 3 markets including Shell, Haski and the eastern Series Tarim Basin of Xinjiang; created over RMB 60 million of output value The products have been applied in 3 oilfields such as “Nanpu 35-2” with more than 1,560 New De-mulsification Technology for Oilfields tons of sales and over RMB 24.5 million of output value Optimal Implementation and Producting Implemented horizontal well and explored ESP in the Mishrif layer; the productivity of a Technology of Horizontal Wells in Thick Carbonate single horizontal well reached 4,500 barrels per day, which hit historic level Reservoirs Innovation of Integration Technology System for Established a tight gas E & P integration test area (LX 8/9 well area), with an annual Tight Gas E & P output of 60 million m3 and an accumulative production of LNG over 10 million tons Complete Set Technology of Phosphorusless Used by Huizhou Petrochemical, CNPC Guangxi Petrochemical, SINOPEC Sabic Tianjin Water Treatment Petrochemical and other enterprises, with an output value over RMB 100 million Broke the monopoly of foreign technologies in the field of marine and heavy duty High Performance High Build Epoxy Anticorrosive anticorrosive coatings; successfully applied to ships and offshore oil platforms with an Coating accumulative sales revenue of RMB 36.5 million “Blue Whale” in offshore operation CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 22 23 / PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH The first middle and short radius horizontal well was drilled in Bohai Oilfield Ocean Energy Resources Exploitation and Utilization Technology On June 26, 2017, the first middle and short achievement is significant to reduce offshore Tidal Current Energy Demonstration won Awards Research on Offshore Multi-energy radius horizontal well was drilled in Bohai drilling cost, increase oil recovery and Complement Technology The innovations of CNOOC’s “500 kW Ocean Energy Isolated Power System Demonstration Oilfield, marking CNOOC has mastered the economic return, in addition to break rigid Project”, on the basis of tidal current energy development technology, have achieved a On one side, the research aims at supplying key well drilling and completion techniques restraints on investment and production in the complementary effect among multiple energies including tidal current, wind and solar energies, sustained energy for use at sea by centering for middle and short radius wells. The low oil price period. and got breakthroughs of key technologies of ocean energy development and utilization, such as at marine renewable energies with the low-velocity high-efficiency tidal current turbine blade, multiple energies collection and energy complementary support of a mix of wind, management, tidal current energy generation device support platform, etc. In addition, the project solar and other energies. On the other side, “Research and Demonstration of the Key Technologies of Independent Power System of Ocean the research aims at providing a safe, green Pioneering Innovation Energy for Island Power Supply” was awarded the Second Prize of the 2016 Ocean Engineering and efficient energy supply solution for the Science and Technology. development of deepwater energies, making CNOOC carries on promoting research and other new type green and low-carbon energy technologies and has made efforts to downsize the huge cost of largeon natural gas hydrate, ocean energy, energies. Relying upon scientific projects, positive progress and phased achievement scale energy storage and reduce power hydrogen energy, offshore nuclear power CNOOC supports the R & D of pioneering in a number of national key projects. Research on the Application of Offshore Nuclear Energy Technology fluctuations (generated by using a mix of renewable energies) through optimization of The characteristic risk and its assessment method for offshore nuclear energy application in multi-energy complement technology. Pioneering technological innovation promoted the implementation pilot scheme of marine natural gas hydrate offshore oil fields were initially established through the research, and the target oilfield as well as the access platforms and received electricity price for demonstration pilot project of A team at CNOOC Research Institute has diagenetic hydrate at a depth of 1,310 meters and efficient development of marine natural offshore nuclear power station was clearly defined through prefeasibility study, which laid a undertaken researches on “Marine Natural under water with the hydrate orebody buried gas hydrate. The intensive and sustainable solid foundation for the national demonstration pilot project in the future. The professional and Gas Hydrate Production Technologies and depth of 117-196 meters. research on this technology is expected to technological consulting services provided by the research team for the National Energy & Techniques”, relying on a series of completely provide strong support for green development Offshore Nuclear Power Platform Technology R & D Center was highly recognized as well. This indicates that China has achieved a independent technologies, techniques and of natural gas hydrate, accelerate the green historic breakthrough in the key technology equipment including “HAI YANG SHI YOU production and consumption oriented policyof natural gas hydrate exploration and 708”, a deepwater engineering survey vessle. making and building a clean, low-carbon, safe production with independent intellectual Taking Firm Steps in Advancing the Research on Ocean Thermal Energy In 2017, the team achieved the first successful and efficient energy system. property rights, and advanced to the safe solid fluidization test and ignition of non CNOOC advanced “Pilot Studies on Ocean Thermal Energy Development” on schedule and has achieved a preliminary conceptual scheme for the development in the South China Sea. The Company has also completed the studies on location selection, ocean thermal power generation R & D of Low-Carbon and Clean Energy Technologies system and support platform, which helped the Company promote the application of ocean thermal power generation. The low-carbon and clean energy technologies, such as the preparation and application of graphene, power battery, offshore wind power, large-scale energy turbine electric generator storage, preparation of hydrogen and construction of hydrogen refuelling station, etc. have been researched. By the researching, Large-scale Energy Storage Offshore Wind Power evaporator condense warm sea cold sea water we aim at catching up with the new water pump pump technological development, find business development opportunities and provide working fluid pump important references for the Company’s future industrial layout in the field of lowwarm sea water carbon and clean energies. Preparation and Application Preparation and Application of cold water of Graphene Hydrogen Energy Diagram of the Conceptual Scheme for the Development of Ocean Thermal Energy LNG: Technological Innovation Leading Development LNG Bunkering Technology and Equipment LNG filling for Vehicles Full Containment LNG Storage Tank Technology As a kind of clean energy, LNG is believed to be the leading energy in China’s energy transition. CNOOC adheres to the vision “Our tank container LNG filling device, unpowered LNG Quality Energy for Your Blue Sea and Sky”, strengthens technological innovation and constantly breaks through the barriers CGTank®: Core technology of Large-scale full containment LNG filling device, visual system of LNG filling station, storage tank mobile new type of LNG filling vehicles and LNG tank, of key technology and equipment manufacturing in the LNG industry. CNOOC Gas & Power Group is the fifth company in the new type of LNG dispenser world that possesses the core technology of large-scale natural gas liquefaction and the only company that possesses the core three dimensional full model and multi-point contact finite element technology of large-scale full containment storage tank manufacturing in China. calculation technology for containment tank are the first of their LNG bunkering kinds in the world LNG marine transfer hose and LNG marine transfer arms, dual fuel transformation evaluation system for fishing vessel, more than 30 patents and software copyrights, 10 special low temperature resistant composite hose algorithms and unique engineering technology solutions and 9 Natural Gas Liquefaction Technology domestic pioneering technologies large-scale, small-scale and offshore floating liquefied successful roof air lifting of 3 large scale LNG tanks with capacity natural gas (FLNG) technology and core technology of of 160,000 m3, which are designed and built with self-developed USER natural gas pretreatment CGTank® technology LIQUEFACTION CGLiq® technology system with independent intellectual property rights serial liquefaction technology of 3.5 million tons by one LNG TANK train per year and FEED capability for liquefaction plant the technical of PDP for the whole large-scale LNG plant (including localized technology for key equipment) PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION Key Technologies of Natural Gas Pipeline Transportation LNG RECEIVING 8 international and domestic innovated technologies; 10 granted patents; 7 comprehensive models TERMINAL the first domestic application-level dynamic peak-shaving model of natural gas pipe network in the coastal southeast of China and multi-sources gas transportation and heat value adjustment technology pipeline integrity evaluation technology Key Technologies of LNG Receiving Terminal pipeline semi-quantitative risk analysis and assessment technology full 3D dynamic simulation technology of LNG receiving terminal R & D of Pipeline in-line inspection technology PLATFORM pipe stress analysis technology for LNG receiving terminal engineering capability of upstream surface engineering, upstream gas gathering and transportation pipe network, midstream gas transportation trunklines, and downstream city gas transmission network / satellite station offshore floating and fixed receiving terminal technology overall process comprehensive simulation and optimization technology of the process of LNG receiving terminal DSS for LNG receiving terminal cloud computing platform for process and key equipment of LNG Soft Science of the LNG Industry receiving terminal investment estimation and budget estimate ability for the whole LNG industry chain, item pricing and cost control ability of EPC project for LNG receiving terminal capability of economic evaluation and post project evaluation and evaluation of pricing for the whole process of engineering project the economic evaluation model and its capability for the whole LNG industry chain, including “Upstream E & P, Pipeline Transportation, Liquefaction, Receiving, Tanker / Pipeline Transportation and Gas Utilization (Gas Filling Station, Power Plant, etc.)” capability of rapid and systematic investigation & analysis, stematic quantitative analysis and theoretical modelling of simulation research for nature gas industrial hot spot CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 26 27 / PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH INTENSIFYING SAFE OPERATION Safety Day CNOOC regards safe operation as a substantial safe entity. In 2017, the further strengthened. Thanks for these The first “Safety Day” activities were organized by the lifeblood for corporate sustainable Company continued to firmly hold the efforts, CNOOC maintained production CNOOC Gas & Power Group on June 15, 2017. development. Adhering to the core sense of safety and kept the employees safety throughout the whole year and values of “Safety First, Environment away from “Red Lines” and “Bottom was awarded the honorary title of “Best Foremost, People-oriented and Lines”, meaning no violation of laws and Organisation Unit” of National “Safe Equipment Intact”, the Company regulations is permitted. The building Production Month” and “Safe Production Well p e r s i s t e n t l y i m p ro v e s i t s s e c u r i t y of CNOOC-specific safety culture and Wanlixing” for three consecutive years, Control CNOOC organized the Well Control system to reinforce management of the emergency response management while Bohai Petroleum Administration Week Week activities from October 30 to the personnel, production process and system was accelerated and the and CNOOC Gas & Power Group were November 5, 2017, taking “Enhancing emergency response and strives to build inspection on safe production was both named “Advanced Unit”. Risk Awareness of Blowout, Building a Strong Safety Defense in Well Control” as the theme. The Company focused on special rectification, Safety Culture emergency exercise and technical seminar to further improve the safety CNOOC always advocates “Safety Standard Behaviors” and on-site operation behaviour guidance of “Five Do’s and Five No-nos”. management capability of well control. The Company carried out a variety of publicity and educational activities to continuously build the CNOOC-specific safety culture conforming to the core concept of “People-oriented, Execution and Intervention”. Safe Senior managers took lead in preaching safety and set models to others Production “Be Safe in the Last One CM”, Theme of the Safe Production Month in 2017 Month In 2017, CNOOC focused on leadership in participated in video recording Leaders’ occasions of investigation and Party Group • soliciting essays safety construction. Chairman Yang Hua Comments on Safety. On June 12, Chairman Member’s Reception Day. All subsidiaries wrote a letter to all staff, “Your Safe, I Ease”, Yang Hua gave the first lesson “Safety, positively responded to the lessons and 1,178 the organizor received 1,422 essays and selected the best 60 essays to publish in China Offshore Oil which was later published by China Offshore Our Responsibility and Our Mission” to senior managers at all levels throughout the Press; Oil Press and got positive feedback. All the headquarters managers. Other groupCompany gave 2,065 lessons in the year. the WeChat Public Account of the Company released nearly 200 messages on production safety; group-level managers endorsed safety and level managers gave 9 lessons of safety on the Company’s Microblog account released 253 messages and won over 100,000 clicks in total. • the microvideo competition with the theme of security warning received 140 microvideos. • the Team Safety and Environmental Protection Knowledge and Skills Competition was held with more than 5,700 participants. • the “Best Slogan for Team Security” was voted on the Company’s Microblog, with a total of more than 139,000 votes. Large offshore LNG transportation operation CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 28 29 / PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH Production Safety 5 Million Working Hours with No Injury Accident, New Safe Record of LNG Transport Ship Construction CNOOC continuously strengthens assigned duties to each main body, drilling and workover machines, On May 24, 2017, CNOOC’s Curtis LNG strict implementation of safety system, QHSE management system, focusing made it clear for safety risks and major emphasizing safety hazards rectification Transport Ship Construction Project achieved resistance to discount of safety and created on prevention from problems and hazards, and reinforced the foundation of for drilling and workover machines, 5 million working hours with no injury a WeChat group for the project in order to strengthening control over key fields. safely producing dangerous chemicals. and organized special investigation to accident and created a new record for LNG supervise the rectification of safety risks. All The Company strives to provide a safer CNOOC also conscientiously carried comprehensively enhance the platform transport ship construction in China. LNG staff were required to eliminate any fluke working environment for all contractors out the comprehensive electrical fire drilling and workover machines safety transport ship is well recognized as a special and paralytic attitude and oversight activities and develops the first-class management troubleshooting programs on the basis management. The Company actively ship is very difficult to construct. The project to ensure safety “In the Last One CM”. The team carried out measures such as “Everyone achievement lays a good foundation for large capability of production safety. of comprehensive investigation on the strengthened maritime management is a Security Guard”, surprise inspections, international construction projects. quality of electrical appliances in use, and put the CNOOC Maritime Safety In 2017, CNOOC continued to improve hidden dangers and weaknesses of Management Methods into practice, the safety supervision system, implement electrical risk prevention in electrical which helped improve the maritime effective safety supervision measure and CNOOC Gas & Power Group Taking Various Measures to Ensure Transport Safety design and construction for building regulation system. “HAI YANG SHI YOU maintained a stable situation of safety p ro j e c t s a n d b u i l d i n g s i n u s e . I n 225” and “HAI YANG SHI YOU 226” On March 14, 2017, CNOOC Fujian New management through activities like road production. The Company carried out addition, the Company carried out both won the honorary title of “Safety Energy, subsidiary of CNOOC Gas & emergency drills, selection of civilized comprehensive remediation activities special safety hazards investigation and and Reliable Ships” which is the “Oscar” Power Group, won the honorary title of vehicles and optimization of safety to ensure the safety management of troubleshooting activities for platform in the safety management. “Outstanding Road Transport Enterprise inspection, dispatching and scheduling. dangerous chemicals, identified and in the Road Transport Safety Year”, jointly The company achieved a double harvest issued by the Ministry of Transport, the of safety and economic benefits with Continuesly Enhancing QHSE Management Ministry of Public Security and the State accumulative safe transport of 111,800 Administration of Work Safety. trips and a total transport mileage of 23.516 million kilometers during the past ten years, CNOOC Fujian New Energy adheres equivalent to running 588 laps around the to the business philosophy of “Safety, Earth’s equator. Efficiency, Harmony and Development”, 123 articles 1,909 items 327 items 1,388 items makes efforts to improve detailed safety 1. Detailed Rules for Land Port Safety Management QHSE management practices Inspection of regulations New regulations Revise of management regulations 2. good practices of land port 1. Regulations for OSV Safety Management 3. development of four training programs on land port management Continuous Enhancement of Safety Inspection 2. good practices of OSV 4. MTMSA review of land ports CNOOC put forward the yearly target “Resolutely Prevent the Occurance of Major Accidents, Prevent Large Accidents in an All-round 3. OVID inspection on OSV 5. site inspection in land ports Way and Reduce Ordinary Accidents”. A leading group of production safety inspection was set up to coordinate the deployment of Offshore inspection through video conference. Support Land Port 6.1,164 ship-time checked, of which 513 in Vessels problem, 33 rectified with leaving berth, 6 (OSV) Maritime departures prohibited and 10 mooring refused 5 times 25 times 11,203 times 1. Regulation for Liquid Cargo Ship Management Safety Management Liquid Offshore senior managers headed teams to the special inspection unit of headquarters various forms of inspection in all 2. good practices of liquid cargo ship Cargo Export conduct inspection subsidiaries Ship Terminal 3. carrying out TMSA and SIRE reviews in port management companies 14 times 530 times 99.89 % 4. set up 8 one-vote-veto clauses, requiring relevant units to add safety rules for liquid cargo ship into trading contracts 1. Regulations for Safety Management of Offshore Export Terminal 2. good practices of offshore export terminals receiving supervision by the Work Safety receiving supervision by local authorities rectification rate of safety-related 5. the Sales Development of CNOOC Ltd. and CNOOC Oil & Commission of the State Council problems and hidden dangers Petrochemicals jointly set up an inspection system for ship registration. 231 ships were inspected and 10 ships were rejected in 2017. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 30 31 / PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH Emergency Management Emergency Drill for Export Transportation Protection Based on hazard identification and major accident scenarios construction, hidden dangers in the whole group and On September 19, 2017, Bohai Oilfield multiple risk control measures and maintains a the emergency drill. Site staff responded risk analysis, CNOOC continuously integrated the ICS system into the put into practice the Rules for Terrorism “Suizhong 36-1” crude oil terminal held a joint record of 6,000 days zero accident of transport quickly and cooperated closely, kept close improved the emergency management existing emergency plans, carried out Prevention in Offshore Oil and Gas emergency drill with crews on oil tankers. The since its operation. communication with the upstream platform, mechanism, gradually advanced the anti-terrorism investigation on risk and Production Facilities. terminal is currently CNOOC’s largest one in achieved in maintaining control on working The marine loading arm fault of a 30,000China that integrates land storage with external process and orderly connecting emergency ton port, which could not be repaired in transport. The terminal contributes a lot to the transportation hoses, so that the transport was a short time, was set as background for stable external transport of crude oil through timely resumed. Constructing major accident scenarios enhanced emergency management capability All Sea Areas Multi-subject Emergency Drills CNOOC China Ltd. Tianjin took a FPSO so as to enhance emergency management construction, organized site staff from all sides drift caused by ship collision and a single capability. to deeply participate in the comprehensive point fracture accident as clues for scenario drill, coordinated in-depth discussions among August 1, 2017 June 15, 2017 China BlueChemical took a cabin explosion construction to make analysis on the gap of experts in multiple domains, and worked out accident in a ship with full load of naphtha Location: COOEC Port , Tianjin Location: MacunPort, Hainan capability in terms of resource allocation, a case of major accident scenario which had a Name: Ship shore joint emergency exercise Name: Large dangerous chemicals ship anchoring in a Dangerous Chemical Wharf personnel and disposal measures by focusing guiding significance for emergency. Units: COOEC Installation Company, Nanjiang Maritime Bureau shore joint emergency exercise of a certain port as main line for scenario on 6 key factors as well as 8 key tasks, Participants and equipment: 8 vessels, 2 fire engines, 1 Units: HainanPort Company, Haikou ambulance, 5 sprinklers, 1 recovery device, 300-meter oil boom Maritime Bureau, Traffic and Transportation and more than 120 people Bureau of Chengmai County Subjects: Occurrence of accident, alarm processing, emergency Participants and equipment: NAN HAI Deepwater and high-seas risk prevention, control and rescue projects started August 9, 2017 decision, communication and command, trouble removal, etc. 210 (tug) On October 26, 2017, the kick-off meeting of high-seas operation. oil and gas exploration in the depth of 3,000 Subjects: Pump-stop and valve-closure Location: Bohai Oilfield reporting, fire extinguishing, orderly the state key research project “Offshore Oil meters under water, through theoretical Name: Comprehensive emergency exercise The project focused on key problems in evacuation, casualty treatment and transfer, and Gas Exploitation Accident Prevention and analysis, numerical simulation, laboratory test Units: Bohai Petroleum Administration, prevention and control of marine (deepwater) marine oil spill recovery, etc. Control Technology Research and Industrial and demonstration of technique integration Environmental Protection Division major accidents of oil and gas exploitation, and Beihai Branch of State Oceanic Demonstration” was held in Beijing, marking application at sea. The achievement played such as those induced by natural disasters Administration that CNOOC officially launched the research a typical and exemplary role in constructing like typhoon and industrial accidents like Participants and equipment: 3 vessels and construction of risk prevention and national public security prevention and blowout and explosion. The project achieved and more than 150 people emergency rescue system for deepwater and control system in deepwater and high-seas. Subjects: Maritime collision avoidance, a safety management techniques system for oil spill disposal and communication for collaborative emergency, etc. CNOOC won certification of IMO training qualification On November 21, 2017, CNOOC International Maritime Organization (IMO) make inroads into international oil spill June 6, 2017 Environmental Services (Tianjin) as the Training Qualification level 2 from Nautica emergency training market. Location: Huizhou first Chinese company won certification of Institute. The certification helps CNOOC Name: Comprehensive emergency exercise 2017 Units: CNOOC EnerTech (Huizhou) Logistics Base, Huizhou Frontier Inspection Station Participants and equipment: 2 fire tugs, 2 antifouling ships, 1 fire engine, more than 100 people CNOOC fought against “Columba”, the strongest typhoon of the year Subjects: Anti-terrorism, fire control, oil spill, etc. CNOOC emergency management system L N G R e c e i v i n g Te r m i n a l m a d e t h e Center at 11 am. In addition, Guangdong July 27, 2017 effectively prevented the invasion of emergency start of high pressure transmission Pipelines, Zhuhai Natural Gas, Zhuhai Location: The coastal waters of Liuheng, Putuo District “Columba”, the strongest typhoon of the year. line and supplied 16.12 million m3 of natural New Energy, “Liwan 3-1” Oilfield Gaolan of Zhoushan City gas for residents in Zhuhai, Zhongshan, Terminal, Yacheng Gasfield Hongkong Name: Defense against typhoon joint practice exercise When the typhoon landed in Zhuhai city Units: CNOOC Donghai Petroleum Administration, Jiangmen and other areas. CNOOC Zhuhai Terminal and other units successfully of Guangdong at 12:50, August 23, 2017, Zhoushan Zhongyuan Shipping Engineering Co., Ltd., Natural Gas Power Generation kept power completed emergency rescue and disaster western South China Sea Oilfield had Sinopec, CITIC Amanoatae, Maritime Bureau, etc. supply of 3.657 million kWh in the very day relief that ensured the safety of personnel and completed the withdrawal from platforms, Participants and equipment: Relevant personnel of until receiving the blackout instruction from production facilities and provided full support the Emergency Office of CNOOC Donghai Petroleum with evacuation of 2,711 people by 142 Guangdong Electric Power Dispatching to the affected areas. Administration, 1 Jaguar helicopter and 2 vessels helicopter sorties and 2 ship-time. Zhuhai Subjects: Big horsepower ship rescuing cable-broken ship and dragging anchor ship, Jaguar helicopter rescuing crews on dragging anchor ship, etc. Internet +: New Experiences of Fast Service Focusing on customer demand, CNOOC aims at efficiently providing service to customers, by taking customer satisfaction as standard of evaluation, quality of products as a fundamental, “Internet+” as means. The Company is positively commits itself to social responsibility, actively broadens the scope and channels of service to expand the service network to village corners. order-based service, whole process management active marketing, Customer development effective publicity, market investigation friendly Q & A professional advice exclusive service for VIP customer Call center for main functions URL links for CNOOC online business platform management center of natural gas sales http://sale.cnooc.com.cn/ 4008-275917 “Internet + Service Station” CNOOC formally launched cooperation with third party online retailers and payment services providers, in business-online related fields such as sales of oil products and non-oil products, loyalty maintenance and system optimization, in order to build a new business mode called “Internet + Service Station”. The Company promotes a model transition of refined oil products sales from traditional marketing to internet marketing, so as to improve the service quality and customer experience. Business SAAS (software as a service) system + intelligent explosion-proof small-ticket machine + intelligent invoicing machine; APP location payment with no code scanning, WeChat public account payment and the popular WeChat code scanning payment, the serial payment of service station can be transformed to the parallel payment. 2 CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 34 IMPROVING QUALITY MANAGEMENT CNOOC considers “Pursuing Excellent Changzhou Institute was selected in the national standard research and Performance, Leading Position and development contribution index units Customer Satisfaction” as its quality On January 4, 2017, Changzhou Institute Center undertakes all-level coating research objective and always adheres to the of CNOOC EnerTech was selected in the and development and gets a number of policy of “People-oriented, Safety national standards research and development independent patents every year. Up to now, First, Integrity and Law-abiding contribution index units, as the first and the center has participated in the formulation Operations, Reinforcing Foundation, only unit of the coating industry. The of 471 international, national and industrial Being Innovation-driven and Winning Changzhou Institute operated National standards, of which 10 international standards with Quality”. As a response to the Coating Engineering Technology Research were under its direction. national strategy of “Build the Country on the Basis of Quality”, the Company CN-VI Diesel Fuel Upgrading Quality of Oil Products carries on activities to continuously In September 2017, China Offshore Bitumen, than those of CN-VI standard, thus helped improve quality of products, projects ENHANCING subsidiary of CNOOC Oil & Petrochemicals, upgrade quality of oil products. and services, striving to identify quality successfully put 0# diesel on the market in risks in an all-around way, enhance ENVIRONMENTAL line with the CN-VI standard. In order to the quality management system and meet the requirements of the CN-VI standard, cultivate the culture emphasizing quality. PROTECTION China Offshore Bitumen studied and In 2017, CNOOC’s Eagle Eye team on optimized production process, raw material the “Qinhuangdao 32-6CEPI” platform proportioning, hydrogenation process was awarded “National Trustworthy parameters and diesel blending scheme, so that the indicators of new diesel were better Group for Quality”, marking a historic breakthrough. Zhuhai LNG Terminal CNOOC completed Quality Management Information System construction of CNOOC Gas & Power Group was awarded “National Advanced Enterprise On June 5, 2017, CNOOC Quality 3 platforms including oil product quality of Implementing Excellent Performance Management Information System was put control, internal inspection and examination Model” for three consecutive years and into test application. The system includes quality management and explosion-proof thus won the “Special Prize for National 6 functional modules, such as information electrical management. The oil product Advanced Enterprise of Implementing bulletin, system management, quality control, quality control is the key part for standardized Excellent Performance Model”. quality activity, new product and technology management of service station, which has promotion and quality management tools. been tried in the Hunan Branch of CNOOC The quality control module is composed of Oil & Petrochemicals. Quality Inspection Quality Month QC Team In 2017, the Company carried out quality audit About 52,500 employees of subordinate The total number of QC teams in CNOOC BlueChemical Hainan Base, with 37 units participated in the activity and there registered by subsidiaries has reached problems found and rectified, and strengthened were totally 2,246 departments involved in 1,800, an increase of 39% over last quality supervision of key vehicle products of the launching ceremony. In the very month, year. In 2017, they obtained 369 Guangxi Energy Company and Hebei Marketing 1,830 special inspections were carried out, outstanding QC achievements of the Company, investigating 25 service stations, 1 depot 4,375 hidden quality problems were found industry and 7 of them were awarded and 1 transport fleet, with 91 problems found and and processed and 3,173 quality problems National Outstanding QC Teams. rectified. were solved. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 36 Green Refinery: A Beautiful Life Made by Intelligent CNOOC GREEN OPERATION CNOOC Huizhou Petrochemical is located in Dayawan Petrochemical Economic and Technological Zone on the beautiful coast of the South China Sea, Huizhou City, Guangdong Province. As a member of Global Compact and “Lucid Waters and Lush Mountains are on environment, so as to supply more CNOOC Huizhou Petrochemical pursues the initial set of objectives “Green Production, Operational Excellence and Sustainable a main driver of “Energy Revolution”, Invaluable Assets”. The Company makes quality energy products to meet people’s Development”, striving to lead its intelligentization by in-depth integration of informatization with industrialization, to enhance its core CNOOC adheres to the principle of efforts in integrating environmental ever-increasing needs of a beautiful and competitiveness by green smart factory building, and to set a green refinery example with “World-class Safety and Environmental “Innovation, Coordination, Greenness, protection into the overall business to ecological environment with harmonious Protection”. Openness and Sharing” and have faith in reduce the negative effect of operations coexistence between human and nature. Streamlined CNOOC upholds the concept of green and Information Technology as a drafting Both CNOOC BlueChemical and Regulations development and pursues implements unit of industrial standards in the Synthetic CNOOC Kingboard were awarded the Paperless Informationalized model, data, application Process Office green operations and green recycling in Ammonia Green Factory Assessment honorary title of “Energy Efficiency Leader integrated standard architecture the overall business. Guide. CNOOC was also invited to Benchmarking Enterprise” (ammonia give a speech at the inter national and methanol), issued by National In 2017, CNOOC was awarded honorary production and operation In conference of “Green Manufacturing” Development and Reform Commission, equipment management Ar tegr title of the 4th term of “Excellent Energy Business QHSE management ch ate ite d Information ctu as a typical representative unit. CNOOC the Ministry of Industry and Information Visualization energy management ss e s re Integration Conservation and Emission Reduction general management ine BlueChemical was awarded the first Technology and China Petroleum and Bus Enterprise”, issued by the SASAC and Five Two batch of “National Green Factories”. Chemical Industry Association. basic technology platform was designated by the Ministry of Industry Intelligent Plat major interconnection and form Refinery s integration platform comprehensive perception Fou production optimization Green Supply Chain integration and synergy r Ab decision-making assistance ilitie Three Layers Lean s Application Management Operational Synergy Manufacturing AI OI BI Procurement Green Power Plant Green Scientific Procurement Decision-making Smart Production Manufacturing Product Sales Digital Operation Green Refinery Green Product Green Sales E&P Green Oil and Manufacturing Gas Field Green Factory Green Recycling Green Recycling Green Recycling Green Recycling Green Oilfield: Eastern South Green Factory: China BlueChemical Green Products and Sales: China Sea Oilfield CNOOC Oil & Petrochemicals CNOOC BlueChemical establishes an Eastern South China Sea Oilfield protects CNOOC Oil & Petrochemicals meticulously energy and environment management the sea by optimization of process and makes green products and puts on the market a system, so as to ensure a leading position in construction schedule, 24 hours of operation series of green bitumen products. It implements China in terms of corporate energy efficiency supervision, enhancement and releasing, all-around green sales, in particular returns and fresh water efficiency. Its subordinate scientific management of garbage, etc. It has volatilized high quality gasoline to oil tank in units won the title of “Energy Efficiency succeeded in reducing emissions and marine order to reduce the effect of oil volatilization Leader Benchmarking Enterprise” (ammonia pollution far below the standard required by on environment. and methanol) for 6 consecutive years. the State Oceanic Administration. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 38 39 / ENHANCING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION TACKLING CLIMATE CHANGE Carbon Emissions Assessment for Achieved Initial Success In 2017, CNOOC carried out carbon As a responsible energy corporation, In 2017, CNOOC clarified its duties of management system, formulated lowemissions effects assessment of oil and CNOOC actively responds to the Paris low-carbon management, set up lowcarbon management regulations and gas fields with comprehensive energy Determine the Agreement and climate change. The carbon promotion leading groups and rules, completed the construction of consumption of more than 20,000 tons of Determine the Identify Carbon Calculation Calculate Carbon standard coal, or CO2 direct emissions of Calculation Sources and Company focuses on building a clean low-carbon promotion offices in the low-carbon management information Boundary of the Emissions Method Emission Sources more than 10,000 tons, and downstream Project and low-carbon, safe and efficient energy second level subordinates and other platform and carried out a number of system, continues to build an all-around key controlled discharging subsidiaries, research projects like “The Carbon investment projects with comprehensive energy consumption of more than 50,000 low-carbon management system, and actively participated in the construction Emissions Effects Analysis of Newly tons of standard coal, whose results assisted strives for “Our Quality Energy for Your of carbon market in China, participated Developed Domestic Offshore Oil and the Company’s investment decision-making. Analyse Economic Blue Sea and Sky”. in the drafting of low-carbon standards Gas Fields” in the 13th Five-Year Plan Make Filling Compose Study Measures 9 comprehensive adjustment projects were Effects of Carbon of the industry, built up the low-carbon period. and Inspection Report of Discharge implemented, including Shanxi Datong SNG Emissions and “Wenchang 13-2” Oilfields. CNOOC elaborated the scope, review process and depth of report content of carbon emissions effects assessment for investment and construction projects of fixed assets. Low-carbon Management Methods A competent professional technical team was set up and a technical, assessment and management system of carbon emission was formed. Carbon Inventory in 35 Key Marine carbon sinks monitoring station completed construction and put Enterprises into use Rules for Carbon Investment Projects of Carbon Assets CCER Project Low-carbon In 2017, CNOOC organized carbon inventory In 2017, two CNOOC-participated time series evaluate the offshore emission reduction, Emission Statistics and Fixed Assets Development Assessment Reporting Management Impact Assessment of Rules of Management in 35 key controlled discharging subsidiaries monitoring stations of marine carbon sinks in making great significance on exploring the Carbon Emissions Rules of Management Rules of Management and made it clear the Company’s carbon Bohai Sea and western South China Sea were mechanism and law of marine carbon sinks Rules of Management assets, carbon quota in need and the basis for officially put into use. Marine carbon sinks and helping build big information database. Rules of Management participation in the formulation of national monitoring station can provide high-density industry standards as well as making lowtime series observation results, correctly carbon development strategy, through figuring out the accurate amount intensity data and the reduction potential of carbon emissions. More than 1,000 person-time were trained of lowcarbon management and the training time was in total 300 class hours. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 40 41 / ENHANCING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ENERGY CONSERVATION AND EMISSION REDUCTION petrochemical units. Meanwhile, the VOCs accounting information system Hazardous Waste Company put forward Rules for VOCs p l a t f o r m i n Ta n g g u a n d S h a n g h a i Management Management and supporting operation re s p e c t i v e l y. A s a c o n s e q u e n c e , As an advocator and practitioner of In 2017, CNOOC invested RMB 350 also led the formulation of industrial CNOOC sends hazardous wastes to instructions in 2017 to guide the communication on VOCs management low-carbon economy, CNOOC always million in energy conservation and standards in the Synthetic Ammonia qualified units for recovery processing standardization of the comprehensive among subordinates was effectively adheres to green, low-carbon and e m i s s i o n re d u c t i o n , i m p l e m e n t e d Green Factory Assessment Guide. Both to ensure that hazardous wastes will not VOCs management requirements, strengthened and the staff reinforced recycling development philosophy and 158 projects and reduced energy CNOOC BlueChemical and CNOOC & cause pollution to the environment. implementation of LDAR, VOCs detection their understanding of the promotion of takes energy conservation and emission consumption per RMB 10,000 turnover Shell Petrochemicals were named the and total amount accounting, etc. VOCs control and management in the reduction as important approaches to 0.3805 tons of standard coal. Working national “Green Factory Demonstration whole country. to transform the development pattern with the State Oceanic Administration Unit”, while COOEC’s project “Green In 2017, CNOOC organized training of and enhance core competitiveness, on the regulation of marine pollution Supply Chain System Construction of actively takes part in the environmental discharge permission, the Company Typical Marine Equipment” was selected governance and implements carried out related research with a in the yearly state key projects of green commitment on emission reduction. special report as outcome. The Company manufacturing system integration. Power Grid Interlink Saving Natural Gas CNOOC has four oil and gas production more efficient use of energy, CNOOC put interlink for Weizhou Terminal, “Weizhou bases, which are located in Bohai, the east of forward the idea of “Integrating Regional 12-1” Oilfield, “Weizhou 11-1” Oilfield, Energy savings Energy conservation and emission reduction South China Sea, the west of South China Sea Development with Energy Conservation “Weizhou 11-1N” Oilfield, “Weizhou 12-8” (10,000 tons of standard coal equivalent) investment (RMB 100 million) and East China Sea respectively. and Emission Reduction for Planning and Oilfield, “Weizhou 6-9/10” Oilfield and 35 5 Implementation”, based on the promotion of “Weizhou 11-2” Oilfield. The work can In the past, the power supply of offshore research and experiment of offshore oilfield save natural gas of 40 million m3 and be 33.5 4.3 oilfields usually used the “Isolated Island” 4.1 4 29.9 30.8 power grid interlink technology. of important demonstration and guiding 25 28.5 3.5 mode, i.e. a power station formed an 3 significance to regional development of 23 2.8 2.9 independent power supply system. To make Weixinan Oilfield achieved the power grid Chinese offshore oil and gas fields. 2 15 1 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 WZ6-1 WHPA Landing stage WZIT 33.5 Built/planned platform without power supply WZ6-8 WHPA Built/planned platform with power supply Whole Process In 2017, the Company’s SO2 emission 10,000 tons of standard WZ6-9/6-10 Environmental Protection was 4,709.8 tons; the NOx emission was coal equivalent WHPA WZ12-1 WHPB Management 10,267.9 tons; and ammonia nitrogen Energy Savings emission was 66.2 tons, decreased by CNOOC centers on strengthening the WZ11-1N 21%, 4% and 39% over the same period WHPA WZ12-1 PUQ environmental impact assessment last year, respectively. The COD was m a n a g e m e n t . Ta k i n g C N O O C 1,073.9 tons. environmental management WZ11-2 WHPB WZ12-1PAP information system as a platform, WZ1 1-1 WZ6-12 the Company promotes the whole Special Treatment of VOCs WHPA WZ12-1W WZ12-1PUQB WHPA WZ11-2 WHPA WHPA process environmental protection On the basis of the pilot work of VOCs management by focusing on the strict (Volatile Organic Compounds) control in EIA management, pollutant emission WZ12-2 the last two years, CNOOC continued WZ11-4N WHPA standards and total quantity control WHPC WZ11-4N to promote the oil and gas recovery WHPB management as well as the overall WZ12-8W WHPA management and equipment leakage emission reduction management. detection and repair (LDAR) work in CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 42 43 / ENHANCING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Vent Gas Recovery and Utilization New Technologies for Flue Gas Innocuous-rization of Slurry Treatment in Oilfields Processing According to the characteristics and the Oilfield, Weizhou Terminal, Dongfang CNOOC requires all kinds of solid waste and of industrial solid waste, sewage and sea of water-based drilling fluid and drilling Huizhou Petrochemical applied proven and actual demand of offshore production, Gas Field Terminal, Tianwaitian wellhead refractory pollutants generated in offshore oil drilling cuttings, slurry, waste packaging cuttings, oily sludge reduction, oily and highadvanced methods of using additive and EDV CNOOC advances research on offshore platform and PingBei & HuangYan Oil and oil and gas production and life waste at sea barrels, etc. salt sewage treatment. It uses high cost and wet cleaning technology to heavy oil FCC associated gas recovery technology, for Gas Field Phase I Development Project should be transported and disposed on land. high standard non-toxic or low toxic slurry flue gas denitration and dust desulfurization Bihai Environmental Protection possesses example, making centralized recovery of and “Jinzhou 25-1 South” Oil and Gas Bihai Environmental Protection, subordinate system to recycle all oil-based slurry and wall treatment with the capacity of 1.2 million core technologies in the fields like oily waste the gas and using it for offshore turbine Field Phase II Development Project were of CNOOC Safety Technology & Service up pollution to sea. tons per year, reduced 469 tons of SO 2 incineration, innocuous-rization treatment generator and boiler as fuel, or delivering successfully applied. Company is responsible for the processing emission, 117 tons of nitrogen oxide (NOx) it to land as fuel for power generation, Weixinan Oilfield Cluster low pressure emissions and 117 tons of soot emissions. The chemical production and civilian use. natural gas recovery project annually saves measure effectively reduced the occurrence Transformation of Coal Furnace Achieving Zero Emission “Weizhou 11-1” Oilfield, “Weizhou 12-1” 22.32 million m3 natural gas. of acid rain in the region and achieved ideal environmental and social benefits. China Offshore Bitumen successfully with zero pollution and zero emission. The goal, but also optimizes the load of power completed the transformation of asphalt transformation adjusts most of the delivery supply, and achieves cost reduction and heating equipment from the coal stove to the time to the power trough period, so that it not efficiency improvement. Reconstruction of the Joint Gas Pipelines in the Southwest of Bohai Sea electric heating furnace in the shipping field only realizes the environmental protection Relying on the existing production facilities Oilfield Cluster and transported it to the joint and the joint gas pipelines in the southwest gas pipelines. This method can recover 60 Combustion System Upgrading and Transformation in Zhongshan Jiaming Power Plant Contributing to Emission of Bohai Sea, CNOOC China Ltd. Tianjin million m3 of natural gas and reduce emission Reduction added compressors for pressure boost to by 140,000 tons of CO2 equivalent per year. Zhongshan Jiaming Power Plant completed The world advanced low nitrogen combustion workload of as low as 35%, but also avoid recover associated gas from “Bozhong 28/34” DLN 2.6+ transformation of the combustion technology was applied to transforming units nitro-fume with a reduction of 1,500 tons of system for units 3 and 4. to not only meet the requirements under the NOx emission in 2017. Recovery of Light Hydrocarbon from Oil and Gas Terminals Creating Values In 2017, Weizhou Terminal of CNOOC largely improved the cooling effect of China Ltd. Zhanjiang installed the selfpropane refrigeration systems. The amount made U-shape liquid seal in the outlet of the of recovered light hydrocarbon created a new propane condenser and effectively lowered record, with an annual increase of 1,800 m3. the temperature in downstream tanks and Fully-enclosed Transport Reducing Leakage Risk Energy-saving Renovation of Lighting in Office Buildings O ff s h o r e c r u d e o i l p r o c e s s i n g a n d discharge pipe remittance and closed drain In 2017, CNOOC completed energy-saving transportation adopt fully-closed process. tank, which is used to recover oil and gas renovation of lighting in office buildings. The The separator and other processing facilities from maintenance of process equipment overall power saving rate was 40%-45%. It are equipped with liquid level, temperature with pressure and emergency venting, and is expected to save 11.98 million kWh and and pressure automatic monitoring alarm pump back into the closed drainage system reduce 11,944 tons of CO2 per year. and shutdown system, thereby ensures by the closed drain pump. These measures operation safety. Platform is provided with have effectively avoided the leakage of oil the closed drainage system composed of and gas and eliminated respiratory loss. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 44 45 / ENHANCING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT Sewage Treatment Results of CNOOC Tianjin Chemical Research and Design Institute With emphasis on utilization efficiency of recycling of water resources. The resources management. water resources, CNOOC strengthens Company continues to intensify The Company consumed 96.391 the protection of water resources, technological innovation, strengthen million tons of freshwater and saved implements water-saving activities water use process management, take Application site on “EP18-1” Platform 2.212 million tons of water resources and promotes the recycling of water comprehensive measures to reuse throughout the year of 2017. resources in order to save freshwater wastewater and reclaimed water, and resources and enhance sustainable comprehensively strengthen water Freshwater Replacement Setting up Seawater-desalination Serving Reusing Reclaimed Water in the New Method of Saving Water the Production Line Refining and Chemical Process Field operation of electrochemical Pengbo Oilfield used for the first time the Weizhou Terminal of western South China CNOOC’s refinery and chemical subordinates Application site of CNOOC water quality stabilization Zhoushan Petrochemical demonstration device filtered seawater to replace freshwater Sea Oilfield speeded up the construction reuse reclaimed water for effective for the tracer operation with 249 m 3 of of membrane filtration desalination device. conservation of water resources. For example, freshwater saving of a single well, equivalent The device can produce 160,000 m 3 of CNOOC BlueChemical uses reclaimed water to a month’s living water consumption on freshwater per year, which will not only recycling device to circulate water for water platform. The use of new method for water effectively alleviate the dependence of replenishing after sewage drainage, which can saving also reduced the cost of freshwater offshore installations on freshwater supply, save 350,000 tons of water per year. transportation. but also enhance watersaving and production efficiency on offshore platforms. Application site on “EP18-1” Platform Optimization of Water Clarifier Residual Heat of Jacket Water Used for Seawater-desalination Improving Water Quality “Qinhuangdao 32-6” FPSO main engine mineralizing equipment and disinfection “Suizhong 36-1” CEPK Platform optimized jacket water heating and seawater desalination equipment, and was finally injected into the selection of water clarifier. The amount project adopted distillation method for freshwater tank. The circular use of residual of water clarifier was reduced by 50% year seawater desalination. Seawater was heat of jacket water achieved constant on year. The use of ships, hoisting work and firstly desalinated by single stage vacuum desalination and was estimated to produce operation person-hours were largely reduced, plate distilling apparatus, then clarified 7,300 m3 of freshwater per year. Integrated MBR CWPO microwave wet catalytic while the effect of energy saving and emission to be qualified freshwater by freshwater oxidation technology reduction was also remarkable. Technology / Equipment Advantages and Achievements Electrochemical Water Quality Stabilization Online control of water quality stabilization including scale inhibition and Demonstration Device removal, sterilization and algae killing in the circulating-water system EDR Desalination Device Operating under over-saturated conditions of insoluble salts Functional Membrane Degreasing Technology, High Efficiency Biochemical Technology and High oil and degradation-resistant wastewater treatment Deep Treatment Technology of Ozone Catalytic Oxidation High degradation efficiency, mild reaction conditions, high safety performance CWPO Microwave Wet Catalytic Oxidation and low investment and operation cost, suitable for the treatment of high Technology concentration, high salinity, degradation-resistant organic wastewater Electro-catalytic Oxidation Equipment for Bearing impact load, compact layout and high degree of automation Living Sewage Treatment on Offshore Platform Yingkou Natural Gas Processing Plant 3 CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 46 BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION As a proactive advocate and practitioner environmental risk pre-assessment in in environmental initiatives, research for marine ecological environment advance to identify sensitive targets in and conservation projects dedicated to protection, CNOOC always attaches the vicinity, and mitigates environmental ecological diversity, resource restoration great importance to the protection of risks as early as possible, so as to a n d e n v i ro n m e n t a l i m p ro v e m e n t . biodiversity in the area surrounding the achieve the harmonious balance Featured projects such as spotted seal operation zone. between economic projects and protection, enhancement and releasing, ecological environment. etc. have been launched to improve The Company adheres to the principle ecological conditions for building a of ecological protection in all phases Taking CNOOC Welfare Foundation as “Beautiful China”. of a project life cycle, carries out a platform, CNOOC actively participates Seagulls “Escort” Home of Egret Dolphin Accompaniment “Bohai 9” towed a platform to Bozhong The LNG receiving terminal located in Dolphin accompaniment has become a DRIVING SOCIAL PROGRESS Oilfield, when hundreds of seagulls were Shenzhen Dapeng Bay is now “Home of microcosm of harmony between CNOOC’s oil hovering over the platform, like escorts. Egret”. and gas E&P activities and the oceanic ecology. Escorting the National Protected CNOOC People Saving Marine Building Nests for Seabirds Animal “Home” Animals CNOOC Foundation carried out “Beautiful The crew of West River Platform found an The crews on platform carried out timely Weizhou Island” Ecovillage Construction Owl in the machine room. It was finally sent emergency rescue of marine animals, Project and organized staff and the Weizhou back to the land safely by helicopter and carefully cut off the nest and helped them Island middle school students to design and adopted by rescue center. return to the sea. build bird’s nest for their breeding. ecological risk assessment on the value Project of Biodiversity study on the amount, migration distribution increment of crustacean resources Research and and protection of finless porpoise groups in the Conservation Financed Huanghai Sea and the Bohai Sea spotted seal protection research project by CNOOC Welfare “Beautiful Weizhou Island” Ecovillage Foundation construction project study on ecological environment and resource conservation and restoration technology of typical coastal zone in Shandong marine breeding and releasing project CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 48 49 / DRIVING SOCIAL PROGRESS CARING FOR EMPLOYEES AND STIMULATING VITALITY In 2017, the total number of Company’s employees was 97,986, in which female the basic form of workers’ congress, strengthens the function of safeguarding service or published papers, but moral character, ability and performance and employees accounted for 20%, middlerights of the labor union and enhances allow more excellent young talents to C N O O C a d h e re s t o t h e p r i n c i p l e their rights and interests, expands space w o r k e n v i ro n m e n t t o a c h i e v e t h e and higher-level female managers democratic management such as have opportunities to stand out. o f “ P e o p l e o r i e n t e d a n d C a re f o r for their career development, concerns common development of the Company accounted for 0.4%, minority employees enlarging channels of “Transmitting Employees”, seriously fulfils its their physical and mental health and and the employees. In 2017, 107 personnel were selected accounted for 3%. The localization Decisions to Lower Levels and responsibility to the employees, respects happiness and continuously improves Technical Experts of the Company or rate of overseas employees reached Reporting Employees’ Opinions to its subordinate units, 2 personnel were 80%.There were 417 fresh graduates Higher-level Managers” in order to help selected Skilled Experts of the Company, recruited in the whole year. The rate of employees fully express their opinions 88 personnel won senior technician Conclusion of Employment Contracts and participate in democratic decisionqualification and 357 personnel won remained 100% with the rate of social making, administration and supervision. technician qualification. insurances coverage was 100%. The Protection of Rights and maternity insurance), we supplemented Employment Policies employee turnover rate was 2%. The Interests personal accident insurance, commercial CNOOC protects employees’ human Career Development Employee Training supplementary medical insurance, Company neither found any violations, rights and respects value, individuality CNOOC constantly improves the talent CNOOC strictly abides by laws and such as child labor and forced labor, nor In pursuit of its people-oriented juvenile children supplementary medical training system with multiple levels and regulations of UN and the host countries and privacy of employees with different philosophy, CNOOC provides employees insurance, occupational pension and received any complaint of violation of cultural backgrounds. Centred on stages, which makes a platform for where its business is located. We human rights in any regions throughout with equal and open environment and housing allowance, etc. employees’ ability training and potential faithfully respect human rights, pursue contract management, based on post clear access for career development. the year. The Company improves the labour management, standardizing marketing development. equality and proactively advocate our According to the characteristics of partners, suppliers and contractors to p ro t e c t i o n m e c h a n i s m t h ro u g h a mangement, the Company adheres to Democratic Management different professions, we have designed In 2017, the Company actively carried make common efforts to comply with series of measures such as strictly the principle of “Gender Equality and three career development accesses: out 54,000 training sessions, with 1.8 C N O O C c o n s t a n t l y i m p ro v e s t h e relevant regulations. We strictly carry out implementing employees’ periodic Equal Pay for Equal Work”, standardizes management, technology and operation million person-time (including 1 million employee democratic management various employment policies without any health examination and special health labour management, strongly opposes personnel, besides establishing a “Four in person-time of online learning) and 6.59 system and makes full use of employees’ discriminatory provisions or behaviors examination, distributing the labour any kind of inhumane treatment or One” training system involving selection, million hours (i.e. 74 hours per capita) of ro l es i n t h e d em o cr at i c d eci s i o n to establish harmonious and stable protection appliances and heatstroke forced labour, strictly conforms to training, assessment and promotion and training, in which the international talents making, administration and supervision. labor relations and maintain employees’ prevention subsidies in time, encouraging local employment rules and treats the certification, so as to improve personal training was carried out for 270 personThe Company effectively protects legitimate rights and interests. employees to take vacation for wellness employees equally without discrimination professional ability and work performance time. The Company strengthened employees’ rights to be informed, to and issuing one-off resettlement subsidy i n t e r m s o f re c r u i t m e n t , t r a i n i n g , step by step in a planned manner. construction of the coach team by oversee, to participate and to be heard, Salary and Welfare and comprehensive subsidies to the promotion and salary, regardless of race, cultivating 35 qualified talent appraisers safeguarding employees’ democratic C N O O C f u l l y e n s u re s e m p l o y e e s ’ inter-regional employees. nationality, faith, gender, age, marital Career Access (the first batch), 30 case developers and legitimate rights and interests. Since legitimate rights and interests and strives status and special legal protection. and 30 internal coaches, which further 2008, the Company has carried out the C N O O C c o n s t a n t l y i m p ro v e s t h e for providing employees with good salary investigation of employees’ satisfaction t h re e a c c e s s e s f o r m a n a g e m e n t , strengthened the talent development. and welfare. The Company makes efforts according to the principle of “Full technology and working personnel The second competition of “Good in improving the normal wage growth Participation and Scientific Sampling”. with emphasis on mechanism building. Course, Good Coach” was held with mechanism to share its development The employees’ satisfaction in 2017 The Company always focuses on receiving a total of 389 courses, of which achievements with the employees scored 8.15 out of 10, with an increase building talent pools and constantly 40 works of face-to-face courses and 60 by gradually conforming the material of 0.53 over last year. implements programs of the selection high-quality micro-class works entered incentive and welfare of employees to and training of excellent young talents, the final. Labor unions at different levels effectively the market mechanisms and the growth enhances systematic management of protect employees’ legitimate rights and of the Company’s performance. professional qualification, promotes interests, and supervise the Company’s innovation of the selection of technical The Company establishes a fulfilment of responsibilities and duties. experts in subordinates. The Company 6.59 comprehensively effective employee The percentage of employees joined the put forward the Deepening the Reform welfare system, beside basic social labor union was kept at 100%. of the Professional Title Management insurances (endowment insurance, The Company improves the enterprise System (Provisional) to improve system medical insurance, employment injury million hours democratic management system and building, which does not highlight insurance, unemployment insurance and the business affair publicity system with one’s academic background, record of Total Training Time CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 50 51 / DRIVING SOCIAL PROGRESS “CNOOC E-learning Net”, Approachable Teacher for the Employees to Learn Career Health “CNOOC E-learning Net”, the Company’s the platform. Employees can use courses, With the “People-oriented” philosophy, key posts and focus groups. surveillance of workplace occupation online learning platform, was officially knowledge units, activities, tests and research CNOOC constantly improves functions hazards and the rate of occupational In 2017, CNOOC carried out 37 prelaunched on July 3, 2017, which allows modules to participate in autonomous, and informatization of the career health health examination for employees evaluation projects of occupational employees to learn on computer or mobile fragmented and mobile online learning and management system, fully implements exposing occupational disease hazards disease hazards, completed 36 phone with internet access. 504 courses related assessment activities. The platform occupational disease hazard control by reached 99.7%, so as to prevent and evaluation projects of occupational and 301 knowledge units including 3 major makes knowledge sharing and accumulation a priority classification, so as to implement control occupational disease hazards disease prevention facilities construction, categories of technology, skills and synthesis, habit. Therefore, the learning organization has effective control over key workplaces, from the source. and 30 minor specialities were uploaded on a better “ecological” environment. achieved a full coverage of regular Brand Building of Innovative Studios CNOOC Petrochemicals Import and Export Organizing a Lecture on Psychological Counselling CNOOC helps high skilled talents play the Studio”. leading and exemplary role and makes efforts Targeted at knotty problems and psychological understand their psychological status quo, In 2017, the Company held high-skilled in brand building for innovative studios. 11 pressure in the work and the life of the effectively alleviate their psychological personnel exchanges for thirteenth consecutive subordinate units of CNOOC have created employees, CNOOC Petrochemicals Import pressure for better work and life so as to years. More than 40 representatives from 66 innovative studios, guided employees to and Export held a lecture on psychological improve their sense of happiness. frontline units, such as skilled experts, establish and actively practice the concept of counselling to help the staff correctly leaders of technician innovation studio and innovation-driven development, and formed outstanding young technicians, took study an innovative atmosphere. The Shi Shikai tours in China BAOWU Steel and COMAC, Innovation Studio of CNOOC BlueChemical CNOOC EnerTech Continuing Health Promotion making benchmarking with the National Skill won the title of “National Exemplary Model Master Studios and exchanging experiences Worker and Craftsman-type Talent Innovation CNOOC EnerTech continued to carry out allof studio building with masters. employee health promotion, implemented health management for focus groups, Public Exposure in the National Skill Contest Professional Skills Competition popularized the “1+N” mode of exercise and Carrying Forward the “Spirit of “Star Exercise” software, established 24-hour In the final of the second session of Petroleum Petroleum and Chemical Industry Instrument the Craftsmanship” psychological hotline, carried out quietly and Petrochemical Industry Welders Contest, Maintenance Workers Contest, 2 teams won pervasive health education and construction From August to October 2017, CNOOC CNOOC won the third of individual and of the second prize of group, 1 team won the of health corner of grassroots team. As a held the seventh session of the Professional group respectively. Chen Kun, an employee third prize of group, 1 person won the title of consequence, the overall health situation of Skills Competition. The competition was of COOEC, won the title of National “National Petroleum and Chemical Industry the staff was improved significantly. closely related to the practice of offshore Technical Experts issued by the Ministry of Technical Experts” and 8 people won the oil production and was classified into 9 Human Resources and Social Security. title of “National Petroleum and Chemical occupations. The competitions were held Industry Excellent Talents”. In the final of the 9th session of the National in 6 divisions in China. The top 3 of each occupation were named “Technical Experts of the Central Enterprises”. The Contest helped improve work environment for stronger respect to skilled personnel, training more skilled talents and developing skilled experts, and make “excelsior”, the core of CNOOC’s “Spirit of Craftsmanship”, rooted in the mind of the employees. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 52 53 / DRIVING SOCIAL PROGRESS Caring for Employees “Offshore Workers’ Wives Club” for Cozy and Mutual Assistance Employees are the essential source CNOOC Employee Poverty Alleviation the Families of Employees in Difficulty” CNOOC EnerTech Tianjin Branch set up for sustainable development of the Management Methods and builds up the activity with RMB 3.667 million and the “Offshore Workers’ Wives Club” to Company. CNOOC highly emphasizes all-around poverty alleviation system. aided 605 families in total. provide cozy and mutual assistance to the on assisting employees in need and CNOOC gradually improves the filing of CNOOC advocates the model of families who have members undertaking timely helps their families in difficulty by long-term offshore work, long-term the employees in difficulty, set up a pilot “Changing Thoughts and Behaviors settling the troubles of their everyday business travel and work abroad in its information system for poverty alleviation with Determination and Diligence for lives. The Company constantly subordinate units or social enterprises and effectively guide the distribution of Poverty Alleviation”, and actively makes improves employees’ working and outside CNOOC in Tianjin. The club resources to the targeted employees efforts to help the employees in difficulty living conditions, carries out various regularly gave lectures, held salons, in difficulty. For the whole year, the be employed or self-employed with caring activities, strives for ensuring that organized leisure activities, etc., so that Company invested RMB 20 million to emphasis on the choice of business, employees balance their work and life offshore workers’ wives enjoyed the happy help employees in difficulty and provided start-up and market development. and enhance their sense of happiness. reunion, and lived everyday with healthy employees in difficulty with direct and positive attitude. assistance of more than 3,000 personBalancing Work and Life Assisting Employees in Need time. The Company carried out for the CNOOC advocates the philosophy of CNOOC strives for harmonious labor first time medical assistance for major “Happy Work and Happy Life” and cares relations and effectively implements diseases for all staff to ensure that they for the employees’ life in an all-round way. activities to help employees in Today is my Off-hitch day, so I Call the Shots would not fall into poverty by diseases. The Company preserves cozy and leisure difficulty in order to share reform and space and organizes various recreational In 2017, Bohai South Region Operation Company development outcomes with all the C N O O C c a r r i e d o u t f o r t h e t h i rd sports activities for the employees to formulated annual off-hitch plan through extensive staff. The Company strictly abides by consecutive year the “Warm Support to balance their work and life. collection of opinions, to ensure special activities for each traditional festival and thematic major events for each quarter in order to provide off-hitch employees with more care and support. Drawing upon practices in traditional festivals like the Spring Festival and the Lantern Festival, and experiences of Dongying International Marathon, academic forums, etc., the company carried out a series of off-hitch activities including public welfare, parentchild, training and competition, which won the praise of participants. Various Cultural and Sports Activities CNOOC Welfare Foundation: Complete Devotion to Moving Ahead with Warmth CNOOC Welfare Foundation is a non-public Foundation launched by CNOOC and approved by the Ministry of Civil Affairs on July 9, 2012. CNOOC Welfare Foundation aims at marine environmental and ecological Logo of CNOOC Welfare Foundation conservation, promoting scientific research and technological development projects on marine ecology and supporting international exchanges and cooperation activities as well as other public welfare charities in the marine field. Since 2013, CNOOC Welfare Foundation has highlighted its featuring positioning, improved the management system, expanded the scope of assistance, strengthened project supervision and invested accumulatively RMB 416 million in three categories of projects including poverty alleviation in Tibet, marine environmental protection and public cooperation. In 2017, in the evaluation of social organizations organized by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, CNOOC Welfare Foundation was rated a 4A level foundation. We remain true to our original aspiration and keep in mind the social responsibility as our fundamental mission. On the road of providing public welfare services, we keep moving ahead with warmth. 4,075 1,580 3,909 774 1,400 2,820 5,700 737 2,416 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 3,663 1,342 3,750 4,518 1,146 3,747 poverty alleviation in Tibet marine environmental protection CNOOC invested RMB 416 million public welfare cooperation Unit: RMB 10,000 Yuan Caring for Children: CNOOC’s Benevolence Lightening the Future Children are our hope. Children are our future. CNOOC has always attached importance to children, the special stakeholder group, and strived to create a healthy and harmonious environment for their growth. CNOOC actively promotes the “Love Mother’s Cabin” Project as care for pregnant and lactating female employees, carries out a wide range of school-enterprise exchanges like popularizing the knowledge of the ocean in campus and opening exhibition hall and the operation area of enterprises to children with experience activities, cares for children in difficulty by providing qualified education and health conditions within its reach, strengthens Blue Force to care for special groups of children such as the autistic children and handicapped children, so that they can as happy as the normal children. It takes ten years to grow trees, but a hundred years to rear people. We keep on making earnest efforts in child welfare undertakings as always, with our love, to warm up the smiling faces of children and build a better tomorrow for them. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 58 59 / DRIVING SOCIAL PROGRESS DEVOTING TO PUBLIC INTERESTS AND REMAINING TRUE TO PROVIDING VOLUNTARY SERVICES AND STRENGTHENING THE ORIGINAL ASPIRATION BLUE FORCE CNOOC Welfare Foundation is regarded poverty alleviation, caring for students Charity Award”, “Guangming Charity CNOOC constantly advocates and women’s organizations to deliver warmth 265 voluntary service teams and 11,280 as the unified management platform and performing special public welfare Award”, “Award for Organization and promotes voluntary services. In 2017, and support to people in difficulty and young volunteers, and organized nearly for public welfare programs. In 2017, charity affairs, won honorary awards Group with Most Caring”, etc. CNOOC proactively advocated and socially vulnerable groups in various 234 voluntary activities of various kinds CNOOC continued to make targeted like “The Children and Young People’s organized voluntary service activities ways, to publicize and popularize marine for the whole year with the participation through the Company’s Labor Union, knowledge and to provide voluntary of 36,179 young employees. the Youth League Committee and services. Currently, the Company has Deep Friendship with Zhuozi County Warmth in the “House of Love” “Pearl Students” Picking Shells On August 3, 2017, Yang Hua, Chairman relationship with Zhuozi County, CNOOC On January 11, 2017, it was so cold in Zhuozi in CNOOC of CNOOC, along with his delegation came has effectively applied the poverty alleviation County. However, there was crowded, to Zhuozi County, the Inner Mongolia principle of “Relieving Difficulties, bustling, outside the “House of Love” of Blue Force cooperated with Xinhua Autonomous Region. He made on-site Eradicating Poverty, Promoting BloodSandaoying village. The villagers came Compassion Education Foundation and investigation of CNOOC-aided poverty making Function and Establishing a Longfrom all sides and gathered at the entrance, carried out the “Pearl Students in CNOOC” alleviation projects and donated to the county term Mechanism” to local poverty alleviation receiving donation from employees of program for poverty-striken university targeted poverty alleviation fund. Since 2013 planning with the total investment reaching CNOOC Gas & Power Group, who donated students in Tianjin, with various experience when it established a fixed-point assistance RMB 12 million. within merely one week more than 1,000 activities like marine knowledge publicity and pieces of clothes, pairs of sports shoes, occupational skills promotion. electric blankets, etc. Protecting the Sea for Returning Shells Home On October 15, 2017, the theme activities “Protecting the Sea for Returning Shells H o m e ” k i c k e d o ff i n Q i n g d a o . T h e activities received positive response from CNOOC’s Blue Force with a total of nearly 100 volunteers participating in. Bohai Oilfield signed the Agreement on Cooperative Construction of Marine Science Popularization with the State Oceanic Administration, focusing on developing marine education and increasing young people’s awareness of marine power. CNOOC Assisting the 6th Marine Culture Design Contest among National University & Middle School Students CNOOC Supporting the “EU-China Blue Year” CNOOC Welfare Foundation assisted the of the World Oceans Day and the National colleges and universities nationwide and 2017 was the “EU-China Blue Year”, Europe 6th Marine Culture Design Contest among Marine Awareness Day, the contest with received a total of 30,680 works covering and China continued to promote and deepen National University & Middle School the theme of “Intelligent Ocean” attracted various fields like graphic design, product cooperation in the areas of marine ecology, 93.04 Students. As one of the series of activities participants from 84 middle schools and 550 design, digital media, etc. marine science and technology and blue economy. On September 16, CNOOC held “Breakfast” Project for Children in the Mountain Area the “Blue Globe” beach cleaning activity, million RMB the key content of “EU-China Blue Year”. On May 5, 2017, CNOOC’s “Donating the rainbow public welfare plan, launched Representatives of the EU, the State Oceanic a Breakfast” Public Welfare Project was by China Business News in 2011. It donates Public Welfare and Charitable Donation Administration and primary and middleinaugurated in CNOOC Chaoyangmen breakfast to Yunnan Hope primary school at school students in Tianjin were invited to Tower, marking the “Donating a Breakfast” RMB 4 per breakfast standard. Up to now, clean up garbage on the beach and voluntarily Project was officially settled in CNOOC. The the total amount of fundraising has exceeded make oath to protect the ocean from the project is a voluntary service project under RMB 1 million. adverse effects of human activities. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 60 61 / DRIVING SOCIAL PROGRESS Volunteer Activities all over the Country in the “World Oceans Day” INTEGRATING INTO THE COMMUNITY AND CREATING A June 8, 2017 was the “World Oceans Volunteers from all over the country carried beaches with garbage cleaning. Their actions BETTER LIFE Day”. Volunteer teams of CNOOC’s “Blue out various activities such as lectures on increased the awareness of caring for the Force” were dedicated to marine cleaning marine knowledge, solicitation of creative ocean and protecting the environment to be CNOOC proactively commits to serving assessment for new projects is kept at local ecological environment, create and and environmental charity promotion. ideas of environmental protection, hiking on deeply rooted in the people’s minds. the community, creating harmony 100%. The Company makes efforts to maintain communal safety and harmony. and bringing benefits to the people, share our resources with communities, The Company constantly advances the establishes the regular communication proactively carries out community “Warm Hearts” projects to effectively mechanism with communities and building in a cooperative way and repay improve the residents’ living standard, listens to rational proposals of local communities with its development drive the community culture construction governments and residents. The ration outcomes. The Company helps local and build their beautiful home with of environmental and social impact residents solve difficulties in life, improve cooperative efforts. CNOOC Petrochemicals Import & Export Carrying out Community Public Nanhai East Oilfield was Welfare Forest Protection Activities awarded “Advanced Collective of Typhoon Resistance” The staff of Xinhai Oil Storage, subordinate the forest environment and reduce hidden to CNOOC Petrochemicals Import & Export, dangers. The activity increased awareness of On September 29, 2017, eastern South carried out public welfare forest protection forest protection and environmental protection China Sea Oilfield received the honorary activity in cooperation with officers and among officers, soldiers and community plaque of “Advanced Collective of soldiers of Daxie Frontier Inspection Station, residents, so as to deepen their understanding Typhoon Resistance”, for the recognition Blue and Rhine Park Community. Volunteers cleaned up the garbage on both sides of of the importance of low-carbon development and environmental protection to human life. of its outstanding performance in typhoon resistance and disaster relief of the year. In Force the trail on General Hill, in order to protect 2017, Zhuhai City suffered 3 consecutive typhoons within 11 days. The staff of the company fast reacted to prepare and arrange Nurser Rhyme with Theme of CNOOC Selected in Music Textbook for emergency deployment. In the wake of Primary School typhoons, the company actively resumed A song called “Haiwa Turns to be Youwa” in the country, in particular used by nearly production and restarted the downstream gas composed by CNOOC was included in the 70% of the primary schools in Guangdong. supply within a few hours, which provided Huacheng edition of music textbook for The achivement marks that the cooperative strong guarantee for the recovery of the city primary school. The lyrics are simple and community construction and public welfare after the disaster. lively, with pictures of “HAI YANG SHI activities led by CNOOC’s subordinate YOU 981”, tenders and drilling workers. units in Guangdong are greatly welcomed This edition of music textbook has been by local people. issued in 14 provinces and municipalities 100 % Ratio of Environmental and Social Impact Assessment for New Projects CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 62 A Letter of Thanks from Tianjin Maritime Rescue and Coordinating Center Tianjin Maritime Rescue and Coordinating at sea and thus positive contribution to the search and rescue actions, accounting for Center (MRCC) sent a letter of thanks maintenance of traffic order and regional 22.3% of all emergency actions. CNOOC to CNOOC on July 5, 2017, expressing economy in Tianjin. also actively participated in the action of its gratitude to CNOOC for its often rescuing “Yamin 18” and “Naxiang 2” and By the end of 2017, as a main member of participations in emergency rescue operations rescued 7 people in danger. MRCC, CNOOC had been involved in 132 CNOOC rescued lost fishing boat Deeply Integrating into Global Economy • Joint Development for Bright Future On July 15, 2017, CNOOC China Ltd. The company sent without hesitate “HAI waves, found the lost fishing boat in a short Zhanjiang received the rescue request from YANG SHI YOU 685”, the guardian ship of time and promptly escorted it to return home. Hainan MRCC for “Qiong Dan Yu 13095” KANTAN No.3 drilling unit, to the rescue The 4 people on the ship were safe and sound. fishing boat which had been lost for 2 days. site. The guardian ship overcame the stormy 2017 “CNOOC Emergency” Hand in Hand with Tianjin Red Cross On September 12, 2017, the “Red Cross city emergency rescue. Red Cross Society in Bohai Oil second primary school participated Emergency Rescue Training Base in Binhai Tianjin, the government of Binhai New Area in the emergency exercise and the on-site first New Area” was officially unveiled at the and other institutions jointly organized the aid exercise. These activities further enhanced CSR REPORT OVERSEAS Offshore Oil Training Center CNOOC. “Blue publicity activities of emergency training and the awareness of disaster prevention and Rescue Team”, which was set up relying on Red Cross life health and safety education mitigation and helped improve the ability of Bohai Oil Fire Brigade, was also presented for the 2017 “World Emergency Day”. with the flag by the Red Cross in Binhai New Representatives of residents from Bohai self-help and mutual aid for local people. C H I N A N AT I O N O F F S H O R E O I L C O R P. Area and became a “Regular Army” in Tianjin Oil mining area, teachers and students from 65 / CSR REPORT OVERSEAS The Belt and Road: CNOOC’s Heart with the Energy “Silk Road” OVERSEAS CSR STRATEGY 31 In the “Silk Road Economic Belt” and the “21st-Century Maritime Silk Road”, “CNOOC People” can be found everywhere for Vision business cooperation. They are guided by “Peaceful Cooperation, Openness and Tolerance, Mutual Learning, Mutual Benefit and deeply integrating into global economy Common Development”, spirit of the Silk Road, striving together to be the constructers of the peaceful world, contributors to the joint development for bright future st world development and defenders of the world order. They make efforts in building Energy “Silk Road” to achieve the connectivity of all of the global resources as their way to build a community of shared future for mankind. Ranking in PIW Top 50 Oil Companies Strategy Paths 3 compliance management, value sharing equal Employment, coordinated development co-construction of harmonious communities, beautiful environment rd Ranking of Global LNG Importers Jameel Sh. Hussein Stephane Karl Petter Willumsen Institution Building Deputy General Manager of On-site Electrical Engineer Project Supervision Manager of Missan Oil Company Coordinates: Russian Arctic region “HAI YANG SHI YOU 982” Structuring Career Ladders for Employee Development Coordinates: Iraq Coordinates: South China Sea Regulation of International Staff Planning and Management Overseas Human Resources Management Rules Through cooperation, I know that CNOOC COOEC Yamal team works 14 hours a day. I I have been working as a project manager Regulation of the Basic Salary and Welfare Management for Long-term Expatriate Staff Code of Conduct for Overseas Subsidiaries and Employees is an international energy company with shall say they are really an “Iron Amy”! We for COSL over nine years. I led the building good reputation in technology, capital and had a very pleasant cooperation. We have of four semi-submersible drilling platforms Assets Operation System Building management. The people work well and built a deep friendship although the project for CNOOC. The “HAI YANG SHI YOU Overseas Project Reporting and Recording Management Measures (Approval) rigorously and respect partners. I hope was successfully completed. 982” where I am working on is about to be Rules for Overseas Mineral Right Management, Overseas Subsidiaries Procurement that CNOOC and Iraq will deepen their completed. This makes me very proud. Management Measures Overseas Oil (Gas) Field Prophase Research and Engineering Proposal Management Methods cooperation. Rules for Overseas Subsidiaries Information Management Russia Risk Prevention Rules for the Implementation of Overseas Legal Disputes Management Rules for the Implementation of Foreign Assets Audit South China Sea Rules for the Management of Compound Book Audit Iraq Identification of Topics Uganda Sumatra, Indonesia high attention Stakeholders' attention Driving local economy Local Jessica Kyeyune Perkasa Sinagabariang Public welfare Safe operation Improving the sourcing and charity quality of product Job creation and service Legal and Commercial Manager of Vice President Exploitation, CNOOC SES Ltd. Co-construction of Technology transfer Abiding by Ensuring energy CNOOC Uganda Coordinates: Sumatra, Indonesia community local laws and regulations supply Coordinates: Uganda Technical cooperation Biodiversity conservation Waste management CNOOC and Uganda are cooperating in a I have been working in CNOOC for 15 years. Water Equal resources employment Employee wide range of oil and gas business. I am sure I am glad to know China proposed the Belt management promotion Cost reduction our cooperation will be stable and sustainable. and Road Initiative and will invest a lot in Job training and efficiency enhancement I am very proud of being a member of the infrastructure in the countries along these outstanding CNOOC team. It is no doubt that routes. The Initiative can effectively promote high attention I will learn more professional skills. the development of these countries and is Selection model of social really good news for Indonesia. responsibility theme of CNOOC Importance to CNOOC CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 66 67 / CSR REPORT OVERSEAS CREATING SOCIOECONOMIC VALUE The Crude Oil Trading Volume Increasing Year by Year CNOOC High-end Manufacturing Shining in Arctic Region On August 16, 2017, the last module of Yamal independently designed and constructed by Faced with the challenges of the complex oil CNOOC is an important force in the developing overseas business, CNOOC project started shipment, marking the first China. COOEC also broke the world’s safety market, CNOOC Petrochemicals Import & implementation of the national “Going actively makes efforts to ensure national Chinese construction project of LNG core record for single site single project construction Export overcame difficulties and developed Out” strategy and the Belt and Road energy supply and drive local economic process module was successfully completed. and provided a reference to the construction of 32.73 crude oil trade year by year from 2015 to Initiative. Creating maximum value development and provide better super LNG plant in the Arctic region. 2017, with the trading volume of 56.16 This is the first LNG core equipment for stakeholders is a top priority in products and services for customers. million tons, 79.41 million tons and 86.37 million tons respectively. million tons Overseas Oil Output 11.6 Crude Oil Trading Volume (10,000 tons) The core process module A total of 270,000-meter A total of 3.3 million10,000 of the project weighed pipeline was laid, meter electric cable about 180,000 tons, equivalent to the length was laid, equivalent to equivalent to the weight of Beijing Sixth Circle the distance between 8,637 8,000 of 18 Eiffel Towers. Expressway. Beijing and Norway. billion m3 7,941 Providing Better Products Promoting Local 6,000 and Services Economic Development Overseas Natural Gas Output 5,616 36.8 % providing high-end products building a solid energy 4,000 and quality services foundation to stimulate economic growth 2,000 Value The total coating area A new world’s safety The project will supply 2015 2016 2017 was 1.57 million m2, record of 38.63 million 6 billion m3 of LNG per equivalent to 3.6 hours without accident year for China. Creation Overseas Asset Ratio Tiananmen Square. was created. BD Gasfield, a Rising Star Offshore Indonesia On July 22, 2017, BD Gasfield of CNOOC The natural gas produced will be sold to SES was formally put into operation. The Pasuruan, an Indonesian city, after treatment Ensuring National Energy Supply gasfield is featured by rare “Three-high”, on FPSO. The gasfield is expected to keep a developing international cooperation to ensure resources supply i.e. high temperature, high pressure and steady production for another 10 years and high hydrogen sulfide content, and has provide strong support for the local economic been developed for more than 10 years. development. CNOOC Gas & Power Group as the First Chinese Company won the “CWC LNG Tech Innovation Award 2017”. Prize Citation In view of the global LNG trade growth and technological progress, CNOOC Gas & Power Group innovated the 4D full life-cycle evolutionary analysis technology for the large LNG receiving terminal, covering design, construction, adjustment commissioning and operation. In particular, the 4D dynamic simulation platform of the receiving terminal is a creation in the world. It solves the technical problems such as the super large-scale 3D multi-phase flow simulation and the multi-point constraint contact simulation of storage tank, and provides a quantitative and safe solution for The FPSO used for BD Gasfield the construction and operation of the receiving terminal. has the largest liquid sulphur treatment capacity in the world CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 68 69 / CSR REPORT OVERSEAS STRENGTHENING SAFETY AND COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT COSL Safety Management Manual in Indonesian Version For its foreign employees better understanding of hand protection, but also 55 summary open class in every morning meeting and Safety and compliance management is overseas security information exchange The Company continues to strengthen the concept of safety management of the cases, 12 typical cases and 124 identified reading the manual contents aloud, besides the very resource of CNOOC operating platform, maintains communication overseas asset risk management and company, COSL Indonesia Base carefully nipping hands points. daily publicity of 2 case analyses and safety business in the world. with international security organizations, control, improve overseas major project edited Hand Protection Manual in Indonesian warnings, 5 nipping hands points and control To make learning more effective, in addition keeps following up tracks of security investment decision-making procedures version. measures, and 1 typical case, to enhance safety The Company pays close attention to to individual learning, security officers take risks of the overseas projects, and and normalize mechanisms for overseas consciousness of the staff. overseas operations and personnel The manual includes not only the knowledge various measures such as organizing collective effectively improve the efficiency of audit, which lays a solid foundation for safety, formulates rules for overseas e m e r g e n c y re s p o n s e t o o v e r s e a s preventing overseas operation risks. security management, constructs security. Nexen Promoting Life Safety Rules in the Management Nexen upgraded the Life Saving Rules in the company to understand the importance of made personal commitment and set example 2017, on the basis of industry standards and these LSRs, members of the ELT and Senior to subordinates in practice. CNOOC rules. To ensure each member in Management each sponsored one for 2017, Normalization of Overseas Audit 1 COOEC Won the “Petroleum ELT and Senior Management Life Saving Rule CNOOC effectively expands the coverage of overseas Security Award” in Thailand assets audit. The compound book audit is carried out FANG Zhi, CEO Stop Work Authority In virtue of Zawtika1B project, COOEC every two years, and for high risk projects once a year. won the Petroleum Security Award issued Alan O’Brien, Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary Conduct Hazard Assessment 2 by Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) LIANG Yu, Senior Vice President, operation services Energy Isolation The Company also strengthened the overall on February 24, 2017. It is the first time for management of overseas audit resources and established COOEC to win the high-level security honor Marilyn Schonberner, Senior Vice President, CFO Drive Safely a mechanism requiring overseas subsidiaries regularly from PTT. Patrick McVeigh, Senior Vice President, Global Exploration & International Developments Permit to Work report audit results to headquarters. COOEC developed a security, safety, health 3 and environmental protection (SSHE) Patrick McVeigh, Vice President, US Gulf of Mexico, and President, Nexen Petroleum USA Inc. Working at Heights plan for the project. The mechanical CNOOC enhanced the application of overseas audit Quinn Wilson, Vice President, Global Support Services Confined Space Entry completion achieved one month in advance results by follow-up rectification of key projects, editing by taking effective measures such as risk Ray Riddoch, Senior Vice President, UK Managing Director, Europe Safe Lifting Operations the typical cases and regular exchange of experience. classification, trend analysis and compliance of leading indicators. COOEC created a Tilak Nithiyeswaran, Vice President, oil sands Alcohol & Drug Free “Zero Accident” record for operations from offshore to onshore, thus was highly praised by the project owners. International Company Strengthening Overseas Assets Audit carried out internal control audit in 2 overseas exploration projects and 1 development project carried out compound book audit in 3 non operator projects fully cooperated with SASAC for focused inspection and special audit of overseas stateowned assets coordinated subordinate units in Indonesia to receive the Indonesian government led audit of higher level administrative fees CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 70 71 / CSR REPORT OVERSEAS PROTECTING A BALANCED ECOSYSTEM Bird Protection Activities Nexen sponsored and participated in local data for research on bird behaviors in oil us understand how birds use disturbed and CNOOC attaches great importance to high degree of adaptation, coordination re s e a rc h e d o n c a r b o n e m i s s i o n s activities for bird protection in the dawn sands operation areas. reclaimed habitats in the oil sands region. The protecting the balance of ecosystem and integration of each part of the management of overseas subsidiaries, of the Canadian Environment Week, from data we receive from MAPS is an indication Adam Judd, Compliance and Environment in overseas areas where it operates, ecosystem. established a framework of overseas June 5 to 11, 2017. Nexen installed signal of how well bird populations are able to Manager of Nexen, explained the significance through all kinds of technological means QHSE management system which trackers on birds in the vicinity of the Long survive in disturbed habitats, and allows us to In 2017, CNOOC carried out a series of of the company’s participation in the project. and actions for biodiversity protection, matches to the world-class international Lake operation area to monitor breeding and think progressively in our abilities to lessen management activities like international “Nexen supports this program because it helps carbon emissions management and e n e r g y c o m p a n y w i t h C N O O C ’s migration of birds, in order to provide useful our future impact on the environment. ” benchmarking of QHSE management, ecological restoration, to achieve a characteristics. Restoring Catchment Areas to Green Wetlands In the mining of NEBC shale gas zone from Research on Low-carbon Regulations and Policies Related to Overseas Projects 2008 to 2014, Nexen built several catchment areas for fracturing activities. After drilling, Study on the Policies of Carbon Emission Reduction in the Countries Where Initial Assessment on the Impact of Nexen did not disregard these areas, but the Projects are Undergoing Carbon Emissions from Overseas Projects carried out ecological restoration and returned green lakes and wetlands to the region. The Company made a study on the regulations and policies of carbon emission reduction and The initial assessment on carbon emissions carbon pricing in 10 countries including Canada, the UK, Brazil, Indonesia, Guyana, Nigeria, of 16 projects was made, such as Canada’s Iraq, Uganda, Argentina and Algeria. Long Lake oil sands, the British Golden Eagle Oilfield and the Brazil Libra. Analysis on Carbon Sequestration Potential the UK Factors to be Canada Considered Storage Space Iraq Factors to be Algeria Considered Economic Cost Nigeria CNOOC Uganda Relieving Worries of Local Residents Indonesia Uganda Factors to be Carbon Emission Considered Cost CNOOC Uganda made efforts in Brazil understanding the needs of local residents, communicating with local village committee and villagers’ representatives on potential Suggestions on Energy Saving and Emission Reduction in Different Fields of Production impacts and disputes of debris disposal site construction of a project, and finally relieved their concerns. Oil Sands Natural Gas Power Traditional Oil and Gas Field Generation Development optimization of SAGD Technology optimization of boiler type and fuel regular cleaning of gas turbine reinjection and selective development composition advanced air cooling technology optimization of design and adjustment optimization of closed gathering & economical optimization of water of fuel structure transferring management for well pattern supply pump power grid interlink and dispatching economical optimization of waste coordination heat boiler resource sharing and waste heat recovery and utilization CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 72 73 / CSR REPORT OVERSEAS BUILDING PLATFORM FOR EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Nexen member won the UK Oil & Gas Young Professionals Apprentice Award 4,767 Since 2009, Nexen has been committed to the Sam Ash strictly observed his duty in up whenever I can. It’s great to be recognised CNOOC adheres to the concept of and countries, strengthenes cultural developing the apprenticeship program. the whole period of apprenticeship and as Apprentice of the Year and I hope in 10 “Respect, Mutual Trust and Win-win”, communication and exchanges, continuously led his team to improve work years I’ll be somebody that people can turn In 2017, 11 apprentices were assigned to optimizes the overseas employment enhances mutual understanding between people performance with production safety as the to for advice as I have with my peers and my overseas posts, of which Sam Ash won system, actively implements the Chinese and foreign employees so as to prerequisite. He said after the award, “I keep supervisors over the last few years.” the UK Oil & Gas Young Professionals Overseas Employees Safety First top of mind all the time, and step institution of localization of employees, help all the staff better understand and 80 % Apprentice Award. builds career ladders and promotes build a harmonious corporate culture. 01 the common development of local CNOOC has 5,991 overseas employees, Senior Leadership Development employees and enterprises. CNOOC of which 4,767 are local employees. The ability training for senior managers 02 respects customs and religious beliefs localization rate of overseas employees of employees from different regions reaches 80%. Localization Rate of Overseas Employees Regional Managers Training professional training for regional managers 03 New Supervisor Traning ability training for new supervisor Establishing a System of Training and Using International Talents 04 Nexen Senior Manager Training System Upward Potential Program future leadership capability traning 05 Scientific training courses for internal personnel appraisers Talent Exchange Program Selection completion of international talent capability model and selection scheme exchange to CNOOC headquarters carrying out quantitative evaluation of talents building international talents pool Voice from Employees Effective designing courses against shortcomings Training domestic centralized training by stages training in overseas universities Using the international talents in talent pool in priority of use Talents recommending candidates for overseas positions expatriating personnel to overseas posts Olakunle Ogunjimi Xu Shaohui Era Irawan Seniority: 6 years Seniority: 1.5 years Seniority: 4 years Nationality: Nigeria Nationality: Malaysia Nationality: Indonesia I have been working in CNOOC I joined CNOOC in August 2016. The It is my honor to join the Asia Pacific Nigeria for 6 years. It is in the Company gave me the opportunity to Center of CNOOC EnerTech 4 years company where I have the experience Chinese corporate culture ago. During the years, I worked opportunity to do the international and to enjoy myself while working. with people of different cultures, oil and gas business. The company CNOOC focuses on team cohesion. languages and customs and habits is open to various suggestions, has So it provids various training in a harmonious environment, like good interpersonal and teamwork programs for employees and organizes living in a family. I am growing up environment and provides many job team building activities. I feel very every day with the company. I enjoy training opportunities. I really feel that lucky to be a member of the “CNOOC the corporate culture that encourages I am respected and valued here. Family” and I’m looking forward to cooperation and progress. the promising future of CNOOC. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 74 PROMOTING ENTERPRISE-COMMUNITY COMMON DEVELOPMENT CNOOC lives together with the through establishing communication the residents improve quality of life local government and residents in a and coordination mechanisms, creating and education, in order to maintain a complementary community with a jobs, providing professional training, harmonious development and create a shared future. CNOOC has striven for a carrying out extensively covered and sustainable future. long time to integrate into the community effective public welfare activities, helping 2 Donations to Students and Education renovating school buildings, 1 Job Creation donating teaching facilities, and training teachers providing posts, hands-on opportunities and professional 3 training Assissting People in Difficulty organizing voluntary services and public welfare donations to improve community conditions Job Creation Donations to Students and Assissting People in Difficulty Education Bridas (CNOOC’s subordinate company On August 17, 2017, when celebrating CNOOC Uganda carried out for five in Argentina) has established a scholarship Canada’s 150th anniversary, Nexen actively consecutive years the CNOOC Scholarship and a Youth Learning Program with local participated in the “Sisters’ Soup” initiative program to primary and middle school foundations. In 2017, the company received proposed by local charities. 150 volunteers students in Hoima, with 330 students 1,000 students from 20 schools as trainees benefited. The company has sent totally 8 boiled 900 bowls of soup for women, youth CNOOC in Iraq and interns. In addition, Bridas provides basic and children in the rescue center. This is students to study in China, of which Lamech In 2010, CNOOC signed the Technical Service Contract for the Missan skills training in poor communities to help the the sixth time that Nexen participated in the won the first prize in the second session of Oil Fields and started its business in Iraq, focusing on oil exploration, poverty-striken people get out of difficulty. charity event. China University of Petroleum (East China) development and production. In 2017, CNOOC SES Ltd. carried out underwater photography and coral reef Debate Contest in 2017, Rahman won the Chinese Government Scholarship for Representative of the volunteers of COSL Mexico Company carried out the public Country During the past seven years in Iraq, CNOOC Iraq has strictly abided training for 20 residents living in poverty of Excellent Foreign Students in China 2017 and welfare activity “Love without Border, Report by local laws and regulations and actively fulfilled corporate social Thousand Islands Regency, in the vicinity in August 2017, Patrick and Silage earned Caring for the Orphans” in San Pedro responsibilities by integrating into the local culture, promoting local of its operation area, and encouraged local master degrees and returned to Uganda church orphanage on the Children’s Day employment and purchasing localization. The company has emphasized communities to develop tourism and marine for educational work in local colleges and of 2017. They sent greetings and materials enterprise-community communication, personnel training and technical environmental protection industry. universities. of love to the children in orphanoge. The exchanges, so as to realize the value of the company, balance between activity was a practice of the company’s Nexen actively encourages girls to learn In 2017, CNOOC SES renovated 3 local economic growth, environmental protection and social progress. commitment to “Serving the Society, PeopleSTEM (science, technology, engineering and primary school buildings, funded the local oriented and Fulfilling the Corporate Social mathematics). On May 4, 2017, it invited 15 middle school to set up library and computer Responsibility”. female students from 11 schools to visit the rooms, carried out the training program company and invited 40 female employees to “Knowledge Impartment: Strategy and introduce their own experiences, so that the Practice” for 30 teachers. These activities female students were given a vivid lesson on effectively improved the levels of both soft designing development plan. and hard ware for local education. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 76 77 / CSR REPORT OVERSEAS The Social Responsibility Management System of CNOOC Iraq Compliance Operation CNOOC Iraq strictly abides by the strictly enforces contracts and laws and regulations in Iraq, resolutely agreements, constantly improves risk HSE Department upholds international conventions and management system, prevents and business ethics, strives to improve reduces operational risks. Fa ci employees’ law-abiding consciousness, nt li H en Admin R & Tr ar tm HSE Management Normalization of Legal Training i str a a D e p e n ts ti v e i n i n g on c ti a r t m & H Di In order to help the staff improve legal risk In 2017, CNOOC Iraq elaborated a two-stage tr u e p R D v is ns e r d prevention capacity, prevent and control risk training program on the Technical Service e p ion C o th Local employment, ar Local employment and training ty n d o community construction, etc. in advance and ensure healthy and orderly Contract of Missan Oil Fields, focusing tm a operation, CNOOC Iraq has organized legal on interpretation and analysis on protocol e Administrative & HR t Department training every month since April 2016, structure, system framework, introduction, Public Relations Department involving nearly 20 sectors such as Iraq Labor contract terms, attachments and appendices. Code, Social Insurance Law, HSE Law, The program was expected to help the staff CSR Department registration of company, tax compliance, deepen the understanding of the contract and import and export and custom operations, optimize the execution of contract terms. verdict, arbitration and enforcement, and anti609 corruption, etc. Building up Excellent Projects Chairman’s Congratulation Letter Missan Oil Fields have long history of development, and improving Building Career Ladders development. In order to provide energy communication and mutual aid in the Through implementation of optimal and CNOOC Iraq has created a number of advocates the team spirit of equality, for the re-construction of post-war Iraq, daily work. fast drilling program and a number of Local Employees stable jobs for local residents and has cooperation, solidarity and dedication. plans to increase production in the whole 70 % CNOOC Iraq adheres to the philosophy been maintaining high localization rate of The company continues to build career Missan Oil Fields project has reached year of 2017, CNOOC Iraq created of “One Team with One Goal” and carried employees in the foreign companies in ladders for employee development production achievement in 2017. On the record for the fastest drilling in the out various methods to rejuvenate the Missan Province. The company attaches and provide professional training for December 28, Chairman Yang Hua sent horizontal well MISHRIF of Missan Oil old oilfields, such as building mutual trust great importance to the development local employees in the fields of security, a congratulation letter to the company Fields, with every aspect of the project and cooperation mechanism with the achieving the best performance in the and training of employees and actively technology, management, etc. with sincere gratitude to the overseas Iraqi employees; strengthening the Iraqi Localization Rate staff working in Iraq during the New Year past 7 years. On behalf of the Leading 5,947 experts’ participation in technological Party Members’ Group of CNOOC, Senior Engineer of Thirty Years Old Festival. I would like to extend my warm Seif was just 30 years old in 2017, but already technology training in April, 2017, and four congratulations to CNOOC Iraq, and to promoted to be the senior engineer of electric months later, he was promoted to a senior express my high respect and heartfelt person-time submersible pump (ESP) in the Downhole engineer. He thanks deeply the company thanks to the comrades who are still Cumulative Trainees Operation Department. He joined CNOOC for giving him training and promotion. working in Iraq during the traditional Iraq in September 2014. With great challenges of ESP installation in Chinese New Year. The Company more than 30 wells in the year 2017, 3 times hopes that the staff of CNOOC Iraq and Before joining CNOOC, Seif majored in over that of last year, he closely cooperated CNOOC International would remain electricity with little professional knowledge with his colleagues and successfully sincere and determined to our original of electric submersible pump. In the accomplished the heavy task. aspiration, bearing the mission firmly course of work, he received the company's in mind, and to continue performing systematic training and work shift, gradually their roles professionally for CNOOC’s mastered the ESP technology debugging and overseas business development and optimization, and extensively studied the first–class international energy company management sciences including inventory with CNOOC characteristics! management, construction coordination, and on-site supervision, etc. He is now a specialized technical expert. Because of his excellent performance, Seif was sent as the company’s technical backbone to Baker Hughes for ESP CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 78 79 / CSR REPORT OVERSEAS Cenertech Training Center Completed Emphasizing Safety Management The completion ceremony of Cenertech CNOOC Iraq adheres to CNOOC’s the local situation and improved upon Training Center was held in Missan Oil Fields core value of HSE, “People-oriented, international best practices, safety on March 28, 2017, which is the first training Safety First, Environment Protection management with good planning, center of CNOOC constructed in Iraq, and the and Equipment Integrity”. On the basis with no discount execution and timely second overseas training center of CNOOC of well-functioning Safety Management f e e d b a c k , t o e n s u re s a f e o i l f i e l d following the training center in Indonesia. System, CNOOC Iraq started from operations. The training center provides 20 physical training modules, more than 50 training themes and more than 200 practical exercises, Continuously Deepening and Promoting covering more than 2,000 knowledge units, FOD HSE Management System including: QHSE, drilling, production and implementing 37 HSE procedures covering operation. The training center will organize all operations in the oilfield. training on management skills and language as well as culture. The physical training will Promoting “Training Passport” System support the local development of Iraq and ensuring that safety training is recorded, accelerate the skill upgrading of the staff. traced and constrained. Carrying out On-site Safety Inspection Staff Reflections focusing on drilling, completion and workover operations, and establishing classification system for hazards management, following up and rectification timely. Mine Clearance for Oilfield Safety Missan Oil Fields are located in a minefield, out mine prevention education in the nearby which pose a major threat to the employees’ villages. There is not even a single landmine Faisal Akram Haider Abdul Rahman Fadhil Imambux Birmani safety and the company’s operation. In order casualty so far. The company has received Nationality: Pakistani Nationality: Iraqi Nationality: Pakistani to eliminate the risk of mine, the company honorary certificates issued by the Iraqi organized a team of experts for mine action in Directorate of Mine Action (DMA) and Civil Post: Maintenance Supervision Post: Document Adminstrator Post: Document Administrator the vicinity of Missan Oil Fields, and carried Defense respectively, which is a precedent for foreign companies in Iraq. I have been working in CNOOC for Graduated from University of Basra I am proud of being able to work in 3 years. CNOOC allows me to work in 2013, I was engaged in field of HR CNOOC Iraq. Everyone here has in an international and multicultural management in several companies in a strong dedication to work with environment, so that I can not only Iraq. I joined CNOOC Iraq in June, the same goal. Leaders of each enhance my professional skills, 2017. Since then, I could feel my life department are not only the business but also improve my multilingual interesting and my future became experts, but also concentrating on abilities. The corporate culture clear. Everyone here is in its own health safety and environmental is very attractive to the staff. position and the work is undergoing protection, so that the company’s We internalize the core value of in a good order. Under the help of security policy can be rooted in CNOOC. This makes our team more my manager, I open up my mind and peoples’ mind and be implemented cohesive and dedicated. I’m very get many ideas about work. CNOOC with good will. As an industry proud to be a member of CNOOC. advocates loyalty, self-confidence veteran with 17 years of work and cooperation. It is because of these experience, my ability has been spirits that I can do my job well. greatly improved in the company with better prospects. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 80 81 / CSR REPORT OVERSEAS 5 4.46 Promoting Local Development Implementing Social Contribution Projects Elaborately It has always been enterprise culture of of USD 5 million for educational and After well-orchestrated scheme, fully for boys’ and girls’ school, the total building CNOOC to stay in harmony with the local infrastructural constructions and preparation and scientific management, 9 area is 5,500 m2. Each school contains 18 million USD million USD government and the public to promote the cooperated with the Local Government contracts with a total value of USD 4.46 classes, advanced laboratory, administration development of local society. and Missan Oil Company to form the Special Training Funds Contracted Amount of Social Contribution million were signed, which include schools, building and all related facilities. These Projects in 2017 road, power feeding sewer network and other projects will be a symbol of friendship and Social Contribution Committee, which is 9 While carrying out oilfield operations, infrastructure construction in Musharrah win-win cooperation between two sides. responsible for project recommendations CNOOC Iraq attaches importance to District. Especially, as to the education project and reviewing the annual social tradition and builds brotherly feelings contribution projects proposed by the with the local people. province-level government. CNOOC Iraq dedicates a yearly budget Number of Social Contribution Projects Social Contribution Project Request Start-up The Local Government and Missan Oil Company Social Contribution Supervision Committee Supervision Local Government MOC CNOOC Iraq FOD Executive Committee Execution Facility Construction Department FOD Manager and Other Departments Carrying Out Publicity and Sympathy Activities in Communities Completion and Acceptance of Social Contribution Project CNOOC Iraq took the opportunity of the protection of oilfield facilities in the hot MOC “Safety Production Month” campaign to carry season. They also brought various drinks and Completion and out security publicity and send charity to cakes to the local people for cool and refresh Transfer villagers and school children living around the in the hot summer, as well as visors and oilfield on June 29, 2017. During the event, footballs as gifts to the local participants. The Local Government Chinese employees of the HSE Department company and its employees won the praise of of CNOOC Iraq together with their local the local people and achieved positive social colleagues explained to villagers and school responses. children about fire safety prevention and CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 82 83 / ANNEX OUTLOOK ON 2018 THIRD-PARTY ASSESSMENT Rating Report on China National Offshore Oil Corp. Sustainability Report 2017 Upon the request of China National Offshore Oil Corporation (hereinafter “CNOOC”), Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report majoring in the oil and gas industry, promoting energy transition and exploring business of Rating invited experts to form a Rating Team. The Rating Team rated CNOOC Sustainability Report 2017 as follows (hereinafter new energies in a prudent and orderly manner “Report”): Promoting strengthening scientific and technological innovation for efficient oil and gas development with high-end products and services Economic assuming the primary responsibility of safety, strengthening compliance operations and the 1. Rating criteria Growth comprehensive risk defense Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR 3.0) and Rating Standard on enhancing quality control, providing quality products and services and building world Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (2014). famous brands 2. Rating process (1)The process assessment team interviewed members from the social responsibility department and viewed the relevant adhering to the concept of green and low-carbon development and integrating environmental materials involving the preparation of the report on site. protection into the whole process of daily production and management activities (2) The rating team evaluates the management process and the information disclosed in the report and draws up the rating report. strengthening water resource management and improving the utilization efficiency and Enhancing sustainability of water resources (3) The Vice Chairman of the Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating and the leader of the expert rating team sign the Environmental taking the initiative to tackle climate change, promoting energy conservation and emission rating report together. Protection reduction and carrying on building a comprehensive low-carbon management system 3. Rating results making efforts to protect biodiversity and protect the marine ecological environment for the construction of a “Beautiful China” Process Management ( ★★★★★ ) Establishing the organization structure of the report complied with the leading group, the senior leaders are responsible for theme, issue and frame of the report. The standardization process of the report writing is established and the CSR management level gets promotion. The editorial team identifies stakeholders and consults their advice by meetings, questionnaires and interviews. The substantial issues are defined according to material issues of the corporation, relevant state policies and industry adhering to the “People-oriented” concept, assisting employees for a better life benchmarking analysis and the stakeholders’ opinions. It is planned to hold the special conference, and the report would be making efforts in targeted poverty alleviation, strengthening the responsibility of public presented in printed papers, electronic version, Chinese and English version, H5 version as well as video version. Thus, the report welfare foundation of the Company Driving Social progress management is super excellent. expanding voluntary service, innovating service means and continuously enhancing the Progress social influence of Blue Force Materiality ( ★★★★★ ) integrating into communities, sharing resources with the society and repaying the society The report systematically discloses key performance issues on its industries such as “Implement the Macro Policy”, “Improve the with our development outcomes Quality Management”, “Ensure Energy Supply”, “Career Health”, “Intensifying Safe Operation”, “Focusing on the Technological Innovation”, “Water Resource Management”, “Tackling Climate Change”, “Biodiversity Conservation” etc. with detailed description. The report has super excellent materiality. Completeness ( ★★★★☆ ) implementing the “Going Out” strategy and the Belt and Road Initiative and deeply The report systematically discloses key information on “Promote Economic Growth”, “Enhancing Environmental Protection”, integrating into the global oil and gas industry “Driving Social Progress”, “CSR Report Overseas” etc., with 89.5% of core indicators disclosed on its industries. The report has implementing environmental protection management in the host country and ensuring leading completeness. CSR Report sustainability of the local ecosystem Overseas Balance ( ★★★★☆ ) attaching great importance to the development of overseas employees and actively This report discloses negative information on “Direct Contractor Casualties”, “Employee Casualties”, “Recordable Injury Events”, integrating into the local community to achieve the common development of employees, “Incidence of Occupational Disease”, “Employee Turnover Rate” etc. The report has leading balance. communities and the Company. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 84 85 / ANNEX Comparability ( ★★★★★ ) This report discloses data on 37 key performance indicators of at least three consecutive years, including “Crude Oil Trading GLOSSARY OF TERMS Volume”, “R & D Investments”, “Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Investments”, “Comprehensive Energy Consumption per RMB 10,000 Turnover”, “Percentage of Female Employees”, “Profit and Tax” and compares “Crude Oil Output”, “Yield of Natural Drilling Platform a low temperature under high pressure after undergoing the Gas”, “Fertilizer Output” etc. to national data. The report has super comparability. fluid and acid removal, drying and distillation processes. LNG is Offshore drilling platforms are marine structures used mainly for predominantly methane and is colourless, odourless, non-toxic drilling exploratory wells. Such platforms, generally divided into Readability ( ★★★★★ ) and non-corrosive. mobile and fixed platforms, are essential for offshore oil and The report continued the theme of “Our Quality Energy for Your Blue Sea and Sky,” and focused on the four aspects of economy, gas exploration and development operations and house drilling, Recordable Production Safety Events environment, society, and overseas responsibility, demonstrating the connotation and extension of corporate social responsibility power, communications, navigation and other equipment, as well as lifesaving and accommodation facilities. According to the OSHA standards of the United States, performance in a properly detailed and concise manner. The cover creativity and content design adopted actual images of the recordable production safety events include medical treatment, Company, and integrated into elements of its main business, vividly highlighting the industrial characteristics and enhancing the Recovery Ratio work restrictions, lost time and deaths. report identification. The design style was natural and fresh, and the colors and pictures were harmonious and impressive, and Recovery ratio refers to the percentage of geological benefited by associating together with the contents, improving the reading inspiration. It achieved excellent performance in the Occupational Disease oil reserves accounted for by the amount of oil that can aspect of readability. be extracted from oil reservoirs. This is a key criterion in This refers to diseases that develop as a result of exposure to evaluating the level of development of an oil field. occupational hazards at work. Creativity ( ★★★★★ ) Heavy Oil QHSE The report responded positively to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and disclosed comprehensively Heavy oil is highly viscous crude oil that contains a relatively The abbreviation QHSE stands for Quality, Health, Safety the corporate social responsibility performance of the Company regarding to the 17 SDGs, showing the spirit of keeping up with high level of asphaltenes and resins. This usually refers and Environmental. Established based on the principles of the times and reflecting the responsibility guidance. The setting of seven responsibility features including “CNOOC and SDGs,” compatibility of similarities and complementarity of differences, to those with ground densities greater than 0.943 and “LNG: Technological Innovation Leading Development” “Internet +: New Experiences of Fast Service” showed the key practices underground viscosities greater than 50 centipoises. and on the basis of the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 standards, of the Company in an all-around and multi-dimensional way, highlighting the responsibility duty of a central SOE. The featured GB/T 28000 family of standards and SY/T 6276 Petroleum Oil Reservoir and Natural Gas Industries-Health, Safety and Environmental country report of “CNOOC in Iraq” responded to the Belt and Road Initiative. The appraisal and selection work conducted by the Management System, the QHSE management framework usually Company for outstanding contacts for report preparation enhanced the engagement of internal stakeholders, being helpful to This is the smallest unit for the storage of oil. Oil reservoir layer refers to the framework that directs and controls the quality, improve report quality and management value. The video-based report, which was the first of its kind released by the Company, or oil layer in short refers to the porous strata for the storage of health, safety and environmental aspects of an organisation. oil. Not every part of an oil layer will contain oil. Oil reservoir refers was favorable to enhance publicity and communication value. It achieved excellent performance in the aspect of innovation. to those independent oil-containing areas within an oil layer. COD Overall Rating ( ★★★★★ ) Adjustment Well Chemical oxygen demand or COD in short refers to the amount Through evaluation and deliberations, the rating team agreed to rate China National Offshore Oil Corporation Sustainability Report of oxidant consumed when treating water samples using a Adjustment wells refer to scattered or clustered wells 2017 as super excellent by giving five-star rating to it. certain amount of strong oxidants under certain conditions. The drilled, in addition to existing well clusters, for improving the usual use of COD is to determine the extent of contamination of development of oil fields. water bodies by reducing substances. 4. Suggested improvements Well Logging Coalbed Methane Increase report balance by disclosing more inadequacies and negative data. Well logging usually refers to geophysical well loggings, in Coalbed methane, which is a coal-associated mineral resource which different forms of well loggers made based on electrical, and considered an unconventional form of natural gas, refers Rating team magnetic, acoustic, thermal, nuclear and other physical to a kind of hydrocarbon gas (predominantly methane) found principles, enter wells through the use of well logging cables, trapped within coal beds, mainly adsorbed to the surface of coal Team Leader: to allow the ground electrical measuring instruments to record matrix particles, and partly dispersed in the porosity of coal or Zhang En, Vice Director of Research Center for Corporate Social Responsibility, Chinese Academy of Social Science continuously along the well bore the various parameters that dissolved in the coalbed water. change with changes in depth. Underground rock formations, Team Members: including oil, gas, water, and coal layers and metal deposits, Shale Gas can then be identified through curves representing these Guo Yi, Professor of School of Economics of Beijing Technology and Business University Shale gas specifically refers to an unconventional form of natural parameters. Wang Zhimin, Process Evaluators of Center gas found trapped within shale formations. Oil Spill Response Natural Gas Hydrate Oil spill response is the formulation of plans and adoption of measures to control and prevent oil spills and reduce pollution Natural gas hydrate is an ice like crystalline substance formed by damage, based on the environment and resources in the natural gas and water at high pressure and low temperature in potential spill sources and waters within the designated sea permafrost of deep sea sediments or continental permafrost. areas. This sees common use in offshore oil exploration and development activities. Ocean Energy Wei Zichuan Zhang En Ocean energy refers to the renewable energies that are reserved in Vice Chairman of the Chinese Expert Team Leader of the Expert Scan QR code to view LNG the ocean. The ocean receives, stores and emits energy through Committee on CSR Report Rating Rating Team rating files of CNOOC Liquefied natural gas or LNG in short refers to the liquid that a variety of physical processes. These energies exist in the form of forms when natural gas extracted from gas fields cools to tides, waves, thermals, salinity gradients, and ocean currents. CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 86 87 / ANNEX INDEX OF REPORTING INDICATORS Continued CONTENTS CASS-CSR GRI IPIECA/API DRIVING SOCIAL PROGRESS CONTENTS CASS-CSR GRI IPIECA/API P4.5/P5.1/S1.6/S1.7/S1.8/S2.1/S2.2/S2.3/S2.4/ HS1/HS2/HS3/SE5/ Caring for Employees and S2.5/S2.6/S2.8/S2.9/S2.11/S2.14/S2.15/S2.16/ 103/201/401/403/404/405 OVERVIEW Stimulating Vitality S2.18/S2.19/S2.20/S2.22/S2.23/S2.24/S2.25/ /406/408/409/412 SE6/SE8/SE15/ SE16/SE17/SE18 S2.26/S2.27/S2.29/S2.31 P1.1/P1.2/P1.3/P1.4/P1.5/G2.4/G2.5/G5.4/M1.1/ INSIDE FRONT COVER 102 M1.2/M1.3/M2.7 Devoting to Public Interests and Remaining True to the Original P5.1/S4.10/S4.11 103 SE4 CHAIRMAN’S LETTER P3.1/P3.2/P4.6/G1.2 102 Aspiration PRESIDENT’S LETTER P3.1/P3.2 102 Providing Voluntary Services and P5.1/S4.14/S4.15 103 Strengthening Blue Force SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Integrating into the Community and P4.1/P4.2/P5.3/G1.1/G1.2/G1.4/G2.1/G2.3/G4.1/ S4.1/S4.2/S4.3/S4.4 103 SE1/SE2/SE3/SE5 About Us 102/103/205 Creating a Better Life G4.2/G6.1/M1.3/S1.1/S1.2/S1.3 Special Topic: CNOOC Welfare P5.2/G4.1/M2.17/M2.18/S2.1/S2.4/S2.8/S2.9/ Foundation: Complete Devotion to S4.10/S4.11 103/203 SE4 Key Performance Indicators 201/302/305/401/403/404 E2/E4/E7/SE4 S2.11/S2.20/S2.24/S3.6/S4.7/S4.13/E2.4 Moving Ahead with Warmth P5.1/M1.4/M1.5/M1.6/S1.5/S4.13/E2.21/E2.24/ Special Topic: Caring for Children: Special Topic: CNOOC and SDGs 201/305 E2/SE4 E2.26 CNOOC’s Benevolence Lightening S2.30 the Future Stakeholders P2.3/G2.2/G5.1/G5.4/G5.5/G5.6/M1.3 102 CSR REPORT OVERSEAS PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH Overseas CSR Strategy M2.5/S1.1/G1.3 P4.2/P4.3/P4.4/P4.7/G3.2/M2.1/M2.2/M2.3/M2.4/ M2.9/M2.11/M2.14/M2.15/M2.16/M3.1/M3.2/ Creating Socioeconomic Value M2.2/M2.5/M2.16 103/201 SE11/SE12/SE13 Ensuring Energy Supply 102/103/305/308/414 SE5/SE7/SE9/SE12 M3.3/M3.7/M3.9/M3.10/M3.11/M3.12/S3.8/E3.1/ E3.7 Strengthening Safety and S3.1/S3.2/S3.3 Compliance Management Emphasizing Sci-tech Innovation M2.16/M2.21/ E2.5 103 E3 Protecting a Balanced Ecosystem E1.1/E1.3/E1.6/E2.8/E2.28/E5.1/E5.2/E5.3 103/304 P5.1/G6.4/M2.6/S3.1/S3.2/S3.3/S3.4/S3.9/S3.10/ Intensifying Safe Operation 102/103/201 HS4/HS5 S3.11/E2.7/E2.8/E2.11/E2.32 HS1/HS2/HS3/SE1/ Building Platform for Employee SE2/SE3/SE4/SE5/ Improving Quality Management M2.6/ M2.7/E3.3 103/416 HS4 S2.18/S4.6/S4.7 103/203 Development SE6/SE7/SE8/SE15/ SE16/SE17/SE18 Special Topic: LNG: Technological M2.2 Innovation Leading Development Promoting Enterprise-Community S4.12 Common Development Special Topic: Internet+: New M2.13 Experiences of Fast Service Special Topic: The Belt and Road: CNOOC’s Heart with the P4.4 102 ENHANCING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Energy “Silk Road” Green Operation P5.1/E1.1/E1.2/E1.4/E1.10/E2.28 102/103/413 SE5 COUNTRY REPORT Tackling Climate Change P5.1/S1.6/E4.1/E4.2/E4.3 103/201 E1 M2.5/S3.1/S3.2/S3.3/E2.28/S2.18/S4.6/S4.7/ CNOOC in Iraq S4.12 P5.1/S1.6/E1.6/E2.1/E2.2/E2.3/E2.14/E2.15/ Energy Conservation and Emission E2.21/E2.16/E2.22/E2.23/E2.24/E2.25/E2.26/ 102/103/302/305/306 E2/E4/E7 Reduction E2.27/E2.30/E2.38/E3.1/E3.7 OUTLOOK ON 2018 A1 Water Resource Management P5.1/E2.18/E2.34/E2.35/E2.36 103/303/305/306 E6 ANNEX Biodiversity Conservation P5.1/E5.1/E5.2/E5.3/E5.5 103/304 E5/SE5 Third-party Assessment A2 Special Topic: Green Refinery: A Glossary of Terms Beautiful Life Made by Intelligent E2.1 CNOOC Index of Reporting Indicators A3 Feedback Form P1.5/A4 102 CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP. / 88 FEEDBACK FORM 6. Which issue would you like to be added to the 2018 report? □ Economic growth, specifically In order to improve the social responsibility engagement of CNOOC on an on-going basis, we would like to hear your thoughts, □ Environmental protection, specifically which will form an important basis for us to do better. We hope that you could spare some time to give us your valuable feedback on the report and our work. □ Social progress, specifically □ CSR overseas, specifically Your Information: Name: Company: Tel: E-mail: Your Feedback: 1. What is your overall opinion of the report? □ Very good □ Quite good □ Average □ Quite poor □ Very poor 2. What do you think of the information disclosed in the report? □ Very abundant □ Quite abundant □ Fair □ Quite little □ Very little 3. What do you think of the quality of the information disclosed in the report? CONTACT US: □ Very high □ Quite high □ Average □ Quite low □ Very low CNOOC Office for Policy Research Postal Address: CNOOC Building, No. 25 Chaoyangmenbei Dajie, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100010, P.R. China 4. Which form of design would you like to be used more in the 2018 report? Tel: 86 (10) 84523487 Fax: 86 (10) 64602830 □ Expression of management thought □ Data graph □ Case introduction □ Special topic □ Picture E-mail: report@cnooc.com.cn 5. Which theme would you like to be presented in the 2018 report? □ Our quality energy for your blue sea and sky □ Our clean energy for lucid waters and lush mountains □ Our clean energy for clear water and blue sky Designed by Beijing Ideal Media Corp. □ Our clean energy for a beautiful life http://www.bjideal.com CNOOC Office for Policy Research Address: CNOOC Building, No. 25 Chaoyangmenbei Dajie, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100010, P.R. China 106757 E-mail: report@cnooc.com.cn Website: www.cnooc.com.cn
