(Consolidated) non-financial report Introduction one full time equivalent employee. The non-financial report covers all relevant subsidiaries with the exception of the Austrian savings banks with fewer than 500 employees that are not majoriFor Erste Group, considering the impact of its entrepreneurial ty-owned by Erste Group Bank AG. Human resources-relevant activities on society is nothing new. On the contrary, looking data are captured at single entity level, environmental data on the beyond financial performance is very much in line with the idea basis of properties used for banking operations. Over the coming of social responsibility to which Erste österreichische Spar-Casse years, it is the aim to gradually include the data of all consolidatcommitted itself when it was founded almost 200 years ago. ed companies in the non-financial report. Resolving the conflicting targets of profitability and the ecologiSustainability at Erste Group cal and social impact of its business is also a key element for the Almost 200 years ago, the founding concept of Erste management of Erste Group. In this regard, Erste Group’s Stateösterreichische Spar-Casse, Erste Group’s predecessor, already ment of Purpose offers valuable guidance by defining the followembraced the idea of contributing to the common good. Erste ing tasks and principles: Group has expanded its core activities from those of a traditional savings bank focused on retail lending and deposit-taking to _ Disseminating and securing prosperity include those of an international bank providing financial services _ Accessibility, independence and innovation to all sectors of the economy in its core markets. Unlike the _ Profitability operations of many other financial institutions, Erste Group’s _ Financial literacy business has always been firmly embedded in the real economy. _ It is about people Customer savings deposits fund the loans for housing construction _ Serving civil society or purchases or investments by companies. This is how Erste _ Transparency, stability, simplicity Group creates sustainable value for society. In conducting its business, responsibility to its customers, employees, investors, Every business has to answer two key questions every time it local communities and national economies has always been a takes a decision: “Is it profitable?” and “Is it legal?”. For Erste defining feature of the bank. As one of the leading providers of Group, this has never been enough. Before taking a business financial services in the Eastern part of the European Union, Erste decision, every employee has to answer the “third question” in Group is also an important employer, customer of – mostly local – the Statement of Purpose to determine whether the action considsuppliers and taxpayer. ered is responsible in terms of its impact on the future: “Is it the right thing to do?” According to Erste Group’s own definition, sustainability means “to operate the Bank’s core business in a socially and ecologically Implementation of the reporting obligation responsible manner and at the same time be financially profitable”. For the first time, large companies – like Erste Group Bank AG – Erste Group’s environmental strategy uses the definition of susare required to provide more than just financial statements for tainability as it appears in the UN’s Brundtland report Our Comtheir reporting of the financial year 2017. The reporting obligamon Future of 1987: ”A sustainable development is a development tion includes at a minimum environmental matters, social and which meets the needs of current generations without compromisemployee-related matters, respect for human rights, antiing the ability of future generations to meet their own needs”. corruption and bribery matters. While several generations of savings bankers have been Erste Group Bank AG has decided to prepare a (consolidated) committed to doing business responsibly, the establishment of the non-financial report to meet its obligations under sections 243b Group Sustainability Office underpins the increasing strategic and 267a of the Austrian Commercial Code (UGB). Following importance of non-financial aspects. Covering the topics the comply-or-explain approach, deviations are permitted, but environment, diversity, corporate volunteering and corporate must be explained and justified. Erste Group has drawn up this social responsibility (CSR), the team is primarily responsible for (consolidated) non-financial report in conformity with the Global the development and implementation of group-wide policies and Reporting Initiative (GRI standards: core option). The nonthe group-wide Code of Conduct. financial reporting is not subject to the audit of the consolidated financial statements. A voluntary audit of the financial reporting The Sustainability Board, newly created in late 2017, is headed was performed by Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellby Erste Group’s Chief Risk Officer. It is composed of one board schaft m.b.H. member from each of the local banking subsidiaries, the head of the Group Sustainability Office and the Group Diversity Non-financial reports must be prepared for the same scope of Manager. The Sustainability Board is responsible for developing consolidation that is covered by the financial reporting. The and monitoring sustainability topics. For 2018 it is planned to set calculation of non-financial data, such as energy consumption per up local sustainability teams in each banking subsidiary which employee, is based on all Erste Group entities that have at least will report directly to the responsible member of the board. 1 One of the key tasks of the Sustainability Board in 2018 will be affect all stakeholders, but it usually results from interaction with to discuss non-financial targets in the fields of ecology and customers or suppliers. For further information on this topic, diversity and to ensure their implementation in the local banking please refer to the additional corporate governance principles subsidiaries. At the same time, Erste Group’s strategy and presented after the corporate governance report. business operations will be further aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the UN member states, including in particular those of the 17 global sustainability goals to which Erste Group is making or is able to make a positive contribution on account of its business model and corporate activities. For a start, Erste Group is seeking to contribute to the achievement of the following selected Sustainable Development Goals: _ No poverty (SDG 1) _ Quality education (SDG 4) _ Gender equality (SDG 5) _ Decent work and economic growth (SDG 8) _ Sustainable cities and communities (SDG 11) _ Climate action (SDG 13) _ Partnerships for the goals (SDG 17). For more information on the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals see http://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/. MATERIALITY ANALYSIS The starting point of non-financial reporting is a materiality Social responsibility analysis. With the involvement of the relevant stakeholders, matters of economic, ecological and social relevance that are of Financial literacy. This is a key factor in creating equal oppormaterial importance to Erste Group are identified. As a result of tunities, economic prosperity and social inclusion. In most cases, in-house discussions, the following stakeholders have been idena lack of financial literacy means restrictions in almost all spheres tified as being relevant to Erste Group: employees, customers, of life. management (supervisory board, management board), investors and authorities/supervisors/policy-makers. Social commitment. Erste Group aims to be not only commercially successful but also to act socially responsible. It therefore The selection of material topics for current reporting purposes is pursues a multitude of activities contributing to the cultural and based on the evaluation of the materiality analysis performed in social development of society and also encourages its employees’ 2016. A survey was conducted in autumn 2017 that included the individual social engagement. management board, the supervisory board and employees representing relevant stakeholders in order to assess their respective Employees positions on the material topics. Based on the evaluation of potential long-term impact of the business activities on the stakeholders, Diversity and equal opportunity. For Erste Group, diversity the relevance of these topics for Erste Group and, subsequently, and equal opportunity are key elements of its human resources key areas of activity were derived. strategy. It therefore seeks to offer a work environment that is free of discrimination and harassment, that values the work of The materiality matrix illustrates the relevance of the material each and every person regardless of gender, age, disability, maritopics to Erste Group as determined in 2017. tal status, sexual orientation, skin colour, religious or political affiliation, ethnic background, nationality or any other aspect To make the context of the material topics more visible, Erste unrelated to their employment. Group decided to categorise them by higher-level areas, regardless of their degree of relevance. Further information on how Employee health & work-life balance. Erste Group is conErste Group reflects these topics in its strategy and business vinced that employees perform better and are more motivated activities is provided in the chapters commitment to society, when their work and private life are well balanced and when the customers, suppliers, employees and environment of the noncompany contributes to their good health. The focus of Erste financial report. The topic of anti-corruption and compliance may Group is on fostering an awareness of the importance of a healthy 2 lifestyle and promoting preventive health care as a complementary data security, fair competition between banks and open disclosure service to the public health-care system. of financial results were not covered by the materiality analysis. Customers Data security. The security of its customer data is of fundamental importance to Erste Group. Erste Group applies the highest standCustomer satisfaction. High levels of customer satisfaction and ards in its IT infrastructure and provides ongoing training to its the resulting customer loyalty secure the bank’s long-term success. employees to offer maximum protection against the misuse or loss It is therefore vital to continuously adapt products and services to of customer data. This is a key prerequisite for success in the customers’ expectations and needs and to ensure high service banking industry. This topic is no longer included in the materialiquality. ty analysis as the measures to be taken in this regard must be implemented in any case, regardless of the outcome of such an Anti-corruption and compliance. Corruption is a problem in assessment. many parts of the economy. Erste Group employees are required to attend a customised training programme enabling them to Fair competition between banks. As important as this topic recognise and prevent fraud and corruption. Conflicts of interest certainly is, individual banks have hardly any way to influence it. between customers, Erste Group and employees are covered by It is essentially the duty of the legislature and the supervisory clear rules such as Chinese walls, provisions on employee transacauthorities to take suitable measures. Therefore, this topic has tions, research disclaimers, or the gift policy. also been removed from the materiality analysis. Responsible investment and finance. Public interest in the Open disclosure of financial results. Every company that is indirect impacts that bank products have on the environment and listed on a stock exchange is of course required to openly disclose society is growing significantly. Erste Group is therefore steadily its financial results. Transparent and full financial reporting is expanding its range of responsible investment and finance prodmandatory regardless of the outcome of the materiality analysis. ucts. When taking business decisions, social and/or ecological For this reason, this topic is also no longer part of the materiality criteria are increasingly taken into account in addition to the analysis. traditional financial risk aspects. In the 2017 materiality analysis, the topics social commitment of Social banking. For a variety of reasons, even today some parts the employees and social engagement of the bank were combined of the population do not have access to financial services of under the heading of social commitment. The topic covering the commercial banks. In accordance with its founding principles, impacts of the banking business on the environment is now part Erste Group’s social banking programmes help people to help of the topic responsible criteria in the supply chain and ecological themselves and contribute to a positive economic development impact of banking operations. for the excluded parts of society. The material topic customer satisfaction considered for the first Environment time in 2017 encompasses the 2016 topics easily understandable products, easy access to banking products and digital bankEcological impacts of banking operations. Protecting the ing/digital innovation. To assign customers a weighting that environment and the climate are among the most significant reflects their significance as stakeholders, the topic responsible global challenges. Erste Group aims to minimise its ecological investment and finance was added. footprint, specifically its consumption of energy and paper, and to use natural resources responsibly. Opportunities and risks Consideration of the material topics opens up opportunities for Suppliers improving customer relationships, attracting new customers, improving the environmental footprint as well as maintaining and Responsible criteria in the supply chain. In the light of interincreasing the attractiveness as an employer. Ignoring nonrelated economic activities, companies must consider not only the financial topics may adversely affect Erste Group’s stakeholders. ecological and social impact of their own operations, but also In addition, Erste Group may become exposed to a variety of those of their entire supply chain. Through its supply chain manrisks, some of which are interconnected. agement, Erste Group is making every effort to avoid having an undesirable indirect impact on the environment and human rights. Reputation risk exists in all these topic areas. In addition, further specific risks may arise. Commitment to society encompasses a Changes in the classification of material topics variety of activities, ranging from financial inclusion of lowFrom 2016 to 2017, the number of topics included in the materialiincome or disadvantaged persons to supporting social initiatives, ty analysis was reduced from fifteen to nine. In 2017, the topics financial literacy as well as art and culture. Reducing the level of engagement may for instance result in financial gaps at co3 operation partners and the suspension of initiatives or activities. risk, a deterioration of the ecological footprint and higher costs This may harm reputation and, as a consequence, may have negadue to lower resource efficiency. In the lending business, the tive impact on customer retention, lead to a loss of customers and value of collateral may decline. For suppliers, failure to respect make it more difficult to attract new customers. In this context, human rights may adversely affect the working or living condiconsumer protection activities must be mentioned as well. Offertions of people in the producer's or supplier's country of origin, ing adequately designed products and services may reduce the just as neglecting environmental concerns may adversely affect adverse impact of such initiatives. For employees, a loss of reputhe supplier’s or producer’s environmental footprint. For Erste tation as well as an inadequate attention to social topics (such as Group, dealing with suppliers involves delivery risk, reputation diversity and equal opportunity) may result in a company being risk and the risk of losing customers. less attractive as a preferred employer. This may lead to a decline in employee motivation, extended sick leave and increased emThe following materiality table provides an overview of the ployee turnover, and make it harder to recruit adequate staff in stakeholder groups, the material topics of the materiality analysis the labour market. Ignoring the risk of corruption may lead not assigned to them, references to the GRI standards and references only to a loss of reputation, but may also cause financial harm. to the sections of the non-financial report in which these topics Failure to deal with environmental topics may result in reputation are explained. 4 Materiality table Material and other topics for Erste Topics of the materiality analysis Material topics pursuant to Chapter in the Stakeholders Group GRI Standard non-financial report Customers _ Anti-corruption and compliance _ Customer satisfaction _ Customer privacy (GRI 418-1) _ Customers _ (Digital) innovation _ Anti-corruption and compliance _ Anti-corruption (GRI 205-3) _ (outside the non-financial report: _ Information and data security _ Responsible investment and finance _ Anti-competitive behaviour Corporate governance) _ Customer satisfaction _ Social banking (GRI 206-1) _ Financial literacy _ Indirect economic impact _ Easily understandable products (GRI 203-2) _ Easy access to bank services _ Fair competition _ Social banking Employees _ Social and employee-related topics _ Diversity and equal opportunity _ Employment (GRI 401-1, _ Employees _ Respect for human rights _ Employee health & work-life balance 401-3) _ (outside the non-financial report: _ Diversity and equal opportunity _ Training and education Corporate governance) _ Employee health & work-life balance (GRI 404-1, 404-2) _ Employee development _ Diversity and equal opportunity _ Gender equality and non-discrimination (GRI 401-3, 405-1) _ Talent promotion and planning _ Non-discrimination (GRI 406-1) _ Leadership competency development _ Employee engagement _ Fair competition Investors _ Transparency _ Economic performance _ (outside the non-financial report: _ Financial markets communication (GRI 201-1) Financial statements) _ Disclosure obligation Society _ Financial literacy _ Financial literacy _ Indirect economic impact _ Commitment to society _ Partnership in social and cultural affairs _ Social commitment (GRI 203-2) _ Customers _ Fight against poverty _ Social banking _ Anti-corruption _ (outside the non-financial report: _ Compliance, anti-corruption (GRI 205-3) Financial statements) _ Indirect economic impact _ Socioeconomic compliance _ Social engagement of the bank and its (GRI 419-1) employees _ Economic performance _ Social banking (GRI 201-1) Environment _ Environmental topics _ Social and ecological criteria in the _ Materials (GRI 301-1, 301-2) _ Environment _ Impacts of the banking business on the supply chain & ecological impacts of _ Energy (GRI 302-1, 302-4) _ Suppliers environment banking operations _ Emissions (GRI 305-1, 305-2, _ Climate protection 305-3) _ Ecological footprint _ Responsible products and services _ Resource-efficient business management Suppliers _ Environmental topics _ Social and ecological criteria in the _ Supplier environmental _ Suppliers _ Respect for human rights supply chain & ecological impacts of assessment (GRI 308-1) _ Social and ecological criteria in the banking operations _ Supplier social assessment supply chain (GRI 414-1) _ Local rather than cross-border procurement _ Co-operation with suppliers 5 Commitment to society Banca Comercială Română operates Bursa Binelui, a crowd funding platform for NGOs. The bank is a partner of Teach for Romania, an initiative to improve the educational system in RoSince the foundation of Erste Group’s predecessor almost 200 mania. The bank’s online and offline programme for students and years ago, commitment to society has been an important part of young professionals called Laboratorul de Cariere facilitates its business activities. It encompasses a variety of activities, labour market integration by helping people to develop soft skills. ranging from financial inclusion of low-income or disadvantaged In addition, BCR is partnered with the most important five univerpersons to supporting social initiatives, financial literacy as well sities in Romania and supports Save the Children Romania in as art and culture. achieving equal opportunities for all children. The ExtraVALUE programme of Erste Group is based on the Slovenská sporiteľňa supports disadvantaged people and raises bank’s commitment to social responsibility and to intangible awareness about them with the help of various partners: Civic values – humane, social, cultural – that go beyond the bank’s core Association Inklúzia (inclusion of handicapped people), Vagus business activities. This extra value is created by supporting and (resocialisation of homeless people), People in Need (building promoting institutions, initiatives and projects. houses for underprivileged Roma families) or Association of the Friends of Children from Children’s Homes (scholarship proSocial and sponsoring activities are combined group-wide under gramme for young people from children’s homes). Furthermore, the umbrella of the ExtraVALUE programme. Regional focus, Slovenská sporiteľňa systematically supports educational projects cross-thematic initiatives and cooperation within related fields at Slovak schools and universities. characterise the programme. Erste Group’s ExtraVALUE programme is a visible sign of the bank’s commitment to its responsiSuperste is a Serbian online hub where people from 16 to 35 can bility towards society and the individual. Ultimately, it supports access funds, mentors, NGO contacts and leaders for their social personal development and helps people to meet their social and responsibility projects in the arts, culture and education. The bank cultural needs. continues to support two science festivals in Belgrade and Novi Sad, which are well known for making science fun, inspiring and Because of the multitude of social and educational initiatives, motivating not only for kids but the elderly as well. sponsoring and corporate volunteering only a few selected projects can be highlighted here. More detailed information on variErste Group has been supporting amateur sporting events in ous Erste Group initiatives is available at http://www.erstegroup. Austria and Central Europe for many decades and is particularly com/en/about-us/responsibility and on websites of Erste Group’s active in fostering young athletes. Projects are carried out in a subsidiaries in the respective local language and in some cases spirit of close partnership with the organisers and hosts of these English. events. In 2017, Erste Group sponsored a large number of running events, including many in support of social projects such as SOCIAL AND EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES the erste bank vienna night run in Austria, the Košice Peace Marathon in Slovakia (the oldest marathon in Europe), the Color Erste Group’s long tradition of cooperation with established local run in Romania and the Homo si Tec Marathon in Croatia. and international organisations reflects its commitment to the promotion of social welfare and education. The focus of social Česká spořitelna is the main partner of the Czech Athletics Federactivities is on providing practical and swift assistance to people ation and supports athletes at all levels – from the national teams in difficult life situations and on support for initiatives creating to young talent. Owing to the athletic youth programmes, more new opportunities for disadvantaged people. In all core markets, than ten thousand children were encouraged to get involved in Erste Group also supports diverse educational initiatives. sporting activities. Erste Bank Oesterreich has supported annual domestic aid camFor 40 years, Erste Bank Oesterreich and the savings banks have paigns, the initiative for children and the youngCaritas and Kulsupported school leagues in soccer and volleyball. This committurbuddy (a platform to coordinate volunteers) for many years as ment represents the longest-standing sponsorship of young atha partner of Caritas. Erste Bank Oesterreich has also been sponletes in Austrian sports. With more than 1,000 schools participatsoring Hilfswerk Österreich, one of the largest non-profit providing every year, these are the largest youth competitions in Austria. ers of health care, social and family services in Austria, for many years. Additionally, the bank supports a variety of smaller NGO’s, One of the key priorities within the Erste Group’s commitment to such as lobby.16, which gives unaccompanied young refugees educational activities is financial literacy. access to education and employment and helps them participate in social life. 6 FINANCIAL LITERACY More than 1,000 specially trained employees of Banca Comercială Română provide financial literacy training under the umFinancial literacy is important for creating equal opportunities, brella of The School of Money in schools, universities and comsocial inclusion and economic well-being. Financial ignorance panies. Since summer 2017, the bank has also been running the limits social, economic and cultural life. Money School on Wheels. A similar version of FLiP contents is on display in a remodeled bus. During the summer, the bus Therefore, Erste Group is engaged in a wide variety of financial stopped in three Romanian cities while 2,000 children took part education activities. The main objectives of Erste Group’s finanin workshops. cial education activities are to enable people of all ages to gain adequate skills and abilities to make informed and appropriate The interactive travelling exhibition The ABC of Money, a handsfinancial decisions. In addition, they assure that employees of on show explaining the basics of the money system and how Erste Group have up-to-date knowledge about bank products and money evolved over time, enjoys unbroken popularity. The exhibiservices as well as a comprehensive understanding of financial tion will be in Pilsen, Czech Republic, until April 2018. To date, concepts and recent economic developments. Erste Group’s the exhibition has been on display at seven different venues and employees must be able to understand the bigger picture to advise viewed by more than 160,000 visitors. customers to choose the appropriate financial products. Erste Group is committed to ensuring that the financial products and In all of its core markets Erste Group cooperates with schools to services offered are transparent and easy to understand and meet promote financial literacy. Slovenská sporiteľňa supports educathe customers’ shortand long-term financial needs. tional projects at Slovak schools and universities, for example a joint project with the Children of Slovakia Foundation on the In line with a recommendation of the Organisation for Economic subject of money called Get to Know Your Money, in which more Co-operation and Development (OECD) that financial education than 20,000 pupils have already taken part. Erste Bank Serbia staff should start as early as possible, Erste Group puts a particular stage workshops in kindergartens and schools to explain what emphasis on financial education projects for children and young banks do. The local banking subsidiaries have developed a range people. Erste Group wants to empower young people to particiof e-learning tools and apps to bring financial education to as wide pate in economic life and to understand finance as a system. a public as possible. More than 500 teenagers participated in financial literacy workshops called iCan across Austria supported Erste Group’s most ambitious financial literacy project is the by volunteers of Erste Group. Slovenská sporiteľňa piloted activiFinancial Life Park (FLiP) at the Erste Campus in Vienna ties aimed at over-indebted customers to help them cope with (http://www.financiallifepark.at), open to visitors since October these difficulties. Erste Bank Croatia piloted Financial parachute, 2016. FLiP offers innovative financial literacy training through a a new financial literacy programme comprising workshops and combination of state-of-the-art digital media technology and mentoring sessions for private individuals. This programme is trained guides. By promoting know-how in money matters, FLiP unique on the Croatian market and aims to stabilise and improve helps visitors to acquire the skills to manage personal financial customers’ financial health. affairs responsibly and independently. Depending on the visitors’ age and background, three different guided tours are available, ART AND CULTURE each with its own approach, didactics, thematic layout and depth of content. In its educational activities, the FLiP team is supportErste Group supports and promotes cultural and art institutions. ed by some 80 active and retired Erste Group volunteers. EducaUnder the ExtraVALUE sponsoring programme, Erste Bank tional activities are currently offered in German, English and Oesterreich is the principal sponsor of Jeunesse, whose focus is Slovak. In 2017, some14,000 visitors took part in almost 600 on the promotion of young artists by giving them opportunities to interactive tours conducted at FLiP. Since September 2017, two perform professionally on stage as well as on the development of dates a month have been available for Slovak schools. While new concepts for teaching music appreciation. Erste Group also children and young adults are the main target group, FLiP has supports a wide variety of institutions such as Klangforum Wien, proved an exciting experience popular with all age groups. While the Gustav Mahler Youth Orchestra, Wien Modern, Jazz at the children are the main target group, FLiP proved to be interesting Konzerthaus, Secession, Tanzquartier Wien, the ZOOM Chilfor visitors of all age groups. drens’ Museum, Wiener Festwochen, the International Childrens’ Film Festival and the promotion Hunger auf Kunst und Kultur Since FLiP is far from reaching all schools and pupils that may be (Hunger for Art and Culture). interested and since Erste Group aims at continuously promoting financial literacy, a mobile version – FliP2Go – will be on tour from Erste Bank Oesterreich also has a long standing partnership with 2019. FLiP educational content will be displayed in nine interactive Viennale, Austria’s largest international film festival. Every year, booths installed in a remodelled double-decker bus. the bank awards the ExtraVALUE Film Prize and the ExtraVALUE Design Prize for social design as part of Vienna Design Week, the Erste Bank ExtraVALUE Art Prize in collabo7 ration with das weisse haus art association and the Erste Bank recognises the importance of skills learned through volunteering Composition Prize. and that these skills are considered during the recruiting process and career progression. For example, they organised volunteering Slovenská sporiteľňa is most visibly associated with Bratislava in children’s shelters and other socially disadvantaged areas. Jazz Days and the Viva musica music festival and supports the Danubiana modern art museum as well as regional theatres in Slovenská sporiteľňa continued its Euro to Euro grant project and Bratislava, Martin, Nitra, Prešov and Košice. Česká spořitelna is supported sports, educational and cultural activities in communia sponsor of several international festivals such as Pražské jaro, ties where the bank’s employees live. Kefír as well as general partner of Colours of Ostrava, Česká filharmonie, Smetanova Litomyšl and Bohemia Jazz Fest. Customers Erste Bank Croatia organises a well-known annual competition for emerging artists and art students, called Erste Fragments. Organ FOCUS ON CUSTOMER RELATIONS Vida is an international photography festival in Zagreb that attracts photographers from Croatia and abroad in a series of exhibitions, Erste Group puts customers and their interests at the centre of its workshops and lectures. Erste Bank Croatia has supported the business activities. Only banks that understand the underlying international comic book festival in Zagreb for many years. In reasons behind the financial needs of their customers can offer Serbia, Erste Bank focuses on jazz music events such as the Bethe right solutions at the right time. Special attention is devoted to ogradskje jazz festival and festivals in Novi Sad, Pančevo, Subotidealing with customers’ requests in top quality, within short ca, Kraljevo, Kragujevac and Kikinda. The Danube Dialogues response times and to providing exactly those solutions that meet contemporary art festival has received support since it was founded. the customers’ needs a vital part of establishing and maintaining long-term customer relations. CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING Erste Group puts its customers in control of their financial life by Erste Group facilitates, supports and encourages employees to offering financial advice based on their interests, needs and fiactively contribute and volunteer. Donating money is not the only nancial literacy and by increasing their accessibility. Erste Group way of supporting people, communities or non-profit organisaensures high quality advisory services by continuously training its tions. Employees and managers of Erste Group prove their comemployees, thereby focusing clearly on the relationship with the mitment by donating their time and experience. customer and not the transaction. Erste Group’s Austrian initiative Time Bank matches employees Advisory concept who want to donate their free time and skills with more than 50 Erste Group’s retail business reflects its approach of thinking partner organisations. Employees of the Holding, Erste Bank from the customers’ perspective. Only a bank that understands the Oesterreich and their subsidiaries as well as many regional savclients’ needs and the individual motives forming those needs is ings banks across Austria volunteer their time in their local comable to develop specific solutions. Customer behaviour is changmunities. ing: online and digital channels are growing in importance which frees up branch advisors’ resources to focus fully on high-quality In addition to volunteering, donations in kind are becoming inadvice. The sales incentive scheme of Erste Group reflects this creasingly important as people often lack items that we take for development by abandoning purely product-driven targets and granted such as toys, clothes and sports equipment for children. shifting attention towards quality-driven criteria like the quality The Time Bank provides long-term support to its partner organisaof customer relationships. tions by organising regular collection activities to remedy this situation. To meet increasing customer expectations, it is essential to adapt the education and learning approach of both customers and adviSeveral of Erste Group’s local banks successfully support volunsors. The focus is devoted to customer behaviour and the sales teering as a teambuilding activity. Česká spořitelna contributes to channels customers use most frequently for daily and long-term the development of the Czech non-profit sector by actively supbanking activities. Factors such as experience, financial literacy, porting its employees whose volunteer work benefits the public financial position and the risk appetite of the individual customer good. Since 2007, employees have been granted two working are taken into account. The education programmes of Erste Bank days off each year to volunteer as part of Česká spořitelna’s Oesterreich and Slovenská sporiteľňa already reflect this new Charity Days programme. The bank supports a special volunteer approach. programme for managers that allows them to spend up to a week offering their skills to NGOs and charity organisations. Erste Bank Croatia signed the Charter on recognition of competencies acquired through volunteering, which means that as a bank, it 8 Products and processes Erste Group focuses on innovation and has developed its own Product development is driven by customers’ needs and the ways digital ecosystem. The new digital value offering for existing and customers carry out their banking activities. Product features and potential customers is the next generation web portal and internet services reflect flexibility, life-cycle changes, simplicity, security, banking platform George on the one hand and the mobile core transparency and easy-to-understand features. Identifying and app George Go on the other. satisfying customers’ needs leads to higher customer retention and stronger sales and cross-selling potential. In this respect, George and George Go are the main digital interfaces that enable Erste Group focuses on simplifying the current product portfolios customers to activate and use additional applications of the bank and aims at developing new products and services to meet as or third parties in a secure IT environment to help them in their many customer needs as possible. financial lives. Following the successful implementation in Austria and Slovakia, George will be fully available across the Czech To this end, Erste Group is continuously reducing the complexity Republic and Romania by the end of 2018. Erste Group aims to of its product portfolio. With their client centric-approach and introduce its unified digital banking platform in all of its seven initiatives to promote simplicity, Erste Bank Oesterreich, Česká markets (Austria, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, Hungary, spořitelna and Slovenská sporiteľňa act as forerunners in the Croatia and Serbia), thus making George the first pan-European group. banking platform that offers a full range of products and services across all platforms. OMNI-CHANNEL APPROACH Erste Group has launched digital consumer loan offerings in As an omni-channel bank, Erste Group allows its customers to Austria, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Digital sales contribchoose between new and traditional sales and communication uted significantly to new business development in 2017. Česká channels. Customers decide how, when and where they do their spořitelna is now offering its customers a new and convenient banking. They can switch channels within one single customer method: they can get refinance or a new mortgage completely journey, expecting seamless experience across all touchpoints. online. Erste Bank Oesterreich started as the first bank in the The aim is to integrate all areas of the retail banking business, e. country to allow customers to open an account completely g. advisory services in the branch network, internet or mobile online including video authentication that complies with all legal banking and the contact center. and security requirements. Erste Bank Oesterreich also introduced a new mobile payment (wallet) function as part of the Branches George Go app, which allows customers to pay for goods and Direct contact with customers through branches is and will reservices directly with their NFC (near-field communication) main a substantial asset, as confidence and trust in the highlyenabled mobile phones. qualified advisor build the basis for successful business relations. The interior and infrastructure of the branches also must meet the Contact Center increased expectations of the customers. Customers expect to Customers expect easy service interactions when they need handle their banking business in the branches not only more assistance with digital banking. The first point of contact is the easily and quickly but also more memorably and conveniently. Erste Group’s contact centers, where qualified employees anCash desk areas are replaced by an appealing reception area as swer questions regarding products, services or self-service the most important part in the centre of the branches. terminals. Additionally, the contact centers’ agents help customers navigate the digital sales process and handle customer The implementation of the new branch concept has started in complaints and emergencies, such as requests to block credit Erste Bank Oesterreich and Česká spořitelna. More than 20 cards and debit cards. branches have been refurbished or newly opened in Austria, 50 in the Czech Republic. Banca Comercială Română opened the The contact centers are the bridge between traditional physical first pilot branch in Bucharest, Erste Bank Serbia in Belgrade banking and the digital world and the interface between digital and Erste Bank Hungary in Budapest. Erste Bank Croatia will banking and service at a branch. The contact centers are develfollow in 2018. oping from a help desk to more relevant support in advisory and selling products and services. They are an essential part of the Digital banking omni-channel strategy of Erste Group and will be further exBoth only internet-savvy and also traditional customers expect panded in its core markets. Banca Comercială Română, for more and more modern digital banking services. The websites of instance, has significantly increased the size of its contact center the local banks of Erste Group are constantly enhanced, focusing team. The capacities of Slovenská sporiteľňa’s call center have on accessibility, usability and simple and easy-to-understand also been increased by 60% and it is effectively supporting content. The range of digitally available products and services is digital customer service. continually being extended. 9 THE IMPORTANCE OF THE BRAND main sponsor of the Kékszalag, Europe's largest round the lake sailing competition at Lake Balaton with 500 boats participating. Branding is built on experience and expectation. A brand is more Slovenská sporiteľňa was once again the official partner of Slothan a logo, it is about the perception of people when they think vakia’s National Soccer Team. of or hear of an organisation, its products and services. Brands have an important identification and differentiation function, Erste Group is represented in numerous social media to communiwhich in turn determines whether a customer chooses one brand cate directly with its stakeholders. Up-to-date information is pubover another. Ultimately, companies with strong brands benefit lished on Twitter, YouTube, Flickr and SlideShare. In addition, all from emotional relationships with their customers. Only a few subsidiary banks are accessible on local Facebook pages. companies were founded with the underlying purpose of more than just profits. Erste Group is one of these and consequently has ACCESSIBILITY been benefiting from a high degree of brand awareness and trustworthiness even in economically challenging years. Erste Group defines accessibility as designing the real-word and digital environment as well as information and product offerings By establishing the lead narrative #believeinyourself (#glaubanin such a way that they can be used by people with disabilities dich), Erste Group introduced purpose-driven brand communicawithout any additional help. tion. The lead narrative is designed as a “one group, one brand” approach. The concept was launched in Austria, Czech Republic, In co-operation with the Prague wheelchair users’ organisation, Romania, Hungary and Croatia back in 2017. Česká spořitelna tested its branches for barrier-free access, and more than a third of Česká spořitelna’s branches are already Erste Group’s brand identity is not only built on its history and entirely barrier-free. At Erste Bank Oesterreich, all new or refurpast achievements. On the contrary, Erste Group’s digital efforts bished branches are fully barrier-free, and Erste Bank Hungary are very visible to customers and competitors alike and underpin has remodelled its branches so that more than three quarters of its innovation power. The cutting-edge digital platform George the branch network were classified as barrier-free at year-end. allows Erste Group to serve its customers in a very innovative Access is also barrier-free at all new or remodelled branches of and convenient way. Erste Bank Serbia. Erste Group’s marketing efforts are not limited to the bank itself. In addition to past achievements in terms of barrier-free access To familiarise a broader public with the economic importance and for blind and visually impaired persons (e.g. bank cards printed potential of Central and Eastern Europe, Erste Group has been in braille or cash dispensers equipped to provide audio instrucrunning a TV and online campaign in leading international media tions), Erste Group now offers mobile banking for the blind since 2009. In 2017, the image campaign portrayed selected through its digital platform, the George Go app. Barrier-free use investments of large corporations in the region that were realised of the app is made possible by the accessibility features of the with Erste Group’s support. two main smart phone operating systems iOS and Android. A variety of functions are available: zoom, contrast adjustment, In addition to the numerous activities oriented towards amateur very large fonts and speech output. The barrier-free functions and professional sporting events described in the chapter “Comwere developed with blind persons and persons with a wide mitment to society”, Erste Group has supported professional variety of visual impairments. According to the Austrian Federaathletes, teams and events in ice hockey, tennis, soccer and tion of the Blind and Partially Sighted, 300,000 visually imsailing. paired people live in Austria. Since 2013, Erste Bank Oesterreich has been the main sponsor of CUSTOMER SATISFACTION the Austrian ice hockey league that bears its name. It also sponsors of the Austrian national ice hockey team and the local Vienna The quality of customer relations depends ultimately on the Capitals ice hockey team. The Erste Bank Ice Hockey league grew customers’ experiences in their day-to-day dealings with their beyond Austria to include teams from the Czech Republic, Hungabank. Keeping a loyal customer base is becoming increasingly ry, Croatia and Italy. Young Austrian ice hockey players are supdifficult in banking due to growing competition that has recently ported through two youth series, Erste Bank Young Stars League included non-traditional players. Customers are more demandand Erste Bank Juniors League. Erste Bank Hungary started its ing, well informed and expect a higher value, more speed, flexiengagement in ice hockey sponsoring with the 2017/18 season. bility and reliability from their banking services. As high levels of customer satisfaction and thus customer loyalty secure the Erste Bank Oesterreich’s sport sponsoring activities also comprise bank’s long-term success, it is essential to intensify the relations the Erste Bank Open in Vienna, the most important tennis event in between the bank and the customers and to increase client satisAustria and an ATP World Tour 500 tournament. Erste Bank Hunfaction by improving the quality of the offering and answering gary supported the Hungarian Sailing Association and was the requests in a timely manner. 10 The Customer Experience Index was established for this purpose. managed 31 investment funds in the public funds and special It focuses on the loyalty of Erste Group’s customers, combining funds/externally mandated portfolio categories. The managed five relevant dimensions. It is used to determine the positioning sustainable public funds comprised seven bond funds, three reas well as the strengths and weaknesses of the local banks of gional stock funds, one newly opened global stock fund focused Erste Group relative to the top three competitors in each country. on a dividend-based strategy, one micro-finance fund of funds, It is also a bonus criterion for board members of Erste Group and one theme funds for climate protection and the environment the local banks. (jointly managed with WWF Austria) as well as one asset allocation fund of funds. As in past years, 2017 was again characterised Overall, Erste Group maintained its position across its markets in by strong investor demand for sustainability funds that invest in 2017, a positive development is especially visible in the private emerging market corporate bonds worldwide. individuals and SME customers segments. In the SME customers segment, Erste Bank Croatia confirmed its strong performance In 2017, ten of Erste AM’s sustainability funds were awarded the and remained comfortably ahead of its competition. Erste Bank FNG label (2016: nine). Created by Forum Nachhaltige GelSerbia, Erste Bank Croatia, Slovenská sporiteľňa and Erste Bank danlagen e.V. (FNG) in 2015, the FNG label is the quality standOesterreich achieved good results in the private customer segment. ard for sustainable financial investment in German-speaking countries. To qualify for the FNG label, the minimum requireRESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT AND FINANCE ments are transparency and process criteria, the exclusion of weapons and nuclear energy and meeting standards in four UN Erste Asset Management (Erste AM) was an early mover in anticiGlobal Compact categories: human rights and labour law, envipating the growing needs of investors to emphasise environmental ronmental protection, the fight against corruption and bribery. and socio-ethical aspects in their investment decisions. Over the Moreover, nine of the sustainable funds have had the Austrian past decade, Erste Group has seized this opportunity and develenvironmental certificate for sustainable financial products, some oped the most diverse portfolio of sustainable funds in Austria. of them for many years. Since 2012, all entities of Erste AM have been UN PRI Signatories and have thus committed themselves to complying with the Companies were contacted regarding their involvement with UN Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI). The decision not various sustainability issues that are highly relevant to Erste AM. to allow any actively managed mutual fund to invest in companies Key topics were human rights in industries focusing on the exengaged in banned weapons, such as land mines, nuclear weapons, haustion and exploitation of raw materials as well as intensive or cluster bombs, was taken back in 2011. Furthermore, funds are dialogues with German car manufacturers as a consequence of the not allowed to engage in food speculation. Since November 2016, exhaust emission scandal. Following the results of the 2017 Diesel Erste AM has excluded from all its actively managed mutual funds Summit in Germany, they were excluded from Erste AM’s susany company that earns more than 30% of its total revenue from tainable investment universe. This step was accompanied by intencoal mining, coal trading or production of coal-based fuels. The sive dialogue aimed at receiving responses to various unsolved respective guidelines are available on the website of Erste AM matters. The dialogues with the companies took place in writing, (http://www.erste-am.com). by telephone and also in person with company representatives in Vienna and have already shown initial success. Co-operation with In addition to Erste AM, ERSTE Immobilien Kapitalanlagegesellother international asset managers (organised by the PRI Associaschaft also offers its customers funds involving sustainability. The tion and GES) continued in 2017 in order to approach companies criteria for sustainable real estate assets in the ERSTE RESPONfrom a position of greater strength. SIBLE IMMOBILIENFONDS include not only the typical economic criteria, but also aspects such as environmental compatibilApart from engaging in dialogue with companies on controversial ity, mobility, social infrastructure, quality of life and future viabiltopics in the areas of sustainability and environmental protection, ity of the property. Sustainable assets under management amountErste AM represented the interests of its customers at 330 annual ed to EUR 123 million as of the end of 2017. general meetings in 2017. In addition, more than shareholder motions were supported to encourage companies to manage their Erste AM is a leading provider of sustainable investment funds businesses in a more sustainable and transparent manner. in Austria and in the CEE region and also works with institutional investors. In 2017, Erste AM managed assets worth EUR 63.4 The online magazine by Erste AM’s Responsible Investment Team billion. Actively managed funds that are audited for exclusion of (http://www.esgletter.at) also met with great interest in 2017. The banned weapons, coal sales and coal fuel sales amounted to quarterly published magazine focused on batteries, child labour, EUR 23.9 billion. The total volume of assets managed by susgambling and logistics. Apart from this main publication, specific tainable investment funds reached approx. EUR 5 billion. fact sheets are published monthly on the investment universe and the sustainability funds to inform customers of the selection Sustainable investment represents a core competency of Erste criteria and their influence on the ESG key indicators (such as the AM. As of the end of 2017, Erste AM sustainability experts CO2 footprint of the funds). 11 In 2015, Erste AM was the first Austrian asset management Access to basic financial products for people on low-income is an company to sign the Montréal Carbon Pledge. Under this essential element to reduce poverty. Financial inclusion empowscheme, capital market participants agree to have the CO2 emisers people to cope with unexpected financial shock and better sions of their stock holdings measured and to disclose their CO2 manage unexpected events. Zweite Sparkasse has supported a footprint every year. Erste Asset Management calculated and total of 16,700 people in financial difficulties in Austria for more published the CO2 emissions of their equity investments in 2017 than ten years, and, currently, serves about 7,800 customers. It as well. By divesting from CO2-intensive companies in coal also supports 500 customers through caregiver accounts with debt mining and coal trading, the CO2 footprint of company-wide counselling services, which is intended for customers with full investments was reduced further. legal capacity but a lack of control over their money. Slovenská sporiteľňa launched a new offer combining micro savings, finanThe Erste Responsible Advisory Board met once in 2017 and cial education and micro loans for housing. again made valuable contributions to the further development of Erste AM’s sustainable investment strategies. Active membership One of the most difficult tasks for starting entrepreneurs is raising in the Forum Nachhaltige Geldanlagen (Forum for Sustainable financing to start their business. Erste Group believes that small Financial Investments), Eurosif and the Verein zur Förderung von entrepreneurs provide not only financial stability for their families, Ethik und Nachhaltigkeit bei der Geldanlage (Corporate Responbut they often expand their businesses in their communities and sibility Interface Center, CRIC) was continued. create new jobs. Erste Group offers access to loans, business training, e-learning tools, mentoring sessions and networking to In line with the Statement of Purpose, Erste Group’s finance these customers. In accordance with the guarantee agreements guidelines also contain specific exclusion criteria to ensure its between the European Investment Fund (EIF) and local banks, environmental and social responsibility. These exclusion criteria more micro-loans can be granted to start-ups and micro businessrelate in particular to the energy and the weapon sectors, excludes. In Austria, the micro-loans initiative between Erste Bank Oesing for instance the financing of nuclear and coal-fired power terreich and the Austrian Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Afplants, coal mining and fracking. Exceptions may be projects fairs, Health and Consumer Protection was continued. With the aimed at improving the safety of existing plants or significantly help of savings banks, more than 600 start-ups have received reducing CO2 emissions. Examples of financing projects providfunding under this programme. Banca Comercială Română was ing ecological benefits are mentioned in the chapter environment, one of three banks to participate in a state-supported start-up section priorities. lending program called Start-up Nation in which it financed more than 160 start-ups and opened more than 1,800 new business SOCIAL BANKING accounts. Erste Bank Serbia launched its new micro-finance programme called Korak po korak (Step-by-step) that supports the Part of the population in Erste Group’s core markets of Austria, unemployed persons who want to become entrepreneurs as well as Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Serbia and small social businesses. In 2017, Erste Group financed 407 startSlovakia is still at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Erste ing entrepreneurs with a total volume of EUR 10.5 million. Group believes that economic growth should be inclusive and that basic financial products and financial advice must be availaSocial organisations (non-profit organisations and social enterble to everyone. Offering basic banking services to the otherwise prises) deal with some of the most challenging issues in our unbanked part of the population was one of the main reasons for society such as youth unemployment, social integration and the foundation of Erste oesterreichische Spar-Casse in 1819. For reducing poverty. Erste Group offers a bundle of working capital a variety of reasons, some segments of the population do not loans, bridge loans, investment loans and capacity building have access to financial services of commercial banks even programmes. In 2017, together with Erste Foundation and finantoday. Therefore, Erste Group has launched a social banking cial support of the EU Commission, Erste Bank Hungary started initiative called Step-by-Step. to implement its three-year programme SEEDS to help social organisations in strengthening their financial independence. Step-by-Step promotes the financial inclusion of low-income Česká spořitelna strengthened its market leadership in financing individuals, starting entrepreneurs and social organisations, offerthe social sector with more than 100 new customers. In 2017, ing them fair access to financial products, sound financial advice Erste Group financed 166 social entrepreneurs and NGOs with a and business training and mentoring. The Step-by-Step prototal volume of EUR 20.7 million. For further information and gramme was rolled out throughout Erste Group’s network of local social banking client stories please visit ,https://www.erstegroup. banks and in partnership with local organisations and NGOs. It com/en/about-us/social-banking. builds on individual programmes that Erste Group’s subsidiaries in the CEE region have already launched and works together with good.bee Credit offers micro loans to farmers and small entrepreexisting local social banking projects. neurs in rural and urban areas in Romania. As the first microfinance company in CEE, good.bee Credit received a certification for compliance with the European Code of Good Conduct for 12 Microcredit Provision in November 2017, which is the result of their particular quality requirements with best possible terms (e.g. its clear focus on incorporating the requirements set forth in the price, terms of payment, guarantees and liability), purchased priority clauses of the Code in the areas of customer and investor locally or across borders, is a key element of this. Erste Group’s relations, governance, risk management, reporting and inforsuppliers must meet defined standards in the areas of business mation systems. In 2017, good.bee Credit provided 1,177 loans ethics, environmental protection and human rights. with a total volume of EUR 9.9 million and reached an outstanding loan balance of EUR 19 million. More information on In fulfilling their contractual obligations, suppliers of materials, good.bee Credit can be found at http://www.goodbeecredit.ro/. equipment and services, selected as group partners, are expected to: Launched initially as a social banking initiative in Austria, the _ comply with national and local laws, decrees and regulations Fund of Excellence, an alternative investment fund, was included _ fulfil all their legal obligations regarding the health and safety in the Group Corporates business segment in 2017. Through the of their employees and their contractors fund, the bank invests in people with potential, including funding _ comply resolutely with environmental legislation for students, support for working parents and, under the Vision _ respect and implement the following basic principles of corCapital programme, investing in the early stage of promising porate social responsibility: business start-ups. Overall EUR 1.2 million has been committed _ protection of fundamental human and labour rights for investment since 2014, thereof EUR 0.5 million in 2017. _ protection of the environment _ promotion of health & safety PRIVATE BANKING _ commitment to the fight against corruption Despite the persistent low interest-rate environment, Erste Group This is also expressed in the supplier code of conduct that is continued to strengthen its market position in private banking and publicly available on the website of Erste Group Procurement. asset management in Central and Eastern Europe. Across the Erste Group Procurement holds the CIPS Ethics Mark, a certificagroup, the focus of the services offered was on long-term wealth tion awarded by the Chartered Institute of Procurement and accumulation, asset management and investment counselling, as Supply (CIPS). This certificate distinguishes institutions that have well as estate planning. In addition to the services of a universal committed to high standards in procurement and set up relevant bank such as payments or financing solution, Erste Private further education courses in house. Currently, 90% of all employBanking offers investments in securities, real estate, gold and ees of Erste Group Procurement have obtained individual certifidiamonds. Erste Private Banking focuses on offering its customcation on ethical behaviour in procurement. ers advisory excellence, sustainability and transparency. A group-wide training programme has been initiated to meet these SUPPLY CHAIN high quality requirements. Erste Group’s supply chain consists of mostly indirect expenses In 2017, Erste Group was named the Best Private Bank in CEE that support the group’s core business. In 2017, the total amount for the fourth consecutive year and again the Best Private Bank in paid to companies outside Erste Group was slightly above EUR 1.1 Austria and Croatia by the business magazine The Banker. In billion and the majority of it is linked to IT (amounting to 39.9% of addition, Erste Private Banking was named the Best Private Bank the total amount spent), followed by expenses for services, operain the Czech Republic by the business magazine Euromoney. tions and marketing (37.9%) and facility management (22.2%). Out of a total of approximately 22,000 suppliers at the group level, 80% of the total procurement expenses relate to 549 suppliers. Suppliers 98.8% of the suppliers (reflecting 97.6% of the expenses) are locatErste Group views suppliers as partners in shaping its business to ed in the European Union, highlighting Erste Group’s focus on its be more sustainable. Therefore, procurement decisions include markets in CEE. An additional 0.5% of the suppliers are located in assessments of the suppliers’ social and environmental impact. North America, 0.5% in other European countries and the rest (0.2%) are based on other continents. Covering the entire supply chain, Erste Group Procurement is the sourcing and procurement company of Erste Group. Its basic Only 12.3% of Erste Group’s purchases were made across borobjective is to ensure clear and fair sourcing and procurement ders. This focus on local procurement strengthens the local econactivities and contracts. Meeting all the needs of Erste Group omies of the countries where Erste Group operates and underlines entities for goods and services on time and in accordance with its commitment to support these regions. 13 SUPPLIER SELECTION PROCESS In 2017, a supplier sustainability scorecard was introduced: suppliers must provide their ecological footprint (energy usage, Compliance with sustainability criteria in selecting suppliers is waste, emission) for the last two years – either on a general level guaranteed at both the strategic and the operational levels. Strateor related to their activities for Erste Group. 30 suppliers who are gies have been developed for selected groups of goods to help in involved in resource-intensive operations like data-centres or supplier selection. Apart from group standards on social respontransportation were selected to provide their data for this scoresibility, these standards also include defined technical specificacard. As these areas represent relevant criteria in the supplier tions. Since 2016, sustainability criteria have been a mandatory selection process, their development will be continuously monielement in these documents drafted with the Group Sustainability tored and assessed. Office of Erste Group. Some 26% of the suppliers with new and renewed contracts were To ensure that Erste Group’s suppliers meet the group’s corporate audited according to environmental standards in 2017. No supplier responsibility standards at an operational level, audit questionwas subject to a specific environmental impact assessment benaires are requested for any purchase of more than EUR 100,000 yond the standard audit questionnaire, nor was any supplier idenand regular supplier business reviews are performed. tified as having had a significant actual and potentially negative environmental impact. No actual and potentially negative enviThe supplier audit questionnaire is processed with a special IT ronmental impact was identified in the supply chain. Finally, no tool and is an integral part of Erste Group Procurement’s supply supplier contract had to be terminated as a result of a significant chain. This operational tool ensures full transparency and allows actual and potentially negative environmental impact. timely assessment and risk identification before entering into contracts with suppliers. The results of the audits form the basis Social aspects for the supplier evaluation in procurement. Since the supplier selection process includes social aspects, the supplier audit questionnaire also comprises specific topics such as To ensure correct procedures, all of the relevant steps have been the: integrated into the electronic tendering system. The IT application _ effective abolition of child labour blocks the entry of further data and thus collaboration with the _ elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour supplier, if there is not enough information or no explicit release _ elimination of discrimination with respect to employment has been given for suppliers classified as critical. Any non_ freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining compliance with the supplier code of conduct is brought forward _ reasonable working hours and fair remuneration to compliance delegates, who decide – if required –on further _ health protection measures. In addition to the initial evaluation, regular supplier _ occupational health and safety business reviews are performed covering the most important or _ job restructuring riskiest suppliers. _ remuneration _ fair working conditions Environmental aspects _ other social criteria in the supply chain Based on Erste Group’s efforts in environmental protection, environmental aspects are part of Erste Group Procurement’s Some 26% of the suppliers with new and renewed contracts were supplier selection process. The supplier audit questionnaire adaudited according to both labour practice standards and human dresses specific topics such as the: rights criteria in 2017. No supplier was subject to specific labour _ existence of an environmental management system practice or human rights impact assessments beyond the standard _ existence of a written environmental policy audit questionnaire, nor was any supplier identified as having had _ method of measuring CO2 emissions a significant actual or potentially negative impact on labour prac_ existence of environmental targets tice or human rights. There was no actual and potentially negative _ information on fines or charges for environmental infringeimpact on labour practice or human rights identified in the supply ments chain and no supplier contract had to be terminated as a result of _ description of the supplier’ supply chain a significant actual and potentially negative impact on labour practice or human rights. The audit questionnaire for procuring of goods has additional questions on potentially hazardous chemicals, recycling capabiliFurthermore, no supplier was found in violation of or at risk of ties of the product, the return policy at the end of the product’s violating the right to exercise freedom of association and collecuseful life and ENERGY STAR or similar standards. tive bargaining, nor was any supplier found to have significant risk of child labour, young workers exposed to hazardous work, or risk of incidents of forced or compulsory labour. 14 Employees skin colour, religious or political affiliation, ethnic background, nationality or any other aspect unrelated to their employment. The financial industry is facing a dynamic transformation in the The diversity priorities for 2017 were the following: way it does business. Customer behaviour is changing, digital _ to adopt and implement the group diversity policy framework channels are growing in importance. As a result, employees need in the local banks of Erste Group a different set of skills than just a few years ago. Erste Group _ to develop and encourage further initiatives in the area of regards learning and competency building as key to its business generation management and inclusion future as well as to individual employability and development of _ to increase the number of women in top management by at its workforce and the organisation. least 3 percentage points and develop more group-wide initiatives to support female leadership Retaining talented, engaged and experienced employees is fun_ to encourage more men to use paternity leave options damental to the long-term success of every company. As one of _ to continue to encourage local diversity initiatives the largest employers in the region, Erste Group aims to main_ to continue monitoring the gender pay gap and identify tain its position as an employer of choice in Central and Eastern measures for closing it Europe, encourages its employees to continually strive for professional and personal development and offers equal opportuniIn December 2016, the management board approved the groupties to everyone in its organisation. wide diversity policy framework and the policy was implemented in all local banking subsidiaries in 2017. Local diversity Erste Group focuses on operational excellence, marketmanagers define priorities and initiatives that support the group competitive compensation and recognition as well as attracting, diversity strategy. developing and retaining the best people. Its leadership culture is engaging and empowering and promotes a high-performing and To support generation management and inclusion, various lecinclusive work environment. tures and workshops on anti-discrimination, unconscious bias and inclusive leadership were offered. Best practice sharing and Developing employees with high potential in special programmes benchmarking with other companies also took place. is part of Erste Group’s human resources strategy. Erste Group’s people management strategy reflects the changing demands of the Erste Group set a group-wide internal target of having at least business environment. It is based on three key pillars: 35% of positions in top management and on supervisory boards _ culture filled by women by 2019. This target applies to the local banks _ competence (excluding other subsidiaries or the savings banks in Austria). As _ competitiveness of the end of 2017, 31% of positions in top management were filled by women (2016: 29%) and the share of female supervisory In addition, Erste Group places a strong emphasis on providing board members stood at 36% (3%). its employees a safe and healthy work environment. As an employer of choice, Erste Group recognises that a satisfying workTo increase the number of women in senior management posilife balance enhances a stable work environment. Employees are tions, Erste Group aims for a greater gender and age balance in its encouraged to volunteer their time and share their knowledge and talent pools. The international talent pool is made up of 39% expertise to give back to the society and communities in which women and 29% of the group’s key positions pool is female. the bank operates. In addition, Erste Group implemented a variety of initiatives to DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY support the development of female leadership. In Austria, for instance, the Erste Women’s Hub employee resource group continA diverse and inclusive workforce is essential for business sucued key initiatives such as the WoMentoring programme, financial cess. Companies that are committed to diversity and inclusion education for women, networking events for female employees benefit from more engaged employees, a better brand image and and customers and focused on encouraging more men to take higher customer satisfaction. Erste Group sees diversity and parental leave options and flexible work hours. Women in IT (Erste inclusion as a vital part of its human resources strategy and key to WIT), a new initiative, strives to encourage more women to pursue attracting and retaining top employees. careers in IT. Erste Bank Hungary signed the Hungarian Diversity Charter and launched Erste Nő (Erste Women Club), which focusErste Group’s diversity and inclusion principles are reflected both es on promoting a family-friendly organisation, the work-life in its Statement of Purpose and Code of Conduct, which emphabalance of working women and supporting mothers returning from sise a work environment free of discrimination and harassment maternity leave. and values the work and worth of each and every person regardless of gender, age, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, 15 Erste Group believes that diverse teams are more creative and The two pillars of Erste group’s leadership development and flexible in reacting to changing demands. Valuing and undertalent management strategies are the Erste Leadership Evolution standing cultural diversity fosters inclusion and integration as Centre, which structures group-wide leadership development well as better teamwork and co-operation. In February 2017, the offerings and Erste Group’s Talent Management Architecture, ErsteColours LGBT & Friends network was launched in Austria, which ensures the continuous development of top employees promoting inclusion by focusing on LGBT issues in human rethrough three talent pools. The International Talent Pool targets sources and society. Erste Group is contributing to the implemenhigh-performing junior professionals up to board minus 3 mantation of the UN sustainable development goals and Agenda agement levels. As of the end of 2017, 39% of the International 2030. Its diversity strategy and activities support gender equality, Talent Pool were women. The next level, the Group Key Posidecent work & economic growth and reduced inequalities. tions Pool, aims at preparing managerial talents for roles at division head level. This pool comprises 29% women. The Executive The diversity priorities for 2018 are the following: Pool, which identifies and develops top executive level talent, _ increase the number of women in top management by at least also comprised 29% women. one percentage point and develop more group-wide initiatives to support female leadership Erste Group also offers an annual Graduate Programme for _ make careers in the field of IT more attractive for women university graduates. The aim of the programme is to attract top through Erste WIT graduates and provide fundamental banking and risk manage_ develop and encourage more initiatives in the area of LGBT ment knowledge. In the current programme 52% of the particiinclusion pants are women. _ further develop local diversity initiatives in CEE _ continue monitoring the gender pay gap on a country-byIn 2017, each employee of Erste Group had on average 30 traincountry basis and identify measures for closing it ing hours for professional development – women 33.3 and men 24.6 training hours. Employees in managerial positions had on LEARNING, TALENT MANAGEMENT, average 24.6 training hours, while employees without managerial LEADERSHIP AND functions had 46.3 training hours. COMPETENCY DEVELOPMENT The focus for 2018 is the mobilisation of identified talents within Erste Group is committed to developing its employees’ profesthe group and to further develop the digital learning offering. sional and interpersonal skills to ensure that they are well prepared to act professionally and in a socially responsible manner. Erste REMUNERATION AND Group continuously develops and aligns group-wide training PEOPLE PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT programmes for senior experts and managers. Erste Group’s remuneration policy is geared towards an approErste School of Banking and Finance, the group’s platform for priate balance in rewarding the performance, competence and professional and leadership training, offers customised executive level of responsibility of the employees. The link between comtraining and personal development training courses as well as pany performance and retail sales incentive schemes is transparprogrammes for specific business areas. In 2017, the main focus ent, retail incentive payments are based on quantitative and qualiwas on further developing the group-wide talent management tative criteria. Erste Group’s reward system is consistent, competstrategy, leadership development roadmap and the concept of itive and transparent. The remuneration policy aims to functional competency management. Erste Group intensified its _ create an environment where employees can perform, develop co-operation with the renowned IESE Business School. Other and be engaged cooperation partners are IMD Lausanne, ESMT Berlin, WU Exec_ reward at the right level to attract and retain employees with utive Academy in Vienna and Ashridge Executive Education. the required competence and skills _ be cost-competitive and cost-flexible for a sustainable busiIn addition, Erste Group further expanded the training part of the ness Finance College in four key areas: controlling, asset/liability _ support leadership and employee behaviour that creates an management, accounting and business data excellence. New engaging and unique customer experience and effective risk courses at the Risk Management College reflect the regulatory management practices changes and contribute to bridging functional competency gaps of employees. The Corporates & Markets College’s initiatives cover As a signatory of the Austrian Diversity Charter and the UN topics such as specific product knowledge or corporate sales Global Compact, Erste Group committed itself to the principles abilities. In addition to project management, the Business Transof equal opportunity and transparency, especially in remuneraformation College expanded its focus on business analysis and tion. Consequently, one of the key strategic priorities is to ensure data management. that all reward schemes are more transparent, market-driven and linked to performance and personal development. Erste Group 16 offers competitive but not market-leading compensation packaglife balance, mental health, stress prevention and nutrition counes. The local banks’ remuneration practices remain well balanced selling. A multi-professional team of occupational physicians, with the business line needs and local country pay practices. The industrial psychologists and physiotherapists assists Erste remuneration schemes are designed to meet all EU and national Group’s employees in any matters of health and well-being. regulatory requirements on remuneration. The health centre at Erste Group’s headquarters in Vienna offers 38 Fixed remuneration is the core component of any employee’s recourses covering a wide range of measures such as relaxation muneration and is based on job complexity, individual contributechniques and physical activity. The courses include yoga, circuit tions and local market conditions. Fixed salary represents a suffitraining, Pilates, preventive back pain training, and more. In addiciently high proportion of the total remuneration to allow the operation, the health centre continued to focus on health risk factors (in tion of a flexible and variable remuneration policy. The total remuparticular the prevention of heart disease and stroke) and on changneration is balanced in such a way that it does not promote excesing personal health practices and behavioural patterns (e.g. smoksive risk-taking. The variable remuneration component may be ing and diet). It also offers comprehensive programmes in nutrition, offered to all employees. Awarding a variable salary is based on physical fitness and addiction prevention. company, business line and individual performance and also reflects local country practices. On all these levels, Erste Group uses Chronic diseases have a major impact not only on quality of life a balance between financial, business growth, risk, customer and and life expectancy but also on the labour market, since chronic cost indicators. The overall performance evaluation also includes illnesses affect job fluctuation and wages. Erste Group implementthe employee’s behaviour and competence. Retail sales incentive ed a wide variety of measures to prevent or at least limit the imschemes are offered to selected employees working in the retail pact of chronic diseases. These measures include preventive medibusiness line and are based on company, business line and individcal examinations, access to rehabilitation centres and treatments ual performance. and a reintegration programme after long-term absence. Erste Group is still one of very few companies with a company agreeBenefits are provided as a means to stimulate well-being in the ment on gradual reintegration after an extended sickness. The work environment and to support an appropriate work-life balance. company agreement is a very good example of bridging health and Examples of benefits are flexible working time, study leave, parenlabour issues. tal leave and the health centre expertise. Pension and insurance schemes aim at ensuring that employees have an appropriate standThe workplace directly influences the physical, mental, economic ard of living after retirement. Pension and insurance provisions are and social well-being of employees and affects the health of their according to local law, regulation and market practice. families, communities and society. Consequently, the health centre continued to focus on strengthening its effectiveness on maintainThe supervisory board reviews group and local remuneration ing mental health of the employees in 2017. policies and practices annually. The respective group and local remuneration policies and execution are evaluated annually to Respecting and promoting work-life balance among its employensure that remuneration practices comply with respective interees has been a long-standing priority of Erste Group and it offers national and national regulations. The evaluation comprises the a wide variety of family-friendly measures and evaluates them on entire remuneration process from determining bonus budget a regular basis to ensure that they meet the employees’ needs. pools, target setting, performance evaluation, awarding bonuses These measures differ from country to country and include flexiin relation to performance and fixed salary, to the actual pay-out ble work arrangements, short sabbaticals and regular meetings for of bonuses. employees on maternity/parental leave. One of the priority measures ensuing from the Career and Family (Beruf & Familie) EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WORK-LIFE Certification Audit in Austria is to encourage more men to take BALANCE full advantage of paternity leave options. As of the end of the year, a total of 3,554 employees were on paternity leave, thereof The development of health literacy, embedded in the UN sustaina3,373 women (94.9%) and 181 men (5.1%). The share of men on ble development goals and Agenda 2030, is essential for dealing paternity leave is the highest in Austria, where almost 10% of all with illnesses better, guaranteeing equal access to health care, and employees on leave are men. advancing of social policies in this area. The workplace offers an ideal setting and infrastructure to support and promote health As an additional offer, Erste Group opened its MiniCampus comissues to large groups of people, thus making occupational health pany kindergarten at Erste Group’s headquarters in Vienna in an important contributor to public health. 2016. Erste Group is committed to a proactive approach to helping its employees to identify and manage health risks. Health promotion activities and topics in Erste Group include lifestyle habits, work17 Staff indicators Overview 2017 Permanent employment Temporary employment Total contract contract Full-time employees Part-time employees Females Males Females Males Females Males Females Males Females Males Erste Group 28,917 17,160 26,081 15,999 2,836 1,161 24,292 16,218 4,625 942 thereof Holding 1,002 1,101 981 1,072 18 32 688 1,045 309 61 Austria 7,453 7,132 7,143 6,846 310 286 4,203 6,525 3,250 607 Czech Republic 7,300 3,256 6,359 2,962 941 294 6,563 3,162 739 92 Slovakia 3,086 1,269 2,472 1,053 614 216 3,028 1,257 58 12 Romania 5,218 2,333 4,800 2,182 418 151 4,871 2,188 347 145 Hungary 1,986 1,172 1,913 1,143 74 28 1,828 1,095 159 76 Croatia 2,179 1,030 1,894 898 299 118 2,153 1,016 40 0 Serbia 753 319 654 295 99 24 751 318 2 1 With the exception of the Austrian savings banks with fewer than 500 employees that are not majority-owned by Erste Group Bank AG, all relevant subsidiaries are included. The staff indicators are based on headcount data as of the end of the year. Total data (46,077 employees) include data from indirect holdings of Erste Group outside its core markets. Share of female partShare of male partShare of part-time time staff in total parttime staff in total male Share of executive Share of female staff staff time workforce workforce positions 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Erste Group 62.8% 64.0% 12.1% 8.2% 83.1% 82.5% 5.5% 4.8% 1.5% 1.9% thereof Holding 47.6% 47.6% 18.4% 15.4% 83.5% 79.5% 5.5% 7.6% 1.8% 1.8% Austria 51.1% 50.0% 26.4% 25.8% 84.3% 81.1% 8.5% 9.8% 1.4% 2.9% Czech Republic 69.2% 69.7% 7.9% 7.6% 88.7% 89.4% 2.8% 2.7% 1.1% 1.2% Slovakia 70.9% 68.7% 1.6% 1.2% 82.9% 83.3% 0.9% 0.6% 1.1% 1.1% Romania 69.1% 70.3% 6.5% 5.8% 70.5% 80.1% 6.2% 3.9% 1.0% 1.7% Hungary 62.9% 62.5% 7.4% 3.4% 67.7% 74.0% 6.5% 2.4% 2.0% 2.4% Croatia 67.9% 66.4% 1.2% 1.5% 100.0% 80.0% 0.0% 0.9% 1.9% 2.7% Serbia 70.2% 69.9% 0.3% 0.1% 66.7% 0.0% 0.3% 0.3% 2.1% 2.8% Share of women Average number of Other managerial Share of women in in other managerial sick leave days per Number of employees positions executive positions positions employee with health disability 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Erste Group 7.8% 6.8% 29.9% 29.4% 43.3% 46.4% 7.9 8.4 548 394 thereof Holding 10.2% 9.2% 18.9% 23.1% 26.7% 27.4% 5.6 6.1 16 23 Austria 8.9% 6.9% 19.3% 26.5% 29.2% 27.8% 7.1 7.3 230 138 Czech Republic 4.4% 4.2% 25.6% 25.4% 40.5% 44.3% 8.9 8.3 152 109 Slovakia 9.1% 8.8% 26.5% 23.1% 56.9% 54.6% 4.5 12.0 116 102 Romania 6.9% 6.3% 50.6% 44.0% 55.3% 56.0% 8.4 7.9 30 27 Hungary 11.8% 12.2% 23.8% 22.9% 50.8% 51.4% 7.7 7.6 3 8 Croatia 4.6% 5.5% 35.5% 32.6% 60.5% 55.9% 12.5 9.4 10 9 Serbia 14.9% 14.4% 40.9% 33.3% 53.8% 56.2% 6.0 6.7 1 1 Executive positions cover all the board and board-1 positions. Other managerial positions cover all the board-2, board-3 and board-4 positions. In 2017, the scope of consolidation was extended. 2017 data are therefore not comparable with 2016 data. As of year-end 2017, 18.8% of the total workforce was younger than 30, 62.4% was between 30 and 50 and 18.8% older than 50 years. Governance bodies: Detailed information about the members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of Erste Group Bank AG is presented in the Corporate Governance Report. As of year-end 2017, only males were members of the Management Board, and none was younger than 30, 16.7% was between 30 and 50 and 83.3% was older than 50 years. As of year-end 2017, 64.7% of the members of the Supervisory Board were males, 35.3% were females. No Supervisory Board member was younger than 30, 29.4% was between 30 and 50 and 70.6% was older than 50 years. 18 New employee hires Females Males <30 years 30-50 years >50 years 2017 Number in % Number in % Number in % Number in % Number in % Erste Group 5,250 11.4% 3,108 6.7% 4,398 9.5% 3,577 7.8% 383 0.8% thereof Holding 180 0.4% 215 0.5% 275 0.6% 112 0.2% 8 0.0% Austria 1,113 2.4% 1,140 2.5% 1,441 3.1% 693 1.5% 119 0.3% Czech Republic 1,419 3.1% 661 1.4% 1,240 2.7% 764 1.7% 76 0.2% Slovakia 604 1.3% 227 0.5% 417 0.9% 390 0.8% 24 0.1% Romania 809 1.8% 414 0.9% 646 1.4% 510 1.1% 67 0.1% Hungary 775 1.7% 406 0.9% 307 0.7% 793 1.7% 81 0.2% Croatia 305 0.7% 140 0.3% 193 0.4% 242 0.5% 10 0.0% Serbia 109 0.2% 59 0.1% 73 0.2% 92 0 3 0.0% Total data include data from indirect holdings of Erste Group outside its core markets. The ratio of new employee hires (in total 8,358 or 18.1%) is calculated on the basis of the total headcount. Employee turnover Females Males <30 years 30-50 years >50 years 2017 Number in % Number in % Number in % Number in % Number in % Erste Group 4,145 9.0% 2,471 5.4% 2,174 4.7% 3,389 7.4% 1,053 2.3% thereof Holding 48 2.4% 84 4.2% 19 0.9% 66 3.3% 47 2.3% Austria 608 4.2% 662 4.5% 411 2.8% 459 5.5% 400 2.7% Czech Republic 1,313 12.4% 573 5.4% 721 6.8% 876 8.3% 289 2.7% Slovakia 547 12.6% 199 4.6% 230 5.3% 421 9.7% 95 2.2% Romania 828 11.0% 376 5.0% 451 6.0% 676 9.0% 77 1.0% Hungary 549 17.4% 315 10.0% 199 6.3% 577 18.3% 88 2.8% Croatia 139 4.3% 225 7.0% 113 3.5% 188 5.9% 63 2.0% Serbia 71 6.6% 45 4.2% 17 1.6% 71 6.6% 28 2.6% 2016 Total <30 years 31-40 years 41-50 years >50 years Females Males Females Males Females Males Females Males Females Males Austria 3.2% 4.1% 5.3% 5.6% 2.8% 4.5% 1.6% 2.3% 2.9% 4.2% Czech Republic 12.4% 5.3% 18.7% 8.9% 11.6% 6.3% 7.5% 3.1% 11.6% 3.1% Slovakia 12.8% 5.0% 18.7% 8.3% 11.8% 6.9% 8.2% 2.6% 12.3% 2.3% Romania 11.5% 6.3% 21.6% 10.0% 12.3% 6.2% 6.3% 3.7% 5.8% 5.2% Hungary 13.8% 8.1% 17.1% 12.6% 12.1% 8.0% 10.8% 6.4% 15.0% 5.5% Croatia 4.6% 2.7% 10.5% 4.6% 2.7% 1.7% 2.0% 2.2% 3.2% 2.2% Serbia 6.3% 5.7% 12.2% 14.5% 4.7% 5.1% 1.9% 1.4% 6.5% 1.7% Total data include data from indirect holdings of Erste Group outside its core markets. The presentation of the turnover data was amended pursuant to GRI Standard. 2017 data are therefore not comparable with 2016 data. Employee turnover means employees who left Erste Group (including retirees) and does not include employees on parental leave, internal transfers within Erste Group or departing trainees and interns. The total number of employees who left Erste Group is presented as a ratio of the headcount at the beginning of the reporting period, amended by new employee hires and employees who left during the year. The turnover rate is calculated on the basis of the total headcount and not on the total headcount by gender. Total turnover was 6,616 (14.4%). Parental leave Return to work after parental leave Retention 12 months after return Females Males Females Males 2017 Number in % Number in % Number in % Number in % Erste Group 955 73.8% 83 95.4% 814 81.7% 59 86.8% thereof Holding 54 96.4% 18 100.0% 91 95.8% 15 93.8% Austria 268 91.5% 64 98.5% 294 95.5% 47 90.4% Czech Republic 173 53.2% 1 100.0% 132 87.4% 0 n.a. Slovakia 54 40.9% 8 100.0% 38 74.5% 1 100.0% Romania 202 86.7% 7 87.5% 120 63.5% 7 87.5% Hungary 121 84.0% 0 0.0% 39 44.3% 0 0.0% Croatia 54 83.1% 1 100.0% 115 98.3% 3 100.0% Serbia 40 72.7% 0 n.a. 31 93.9% 0 n.a. Total data include data from indirect holdings of Erste Group outside its core markets. The ratio (in %) shows the return rate after parental leave has ended. As parental leave includes different terms, the ratios do not refer to the total number of employees on parental leave. Every employee in a permanent employment contract is eligible to take parental leave. In 2017, 3,372 female and 181 male employees were on parental leave, a total of 1,038 employees returned from parental leave (75.2%) and the retention ratio was 82.4% (873 employees). N.a. indicates that no employee was on parental leave in the reporting or reference period. 19 Environment Environmental footprint 2016 2017 Electricity consumption 161 GWh 186 GWh In recent years, sustainability has developed from a marginal Heating energy consumption 134 GWh 165 GWh issue to an important part of business policy called for by various Cooling energy consumption 0 GWh 4 GWh stakeholders such as employees, customers and investors. Fuel consumption 30 GWh 38 GWh Total energy consumption 325 GWh 393 GWh CO2e-emissions (Scope 1, 2+3/mobility) 81,484 t 79,846 t Many states – including Austria – have signed the Paris Copy paper consumption 1,376 t 1,733 t Agreement on climate change, committing themselves to a reduction or even all-out ban of fossil fuels. On the other hand, Due to the first-time inclusion of additional subsidiaries in Austhere is a lack of actual policies for achieving national targets. It tria, the number of business entities included in the data rose is therefore all the more important that companies like Erste significantly in 2017. Comparing this data with the ecological Group define their own ecological targets and understand footprint of 2016 is therefore not meaningful. sustainability as part of their corporate responsibility. Ecological group-wide targets taking into account the new Due to their lack of production facilities, banks are service consolidation scope are planned in 2018 in line with the new nonproviders whose business operations have only a modest direct financial reporting requirements. impact on the environment, mostly through their consumption of energy and paper. Regardless of this, Erste Group recognises its Implementation of environmental management systems environmental responsibility and has implemented a group-wide ISO 14,001 certification in Croatia and ISO 50,001 in Hungary environmental strategy that aims at minimising both its direct have been completed, while implementation at the Holding and and, more importantly, its indirect ecological footprint. Erste Bank Oesterreich was postponed to 2018/2019. Of the Austrian savings banks, Steiermärkische Sparkasse has been ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY ISO 14,001 certified and Allgemeine Sparkasse OÖ has been ISO 50,001 certified. Erste Group’s environmental strategy is built on four pillars: _ implementation of an environmental management system All local subsidiaries are expected to implement a certified envi_ implementation of a supply chain management system for all ronmental management system by 2020. This should create the products and services needed to run the banking business basis for efficient monitoring of all environmental data at all _ integration of environmental criteria into banking products and banks. services _ cooperation with environmental NGOs PRIORITIES The following priority areas were defined as part of the Improving energy efficiency environmental strategy to integrate social and ecological aspects For banks, the most effective approach to cutting CO2-emissions more closely into Erste Group’s day-to-day business: is to use electricity from renewable energy sources. Erste Group _ climate protection and sustainable use of natural resources: has completed this switch to “green” electricity in Austria and increased use of energy from renewable sources, improvement of Croatia and partially completed it in Hungary and the Czech energy efficiency at all office locations, branches and data centres Republic. and reduction of business travel by increased reliance on telephone and video conferences. Reducing consumption of electrical energy, heating and hot water _ include ecological considerations in purchase decisions by supply is largely ensured by the construction and use of new headquarter change management buildings, such as in Vienna (Erste Campus), Bucharest (The _ expand the range of sustainable banking products, defining Bridge) and Belgrade (Sirius Office). additional criteria for responsible financing. Measures to improve energy efficiency are being implemented Environmental targets until 2016 group-wide on an ongoing basis. Erste Campus in Vienna, for In 2012, initial group-wide targets were defined for reducing example, is being supplied with non-fossil fuel energy (district energy consumption, paper consumption and CO2 emissions by heating and cooling and green electricity). In the future, use of 2016. These targets were largely met or even exceeded. cold groundwater and optimisation of heat pumps combined with geothermal energy will reduce the need for external energy Target Achieved sources. Energy monitoring has been rolled out to another 19 Electricity consumption -10% -13% branches, primarily to cut consumption of electrical energy. Heating energy -10% -18% Copy paper consumption -20% -20% CO2e-emissions (Scope 1,2) -30% -28% 20 Banca Comercială Română has completed its new headquarters Current efforts aim at processing all standard banking transactions building and most of its employees have already moved in. This electronically wherever possible, which will not only make cusbuilding has been certified LEEDS (Leadership in Energy and tomer service more efficient but also accelerate back office proceEnvironmental Design) GOLD and replaces the use of old, dures. This improves not only the customer experience but also energy-inefficient buildings. The extent of energy savings will reduces paper consumption. not be seen until next year when the move into the new building is complete. The replacement of old and inefficient heating Bank products with ecological benefits systems in 110 branches in Romania is expected to save up to 1 Erste Group continuously develops products and services for its GWh per year. customers that incorporate sustainability criteria, including investment products and financing. For more information on susAt Slovenská sporiteľňa, the focus was on raising the energy tainable investment please refer to the Customers section. efficiency of the data centre. The use of new servers and a more efficient cooling system is projected to save 2.1 GWh/year. There are also numerous examples in the lending business: Erste Bank Serbia financed the construction of one of the largest wind Česká spořitelna already procured 50% of its electricity demand farms in Kovacica. This project forms part of Serbia’s efforts to from renewable sources, which resulted in a reduction of CO2 increase the share of renewable energy and curb CO2 emissions. emissions by 34%. In the Czech Republic, installation of Ceska spořitelna, market leader in municipal financing in the Czech advanced energy monitoring systems in the branches was Republic, runs the Smart City project to assist local authorities who continued. Staff are now able to check their branch’s energy promote the use of new resource-saving technologies. Also worth consumption at any time. mentioning is project financing that is critical to the improvement of ecological conditions in the Ostrava region: cleaning up a huge In July 2017, Erste Bank Serbia started to move to the new Sirius spoil heap from a former coal mine. This heap, which is more than Office complex, which had been built to the highest ecological 30 metres high and covers an area of about 100 hectares, has standards, including high energy efficiency and renewable or smouldering material inside; it has been emitting noxious recycled structural materials. Certification of the building to greenhouse gases for 20 years. BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) standards will be completed in 2018. Other environmental initiatives Another element of Erste Group’s environmental strategy is coEcological sourcing of products and services operation with independent environmental NGOs that offer access Erste Group Procurement (EGP) continued its efforts to include to their local and international know-how and provide valuable environmental criteria in its purchasing activities. Since 2014, the assistance to Erste Group in its efforts to become an even more Ethical and Environmental Code of Conduct for Suppliers of environmentally sustainable company. In Austria, Erste Group and Goods and Services of EGP has applied across the group. Supplier Erste Bank co-operate with the WWF Climate Group. The primary evaluation criteria include sustainability and environ-mental aim of this platform of leading Austrian companies is to fight aspects. In addition, EGP staff must pass the on-line test of the climate change. In 2017, it marked its 10-year anniversary with a Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply (CIPS) based in number of public events, debates and a prize drawing that was open England. For further details, please refer to the sections on to some 50,000 people working for WWF Climate Group members. Customers and Suppliers. For a number of years, Erste Bank Serbia has been sponsoring a Measures to reduce office paper consumption nation-wide Green Ideas competition, which awards the best green To minimise its environmental impact, Erste Group continuously projects submitted by companies. In addition, Erste Bank Serbia is runs paper-saving initiatives and takes into account ecological a partner of the samo ne autom project initiated by the Serbian criteria by purchasing only 100% recycled paper or paper that is Ministry for the Protection of the Environment, which promotes FSC or PEFC-certified. commuting by environmentally friendly means of transport rather than by car. The trend towards digitalisation of the banking business is also reducing paper consumption. In many transactions that are still Slovenská sporiteľňa placed bee hives on the rooftop of its headdone at the bank counter, customers sign on electronic pads rather quarters building, following the example of Erste Campus. As well than on printed forms. as producing excellent honey, these bee hives also serve as a visible symbol of the need for nature conservation. In Romania, Banca Comercială Română redesigned many of the processes in its branches in such a way that a total of about 15,000 An exciting project in Romania supports a car-sharing initiative photocopies are being saved per day. The bank was the last local (eGO) by making 20 e-cars available for the exclusive use of subsidiary to switch to 100% recycled copy paper. customers of Banca Comercială Română. The bank thus helps to reduce emissions in Bucharest while at the same time making a 21 statement in the fight against climate change. If this initiative Environmental indicators proves popular with customers, it will be rolled out to other cities in Total figures shown in the following tables include data of indirect Romania. At Erste Campus in Vienna, a car sharing system using holdings of Erste Group outside its core markets. A detailed an e-car was tested at the initiative of s-Leasing in late 2017. presentation of Holding data is not available, as a meaningful Employees can rent it at attractive terms for both personal and separation of the environmental indicators is not possible due to business travel. Ceska spořitelna is testing the use of e-cars in its the shared usage of the location (Erste Campus) with other entifleet and at Erste Bank Hungary an e-car is being used as a board ties. In 2017, the scope of consolidation was extended; the 2017 member’s company car for the first time. data are therefore not comparable with the preceding year. Relative values for 2017 refer to 40,630 FTEs (full-time equivalent; Environmental data defined as an employee times his/her employment factor). CO2 Environmental data are collected with a software tool (cr360), equivalents (CO2e) are the sum of all greenhouse gas emissions, which uses emission factors from the UK Department for Envii.e. carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide. ronment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) and the International Energy Agency (IEA). CO2e-emissions Czech in tonnes Erste Group Austria Republic Slovakia Romania Hungary Croatia Serbia 2017 Cooling agents 2,124 307 118 248 870 148 284 116 Mobility 8,227 1,787 2,726 695 1,302 678 745 268 Heating/ warm water 17,503 3,250 742 2,869 9,509 343 625 166 Σ Scope 1 27,854 5,343 3,587 3,811 11,681 1,169 1,653 550 District heating / cooling 13,508 2,254 9,303 134 320 771 395 221 Electricity 35,127 436 14,736 3,379 11,549 2,664 273 1,900 Σ Scope 2 48,635 2,690 24,038 3,513 11,869 3,435 668 2,121 Scope 3 (only mobility) 3,357 1,709 818 45 565 27 119 51 Total (Scope 1,2 and 3) 79,846 9,742 28,443 7,369 24,115 4,630 2,440 2,721 2016 Cooling agents 1,246 14 399 176 159 148 268 81 Mobility 7,642 949 2,964 720 1,333 680 724 273 Heating/ warm water 13,742 994 807 2,895 7,863 449 585 150 Σ Scope 1 22,630 1,957 4,169 3,792 9,355 1,277 1,577 504 District heating 11,076 144 9,208 269 490 436 293 236 Electricity 43,302 109 22,365 3,391 12,283 3,137 14 2,002 Σ Scope 2 54,377 253 31,573 3,661 12,773 3,573 307 2,237 Scope 3 (only mobility) 4,476 1,478 2,043 84 728 24 48 71 Total (Scope 1,2 and 3) 81,484 3,688 37,785 7,537 22,856 4,874 1,933 2,812 If national emission factors for Scope 2 (district heating and electricity) were applied, the CO2e-emissions would amount to 124,970 t. Erste Group procures primarily CO2e-neutral electricity and district heating from waste or biomass. For this reason, Erste Group's actual CO2e-emissions are significantly lower. 22 Relative values Heating Electricity Copy paper CO2e Scope 1 CO2e Scope 2 CO2e Scope 3 kWh/m² kWh/m² kg/FTE t/FTE t/FTE t/FTE 2017 Erste Group 99.1 108.6 42.7 0.69 1.20 0.08 Austria 79.8 121.8 45.5 0.42 0.21 0.13 Croatia 73.7 180.6 41.7 0.58 0.23 0.04 Czech Republic 107.5 98.6 25.7 0.35 2.37 0.08 Hungary 77.5 131.6 41.9 0.39 1.14 0.01 Romania 129.1 91.6 74.9 1.91 1.94 0.09 Serbia 74.8 106.1 48.6 0.51 1.98 0.05 Slovakia 87.3 98.4 28.8 0.89 0.82 0.01 2016 Austria 92.0 186.7 20.0 0.24 0.03 0.18 Croatia 76.7 193.1 37.3 0.51 0.10 0.02 Czech Republic 96.1 90.4 24.4 0.40 3.04 0.20 Hungary 63.5 158.0 45.4 0.44 1.22 0.01 Romania 107.2 91.2 72.2 1.29 1.80 0.10 Serbia 69.0 98.8 52.8 0.50 2.23 0.07 Slovakia 84.4 107.0 33.0 0.87 0.84 0.02 Copy paper 2016 2017 total weight recycled non-recycled total weight recycled non-recycled tonnes in % in % tonnes in % in % Erste Group 1,376.0 65.9 34.1 1,733.0 74.1 25.9 Austria 163.5 88.7 11.3 586.9 26.8 73.2 Croatia 116.2 99.9 0.1 119.9 99.8 0.2 Czech Republic 254.0 98.4 1.6 261.0 97.0 3.0 Hungary 132.8 100.0 0.0 125.7 100.0 0.0 Romania 513.2 13.4 86.6 458.7 99.1 0.9 Serbia 53.1 100.0 0.0 52.1 100.0 0.0 Slovakia 143.2 98.8 1.2 122.7 99.3 0.7 Management board Andreas Treichl mp, Chairman Willibald Cernko mp, Member Peter Bosek mp, Member Gernot Mittendorfer mp, Member Petr Brávek mp, Member Jozef Síkela mp, Member Vienna, 13 March 2018 23
