Statutory Reports Business Responsibility Report | 101 Business Responsibility Report SECTION A ii. Number of National Locations GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY a. Plants State/Union Territory Location 1. Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company Chhattisgarh Raigarh L27105HR1979PLC009913 Raipur Dongamahua Odisha Angul 2. Name of the Company Barbil Jindal Steel & Power Limited (JSPL) Tensa Jharkhand Patratu 3. Registered address O.P. Jindal Marg, Hisar, Haryana -125005, India b. Marketing Offices  Gurgaon, Raipur, Ranchi, Bhopal, Chandigarh, Kochi, 4. Website Kolkata, Jamshedpur, Bengaluru, Kanpur, Mumbai, www.jindalsteelpower.com Bhubaneswar, Chennai, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Ludhiana, Ahmedabad, Pune, Nagpur, Patna and Visakhapatnam. 5. E-mail id sustainability@jindalsteel.com 10. Markets served by the Company – Local/State/National/ International 6. Financial Year reported The Company has a global footprint that serves both national 2016-17 and international markets. 7. Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial SECTION B activity code-wise) FINANCIAL DETAILS OF THE COMPANY Group Class Description 071 0710 Mining of iron ores 1. Paid up Capital 239 2394 Manufacturing of cement, lime, plaster ₹ 91.50 crore 241 2410 Manufacturing of basic iron and steel 251 2511 Manufacturing of structural metal products 2. Total Turnover (INR) 251 2513 Manufacturing of steam generators, except ₹ 15502.49 crore central heating hot water boilers 351 3510 Generation of power 3. Total profit after taxes (INR) ₹ (986.45) crore As per classifications under National Industrial Classification (2008), Central Statistical Organisation, Ministry of Statistics 4. Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Programme Implementation, Government of India, New as percentage of profit after tax (%) Delhi ₹ 15.36 crore. Average profit is ₹ (1095.19) crore 8. List three key products/services that the Company 5. List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has manufactures/ provides (as in balance sheet) been incurred Plates and Coils a. Education and skill development Parallel flange Beams and Columns b. Health, nutrition and sanitation TMT Bars c. Need-based community infrastructure development The above three focus areas of JSPL’s social commitment include 9. Total number of locations where business activity is activities in the domains of environmental conservation, education, undertaken by the Company health and nutrition, population stabilisation, helping the disabled, i. Number of International Locations (Provide details of creating and developing infrastructure, sanitation and drinking major 5) water, generating livelihoods, promotion of sports, culture and art, The major international locations where JSPL has operational and certain other activities related to community welfare. business activities through its subsidiaries and step-down subsidiaries are Oman, South Africa, Mozambique and Australia. At several location in Africa and South East Asia (Indonesia) we are involved in exploration activities. 102 | Jindal Steel & Power Limited Annual Report 2016-17 SECTION C SECTION D OTHER DETAILS BR INFORMATION 1. Does the Company have any subsidiary company/ 1. Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR companies? a.  Details of the Director/Directors responsible for the Yes. implementation of the BR policy/policies DIN Number: 00025970 2. Do the subsidiary company/companies participate in the Name: Mr. Ravikant Uppal BR Initiatives of the parent Company? If yes, then indicate Designation: MD & Group CEO the number of such subsidiary company/ companies.  No. Each subsidiary company has independent business b) Details of the BR head (to be provided) responsibility initiatives. Sl. Particulars Details No. 3. Do any other entity/entities (e.g. suppliers and i. DIN Number (if applicable) 00376562 ii. Name Mr. Rajeev Rupendra Bhadauria distributors, among others) that the Company does iii. Designation Wholetime Director business with; participate in the BR initiatives of the iv. Telephone number 011-41462406 Company? If yes, then indicate the percentage of such v. e-mail id rajeev.bhadauria@jindalsteel.com entity/entities? [ Less than 30%, 30-60%, More than 60%] JSPL supports and encourages standalone/independent activities by other entities 2. Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR policy / policies (Reply in Y / N): The list of policies which address these principles is mapped at the end of this table. Sl. Questions P1Ethics, P2Product P3P4P5Human P6P7Policy P8P9No. Transparency Life Cycle Employee Stakeholder Rights Environment Advocacy Inclusive Customer and Sustainability Wellbeing Engagement Growth Value Accountability 1 Do you have policy/policies for...? Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation with the relevant Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y stakeholders? 3 Does the policy conform to Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y any national / international JSPL is a signatory to World Steel Sustainable Development Charter, 2015. The Company’s policies reflect the purpose and standards? If yes, specify. intent of United Nation Global Compact, World Steel Sustainable Development Charter, GRI guidelines and as per international standards, such as ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 9001. (The Company is in the process to implement ISO 50001 across all its plant locations in India. At present, few of its plants are ISO 50001 certified.) 4 Has the policy been approved by the Board? If yes, has it been Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y signed by MD / owner / CEO / appropriate Board Director? 5 Does the Company have a specified committee of the Board Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y / Director / Official to oversee the implementation of the policy? Statutory Reports Business Responsibility Report | 103 Sl. Questions P1Ethics, P2Product P3P4P5Human P6P7Policy P8P9No. Transparency Life Cycle Employee Stakeholder Rights Environment Advocacy Inclusive Customer and Sustainability Wellbeing Engagement Growth Value Accountability 6 Has the policy been formally communicated Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y to all relevant internal and external stakeholders? 7 Does the Company have an in-house structure to implement the policy/ Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y policies? 8 Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism related to the policy/policies to address Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/ policies? 9 Has the Company carried Y Y Y N N Y N Y Y out independent audit/ evaluation of the working of this policy by an internal or external agency? 1 While formulating the policy, the top management was consulted and all employees were engaged via questionnaires and town hall sessions. 2 All policies are reviewed by the Board members and approved by the respective Board Committees. The policies are then signed by either the Wholetime Director or the MD and Group CEO. All the policies in JSPL are carved from its guiding principles and core values. These policies are mapped to each principle hereunder: Principle Applicable JSPL’s policies Link for the policy Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and a. Group Whistleblower Policy http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/sustainabilities/ govern themselves with ethics, transparency governance.html and accountability b. Group Code of Business Conduct http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/sustainabilities/ governance.html c. Code of Conduct for Board of Directors http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/img/admin/ and Senior Management of the report/pdf/CODE_OF_CONDUCT_FOR_SENIOR_ Company. MANAGMENT.pdf d. Code of Internal Procedures and http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/img/admin/ Conduct for Prevention of Insider report/pdf/CODE_OF_INTERNAL_PROCEDURES_ Trading in Shares of the Company AND_CONDUCT_FOR_PREVENTION_OF_INSIDER_ TRADING_IN_SHARES_OF_THE_COMPANY_as_ amended.pdf Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods a. Environment Policy http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/policies.html and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle b. Quality Policy http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/policies.html c. Total Productivity Management Policy http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/policies.html d. Sustainability embedded in Life Cycle Available on JSPL Intranet of Products Principle 3: Businesses should promote the a. Employee Well being Policy Available on JSPL Intranet well-being of all employees b. Safety & Occupational Health Policy http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/policies.html Principle 4: Businesses should respect the a. Stakeholder Mapping and Stakeholder Available on JSPL Intranet interests of, and be responsive towards Engagement Policy all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised b. CSR Policy http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/policies.html Principle 5: Businesses should respect and a. Human Rights Protection Policy Available on JSPL Intranet promote human rights b. Prohibition of Sexual Harassment of Available on JSPL Intranet Women Employees at Work Place c. Group Code of Business Conduct http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/sustainabilities/ governance.html 104 | Jindal Steel & Power Limited Annual Report 2016-17 Principle Applicable JSPL’s policies Link for the policy d. Group Whistleblower Policy http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/sustainabilities/ governance.html e. Code of Conduct for Board of Directors http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/img/admin/ and Senior Management of the report/pdf/CODE_OF_CONDUCT_FOR_SENIOR_ Company MANAGMENT.pdf Principle 6: Businesses should respect, protect, a. Environment Policy http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/policies.html and make efforts to restore the environment b. Energy Policy Available on JSPL Intranet c. Code of Conduct for Board of Directors http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/img/admin/ and Senior Management of the report/pdf/CODE_OF_CONDUCT_FOR_SENIOR_ Company MANAGMENT.pdf d. Group Code of Business Conduct http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/sustainabilities/ governance.html Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in a. Policy Advocacy Available on JSPL Intranet influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner Principle 8: Businesses should support inclusive a. CSR Policy http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/policies.html growth and equitable development Principle 9: Businesses should engage with a. Quality Policy http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/policies.html and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner b. Group Code of Business Conduct http://www.jindalsteelpower.com/sustainabilities/ governance.html 2A. If the answer to S. No. 1 against any principle, is ‘No’, please explain why. Sl. Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 No. a The Company has not understood the principles b The Company is not at a stage where it finds itself in a position to formulate and implement the policies on specified principles c The Company does not have financial or manpower resources available for the task d It is planned to be done within the next six months e It is planned to be done within the next one year f Any other reason (please specify) 3. Governance related to Business Responsibility (BR) I ndicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO to assess the BR performance of the Company. The Health Safety, CSR & Environment Committee ( HSCE Committee )of the Board meet once every quarter to assess the BR performance of the Company. An Independent Director chairs this committee. During the year, HSCE Committee met four times for reviewing the Company’s performance on social and environmental concerns. Also, the heads of the related functions that is Environment, Occupational Health & Safety, Corporate Social Responsibility and Human Resource directly reports to the Group MD & CEO, who is also a member of the Board’s HSCE Committee. D  oes the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What is the hyperlink for viewing this report? How frequently is it published? The Company publishes a dedicated Business Sustainability Report on GRI framework on an annual basis. http://www. jindalsteelpower.com/sustainabilities/business-sustainability-report.html SECTION E All internal stakeholders of the JSPL Group are subjected to PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE work within boundaries of the GCoC. The Company ensures compliance of ethical standards by its vendors and contractors Principle 1: Ethics, Transparency and Accountability through appropriate clauses in its work contracts to which 1. Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover they are obligated. Generally, the contract includes clauses only the Company? Yes/ No. Does it extend to the Group/Joint related to human rights protection and corruption practices. Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs /Others? JSPL has adopted the JSPL Group Code of Conduct (GCoC) to remain consistently vigilant and ensure ethical conduct of its operations. Statutory Reports Business Responsibility Report | 105 JSPL Group’s Code of Conduct explicitly includes the behaviour 2. For each such product, provide the following details in expected from employees on the following aspects: respect of resource use (energy, water and raw material, a. Workplace conduct; among others) per unit of product (optional). b. Dealing with outside parties/stakeholders; For producing 1 tonne of Parallel Flange Beam and Column, c. Community responsibilities; the Company consumes 1.07 tonne of crude steel (beam d. Protection of Company’s assets. blank). On an annual basis, the Company organises a certification 3. Does the Company have procedures in place for programme on GCoC for all employees through e-learning sustainable sourcing (including transportation)? If yes, module, in which all clauses are explained via practical examples what percentage of your inputs was sourced sustainably? and also evaluates their learning. All employees are mandatorily Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. required to complete this certification and sign on declarations JSPL has a clear preference to work with ISO 14001 and OHSAS pertaining to compliance of the GCoC each year. 18001 certified contractors/manpower suppliers/vendors. All its contractors/vendors are checked and bound to ethical, Further, every employee is required to give three declarations human rights protection, health and safety, discrimination, pertaining to any ‘conflict of interest’ related to: disciplinary practices, and remuneration and working hour related clauses in their job/work contracts with JSPL. Ownership of property; Employment of relative; Compliance to all clauses of the contracts and also statutory laws Business relation, vis-a-vis JSPL as principal employer. are continuously monitored by the Company’s procurement and other functional teams. Coal is an important raw material  The Company has also implemented a whistle blower required to produce steel. Therefore, the Company sets up its mechanism, which is being governed by the Group Whistle plants near coal mines, so that emissions from transportation can blower Policy. The policy covers instances pertaining to be reduced to the minimum possible level. For example, JSPL’s negligence, impacting public health and safety, criminal offence captive power plant in Raigarh is located on a coal pit head. and unethical/favoured/biased behaviour, among others. The policy encourages employees to report any violations to the 4. Has the Company taken any steps to procure goods Group Ethics Officer without any fear and provides them with and services from local and small producers, including protection. The Company has placed mechanisms for ensuring communities surrounding their place of work? If yes, confidentiality and protecting the whistleblower from any what steps have been taken to improve their capacity harassment or victimisation. The policy is directly monitored and capability of local and small vendors? by the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Yes, JSPL promotes procurement of goods and services from local vendors and small producers. This is primarily done while 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received hiring equipment and services, as well as procuring minor raw in the past financial year and what percentage was materials, stationery items and food supplies. satisfactorily resolved by the management? For example, the Company has hired local contractors for Stakeholders Stakeholders complaints Percentage of availing mining equipment, dozers, tractors and dumpers. It complaint resolved complaints resolved received also recruits workers from local communities for construction Nil Nil and operation of its plants. Minor fabrication works and materials are also sourced from local suppliers. Principle 2 : Product Life Cycle Sustainability JSPL continuously builds and improves the skills and capacity 1. List up to 3 of your goods and/or services whose design has of local contractors. For example, vendor development incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks and/or programmes are encouraged for local suppliers and are opportunities. conducted on a periodic basis. All JSPL plant sites procure  Parallel Flange Beams and ColumnsJSPL pioneered the vegetables and other food items from local producers and production of medium and heavy hot rolled parallel flange vendors. JSPL also engages with these local vendors in capacity beams and column sections in India and is also the leading building and skill upgradation activities. In JSPL townships, supplier in India. Due to the higher load carrying capacity, local farmers, under the aegis of local farmer clubs, have been these sections enable savings in steel consumption, and provided counters for selling of vegetables and farm produce. hence, enable reduced energy consumption in transportation, as well as during construction. In some of the Company’s plant sites, milk and dairy products for the colony, guest house and canteens, among others are sourced from the local Self Help Groups (SHGs), run by women 106 | Jindal Steel & Power Limited Annual Report 2016-17 in a bid to promote women empowerment. These SHGs are also affiliated to any political stream, nor has any outsider nonprovided training on livestock management, best practices and employee in the team of its office bearers. The union is called so on. JSPL also supported the development of irrigation and for discussions with the management on regular intervals. Since agriculture infrastructure in the local communities. Its overall JSPL’s HR policies are designed in a manner, in which its service objective is to create a business model, which strategically conditions are far more beneficial than the requirements of benefits the Company, as well as local communities. law and other similar industries in the region, there have been no dispute or disagreement on issues so far. The Company was 5. Does the Company have a mechanism to recycle products never required to enter into any wage revision agreement, till and waste? If yes, what is the percentage of recycling of date. JSPL has cordial relations with its workers and the union, products and waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%)? and they are always eager to support the Company in all its Waste generated from JSPL’s operations include tailings endeavours, from the very beginning. JSPL sincerely recognises produced during extraction and beneficiation processes, slag and appreciates the support rendered by workers union. and sludge during mineral processing, fly ash from power plants, tar and char. For recycling waste, such as fines and iron dust, All other employee unions cater to contractual workers at the Company has installed a sinter plant at one of its facilities. Angul, Odisha. Slag produced is being utilised in cement manufacturing and brick making. Fly ash generated from JSPL’s plants is utilised in 7. Please indicate the Number of complaints relating to the manufacturing of fly ash bricks and other available waste child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, sexual management avenues. The Company is working continuously harassment in the last financial year, and pending, as on to increase its utilisation percentage. Waste products like clear the end of the financial year tar, crude benzol, dusty tar, gasification oil, phenol, a phenolic S. Category No. of complaints No. of complaints pitch from JSPL’s Coal Gasification Unit at Angul, is either No. filed during the resolved as on reused at its facilities or is processed and sold in the market. financial year the end of the financial year a Child labour/forced Nil Nil Recently JSPL ventured into construction material business labour/involuntary where most of the products are manufactured from the waste labour material generated out of steel and power production process. b Sexual harassment Nil Nil Few examples are cement, bricks, paver blocks, light weight c Discriminatory Nil Nil aggregate. employment Principle 3: Employee Wellbeing 8. What percentage of your under-mentioned employees 1. Please indicate the total number of employees: 6071 was given safety and skill up-gradation training in the last year? 2. Please indicate the total number of employees hired on Permanent employees 74%* (Safety) temporary/contractual/casual basis: 12689 Casual/temporary contractual employees 100% (Safety) * This also includes for associate manpower as well 3. Please indicate the number of permanent women employees: 202 Principle 4: Stakeholder Engagement 1. Has the Company mapped its internal and external 4. Please indicate the number of permanent employees stakeholders? with disabilities: 12 J SPL has established a dedicated policy for ‘stakeholder mapping and stakeholder engagement’. This policy contains 5. Do you have an employee association that is recognised principles and criteria for mapping and engaging stakeholders. by the management? The Company has identified investors, shareholders, Jindal Steel & Power Factory Workers Union at Raigarh, employees, labour unions, local communities, civil societies, Chattisgarh. NGOs, legal institutions, trade associations, media, suppliers, Jindal Steel & Power Mazdoor Sangha, JSPL Industrial business partners, customers, dealers, government, regulators Workers Union, Jindal Steel & Power Labour Union and and competitors as its key stakeholder groups. Engagement Jindal Mazdoor Sabha at Angul, Odisha responsibility for each stakeholder group is entrusted with specific teams in the Company. 6. What percentage of your permanent employees is members of this recognised employee association? 2. Out of the above, has the Company identified At Raigarh, 100% non-supervisory permanent employees the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised are members of the employee association. The union is not stakeholders? Yes, JSPL has identified disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised stakeholders. Statutory Reports Business Responsibility Report | 107 3. Are there any special initiatives taken by the Company environmental rules and regulations are clearly stated in the to engage with the disadvantaged, vulnerable and general terms and conditions of the order/contract. All the marginalised stakeholders? If so, provide details thereof, Company’s plants manage environment related activities as in about 50 words or so. per ISO 14001. Our Plants at Barbil, Raipur and DCPP are also Yes, the Company undertook activities to improve the lives managing energy consumption as per ISO 50001. The Company of vulnerable stakeholder groups. Few such activities are is in the process to implement ISO 50001 across all its plant listed below: locations in India. At present, few of its production units i.e. at Barbil and Raipur are ISO 50001 certified. Stakeholder group Initiatives Elderly Health camps 2. Does the Company have strategies/initiatives to address Girl child  Kishori Express Adolescent anaemia global environmental issues, such as climate change, controlling programme Kishori Mandals Reproductive health global warming, among others? Y/N. If yes, please give and personal hygiene awareness hyperlink for webpage and so on. programme Being an energy intensive industry, JSPL understands its Health and nutrition awareness camps responsibility towards global environmental issues, and Scholarship programmes declares its GHG footprint in Business Sustainability Report Differently-abled Asha centres – Providing children with annually. This being a material issue for both JSPL and its individuals special needs a platform to access stakeholders. Thus it was an opportunity for JSPL to explore community-based rehabilitation services Counselling for families and parents both carbon mitigation and adaptation technologies. Camps for raising awareness and vocational courses JSPL strives to set GHG benchmarks for the sector, and Tribal people Birohar Tribal Development hence, invest constantly on process improvements and new programme at Patratu, Jharkhand – technologies. Few such examples include: Development oriented activities, with focused initiatives for women, children Initiatives Link and marginal dairy farmers Modification of http://steelconnect.in/news-details. Migrant workers Awareness on health-related issues and electric arc furnace, aspx?nid=8676725 sanitation which reduces power Aarambh – Pre-school programme for consumption to zero in migrant workers’ children furnace Principle 5: Human Rights Bio gas plants in http://www.jindalsteelpower. Raigarh, Barbil com/sustainabilities/solid-waste1. Does the policy of the Company on human rights management.html cover only the Company or extend to the Group / joint Paper recycling unit at http://www.jindalsteelpower. ventures/ suppliers/contractors / NGOs / others? Angul com/sustainabilities/solid-wastemanagement.html JSPL has established a dedicated policy for ‘Protection of Installation of back http://steel.nic.in/sites/default/files/ Human Rights’ that commits to protecting the human rights of pressure recovery Annual%20Report%20%28English%29. its employees, workers, and other key stakeholders involved in turbine (BPRT) in blast pdf its operations. In addition to this policy, human rights related furnace-1 at Raigarh clauses are also covered under the Company’s Group Code of Business Conduct, Group Whistle Blower Policy, Safety & 3. Does the Company identify and assess potential Occupational Health Policy and Corporate Guiding Principles. environmental risks? Y/N JSPL has zero tolerance for discrimination based on any grounds.  Yes. As part of ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications, JSPL undertakes a continuous assessment of All its business partners (suppliers, contractors, NGOs) are the potential environmental hazards. JSPL also conducts contractually obliged to respect human rights. internal and external audits under ISO 14001 to assess the implementation of its environment related activities. 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and what percent was satisfactorily 4. Does the Company have any project related to resolved by the management? clean development mechanism? If yes, whether any JSPL has received no such complaint pertaining to sexual environmental compliance report is filed? harassment during the reporting year 2016-17. As on March 31, 2017, the Company do not have any clean development mechanism projects. However, we strives Principle 6: Environmental for continual improvement of our products, services and 1. Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the processes, and the value we JSPL provides to our customers, Company or extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ employees and the communities we serves. We embraces Suppliers/ Contractors/ NGOs/ others? sustainability as a catalyst for its business growth and Yes, JSPL has established an Environmental Policy, which extends innovation. to all subsidiaries. With respect to the suppliers and contractors, 108 | Jindal Steel & Power Limited Annual Report 2016-17 The Company has recruited BEE certified energy managers Principle 7: Policy Advocacy across all its major energy consuming locations for improving 1. Is your Company a member of any trade and chamber or energy efficiency and exploring new technology avenues association? If yes, name only those major ones that your to achieve lower GHG footprint. The Company is also in the business deals with. process of establishing one of the most efficient steel plants of Yes, JSPL is a member of 19 industrial and trade bodies. The the country at Angul by installing various new technologies like Company is most actively engaged with the following: Coke Dry Quenching (CDQ) among others. a. Confederation of Indian Industry (CII); b. Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and 5. Has the Company undertaken any other initiatives on – Industry (FICCI); clean technology, energy efficiency, renewable energy, c. Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India among others? Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for (ASSOCHAM); webpage and so on. d. Federation of Indian Mineral Industries (FIMI); Yes, JSPL has taken several initiatives towards achieving e. Sponge Iron Manufacturers Association (SIMA); excellence in energy efficiency. Few examples include: f. Association of Power Producers (APP); g. World Steel Association (WSA); a. Installation of variable frequency drive (VFD) driven low h. World Economic Forum (WEF). tension (LT) motors in induced draught (ID fan) of power plants at Raigarh 2. Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations for the advancement or improvement of public good? b. Modification in recuperator at Medium and Light Yes/No; if yes specify the broad areas (drop box: Structural Mill (MLSM), Raigarh resulted in stoppage of Governance and Administration, Economic Reforms, one ID fan. Inclusive Development Policies, Energy security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business Principles, Others). c. Energy saving achieved through impeller trimming in Yes, JSPL is actively involved in the following areas for cooling and condenser pumps at Steel melting shop advocating public good: (SMS). Energy and raw material security; Sustainable business principles; d. Interconnection of all Boiler feed pump (BFP) discharge Governance; headers inside power plant at Angul Safety and skill development; Economic reforms. JSPL has plans to follow the path of minimising its energy consumption through various technological advancements. Principle 8: Inclusive Growth Few examples are: 1. Does the Company have specified programmes/ initiatives/projects in pursuit of the policy related to a. Installation of 4,554 cubic meter blast furnace at its Principle 8? If yes, details thereof. production unit of Angul.  JSPL’s social commitment lies at the core of its business. Sustainable development is an integral part of its corporate b. Installation of basic oxygen furnace, coke dry quenching core values, as defined by JSPL’s human resources department. at its steel production unit in Angul. It is also enshrined in JSPL’s corporate social responsibility policy. The effectiveness and implementation of JSPL’s 6. Does the Company generate the emissions/waste within social commitment is ensured by extending the governance the permissible limits given by CPCB/SPCB for the responsibility of the Company’s Board through the health, financial year being reported? safety, CSR and environment committees, as well as the Yes, the emissions/waste generated by the Company at all governance and business ethics committee. These Board locations is within the permissible limits given by CPCB/SPCB. level committees meet quarterly to monitor plans, actions and outcomes of JSPL’s social commitment. The Company is 7. Number of show causes / legal notices received from socially committed to three focus areas: CPCB/SPCB, which are pending (i.e. not resolved to a. Education and skill development satisfaction) as on end of Financial Year. b. Health, nutrition and sanitation No show cause notice from CPCB / SPCB is pending as of the c. Need-based community infrastructure development end of the financial year 2016-17. However, the Company has two legal cases pending pertaining to the environment as on Besides, the CSR interventions also support women end of financial year. empowerment projects through the promotion of micro enterprises in non-farm, farm and off farm projects across all locations . Statutory Reports Business Responsibility Report | 109 A 360 degree project implementation approach is adopted by the Area Partners involved Sustainable livelihood Office of Chief District Veterinary company to implement all the CSR projects across its locations, Officer, Office of Assistant Director which is as follows: of Fisheries, Office of District Horticultural Officer, District Rural Development Authority, District Baseline Agriculture Office, Krishi Vigyan study Kendra, Jan Shiksha Sansthan & need Community District Administration, District assesment Participatory infrastructure Rural Development Authority, Rural Launching a Planning / development Welfare Societies, State Electricity fresh Project Collaboration Board, Public Works Department format Sports, art and culture Olympic Association, Cricket related Associations, Directorate of Sports, CSR District Sports Office, Youth Hostel Learning & Association, District Athletic redesigning of Project Association PROJECTS the project Formulation Natural resource Watershed Management Programme management in collaboration with National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), Agricultural Social audit Finance Corporation (AFC), & evaluations Collaborative Foundation for Ecological Security (External Implementation (FES) agency) Monitoring 3. Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative? (Concurrent & Internal) JSPL carries out an assessment for all its major programmes internally, as well as by third party consultants (as and when required). 2. Are the programmes/projects undertaken through in4. What is your Company’s direct contribution to community house team/own foundation/external NGO/Government development projectsAmount in INR and the details of structures/any other organisation? the projects undertaken? The onus of designing and delivering CSR initiatives lies with JSPL’s direct contribution towards community development the in-house CSR teams, deployed at each of the Company’s projects during the reporting period (2016-17) is ` 15.36 crore. plant locations. Details of some of the Company’s community initiatives are given below: While designing, these teams consult with all stakeholder Area Interventions groups for their input, and engage with the appropriate Clean and Green Building toilets and sanitation stakeholder, based on the requirement of each initiative. JSPL Country facilities Stressing on cleanliness and also engages with external NGOs for increasing its outreach, hygiene and supplementing the in-house skills available. Some Renovation of cemented ghats/ initiatives are linked with existing Government schemes (either changing walls supplementing or complementing the scheme), and require Building bridges/culverts/ sheds/ partnering with respective Government agencies involved. guard walls Improving rural sanitation A few examples of JSPL’s collaborative efforts include: Construction and renovation of drinking water facilities Area Partners involved Installation of solar/ street lighting Health Red Cross Society, District Blood Community plantation/ social Banks, District Health Administration, forestry Integrated Child Development Ground water recharge Scheme (ICDS), Zilla Swastha Samiti Biogas management (ZSS), National Rural Health Mission (NRHM), National Vector Borne Diseases Control Program (NVBDCP), Integrated Counselling and Testing Center (ICTC), National AIDS Control Organisation, District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit (DAPCU) Education Department of School and Mass Education, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, State Resource Centre, Zilla Saksharata Mission, Local Welfare Societies 110 | Jindal Steel & Power Limited Annual Report 2016-17 Area Interventions Principle 9: Customer Value Education Supporting teachers 1. What percentage of customer complaints/consumer Enhancing quality of education cases are pending as on the end of financial year? through infrastructure support 95.45% (approximately) customer complaints were resolved Village camps for increasing satisfactorily by the Company during the year. In total, the school enrolment Company has received 66 valid complaints, out of which, only Financial assistance through three are pending as on the end of financial year 2016-17. scholarships Renovation of anganwadi centres Distribution of text books 2. Does the Company display product information on Adult education the product label, over and above what is mandated Skill development at OPJCC as per local laws? Yes/No/N.A. /Remarks (additional Building new Schools information) Organising teacher training JSPL’s products do not have any mandatory labelling Arranging coaching and career requirements. However, to convey useful information to counselling customers, JSPL’s products bear information labels providing Health, nutrition and Organising health camps and details about specifications, sizes and quality of the respective population stabilisation renovation of clinics products. Against every sale, customers are provided with test Addressing adolescent anaemia certificates issued by certified third parties that contain quality Blood donation camps and parameters, as well as the chemical and physical properties of medicine distribution drives the product. The above information is also available in product Mobile health unit brochures that are given to customers. Sanitation Women and child development programmes 3. Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the Preventive services like family Company regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible planning camps and health-related advertising and/or anti-competitive behaviour during awareness programmes the last five years and pending as on end of financial Improving health related year? infrastructure No such cases have been filed by stakeholders against the HIV/AIDS awareness campaigns Sterilisation camps Company regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible advertising and anti-competitive behaviour during the last five Infrastructure and Infrastructure development like years. Therefore, no such cases remain pending as on the end others construction of roads, community of the financial year 2016-17. places Watershed development 4. Did your Company carry out any consumer survey/ programmes consumer satisfaction trends? Sports promotion Livelihood programmes like SRI, Yes, customer satisfaction is computed by the Company WADI, Livestock Farming every month concerning key accounts of the Company, based on the feedback collected from the key customers. JSPL’s management regularly reviews feedback/suggestion received 5. Have you taken steps to ensure that this community by its sales team and customer care. development initiatives are successfully adopted by the community? Please explain in 50 words, or so. To gain a better understanding of stakeholder’s requirement For successful implementation and adoption of the and perception of its product and services, the Company Company’s community projects, JSPL consults and engages provides a platform for its stakeholders by organising meets for with all appropriate stakeholders, right from its inception. masons, architects, structural engineers, designers, customers Techniques like participatory rural appraisal (PRA), needdealers, and distributors on a regular basis. In these meetings, profile analysis and need-prioritisation are used for engaging top management of the Company directly interacts with its with them. Communities are also involved in delivery, as well stakeholders. as monitoring phases of the programmes. For any programme and development, JSPL always endeavours to induce ownership During the year, the Chairman of the Company also visited some among communities by playing the role of a facilitator. of its principal stakeholders to understand their expectations/ Community-based organisations like village development concerns and feedback about its product and services. committees are formed and are given responsibilities for managing certain aspects of the programmes, with due For and on behalf of the Board assistance from JSPL’s field teams. Place: New Delhi Naveen Jindal Dated: August 8, 2017 Chairman
