GANNI CSR REPORT MARCH 2018 CSR REPORT P-1 GANNI content 04 CEO statement 06 Introduction & background 07 Our approach 08 On-going initiatives 12 Human rights 15 Labour 18 Environment 21 Anti-corruption CSR REPORT GANNI CSR REPORT P-3 GANNI CEO statement “As a fashion brand, we constantly seek to challenge trends, but we also want to challenge the way we operate. We strongly believe that a joint international and political commitment between companies and countries is the only way to move in the same direction, and make essential changes in the world” GANNI has been a member of the UN Global compact since 2016 and it is a pleasure to confirm that Ganni continues to suppor t the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Last year I presented our first steps towards sustainability. This year I am proud to present our initiatives – under taken and in progress and achievements – as well as the new targets for 2018. Nicolaj Reffstrup, CEO CSR REPORT P-4 GANNI CSR REPORT P-5 GANNI Introduction & Background The scope of this communication on progress is to clearly outline Ganni´s commitment to the UN global compact and its 10 principle of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Finally, we hope to provide the reader with an understanding of our CSR objectives, initiatives under taken, per formance and outcome and our CSR scope for 2018. Ganni is a Danish fashion company founded in 2000. In 2009 Ganni turned into the fashion brand we know today, when Ditte Reffstrup Creative Director and her husband Nicolaj Reffstrup CEO invested in the company. In 2017 Ganni entered into a par tnership with the global equity firm L . Catter ton with the aim to take Ganni to the next level of the fashion industr y. Ganni has experienced a positive grow th since 2009 both in turnover and head count. We ended 2017 with a ver y positive result and we expect continued grow th in the future. Today we are represented in more than 400 stores worldwide including 18 concept stores in Denmark, Nor way, and Sweden. We have 55+ employees operating from our head office in Copenhagen and recently opened offices in London and New York. We run our manufacturing operations in India, China, Turkey, Por tugal, Bulgaria and Italy with great suppor t from our specialized and closely related suppliers. We look for ward to continuing our journey and our developments. CSR REPORT P-6 GANNI Our approach At GANNI we work with an “inside out ” approach: to first take responsibility, act and influence our internal circle of employees and network. It is crucial factor that each individual takes responsibility and only then can we inspire and imprint our values to our external surroundings. We believe that the human factor is the determining key to strengthen our CSR activities and have therefore spent the major par t of 2017 focused on our ethical and social behaviour. In 2018 we will star t focusing more on our external activities. The scope will be to investigate new and best practices, new initiatives based on social, environmental and economic approaches, to engage more in the circular business model and the 17 UN sustainable development goals. CSR REPORT P-7 GANNI On-going initiatives Since Januar y 2017 we have incorporated a label in all our garments that represent our project “CO2 Compensated Clothing”. The project is approved by the Global Standard Foundation and the UN. The aim of the project is to keep track of our current C02 emission level and compensate for our carbon footprint by suppor ting the social development project “Energy Efficient Cook Stoves “. The project suppor ts women and their families in gaining access to efficient and clean cook stoves through local and unique solutions. Through the “CO2 compensated clothing” project we suppor t the SDG no. 7 “Affordable and clean energy”, SDG no. 13 “Climate Actions” and SDG no. 3 “Good health and wellbeing” See the full repor t of GANNI CO2 Footprint analysis: https://w w w.por tal.cemasys.com/cook-stoves-nepal For the last 3 years we have suppor ted the organization Nordic Designers Aid by donating our leftover garments. The leftover garments are upcycled and resold in Africa with profits suppor ting development projects. In 2016 the profit funded a daycare for vulnerable families, allowing the women/mothers to attend a job and provide an income for the family’s sur vival. In late 2017 we suppor ted the pilot project “Teenage girl empowerment program”. The goal of is to inspire and transfer life skills in order to equip girls to be resilient, courageous, compassionate and empowered young women. The result of the pilot project was ver y positive and we will continue our suppor t in 2018, when the program will be enrolled as a large-scale project. http://nordicdesignersaid.com/om-os/ CSR REPORT P-8 GANNI Our code of conduct sets the ethical and social behavioural framework and outlines our standards and demands to external par tners and suppliers. The code of conduct is based on the UN 10 principles. It is updated once a year and must be read and signed by all par tners/suppliers. Fur thermore, we suppor t and commit to the Danish Fashion Ethical Char ter to ensure all our models are treated with dignity and respect. The purpose of the char ter is to secure the well-being of models through the core values: accountability, compassionate respect and health and based on four general rules: age limit, healthy diet, wages. http://danishfashionethicalchar ter.com/ We believe it is impor tant that all employees feel respected and motivated in their daily work environment. We regularly conduct Individual employee assessment through quantitative and qualitative question schemes. Fur thermore, all employees are entitled to an annual Individual assessment. This is an oppor tunity for our internal employees to evaluate their immediate manager as well as get feedback on individual per formance and to set up new development goals for the individual employee. 90% of GANNI´s internal and external employees are women. GANNI is not only a fashion brand for women, GANNI is a brand that embraces women and we will continue to suppor t female empowerment and gender equality! As par t of our environmental strategy we strive to be as digital as possible. We use as little paper as possible and when printing we only use FSC cer tified, carbon neutral, 100% degradable and TCF (Totally Chlorine Free) printing paper. Since 2016 we have used “digital style set up” for presentations, styles sheets etc. and in 2017 we implemented a “digital expense set up” in the finance depar tment. Also, in terms of our environmental responsibility, we have an agreement with Dong Energy, so all the energy used at the head office and 70% of the energy used in our CSR REPORT P-9 GANNI Danish concept stores are provided by wind mills. When it comes to lighting we exclusively use LED in the head office and all new concept stores. In 2017 we signed up with Global Fashion Agenda (GFA) with the aim to have a circular approach in our business activities and global operations. The scope of the project is to learn, develop and implement new strategies and solutions that will minimize negative impacts and maximizes positive values for people, the environment and economy on a global scale. By engaging in this project, we suppor t the SDG no. 12 “Responsible consumption and production”, SDG no. 14 “Life below water ”, SDG no. 15 “Life on land” and SDG no. 17 “Par tnership for the goal” Read more: http://w w w.globalfashionagenda.com/logo/ganni/ CSR REPORT P 10 GANNI CSR REPORT P 11 GANNI Human rights PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should suppor t and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. COMMITMENT We suppor t and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and we comply with national laws, rules and regulations in all our global business activities. INITIATIVES 2017 • Investigate 3rd par ty Social Compliance Initiative by end 2017 • Supplier scorecard for 1st tier by end 2017 • Guidelines for travelling employees by end 2017 ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN • Identified 3rd par ty companies and ser vices • CSR Per formance Analysis of suppliers and par tners • Developed and implemented Supplier Scorecard • Implemented Factor y qualification schedule (Social compliance) CSR REPORT P 12 GANNI PERFORMANCE AND OUTCOME We have not identified any signs that any of our suppliers have been subject to legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. Based on the risk assessment and per formance analysis we have developed a Supplier Scorecard, which is used to measure suppliers´ per formance based on technical and social compliance parameters. Fur thermore, we have developed and implemented a factor y qualification schedule to use as a measuring tool when visiting new potential suppliers (the schedule includes factor y set up, factor y management and social compliance). As a minimum requirement all our suppliers must hold a valid social compliance cer tificate from a recognized social 3rd par ty company. As for travelling employees the guidelines are to be embedded in our culture, not written down. A few simple principles still to be defined – should become standard procedure when travelling for business to visit suppliers and par tners. CSR REPORT P 13 GANNI Human rights 2018 targets Continuously work on social compliance initiative to contribute to human rights by engaging in programmes that are pro increased life qualify for humans CSR REPORT P 14 GANNI Labour PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsor y labour. PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation COMMITMENT Ganni respects workers’ rights, freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. We comply with national labour laws in all our global business activities. We do not tolerate any forms of discrimination of any employees related in our global business activities irrespective of race, colour, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age, physical ability, health condition, political opinion, nationality or ethnic origin, union membership or marital status. CSR REPORT P 15 GANNI INITIATIVES 2017 • Add BSCI or SA8000 as supplier evaluation criteria by end 2017: • Guidelines for travelling employees and CSR assessment repor t by end 2017: • Supplier mapping of 2nd tier suppliers by end 2017: ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN • Identified management throughout the various operations in terms of diversity factors, such as gender, age, health conditions etc. • CSR Per formance Analysis of suppliers and par tners • Developed and implemented Supplier Scorecard • Implemented Factor y qualification schedule (Social compliance) PERFORMANCE AND OUTCOME We have not identified any signs that any of our suppliers have been subject to legal cases or incidents involving illegal labour acts. As described under “human rights”, we have per formed a risk assessment and per formance analysis, and based on the result we have developed a Supplier Scorecard, which is used to measure suppliers´ per formance based on technical and social compliance parameters. As a minimum requirement all our suppliers must hold a valid social compliance cer tificate from a recognized social 3rd par ty company. In each countr y the supplier is responsible for implementing, complying with and repor ting any violation related to labour acts. CSR REPORT P 16 GANNI Labour 2018 targets Continuously ensure and update labour standards based on European laws and regulations Support and promote that all our suppliers/workers have the right and opportunity to be a member of a trade union CSR REPORT P 17 GANNI Environment PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should suppor t a precautionar y approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should under take initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. COMMITMENT We suppor t a precautionar y approach to environmental challenges and we undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourage the diffusion of environmental friendly technologies. INITIATIVES 2017 • Communicate Supplier Manual with updated chemical and technical restrictions by October 2017: • Investigate the potential of installing LED light in 100% of the Danish stores by March 2018: • Decrease our incoming amount of plastic from samples by 10% by March 2018: CSR REPORT P 18 GANNI ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN • Update of our Manual business agreement (MBA), including chemical and technical restrictions • Identif y various operations throughout the supply chain with the aim of developing and implementing more environmental friendly technologies • Responsible packaging and sampling strategy PERFORMANCE AND OUTCOME Our MBA, including restricted chemical substance list and technical restrictions, has been updated and signed by all suppliers. Installing LED lights in all Danish stores is in progress, but the installations will happen gradually and not within a specified timeframe. Fur thermore, LED lightning is already a natural par t of our strategy and will be installed in all new concept stores. We have acknowledged that we need to tackle our use of plastic differently than first expected, as we need polybags to protect the garments. We have changed the strategy to switch from conventional polybags to biodegradable polybags star ting from the 18.3 collection in 2018. The initiative will be rolled out in China and by time implemented in all production countries. This project is a par t of a large-scale transformation of our overall GANNI packaging. CSR REPORT P 19 GANNI Environment 2018 targets Identify and develop design and sourcing strategy for cyclability Increase the volume of used garments collected and resold Increase the use of recycled textile f ibres CSR REPORT P 20 GANNI Anti-corruption PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extor tion and briber y. COMMITMENT GANNI has zero tolerance for any form of corruption and briber y and we do not accept any kind of corrupt practices, including extor tion and briber y. We adhere to the highest standards of moral and ethical conduct, and we always respect and follow applicable laws and regulations in our global operations. INITIATIVES 2017 • Adding Anti-Corruption to our new employee introduction by 2017 • Ar ticulate our stand on Anti-Corruption to existing employees once a year • Guidelines for travelling employees by July 2017 ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN • Internal and external dialogue procedures • Update of GANNI employee manual • Full transparency in the supply chain (internal) with information available internally CSR REPORT P 21 GANNI PERFORMANCE AND OUTCOME At this stage we are not experiencing a high risk of corruption, but it is ver y important that all involved stakeholders understand, agree and comply with our anti-corruption policies. By signing our code of conduct all suppliers agree and confirm not to suppor t or be involved in any kind of corruption or briber y. Our employee manual clearly describes the difference between business related presents and briber y. Fur thermore it stresses that employees must avoid any financial and personal interests affecting or may be suspected of affecting work-related dispositions or conflicting with Ganni’s interests and ethics. All new employees must read and sign the employee manual. CSR REPORT P 22 GANNI Anti-corruption 2018 targets Ensure suppliers have introduced an anti-corruption policy and programme in their organisation and business operations More transparency and accessible information for our external stakeholders Monitor and follow up our anti-corruption policies CSR REPORT P 23
