2017 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Energijos Skirstymo Operatorius AB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PROGRESS REPORT 1 CONTENT ABOUT THE PROGRESS REPORT 4 CEO’S FOREWARD 5 PRINCIPLES OF RESPONSIBLE ACTIVITY AND PRIORITIES 6 ABOUT THE COMPANY 10 Shareholders and Key Performance Indicators 10 Corporate Governance 11 Description of Supply Chain 14 Risk assessment, Compliance with the Precautionary Principle 14 Transparency and Prevention of Corruption 14 EMPLOYEES 15 Transparent and Clear Remuneration System 15 Trade Unions and Collective Agreement 15 Staff Competency Development 17 Traineeship and Employment Prospects 17 Integration of New Employees 17 Human Rights Protection, Diversity and Equal Opportunities 18 Employee Activity Management System 19 Employee Health and Wellness Promotion 20 Operational Excellence 20 Education 20 MARKET, INVESTORS AND CUSTOMERS 21 Investors 21 Market Liberalisation 21 Customer Service 21 Customer Feedback 21 Development of Service Channels 22 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 24 Energy Efficiency 24 Energy Efficiency Initiative “As Much as Needed” 24 Good will arrangement “The Green Protocol” 24 Energy Saving Advice to Residents 24 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 25 Landscape Protection 25 Modern Technologies 25 Environmental Protection Management System 27 Atmospheric Pollution Management 27 Saving of Resources 27 SOCIETY AND COMMUNITIES 29 Events of power Engineers for Society 29 Preventive Education of Residents 29 Informational Safety Campaign “Safe Energy” 31 Support 31 Public Opinion 31 REPORT CONTENT AND ASPECT LIMITS 33 Involvement of Stakeholders 35 Table of Indicators 36 ABOUT THE PROGRESS REPORT Energijos Skirstymo Operatorius AB (hereinafter – ESO, the Company) is a member of the “Global Compact” initiative initiated by the United Nations and submits an annual progress report which is prepared in accordance with the Global Compact principles and UN Global Reporting Initiative guidelines. These guidelines are recommended to the UN Global Compact members to use as an instrument helping with a company’s sustainable performance measurement, presentation, and accountability to its internal and external stakeholders. The Global Compact covers the implementation of ten responsible operation principles and obliges member organisations to follow them: not to harm the environment, community and other businesses, and in a joint effort with the United Nations authorities and non-governmental organisations participate in the process of solving social and environmental problems, and contribute to the development of society and economic growth. This is the second social responsibility Progress report of ESO established in 2016 upon merging LESTO AB and the public limited company Lietuvos Dujos. The Progress report, as a separate document, has been prepared as a separate document by LESTO AB on an annual basis, since 2012, and has been introduced in the Lithuanian and English languages. The public limited company Lietuvos Dujos has disclosed activities on social responsibility in the company’s periodic financial statements. ESO report for 2017 has been published on the Company’s website at www.eso.lt (section “Social Responsibility”), website of NASDAQ Baltic securities exchange, as well as Global Compact network at www.globalcompact.org. This Progress reports presents activities of ESO in 2017 in the field of social responsibility: in relationships with customers, market participants, also in activities related with environmental protection, relationships with employees and society. The report describes strategic directions of the Company’s social responsibility, actions and achievements. Questions, commentaries and observations regarding the content of social responsibility report and improvement thereof are welcome by email: komunikacija@eso.lt. During 2017, no feedback on reports for 2016 or conducted responsible activities has been received from stakeholders. 4 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 CEO’S FOREWORD Dear reader, As each year, the daily life of our employees is acWithout doubt, one of the most important prioricompanied by ambitious goals leading towards the ties of ESO in 2017 was the assurance of employmost important aspiration of ESO – fulfilment of cusees’ safety and health. Each year we take steps in tomers’ needs. I am pleased that ESO team currently the path of modernity, more effective use of techjoining together nearly 2,500 experts of their field, nologies, and having regard to a growing need of accept this challenge each day as their personal employees to get essential occupational safety ingoal enabling them to contribute in a responsible formation through smart devices, we install them in way to sustainable development of the energy secour systems. tor in our country. Environmental protection and saving of energy reBy working in concert, we proved by performance resources have remained the issues of topical urgensults in 2017 that every customer and their needs are cy. Together with the Ministry of Energy of the RL important for us. During this year we paid great attenwe signed agreements on the implementation of energy efficiency programme in Lithuania – this only tion namely to the improvement of customer expericonfirms strong determination of ESO to spare the ence, looked for the best solutions that would ensure environment in which we live. positive and quality experience of our customers. Led by this approach we became a universally recognised leader in the energy sector in Lithuania. I am sure that educational and responsible energy consumption means implemented each year reach an increasingly greater number of residents. Based We called the last year the Year of Customer for a on last year data we may be pleased by a markedreason. Together with partners we installed a tempoly reduced number of electricity and gas thefts, inrary station of liquefied natural gas in Druskininkai, creased habit of society to inform us through the thus ensuring for the city residents energy indepentrust line. dence and a competitive price of gas, like in the whole Lithuania. Besides, we paid great attention to Thus, I invite to become familiar with what Energithe grid modernization works that allowed providjos Skirstymo Operatorius succeeded in achieving ing even better quality services to our customers on during 2017 and assure that the level of ambition a daily basis. in 2018 will be even higher – we will seek to modernize sophisticated processes, will become more We aspire to be the best not only in our country convenient for customers and will seek all-rounded by drawing on the good experience from foreign organisational transparency every day. countries and implementing strategic projects we become more visible in the world each year. The international rating “Doing Business”’ showed that last year, according to the indicator of getting electricity, Lithuania rose up by 22 positions – it would have been impossible to achieve such a result without a professional team and great enthusiasm. Acting CEO and member of the Board Augustas Dragūnas 5 PRINCIPLES AND PRIORITIES OF RESPONSIBLE ACTIVITY By carrying out activities in a responsible way, ESO seeks to contribute to the creation of sustainable society by ensuring an independent distribution and supply of electricity, as well as distribution of natural gas. At the same time, the Company constantly informs on issues of safe and rational use of energy, also fosters to take an interest in progressive means and technologies. The basis of ESO responsible activity – energy efficiency enhancement by inducing the society and business to save energy resources and change consumption habits. The substance of the bilateral responsible partnership between business and society – sustainable, safe, and clean environment that we will leave for the future generations. ESO operates in a socially responsible manner also in other fields, with other stakeholder groups, first of all, ethical behaviour based on partnership on an equal footing with its employees, attention to their work environment and safety. ESO employees convey such practice to external relationships with customers, society and environment. Expansion of responsible activities in accordance with sustainable development principles. Cooperation and sharing the good practice lead the country and society to social and economic welfare. It is activities ESO complies with the following sustainable development principles: • distribution of electricity and natural gas, and electricity supply boosting economic and social development, assurance of reliability by sparing the environment and meeting interests of the target groups; • efficient use of natural resources for the implemented; • smart and effective use of energy and reduction of the environmental impact at the time of distribution and use of electricity and natural gas; • promotion of a sparing approach towards the environment among employees, contractors, suppliers, and society. 6 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 ESO priorities in the social responsibility activity: • Energy efficiency enhancement; • Environmental impact reduction by saving energy and resources; • Fostering of safe and responsible behaviour with electricity and gas (for both, customers and Economy: employees). Efficiency Transparency ESO Values, Strategy and Goals Market ESO long-term activity strategy for 2016-2020 is based on services reliability, expeditiousness, effectiveness, organisational culture based on common values, high reputation, and consistent improvement. The strategy foresees that operational efficiency shall be further increased, and by 2020, operating costs will decline by more than 10 percent. ESO will seek to improve significantly reliability of the electricity distribution grid. By applying state-of the art smart electricity grid technologies and by replacing overhead electricity distribution grid lines by cable Environmental electricity lines in a rational way, to seek that by 2020 reliability indicators of the distribution grid operator protection: the system average interruption duration index (SAIDI), Equipment system average interruption frequency index (SAIFI) Resources would improve at least by 25 percent (SAIDI – 100 min., Services SAIFI – 1 time) (as compared to 2017: SAIDI – 138 min., SAIFI – 1.31 time), by 2030 – at least 50 percent (SAIDI – 70 min., SAIFI – 0.66 time) (as compared with 2017: SAIDI – 138 min., SAIFI – 1.31 time). ESO will seek to maintain also high reliability indicators of the natural gas distribution grid. Social sphere: It has been planned to shorten the duration Employees of connecting new customers to the Communities electricity and natural gas distribution Society grid by 2020: of electricity – from 177 to 85 days, and of gas – from 66 to 50 days. Upon shortening the duration of the new customer connection process, Lithuania’s result in the World Bank rating “Doing business” will be improved, as one of its constituent is “Getting electricity”. 7 Scheme of ESO Operational Strategy VISION Reliable partner in the world of smart energy technologies MISSION We are in order to reach you in a reliable and simple way EFFECT Enhancement of the company value STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS Reliability, Advanced Uniform convenience technological Continuous responsible and speed of solutions enhancing improvement organisational services to the the grid efficiency of activities culture customer VALUES RESPONSIBILITY COOPERATION RESULT ESO will seek to maintain a high customer satisfaction Enhancement of the company’s value is perceived as a level exceeding the average of energy companies in sustainable balance between strategic directions that the European countries. It has been planned that the are related by the Balance scorecard with respective GCSI (Global Customer Satisfaction Index) of ESO perspectives: customers will remain 80 points in 2020. • Customer perspective. Reliability, convenience ESO grounds implementation of the mission, aspiring and speed of services to the customer; of the vision, and all activities by three crucial values: • Internal processes perspective. Advanced • Responsibility technological solutions increasing the grid efficiency; • Cooperation • Staff training perspective. Uniform • Result organisational culture; By these values the approach is expressed that we • Finance perspective. Consistent constantly feel liability for our actions, work jointly implementation of these directions will enable and always seek the best results for stakeholders in to seek in a balanced manner the main strategic a responsible manner. goal – value enhancement. 8 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Stakeholders ESO defines its responsibility and is guided in activities by the following documents and Balanced implementation of strategic direction principles: is sought with consideration to interests and expectations of shareholder groups. • ESO Collective agreement; The following most important shareholder groups • Documents valid for Lietuvos Energija have been distinguished: Group of companies: • Customers • Regulatory Customer service standard; institutions Zero tolerance to corruption policy; • Society • Suppliers Human resources management policy; • Employees • Energy sector Occupational safety and health policy; • Shareholders Information security policy; SO strategic directions reflect interests of the most Assistance allocation policy; important stakeholders. Each strategic direction is Social responsibility policy; associated with one or several stakeholders. Guided by this, specific goals and indicators have been set • UN Global Compact principles. to monitor the assurance of stakeholders’ interests. 9 SOCIALINĖS ATSAKOMYBĖS ATASKAITA 2017 ABOUT THE COMPANY ESO has become operational since 1 January Performance Indicators 2016 after the merger of the electricity distribution In 2017, ESO net profit totalled EUR 77.6 million and was operator LESTO AB and the public limited company smaller by 16 percent than in 2016. Lietuvos Dujos. ESO belongs to Lietuvos Energija UAB group of state-controlled companies – one Last year ESO income amounted to EUR 612.3 million of the largest groups of energy companies in the and was smaller by 5.8 percent than in 2016 when Baltic States. ESO took over the property, rights and they totalled EUR 650 million. In 2017, the Company’s duties, all current and fixed assets, long-term and operating costs amounted to EUR 94.7 million, which was short-term financial, other obligations, receivables less by 3.88 percent than in 2016, when their amount and payables of LESTO AB and public limited equalled to EUR 98.5 million. company Lietuvos Dujos according to previously In 2017, ESO distributed to customers 9.22 TWh of concluded agreements or obligations arising under electricity and 7.37 TWh of natural gas – 2.7 percent more other grounds. and 0.3 percent less than in 2016, accordingly. ESO manages 121,698 thousand km of power lines: 78.7 percent of them consist of overhead power lines and 21.3 percent – of electric cables; Quality of Electricity Supply the Company also operates 8.4 thousand km of distribution gas pipelines. Bearing the effect of force majeure, the system average interruption duration index (SAIDI) during 2017 per The main functions of ESO: supply and distribution consumer equalled to 137.8 min and, compared with of electricity, distribution of natural gas, warranty 2016, reduced by 35.1 min (in 2016, SAIDI equalled to supply of electricity and gas, connection to 172.9 min). The system average interruption frequency electricity and gas supply, operation of electricity index (SAIFI), bearing the impact of force majeure during and gas distribution networks, maintenance, 2017, equalled to 1.32 time – 0.07 time more than in management and development, assurance of 2016, when it was 1.25 time. their safety and reliability. The geographic market covered by ESO is the whole territory of Lithuania. 77,6 mln. 9,22 TWh Net profit Distributed electricity 7,2 mln. 7,37 TWh Taxes for Distributed the State natural gas 10 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE According to the valid articles of association, the Company’s bodies are: • General meeting of shareholders; • Collegial supervisory body – the Supervisory Council; • Collegial management body – the Board; • Single-person management body – CEO. General Meeting of Shareholders A general meeting of shareholders is the supreme body of GENERAL MEETING OF the Company. During the reporting period the Company’s SHAREHOLDERS shareholders had equal rights (property and non-property) laid down in the laws, other legal acts and the Company’s Articles of Association. None of the shareholders had any special control rights, and the rights of all shareholders were equal. The Company’s management bodies established proper conditions to exercise the shareholders’ rights. Supervisory Council of the Company Supervisory Council of ESO is a collegial supervisory body. The Supervisory Council of ESO consists of three members who are elected for a four-year term at a COLLEGIAL SUPERVISORY BODY – general meeting of shareholders. At least one third of THE SUPERVISORY COUNCIL the Supervisory Board of ESO consists of independent members. The Supervisory Council elects a chairperson of the Supervisory Council from its members. Audit Committee Main functions of the audit committee: • to monitor the process of preparing financial statements of Lietuvos Energija UAB and its group of companies; • to monitor the efficiency of the internal control and risk management systems of Lietuvos Energija UAB and companies in its group, to perform an analysis COLLEGIAL MANAGEMENT BODY – and revision of the need for these systems and the THE BOARD suitability thereof; • to monitor how a certified auditor and audit firm comply with the principles of independence and objectiveness, to provide relevant recommendations; • to observe the processes of audit conduction at Lietuvos Energija UAB and companies of its group, to assess the efficiency of audit and the reaction of the administration to recommendations submitted by an audit firm to the management; • to monitor the efficiency of the internal audit function at Lietuvos Energija UAB and companies of its group, to analyse the need for this function and the suitability SINGLE-PERSON thereof; to submit recommendations on necessity, MANAGEMENT BODY – CEO efficiency of the internal audit function, and other issues associated with internal audit. 11 SOCIALINĖS ATSAKOMYBĖS ATASKAITA 2017 From 5 January 2015, the internal audit function CEO was centralised at Lietuvos Energija UAB The manager of the Company, CEO, is singlegroup of companies. This way independence person management body of the Company. The and objectiveness, uniform methodology and CEO’s competence, the procedure of his election accountability of the internal audit activity were and withdrawal are established by the laws, other ensured. Audit resources and competences are legal acts and the Company’s articles of association. distributed more rationally. The CEO is elected and withdrawn, also dismissed from office by the Board of the Company. The CEO Board of the Company organises daily activity of the Company, manages it, acts on behalf of the Company and concludes The Board of ESO is a collegial management body transactions at his /her discretion, except for the cases of the Company. The Board of ESO consists of five stipulated in the Company’s articles of association Board members who are elected by the Supervisory and legal acts. Council for a term of four years. The Board elects a chairperson from among its members. ESO governance structure General meeting of shareholders Audit committee of the Supervisory Council of Supervisory Chief Supervisory Council of Council Auditor Lietuvos Energija UAB Lietuvos Energija UAB Board Internal Audit Service of Lietuvos Energija UAB CEO Grid Operation Grid Development Service Finance and Service Service Desk Administration Service Operational Organization Public Communication Excellence Development Prevention Supplier’ Division Division Department Division Department 12 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Shareholders Membership in organisations Based on data of 31 December 2017, the total number In 2017, ESO participated in activities of ESO shareholders was 8,789. of the following Lithuanian and international organisations. Lietuvos Energija UAB manages 94.98 percent of the Company shares. Households – 4.27 percent, Financial institutions, insurance and other companies hold 0.75 percent of ESO shares. Distribution of the number of ESO shareholders by countries, National Lithuanian 31/12/2017 Energy Association State Number of Shareholders Lithuania 8,444 Estonia 133 Russia 49 Latvia 48 Belarus 40 USA 18 Great Britain 13 Other countries 44 In total 8,789 Association of HR Professionals Shareholders who had more than 5 percent of the issuer’s authorised capital on 31 December 2017 Number of ordinary Owned Shareholder’s name, Share of votes registered share of the surname (company’s carried by the shares owned authorised name, legal form, legal shares owned, by shareholder capital, office, code) percent by the right of percent ownership, psc. Responsible „Lietuvos energija“, UAB, Business Association of Žvejų St. 14, LT-09310 Vilnius, 849,743,761 94,98 94,98 Lithuania (LAVA) company code 301844044 United Nations Global Compact 13 Risk Management and Control Model A risk management model prepared with consideration to the main principles of COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission) and those of AS/NZS ISO 31000:2009 (Risk management Principles and guidelines) is applied in the whole Group. The main goals of the risk management process in the Company are: • to achieve the Company’s gaols together with the controlled, but essentially acceptable deviations from the goals; • to ensure the provision of maximum correct information to decision-makers, shareholders and other stakeholders; • to safeguard the Company’s reputation; • to protect interests of shareholders, staff members, customers, stakeholders and society; • to ensure stability (including financial ) and sustainability of the Company. The risk management principles defined by Lietuvos Energija UAB are uniformly applied in the whole Group of companies. Uniform risk management principles ensure that the management of companies within the Group of companies would be furnished with risk management information covering all fields of activity. Seeking to ensure the practicality of the risk management process, specific fields of activity supplement their activities with detailing principles of risk assessment, monitoring and management. In order to ensure that risk management information and decisions meet the issues relevant for the Company and implemented changes, each year re-assessment of the Company’s risk level is carried out, and risk management actions are provided for. In addition, once a quarter, the Company carries out monitoring of the new risk factors, and, if necessary, envisage additional actions. A risk appetite and tolerance thresholds are set in the Group of enterprises. Risk appetite is established by evaluating a financial impact of risk and its impact on human safety and health. A tolerance threshold is a risk level which exceeding is not acceptable for the Group of companies and which is expressed by the values of performance results or incidents. The risk appetite and tolerance thresholds at the Group of companies are set and revised once a year by the Board of Lietuvos Energija UAB. Where the Company exceeds the risk appetite and tolerance, plans of actions are drawn up in order to meet the values set. The effectiveness of management plans is evaluated by the Board of the Company, the Supervisory Council and the Risk Management Supervision Committee under the Supervisory Council of the Group of enterprises. Seeking to manage effectively the risk factors faced, the Company applies the principle of the three lines of defence by setting a clear sharing of responsibilities for risk management and control among the Company’s management and supervisory bodies, its structural units or functions. 14 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 RESPONSIBILITY BEFORE STAFF Non-financial reward is an indirect form of employee's remuneration applied by the Company for promoting MEMBERS employees’ efforts, involvement and loyalty, as well as enrichment of the employees; welfare and activity The biggest asset of ESO in seeking the goals set – its in the Company. These are different events of the staff members. The Company is focused on consistent Company, recognition and appreciation by rewarding improvement of employees and formation of the staff members who have achieved especially good organisation culture ensuring the creation of bigger value operating results, promotion of wellness, and education to customers, partners and society. On 31 December of employees. An emotional reward is hardly measurable, 2017, the number of employees totalled 2,453. however, this is a factor that has great significance on employees’ involvement into activities of the Company Structure of ESO employees by categories: that covers reputation of the Company, organisational Number of employees culture and values, provided carrier opportunities, Employee category conducted different internal communication 31/12/2017 programmes. Employees have an opportunity to share CEO of the company 1 their ideas, give questions of concern to them, and Top level managers 6 become familiar with colleagues on their intranet. Middle level managers 187 Experts, specialists, 2 259 Average Remuneration of ESO employees workers Total number of staff 2 453 Average Employee category remuneration, EUR Structure of ESO employees by education: January-December 2017 Number of employees CEO of the company 5,323 Education 31/12/2017 Top level managers 4,779 Higher 1,438 Middle level managers 2,038 Advanced vocational 842 Experts, specialists 1,058 Secondary and vocational 173 Workers 785 Total number of staff 1,084 Transparent and Clear Remuneration System ESO has installed an innovative employee remuneration system that enables it to align with those of other leading companies in the country who reward Collective Agreement employees according to achieved results, value created ESO has signed with a trade union a collective for the organisation and the team. When creating agreement ensuring greater security and additional this remuneration system, reference was made to the benefits for employees. Hay Group methodology that ensures an objective assessment of job positions according to necessary education, complexity of problems and level of The goal of collective agreement is to ensure responsibility per specific job position. This system efficient work, to represent rights and lawful enables to manage effectively the Company’s costs interests of all employees. and ensures that ESO strategic objectives and the business management logic would be reflected in the remuneration system. In 2016, as a result of change of a The agreement establishes the conditions of work, part of job positions or emergence of the new ones due remuneration, social, economic and professional to the merger of companies, the remuneration system guarantees that are not regulated by the laws, other was revised in order to maintain competitiveness in the regulatory legal acts. Employees are applied additional labour market. guarantees (benefits in case of accidents, sickness, death of family members, support on childbirth, additional days The remuneration package for the Company’s employees of paid-leave on childbirth, contracting marriage, etc.). consists of the financial, non-financial and emotional reward. The system of financial reward includes the fixed part of remuneration payable on a monthly-basis and indicated in the employee’s employment contract, a variable part of remuneration based on achievement of the set performance results, extra pay (for overtime, work at night provided for in a collective agreement). 15 40,7 thousand Training hours 19,06 h per employee Employee training in 2017 16 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Trade Unions When preparing training programmes, close cooperation is maintained with training providers; training assessment The Company supports the clustering of employees surveys are also conducted. Besides, ESO also constantly into volunteer trade unions and closely cooperates with cooperates with producers, equipment suppliers who them. Once a quarter meetings are organised aimed to share their knowledge with employees by introducing discuss strategic projects carried out at the Company. innovations in the energy field. If necessary, representatives of trade unions always participate in workgroups when issues associated with employees (working conditions for employees, This year ESO partly funded 10 employees at Lithuanian remuneration, social issues, etc.) are discussed. higher education institutions seeking to improve staff qualification and develop leadership competences. Employees have a possibility to take study programmes Staff Competency Development on energy and management associated with the ESO pays much attention to the development of Company’s activity. employee competences. Training plans are drawn up annually, with consideration to the Company’s objectives Traineeship and Employment Prospects and competence of employees in seeking these goals. When organising training, much attention is devoted ESO actively cooperates with education institutions and to ensuring an effective and quality maintenance of establishes conditions for university and college students electricity and gas distribution grids, customer service to apply theoretical knowledge, as well as to acquire and occupational safety. practical skills. During 2017, 31 students underwent practice at ESO. Practical training at the Company is undertaken not only by students who are organised During vocational compulsory training held in Januarycompulsory practice, but also motivated and enthusiastic December 2017 which completion result in the issue students may have a work placement independently. of certificates authorising to perform specific works, participation was taken by 1,488 employees. They attended training on occupational safety and health, Integration of New Employees fire safety, operation of fuel gas systems, rotating gas In order ensure adequate adaptation process of new turbine meters and gas volume computers-correctors, employees, the Company organises “Newcomer’s Days” professional and legal knowledge of construction project when the new employees become acquainted with the manager of structures of special significance. Company’s management and activities of departments. The newcomers familiarised with the energy sector’s structure, strategic directions, mission, vision, values, the During January-December 2017, most important operation principles in the energy sector, general trainings were attended by other fundamentals of activities. Newcomers are also set 2,483 participants plans of goals for the probationary period. The management assigns a so-called mentor for the During general trainings, individual employees were sent new employees who becomes responsible for providing to seminars and conferences held by external suppliers (in all kinds of assistance to new employees during their Lithuania and abroad), also groups were formed within the probationary period. Company. ESO involves into the competency development programmes internal staff – internal lecturers, having specific knowledge and skills, as well as capable of sharing them with others, also invests into the ability of these employees to conduct training. A great part of such internal training was intended electrical engineering and gas operation staff seeking to advance employees’ qualification, improve already acquired skills, become familiar with new work techniques. A great part consisted also of customer service training and the training organised by the Accounting Department. To ensure the effectiveness of internal processes at the company, employees are familiarised with initiatives and programmes implemented in the Company, for example, performance excellence, staff activity management programmes. 17 Human Rights Protection Monitoring of Equal Opportunities ESO does not tolerate any violation of human rights; The majority of the Company’s employees consists it supports fair and transparent remuneration policy, of men. This may be accounted for by the specifics of complies with the laws regulating working hours and pursued activities: fewer women choose work of the overtime, respects the right of workers to rest and does technical engineering profiles and jobs performed under not tolerate any kind of harassment or violence. The outdoor conditions and specialities directly associated Company condemns all kinds of discrimination, as well as with them. forced and child labour. The distribution of gender among the Company’s topIn 2017, no cases of discrimination or other incidents level executives: at the end of 2017, the position of ESO associated with violations of human rights were CEO and chairperson of the Board was occupied by a stablished. woman; positions of services directly subordinate to the CEO were held by men (4). Ratio of lower-level heads of units at the end of 2017: managing positions were held by 163 men and 31 women. Distribution of employees by region and sex (2017): 88% 12% Šiauliai region 88% 12% 86% 14% Panevėžys region Klaipėda region 86% 14% Kaunas region 73% 27% Vilnius region 2,453 In total Average length of At the end of 2017, 2,503 staff members worked at ESO: Staff average age – service of ESO staff men – 2,073, women – 432. Staff age average – 45 years: 45 years member – 15 years women’s age – 41 years, men’s age – 46 years. Average length of service of ESO employee is 15 years within the 46 41 15 12 system: women’s – 12 years, men’s – 15 years. 18 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Management System for Employees Activity and Improvement The management of employee activity is one of the most important ways of governance and effective management helping to achieve organisation’s objectives and create positive relationships among managers and their subordinates, allowing planning employees’ career, enhancing their motivation. An annual conversation is a measure for the employee’s activity management ensuring that their personal objectives would be set with consideration to the Company’s objectives. The objectives are coordinated, approved and assessed in the electronic system. They should be measurable, specific, defined in terms of time, achievable and motivating. An annual conversation helps assess the achievement of objectives set by the employee and to determine the new ones, forms a feedback culture between the superior and the subordinate. During the conversation, opportunities for the improvement of employee competency, learning, and career are discussed. In 2017, more than 80 percent of ESO employees participated in the process of annual conversation. Seeking to implement the strategy of continuous performance improvement, the Company started to implement an Operational Excellence programme based on the principles of LEAN, Six Sigma methodologies. In 2017, the programme gained a momentum and reached all units of the Company during 2017. At the end of 2017 the Company reached the first level of excellence maturity and continues the programme further. Main directions of operational excellence: • Reasoned activity and flexible reaction to change by implementing and applying a meeting system for daily activity management; • Standardisation and improvement of activity processes with consideration to customer needs; • Fostering and implementation of employees’ innovative ideas for improving daily activities seeking to shorten the duration of operations, reduce operating costs, improve occupational and environmental safety, increase customer satisfaction. 19 Occupational Health Education By taking care of employees we organise regular medical The company constantly performs an educational activity examinations. In 2017, medical examinations were within its structure: a section “Work Safely” was created performed for 970 employees. Staff members working and posted on the intranet where useful information is outdoors are vaccinated against tick-borne encephalitis published, training is organised, different memos are (753 employees). All wishing employees are vaccinated prepared. In 2017, memos on the important of personal against the flu (745 employees). Nearly EUR 30 thousand protective equipment (protective clothing), quality were spent for staff medical service in 2017. sleep, efficient methods to quit smoking, environmental protection in daily life, etc. was published. Vaccination Drivers’ Health health against Flu ESO educates employee and contractors by engaging examination tick-borne examination encephalitis more effective methods to this effect: Number of vaccinated employees Vilnius region 267 57 247 64 Kaunas region 219 72 148 238 In 2017, the first video instruction on employee safety and health Klaipėda region 155 58 81 133 was created Šiauliai region 126 31 179 134 Panevėžys region 268 84 98 176 In total 970 302 753 745 In 2018, it has been to create other virtual training. A tradition has also become operational excellence It is laid down in the collective agreement that a staff competitions in which ESO employees and contractors’ member who does not feel well may take 2 days a year representatives try out their hand in professional for prophylactic purposes. In 2017, employees could disciplines of different fields, demonstrate their abilities choose additional benefits: health insurance or pension and competence. In the autumn of 2018, an opening accumulation. In 2017, an assessment of professional of the training site for professional qualification risk was performed in 338 workplaces in Vilnius, Kaunas, improvement after a reconstruction is planned. Klaipėda, and Alytus. In 2017, an Occupational Safety and Health management Sports Activity programme BS OHSAS 18001 was implemented and certified in all activities of the company. The effective ESO promotes a healthy lifestyle, sports activity and management system will enable to ensure smoother taking care of physical health among employees. In 2017, legal requirements and other obligations assumed by the Company established conditions for employees to go ESO, manage hazards and risk, monitor and assess in for sports in 5 cities of Lithuania where staff members efficiency indicators, improve processes. may play basketball or volleyball in gym facilities. 970 Health examinations were performed for staff members 20 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 MARKET, INVESTORS AND CUSTOMERS Department Private customers Corporate customers Augustas Dragūnas commented on the company’s activity and financial results and answered the participants’ In the business environment, ESO seeks to maintain questions after his presentation. transparent relationships with all market participants – customers, partners, investors. Each year care is taken All shareholders and potential investors have equal of the safety of energy supply, as well as economic and access to information of the Company. ESO contacts with social benefit for society. ESO pays great attention to the shareholders are maintained by employees of the Finance development and upgrading of the electricity and gas Department (contacts: Tel. no. +370 612 42767, email: distribution grids. An important aspect of this activity is in investuotojams@eso.lt). the field of environmental protection – better conditions In 2017, no infringements any the rules of the securities to save energy, use it in a more rational way. exchange were recorded. In 2017, the Ministry of Energy and ESO signed an agreement on energy savings. The saving initiatives Marker Liberalization and Dialogue implemented by ESO will help residents and business to save 1.6 TWh energy by 2020. The Company intends On 31 December 2017, independent suppliers supplied to implement measures enhancing energy consumption electricity to 76,132 objects of commercial customers. efficiency for end users, but not creating an additional Based on the Plan for the development of the Lithuanian financial burden. The most important ESO energy saving electricity market approved by the Government on 8 July measures – investments into the infrastructure, smart 2009, on 31 December 2017 an independent electricity accounting and fostering the development of producing supplier was chosen by: consumers. Permissible power consumption 400 kW and more 95% ESO efforts to improve the conditions of getting electricity have raised the rating of competitiveness of Permissible power consumption 100 kW and more 86 % the whole Lithuania. Permissible power consumption 30 kW and more 76% On 31 October 2017, in the rating “Doing Business 2018” announced by the World Bank Lithuania rose to 33rd place by the indicator of getting electricity, higher Permissible power consumption less than 30 kW 60 % by 22 positions as compared to that a year ago. To the remaining objects, electricity is further supplied by ESO contribution to enhancing attractiveness of the the guarantee supplier (ESO). whole country for investors and improving conditions for business engaged in development is better conditions of getting electricity. During recent years ESO Number of customers served connected two the longest lasting electricity getting processes, which enabled to shorten the duration of On 31 December 2017, ESO had 1.615 mln. of electricity getting electricity and reduce the price. The World Bank purchase-sale agreements with private customers and 72.798 measures the rating of getting electricity by 4 parameters thousand electricity supply or transmission services agreement in total: the number if procedures, time of connection, with commercial customers (on 31 December 2016, it had price of works, reliability of the grid, and price of 1.595 mln. agreements with private customers and 68.377 electricity. thousand agreements with commercial customers). On 31 December 2017, 573.6 thousand private and Investors approximately 10 thousand corporate customers who were ensured the distribution service were connected to the ESO seeks to maintain close relationships with existing ESO gas distribution network. and potential investors and ensure equal access to information for all of them. ESO publishes basis preliminary operating results on a Gas Private customers Corporate customers monthly, and detailed financial statements on a quarterly basis, also consistently reflects activities of the company 573,6 thousand 10 thousand in information circulated through exchange and media. Electricity In November 2017, ESO presented 9-month results on the webinar organised by the exchange that could be Private customers Corporate customers accessed by all desiring persons. The Company’s Board member and Director of Finance and Administration 1,615 mln. 72,798 thousand 21 Customer Billing Management During 2017, the number of customers who used remote service channels (self-service website www. manogile. lt and customer service number 1802) has increased, whereas customer flows to service centres in smaller towns did not reduce. At the beginning of 2017, the self-service website was adapted for general declaration and payment for electricity and gas. As of 31 December 2017, more than 518 thousand private customers were registered on the self-service website www.manogile.lt. 518 thousand Registered private customers www.manogile.lt 21 December 2017 During 2017, information was furnished by the short customer service number 1802 to more than 1.172 thousand customers (during 2016, information was furnished to 1,179 thousand customers). The free line 1852 for malfunction reporting operated on a 24 h basis launched on 15 September 2017 was used by more than 51 thousand customers. During 2017, more than 210 thousand customers were served at customer service centres located in five major cities of Lithuania (during 2016, 263 thousand customers were served). Operation and Development of Electricity and Gas Meters During 2017, ESO replaced 112.084 thousand meters with expired metrological verification deadline,oOf which – 92.960 thousand electricity and 19.124 thousand – natural gas accounting meters. For new customers the company installed 24.489 thousand meters for electricity and 7,090 meters for natural gas. By constantly renewing the operated electricity and gas meters, the Company and its authorised persons have performed operation works for over 875 thousand of electricity meters and more than 95 thousand of natural gas meters. During 2017, the Company installed 1,364 control accounting devices in the 10 kV electricity grid, also by increasing their number up to 2,738. This covers 77 percent of the total 10 kV network. 22 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 By investing into the modernisation and automation of electricity meters, during 2017 ESO hooked up to the existing automated data scanning systems in 6,702 objects of corporate customers. This way, the number of remote electricity meters operated by the company which data are scanned remotely achieved 36,475. The number of gas accounting meters scanned remotely remained the same – 1,212. Automation of accounting meters provides with a possibility to bill automatically corporate customers for electricity consumed and to determine precisely the quantity of consumed natural gas. Seeking to test the effectiveness and benefit to private customers, in 2017 the company presented results of the pilot project it had implemented. 2,927 customers were installed smart meters that enabled to use electricity more rationally and to save household expenses. The company’s customers were able to see precise data, when and how much energy they consumed on the website at www.manogile. During the project participants could select a tariff plan adapted for four time zones enabling to change electricity consumption habits and cut down expenses. A four-zone tariff plan was chosen by more than 12 percent of the project participants. Results of the pilot project demonstrated that smart accounting may help residents save at least 7 percent of electricity. The Company evaluated also the benefit of mass installation of smart accounting devices. An analysis conducted by EY demonstrates that preliminary investments of EUR 219 million over a 4year period would bring the county a total benefit of EUR 88 million. The Company will agree this project with the National Commission for Energy Control and Prices and other stakeholders. ESO investments, mln. euros 2017 2016 12 months 12 months Renewal of electricity distribution grid 128,192 84,659 Development of electricity 52,227 39,500 distribution grid Construction and reconstruction of 34,931 16,499 gas systems Other (IT, control systems, etc.) 10,852 8,531 Total investments 226,202 149,188 23 SOCIAL INITIATIVES Energy efficiency initiative “As much as needed” The fostering of rational energy use is one of the priority Goals of the “Green Protocol” arrangement: directions of ESO social responsibility contributing to • to implement the measures for enhancing saving of environment and energy resources, as well as the energy consumption efficiency; fulfilment of the country’s obligations in performing the European Union climate change programme. • to contribute to the environmental protection and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (CO2); The initiative “As much as needed” is intended to create society traditions guided by rational • to induce its employees, colleagues, family behaviour, to offer rational ways of energy members to do this and this way to contribute consumption for business . to the creation of energy-saving society. In November 2017, ESO arranged a cycle of free public During 2017, this initiative was joined by 3 new conferences “As much as needed for the industry 2017”. companies (in total 214 companies have joined it). During events held in five major cities of Lithuania, Vilnius, Kaunas, Klaipėda, Šiauliai and Panevėžys, Annually, companies are announced and rewarded that representatives and experts of progressive companies achieved the most at the energy efficiency fostering of the country shared the good experience and practical conference” Energy efficiency solutions for competitive advice on energy efficiency. The cycle of conferences business”. In 2017, for progress (implementation of the was attended by approximately 310 participants, of ISO 5001:2011 energy efficiency standard and other which 258 – from unique enterprises, mostly chief power measures fostering rational energy consumption) an engineers and executives. award was granted to Orion Global Pet UAB. One more business education tradition created by ESO Energy Saving Advice to Domestic Consumers is an annual conference ‘Energy efficiency solutions In 2017, corporate customers were sent newsletters on for competitive business” organised together with the the topic of energy efficiency: about smart accounting, newspaper Verslo žinios. In February 2017, already the electric cars, energy efficiency conference. In total – 3 sixth conference took place bringing together into one newsletters have been sent that reached over 1,500 place installers of energy efficiency solutions, analysts, enterprises. power engineers, representatives of the academic community. Guests of the event establish contacts, Advice intended for domestic customers on the topic of exchange experience and later adapt the knowledge energy efficiency are published in several channels – 9 acquired in their business. In the event of 2017 stylised notices and advice were published on the social participation was taken by 241 representatives of the network Facebook. countries businesses. As compared to 2016, the number of event participants increased by nearly 9 percent. Large corporate customers were also consulted live, by coming to their place. Customers were told how to Good will arrangement “The Green Protocol” use effectively energy resources, what consumption of their company was, advice how to save energy. In 2017 Not-indifferent companies and organisations of the approximately 1,500 customers were visited. country have been invited for a seventh year in a row to join “The Green Protocol” initiative. Prevention of Corruption ESO does not tolerate any manifestations of corruption and supports fair business and transparent Thus is the only one such type arrangement communication with state institutions. Risk is reduced by based on good will initiated by ESO whereby effective complex internal control mechanisms aimed to companies and organisations operating in identify common corruption risk factors. The prevention different fields confirm that they are familiar of corruption is one of the functions entrusted with the with ideas saving the environment, fostering Prevention Division. The Prevention Division constantly rational consumption of energy, approve these exercises control over activities and take actions for ideas and commit to apply them in practice. correcting infringements, eliminating arising threats to the reputation of the Company. On 28 September 2015, a policy of zero-tolerance to corruption became effective in Lietuvos Energija group of companies. The 24 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 provisions of this policy have been brought to the ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION attention of all ESO employees. On 5 April 2016, the rules for declaring private interests were approved on In its day-to-day activities, the ESO encourages the which basis all employees annually fill out declarations application of working tools, which reduce costs, of private interests that were actively applied for each quantities of pollution and waste, actively seeks to find employee in 2017. The Company seeking to avoid any ways to reduce the negative impact of energy facilities on corruption risk factors cooperates with institutions and people and the environment, invests in environmentally is prepared to provide any necessary information or friendly modern technologies, contributes and organises assistance. initiatives involving the public and promoting responsible energy consumption. In 2017, ESO Prevention Division together with Lietuvos Energija and Prevencijos Tarnyba UAB actively Landscape Protection contributed to the implementation of meetings and requirements of strategic significance related with By implementing a EU co-funded project. Instead of joining by the Republic of Lithuania of the Economic the old power lines, ESO constructs new, underground Cooperation and Development Organisation (ECDO). lines in localities where overhead wires became too thin, After meetings and presentations on the ongoing came dangerously close to plantations, whereas the old corruption measures, both at ESO and Lietuvos infrastructure causes many malfunctions. Cable lines are Energija Group of Companies, ECDO lit a green light safer, ensure reliable electricity supply to residents and in the field of corruption prevention that was one of also allow enjoying a more beautiful landscape. the most important spheres as an indicator in order Lithuania could become a member of ECDO. In 2017, 1,239 pcs. of old-type transformers were replaced with the new ones. In 2017, 20 pcs. of gas Transparency pressure regulators were reconstructed by destroying the old structures and building equipment cabinets that do Transparent, fair and open business activity is one of not deteriorate the landscape. the most important elements of impeccable business reputation. Modern Technologies In 2017, by continuing the project of a smart remote Sociological and scientific research show that business control system for diagnostics equipment in gas pressure companies that implement corruption prevention meregulators, commenced in 2016, 34% of the equipment asures in their activity, long term acquire a competitive was installed. In 2018, installation of the remaining part advantage with respect to other market participants of the project will be finished that will enable not only to long-term, protect and improve their reputation, are assure greater safety and reliability but will also reduce able to attract more investment and establish durable CO2 emissions into the environment by approximately relationships with reliable business partners In accordance with Part 1 of Article 7 of the Law on Public Pro157 t a year. curement of the Republic of Lithuania, using the Central Public Procurement Information System ESO announces The goal of the project “Automation of cathodic all of its procurements with the exception of low-value protection security maintenance of the distribution gas purchases and technical specification projects, and, pipelines by installing a remote monitoring and control additionally, provide this information on its website, as system” is to enhance security and reliability of the well as publishes public procurement reports and progas distribution system by creating a progressive gas vides information about ongoing procurements . distribution system. Among other qualification requirements, suppliers participating in procurement must provide proof confirming that for at least 5 years the supplier has not parThe project intends automation of cathodic protection ticipated in any activities related to corruption, bribery, maintenance of the distribution gas pipelines in 32 fraud, tax avoidance or money laundering (as specified municipalities of Vilnius, Kaunas, Klaipėda, Šiauliai, and in Part 1 of Article 45 of the European Council Directive Panevėžys regions. Upon implementing the project – 2004/18/EC). Companies participating in large public modernising 100 distribution pipelines by installing procurement projects, offering labour contracting serelements of the progressive infrastructure, reliability vices must provide relevant evidence of professional of the distribution system functioning will increases, as qualifications – a certificate of LST EN ISO 9001: 2001 well as safe distribution of gas for users in the indicated (ISO 9001: 2001) standard or an equivalent standard territories. certificate, or equivalent documents issued in the European Community Member States, certifying that the supplier’s quality management system meets the relevant standard. 25 In its day-to-day activities, the ESO encourages the application of working tools, which reduce costs, quantities of pollution and waste, actively seeks to find ways to reduce the negative impact of energy facilities on people and the environment, invests in environmentally friendly modern technologies, contributes and organises initiatives involving the public and promoting responsible energy consumption. 26 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Out of 524 cathodic station equipment existing in the whole Lithuania protecting 4,117 km of the steel natural One of the most important goals of the Company in gas distribution pipeline, 144 cathodic station equipment controlling and reducing air pollution with the help of will be renewed and modernised (protecting 1578 km of technological devices is to deal with possible leakages the steel natural gas distribution pipeline), 436 control when distributing natural gas. measurement stations will be installed. Seeking to ensure the reliability of gas systems, maintenance of gas pipelines and equipment, repairs, Environmental Protection Management System reconstruction and modernisation are carried out. In 2017, an international environmental protection Seeking to prevent interruptions of gas transportation management system LST EN ISO 14001 was installed due to fault of third persons, ground excavation works and certified in all ESO. The implemented management are supervised, information on the performance system does not only help ensure smooth compliance of ground works in the gas protection zone, etc. is with legal requirements, but also help better manage disseminated. To ensure safety and reliability of the environmental protection aspects in the Company, follow gas system, 8.8 km of polyethylene gas pipelines were and evaluate efficiency indicators, improve processes inserted in 2017. related with environmental protection, fulfil additional commitments to customers and society. Saving of Resources By digitising documents, we reduce the consumption of paper: during 2017, the company used 2.5 t less office paper as compared to 2016. Based on the calculation methodology of the Lithuanian Nature Fund, 60 trees, 125 m3 of water and 6250 W of energy were preserved. We use recycled paper originating from forests managed in a responsible manner certified according to the LST EN ISO 14001 FMA (Forest Management Agency) standards, not Installed and certified bleached with chlorinated compounds hazardous to the international environmental environment. management system Upon installing nearly 3000 pilot smart meters in 2017 Vilnius, Šiauliai, Alytus, Šilutė, Trakai, Varėna, and Vilnius district in 2016, an analysis was made in 2017 and it was determined that residents save up to 6 percent of electricity a year. Atmospheric Pollution Management In 2017, the following was preserved: Seeking to pollute the atmosphere from mobile sources to the smallest possible extent, ESO uses economic cars in its activity in order the emissions 60 performance standards would meet high quality trees requirements of the standard. The company operates 2 electric vehicles and 17 cars powered by the cleanest fossil fuel natural gas. For comparison: CO² emissions of a 80 kW power vehicle powered by this fuel – 157 g/km, meanwhile that of petrol125 m3 powered 59 kW power vehicle – 191 g/km, whereas that of water diesel-powered 55 kW power vehicle 167 g/km. In three ESO objects, wind and solar power plants have been installed. Wind and solar plants are most often installed where there is no access to the electricity grid, whereas for the technological equipment of the gas system electricity is necessary. These renewable energy 6250 W resources enable to charge batteries powering remote energy data collection and control equipment. 27 Campaign “Let’s Do It 2017” Initiative “Security Agents” The environment management initiative In 2017, ESO carried out an internal campaign “Let’s Do It 2017” was joined and rubbish “Security Agents”. This initiative invites was collected in the spring of 2017 by employees to notify on possibly unsafe approximately 200 ESO employees in different electricity or gas infrastructure objects noticed regions. Approximately 2 tons of rubbish was during off-hours. During 2017, more than collected in total. 30 notices with indicated facts and pictures illustrating the situation were received. This helped ESO specialists to respond and to deal with the recorded infringements faster. 28 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 SOCIETY political challenges, also inspiring stories were told on the future of humanity, inventions, technological achievements, nature wonders located in different ESO implements broad range long-term social corners of the world. The educational event TEDxVilnius responsibility projects aimed at the general public, was directly broadcasted on the internet. including the young generation. The company appeals by different means to everyone united by active Preventive Education of Residents involvement of local communities, target groups, safe behaviour and efficient energy use, as well as ESO seeks to foster responsible behaviour with electricity environmental conservation ideas. and gas distribution grid equipment, increase residents’ awareness on safe behaviour and reduce negative consequences arising due to irresponsible or malicious Events for Society behaviour of residents On 17 April, the National Lithuanian Energy Association In 2017, ESO continued an active cooperation with the (NLEA), which unites the country’s largest energy Lithuanian Association of Elders of Local Authorities. companies including ESO, traditionally celebrates the Representatives of the Company’s Prevention Division Day of Energy and invites the public to free events in the met with representatives of more than 40differnet Lithuanian Energy and Technology Museum. Visitors may communities: elders, community leaders, politics, become familiar with the country’s energy history, are and media representatives. In the summer of 2017, an involved into interactive games. information campaign on theft prevention was held in On 10 June 2017, the seventh TEDxVilnius conference the regions were the biggest number of thefts of ESO of progressive ideas and inspiring stories held in Vilnius technological assets was recorded: in Biržai, Šalčininkai, was also attended by the partner of this event ESO that Pasvalys, Jurbarkas, and Trakai. During the campaign,the introduced a stand inviting to commemorate 125th current situation was presented and a discussion on the anniversary of the first lit bulb. More than 500 event topics of thefts from ESO transformer stations, accident participants visited the stand. This international scale prevention was held. The meetings were attended by event also presented different topics: painful personal representatives of local communities, police, and the experiences, psychological problems, propaganda and media. 29 ESO believes that the biggest help in fight against thefts Based on residents’ notices, 4 cases of illegal electricity is civil spirit of residents. Residents’ notices help identify use, 3 cases of illegal gas consumption were recorded. perpetrators in an expeditious manner, repair damaged In 2017, as compared to 2016, the total number of thefts equipment before the supply of power or natural gas to in the fields of electricity and gas reduced considerably, residents is interrupted. except for the only one Klaipėda region where the amounts of losses increased. The main channel by which non-indifferent residents may appeal anonymously is the “Trust Line”. At any time of the day it is possible to call by the short customer service Dynamics of Thefts in the Regions in 2017 phone 1802 or +370 611 21802, also write to email: Seeking to prevent thefts from facilities of distribution grids, pasitikejimolinija@eso.lt and notify of infringements ESO cooperates with other large Lithuanian companies noticed. In 2017, approximately 250 notices pertaining which encounter similar problems, also an Association for to possible thefts of electricity and gas grid equipment, Recycling and Municipal Waste Management Companies. fraud and deception, infringements of the zero tolerance In all units of the Company nation-wide attempts are made to corruption posing risk to the reputation of the to involve local communities, a dialogue is search; ESO company were recorded. prevention specialists participate in meetings with elders, community leaders, representatives of local authorities and other institutions. Dynamics of thefts losses by regions 2016-2017 2016 8 584,31 Eur 2017 2 514,61 Eur 2016 23 276,68 Eur 2016 3 626,69 Eur Šiauliai region 2017 9 577,47 Eur 2017 6 572,74 Eur Panevėžys region Klaipėda region 2016 3 373,78 Eur 2017 10 315,72 Eur Kaunas region 2016 23 656,83 Eur 2017 7 038 Eur Vilnius region 30 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Informational Safety Campaign “Safe Energy” Support ESO granted support in 2017 through the Support Fund In July-August 2017, the national scale information of ‘Lietuvos Energija’, established in 2014. The fund safety campaign focused on the regions was carried out. combined and coordinated all of the Group companies’ support for projects and programs relevant to the society. In the summer of 2018, the fund’s activities were The main topics introduced to society: electricity thefts, discontinued. what to do when a storm approaches, what security measures must be taken during its time, safe work Responsibility for Society near an electricity shepherds, etc. The campaign was developed on a national scale in all Lithuanian regions ESO social responsibility Progress reports are prepared (in newspapers, magazines, major news portals and the on an annual basis and are available in the Lithuanian Lithuanian national television. and English languages. Reports are announced on the Company’s website at www.eso.lt (section Social Responsibility), NASDAQ Baltic exchange website, and Public Opinion Surveys the Global Compact website at www.globalcompact.org. Each year ESO performs a survey intended for assessing ESO informs on this activity in its press releases, its customer satisfaction with the service quality. website at www.eso.lt and website of the Ministry of Economy section “State-owned companies” (http://vkc. According to data obtained in 2017, the level of vtf.lt/imoniu-socialine-atsakomybe/apie-isa). customer satisfaction calculated according to GCSI ESO report is prepared with consideration to the version methodology was higher by 7 points than the GCSI of the Global Reporting Initiative Standards (GRI). This index of European Energy Companies. report meets the requirements of the specified version. No independent audit of this social responsibility Progress report has been conducted. ESO result – 78 points, whereas the average of European energy companies – 71, meanwhile the average of work companies – 73. The results demonstrate that private customers are more satisfied with services and service provided by ESO than corporate customers: private customers’ satisfaction index – 78, whereas that of corporate customers – 74. 31 32 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 REPORT CONTENT AND ASPECT LIMITS Information was collected and provided sufficiently consistently and in such a way stakeholders would The content of the report was prepared with regard be able to compare it with the efficiency of other to ESO long-term strategy, conducted public opinion organisations. The provided information is sufficiently surveys on the Company, analyses of media monitoring, precise and detailed to enable stakeholders to evaluate and upon assessing the most important aspects for activities of the organisation. The report was submitted the Company long-term, also policies enforced in the on time, within the set schedule. All information furnished Company. in the report was presented in an understandable and clear manner. Information of the report is collected, The information provided reflects both, positive and analysed and disclosed in order to make sure of its negative aspects of the organisation’s efficiency aspects. quality and significance of the aspects. Aspects significant for ESO company: Environmental Ekonomy: protection: Social sphere: Education and training, Economic efficiency, Market, Biological diversity, Local communities, Indirect economic impacts Products and services Non-discrimination 33 CUSTOMERS SOCIETY REGULATORY ENERGY SHAREHOLDERS FOREIGN INSTITUTIONS SECTOR INVESTORS Assurance of electricity and natural gas distribution activity Operational efficiency and transparency Fast restoration of electricity and gas distribution grids after emergencies Security of electricity and natural gas grid equipment Expeditious informing and fast problem-solving Reduction of visual pollution Partnership in conducting electricity efficiency surveys and social responsibility projects Impact of electricity and gas grids on animals and nature Noise level of equipment Aspects significant for stakeholders: Limits of significant aspects within the Company and outside its limits Significant aspects Limits of the aspect s Impact group Economic efficiency Internal and external Shareholders Market External Customers, shareholders, energy sector Indirect economic impacts External Customers, shareholders, energy sector Biological diversity External Regulators, society Products and services External Customers, society Education and training Internal Employees Non-discrimination Internal and external Employees, regulators Local communities External Society 34 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Involvement of Stakeholders ESO seeks to create a dialogue with all stakeholders. Representatives of stakeholders have been also sought to be involved into the preparation of this social responsibility report. The Company identified the following stakeholders: CUSTOMERS VISUOMENĖ REGULATORY ENERGY SHAREHOLDERS FOREIGN INSTITUTIONS SECTOR INVESTORS Corporate ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION NCECP LITGRID Lietuvos Energija Invest in customers Private Lithuania customers State Protected Areas Service Ministry of Energy Minor producers Minor of RL shareholders Association Lithuanian State Forests Independent „Investors’ Gas system users Ministry of suppliers Ministry of Forum” Lithuanian Ornithological Society Economy of RL Finance of RL State Consumer AMBERGRID Investing foreign Rights Protection SELF GOVERNANCE State Energy Investment entities Authority Inspectorate Association Municipalities EU Lithuanian National Lithuanian Association of Elders of Directorate-General Consumer Local Authorities for Energy Federation SCIENCE AND RESEARCH Government of RL Lithuanian Confederation of Universities (KTU, VGTU, VU, KU) Industrialists Lithuanian Institute of Energy State Data Protection OTHER Inspectorate Lithuanian Hydrometeorological Service National Land Service Main Requirements for Identification of Stakeholder The Company’s Attitude towards the Involvement of groups and their Selection Stakeholders The main strategic direction of the Company is to ESO seeks to actively cooperate with each identified increase the Company’s value long-term. 5 main groups stakeholder group. Both, the Company’s employees and of the stakeholders are distinguished and stakeholders the management were involved into the preparation of are indicated in them. The groups of these stakeholders this report. Specialists responsible for the development were analysed when preparing an ESO investment plan of responsible activity identified with consideration to for 2018-2027. ongoing activities and cooperation, and, while preparing for the presentation of ESU investment plan, included Seeking the identified goals, it is important to balance into the surveys of stakeholders also questions about the needs of all stakeholders: shareholders, customers, specific fields of responsibility. investors, employees and different society groups. ESO has a crucial importance due to the specificity of its services provided outside the Company – electricity and natural gas distribution activity is significant in all economic levels, therefore also for each resident of the country. Internal stakeholder groups were selected by relying on the Company’s long-term operational strategy. External stakeholder groups were selected on the basis of effective national and EU legal acts regulating the Company’s activity, also the Company’s experience in cooperating with population groups. 35 Index according to GRI List of General Accounting Indicators Indicator code Description Page in the Social according to GRI Responsibility Report standards Strategy and Analysis GRI 102-14 Foreword of the Company’s CEO about significance of sustainable development for the organisation 5 Description of the company GRI 102-1 Name of the company 4 GRI 102-2 Activity, main trademarks and services of the Company 10 GRI 102-3 Main legal office address of the Company 13 GRI 102-4 Countries where the Company operates 13 GRI 102-5 Ownership type and legal form 10 GRI 102-6 Markets in which the Company operates (according to geographic limits, sectors, customers, etc.) 10 GRI 102-7 Size of the Company 10 GRI 102-8 Number of employees 15 G4-11 Percentage of all employees covered by agreements of the collective agreement 15 GRI 102-9 Organisation’s supply chain 14 GRI 102-10 Significant changes during the reporting period (regarding the Company’s size, structure) 10 GRI 102-11 Compliance with the precautionary principle 14 GRI 102-12 External economic, environmental and social initiatives 28-31 GRI 102-13 Membership in national and international organisations 13 Ethics and Integrity GRI 102-16 Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms associated with behaviour or ethics codes 8 Governance of the Company GRI 102-18 Company’s governance structure 12 GRI 102-19 Delegated authorisations 11 GRI 102-20 Attribution of the Company’s management level representatives and their representation in financial, 12 environmental and social responsibility fields GRI 102-21 Responsibility for providing information / consultations to shareholders on financial, environmental protection and social 11 responsibility issues Identified significant impacts and limits G4-17 List of associated companies (included into the consolidated report) 35 G4-18 Content of GRI report and aspect limits 36 G4-19 Most significant aspects identified when defining the report content 36 G4-20 Limits of each significant aspect 36 G4-21 Limits of significant aspects outside the Company 35 G4-22 Impact arising on change of any date of previous reports 10 G4-23 Significant changes with respect to content and aspect as compared with previous reports 10 Involvement of Stakeholders G4-24 List of stakeholder groups associated with the organisation 35 G4-25 Main requirements for identification of stakeholder groups and their selection 35 G4-26 Organization’s attitude towards the involvement of stakeholder, nature by type of stakeholder groups 35 G4-27 Main topics discussed with stakeholders 35 Report Parameters G4-28 Report period 4 G4-29 Date of previous report 4 G4-30 Report frequency 4 G4-31 Contact details of the person who may answer questions about the report 4 G4-33 Organization’s policy and practice due to external audit of the report 4 Governance G4-34 The Company’s governance structure including top-level committees 11-13 36 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 List of the Company’s impacts and specific indicators External Impact Description, disclosed governance method and indictor Page / Source inspection Economy Economic efficiency Direct economic benefit received and distributed Performed Annual Report 41 Market Comparison of employees’ remuneration with the minimum wages Social Responsibility Not performed Report 18 Indirect economic impacts Development and impact of investment into the infrastructure and Annual Report Performed services 66-69 Environmental Protection Biological diversity Conserved and restored habitats (G4-EN13) Social Responsibility Not performed Report 26 Products and services Environmental impact mitigation measures for the company’s products Social Responsibility Not performed and services (G4-EN27) Report 27-29 Social Sphere Education and training Programmes intended for improvement of employee skills and lifelong Annual Report learning assuring the continuity of employee’s working capacity and Performed 69-71 contributing to career management (G4LA10) Non-discrimination Number of discrimination incidents and actions taken to solve incidents related with human rights violations (G4HR3) Social Responsibility Not performed Report 15 Local communities Units in which local communities are involved by assessing the impact or Social Responsibility Not performed development programmes (G4-SO1) Report 27-28 37 38
