DTEK 2017 Integrated report Integrated report 2017 Financial and non-financial results www.dtek.com Content Introduction 2 Oleg Popov, Chairman of the Supervisory Boards, CEO of SCM JSC 2 Maxim Timchenko, CEO of DTEK 4 About DTEK Group 8 About DTEK Group 10 Key indicators of 2017 18 Mission, vision and values 20 DTEK Group’s 2030 Development Strategy 21 DTEK Group’s top management 26 Review of macroeconomic indicators and industries 28 Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators in 2017 30 Coal Market 34 Electricity Market 40 Natural Gas Market 52 Operating results 58 Production operations 60 Investment projects 72 Financial results analysis 82 Corporate governance 84 Corporate governance structure 86 Supervisory boards of operating holding companies 87 Compliance and corporate ethics 91 Dividend policy 91 Sustainability 92 Sustainability 94 Society 100 Employees 106 Occupational health and industrial safety 112 Environmental protection 118 Sustainable energy 126 Annexes 1-3 129 1 Introduction Dear colleagues and partners, I am pleased to present the 2017 Annual Report of DTEK Group. The Law of Ukraine on the Electricity Market was adopted in the capital investments in coal mining increased by 16% — up to reporting year. Above all, this law entails a large-scale transUAH 4.6 billion, and for re-equipment of thermal power plants — formation of the energy sector. Its implementation will make it by 160% up to UAH 1.5 billion. possible to reform the industry and create a market of the European model. These changes are opening up opportunities for DTEK Group retains the role of the driver of technological develthe energy sector to become a driver for the country’s economic opment in gas production and the leader in terms of production growth, for the consumers — free choice of the electricity supvolumes among Ukrainian private companies. In this business, plier, and for Ukraine — to reach an independence from external UAH 1.1 billion was invested, which is 23% more than in 2016. suppliers. Thus they create a basis for future energy — efficient, New technologies and implementation of the initiated proclean and competitive. grammes will reduce the share of coal and gas imports in the fuel balance of the country and, therefore, will contribute to strengthDTEK, being a leader in the energy sector, has become a part ening Ukraine’s energy security. of these changes. In 2017, the company invested UAH 10.4 billion in the industrial development of its enterprises, which is 34% However, we are focused not only on business: DTEK will conmore than in 2016. This allowed implementation of a number of tinue to systematically develop projects in the field of sustainasignificant projects that support the transformation. ble development, showing that business is the power of positive changes. The company’s projects are not just aimed at finding In particular, we implemented our first project in solar gene­ actual solutions. Their goal is to develop public activity and iniration — Tryfanivka SPP was built. This was the first step in tiative among the residents. DTEK strives to provide every resthe long-term development strategy in solar energy. The new ident with the opportunity to contribute to the improvement of solar power plant construction works have already commenced the quality of life in their district, city, or village: making schools in Dnepropetrovsk region. Nikopol SPP will become the most energy-efficient, equipping urban spaces and social facilities, powerful in Ukraine and will enter the top 3 in Europe. In renewOleg Popov able generation, DTEK will continue construction of wind power developing the business environment and much more. Supporting the initiatives of the residents, the company helps everyone plants. In 2018, DTEK plans to introduce the first 100 MW of to realize their importance in the sustainable development of the Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., Prymorsk WEP in Zaporizhia region. Thus, the total capacity of community, and this finds a response. For example, the Your DTEK OIL&GAS B.V. and DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., DTEK Group in green generation will reach 510 MW. This means Hometown Begins with You project already covers 42 territoCEO of SCM JSC that the company is ramping up investments in renewable genries, and more than 800 educational institutions have joined the eration — the growth is huge, more than by 46 times, up to Energy-Efficient Schools: New Generation project. In general UAH 370 million. DTEK Group implements the Social Partnership Programmes We are confident that the development of different green energy in five key areas: energy efficiency in the utilities sector, health creates a sustainable platform for the industry operation in care, development of socially-important infrastructure, increasthe future and creates a new significance for domestic TPPs. ing local communities’ activity and development of business And their ability to dynamically change the level of production environment. In 2017, investments in sustainable developwill ensure the balancing of the entire energy system, which is ment projects amounted to UAH 3.5 billion, which is 14% more important for the development of renewable generation. than in 2016. Another important direction for the development: DTEK invests Each employee of DTEK Group is a part of positive changes in in the switch of its power units from coal of anthracite grades to the company, in the town, and therefore in our country. I would coal of high-volatile steam grades. The increase in production of like to thank each and every employee for well-coordinated G-grade coal allowed the start of the programme. So the comefforts and for their contribution to the development of DTEK. pany neutralizes the impact of lost management of enterprises I am certain that the established strong team and the culture located in the temporarily uncontrolled territories of Donetsk of changes will help us to achieve our common and main goal: and Luhansk regions. This would be impossible without a revito create the energy sector of the future — clean, efficient and sion of the production and investment programme. In general, competitive. 2 3 Dear colleagues and partners, I am pleased to present the 2017 Annual Report of DTEK Group. It is a great pleasure for me to note that our projects, our experts and our experience are bringing global trends and advanced technologies to Ukraine. I would like to tell you about the achievements for the reporting year in each area of the 2030 corporate development strategy. Energy DTEK Group focuses on the projects that create a new energy. be generated by coal thermal generation. In 2017, management According to the Energy Strategy of Ukraine, annual electricity of the enterprises located in the temporarily occupied territory generated by renewable sources should reach 9 billion kWh by in Donetsk and Luhansk regions was terminated. Thus, the main 2020. Currently, this figure is 1.9 billion kWh. We are constructchallenge for the energy sector was the loss of control over mines ing renewable energy power plants. This is our contribution to producing anthracite fired by half of the country's thermal generachieving the goals of the country's Energy Strategy. ation plants. But we are certain that even under such trying conditions Ukraine can fully satisfy its demand for steam coal. We are In the reporting year, for the first time the company implemented focused on projects aimed at reducing the share of the imported a project in solar power. Tryfanivka SPP, which was put into operresource in the fuel balance. ation in August 2017, allowed finding a number of solutions and forming a long-term vision of development in this generation 22.9 million tonnes of G-grade coal were produced by our minsegment. The implementation of our next project commenced — ers in 2017 — the highest annual production in the company's construction of the Nikopol SPP. A new 200 MW solar power plant history. An important component of this record is the growth of will operate in Dnipropetrovsk region. The contract signed with capital expenditures of coal-mining enterprises by 16.4%, up China Machinery Engineering Corporation (CMEC), which will be to UAH 4.6 billion. Such effective support of the miners allowed Maxim Timchenko an investor and construction contractor under this contract, provides for the release of the first kilowatt hours at the end of 2018. the power engineers to commence the implementation of the programme for the replacement of anthracite with high-volatile CEO of DTEK Our solar power plant will be one of top 3 largest plants in Europe. steam coal. In the reporting year, two power units of DTEK PryThe project of the same capacity is under implementation in wind dniprovska TPP were transferred from burning A-grade coal into energy — the construction of Prymorsk WEP in Zaporizhzhia G-grade coal. In 2018, two more power units of DTEK Prydniregion. An agreement has already been signed with GE Renewaprovska TPP will be transferred to the burning of domestic coal. ble Energy for 26 wind turbines for the first phase of the wind farm In addition, we plan to complete the work at Myronivska TPP — which is planned for completion in 2018. the plant will burn only high-volatile steam coal. Joint projects on such a scale are impossible to be implemented In the extraction of natural gas, DTEK Group remains the leader without confidence and openness. I am pleased that the world's among private companies both in terms of production volumes leading companies are building with DTEK Group. It means and intellectual potential. In 2017, such terms as sumpless drillthat we were able to restore the confidence of investors both ing , snubbing , determination of the content and physicochemin Ukraine and the energy sector. National energy has demonical parameters of gas in real time mode , gas sale measured in strated particular demand for modernization and the creation energy units became ingrained in our everyday lives. These proof new capacities, for the implementation of which it is necessary jects are another important step in the technological development to restore the investment attractiveness of the industry. The introof the domestic gas producers. The company constantly conducts duction of progressive technologies and innovations will reduce the specialized conferences and training sessions which are availthe distance between the energy sector of Ukraine and the EU. able for all experts. For the progress of gas production in Ukraine, In the next decade, the importance of coal in the energy balance it is also important to share the experience gained, as well as to of Ukraine will remain unchanged — one third of electricity will introduce modern technologies and equipment. 4 5 Consumers Society Ukraine has no arguments for the preservation of the iron curIn the field of sustainable development, we maintain our basic Our company’s philosophy is “Be the best in everything we do”, the year has already reached UAH 2 billion. Most significantly, tain in the energy sector. Ongoing reform is aimed at the creation principle — a systemic social partnership, so that the settlements and we have been true to this for many years. Today, our key task we managed to involve the employees in increasing efficiency. of a competitive electricity market as per the European model. in which our enterprises operate become comfortable for life. is to prepare for work under the conditions of a new energy marWe granted them the opportunity to take the initiative and impleIn Europe, the liberalization of energy markets started 15–20 years This is especially important for the cities with a mono-economy, ket in order to be better than any other companies. The ability mented the best of the proposed projects. ago, and still that is not to say that it is fully completed. Ukraine has where the enterprises of DTEK Group are city-forming. of companies to compete and be a leader largely depends on the professionalism of employees. We provide and give everyone The company was able to build an internal environment that is set up an ambitious goal — from July 1, 2019, to transfer to a new DTEK develops and implements social partnership strategies that the opportunity to be trained — from workers to top manageready to take part in the changes and to develop new directions. model of the market. This requires concentration of efforts and create new opportunities and are growing points for the economy ment. We have already 8 specialized schools: business mentorThis new direction will be iHub, the innovation centre of DTEK coordination of actions of all participants of the process, since a and social sphere of the territories of the company's enterprises. ing in production, the school of chief engineers, the school of Group. We plan to concentrate on working out and financing of considerable amount of work is to be done. I hope that the road The development of strategies involves local government bodies, foremen, the school of masters, the school of coal preparation internal and external ideas, developments, cooperation with map for the reform will be fully implemented within the stipulated communities and experts, whose representatives form the comengineers, the HR school, the school of finance for non-financial accelerators. Our goal is to create an updated DTEK that can terms. This will open up a visa-free energy regime between Europe mittees. Then the strategies are approved by local authorities, experts, the institute of project managers. Employees completed extract strategic and operational values from modern technoloand Ukraine, and make the consumer a full participant in the marand the committees monitor their implementation. This allows more than 63 thousand trainings in 2017 — this means that pracgies. I will warrant you that in the modern world, industrial comket. It is important to inform the consumer that he is becoming a involvement and uniting of the population in solving acute and tically every employee of DTEK Group paid attention to his propanies are the source of innovation. client. This opens up the main opportunities for the reform — the right to choose a supplier and high quality standards. urgent issues of sustainability. We see that this approach finds fessional growth. a high response — in 2017, 168 projects were implemented within Since the company's establishment, the transfer to a competithe framework of social partnership programmes. We share the gained experience. This also expresses our effective Ukraine plus tive market model is under discussion, and today we are a strong support for the renewal of the industry. In the reporting year, our Sustainability includes the protection of the environment. Our Energy reform also means the synchronization of the United supporter of the reform. According to the Law on the Electricity corporate standards for working specialties and the state standstrategic goal is to introduce modern technologies and pracEnergy System of Ukraine with the Continental European SynMarket, the companies must complete the unbundling procedure ards of vocational education developed on their basis received tices to minimize the impact of production on the environment. chronous Area within the European energy system — ENTSO-E. no later than December 10, 2018, which means the separation of a positive expert assessment of the European Education Fund. We are ready to implement the best European practices, one The main difference of our energy systems is the applicable a distribution system operator from production, transmission and of which will be the application of an international system for frequency stability requirements. To comply with the Eurosupply of electricity by establishing the corresponding business entities. DTEK Group introduces these changes into its activities. monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gases. We are involved in the implementation of the requirements of Directive Efficiency pean standards, we have to retrofit the transmission networks and implement modern automation systems at the generating In 2017, we were the first among the energy companies of Ukraine 2003/87/EC within the framework of the Partnership for marThe implementation of a number of projects has been started. capacities. to begin the process of transforming distribution companies into ket readiness project under the technical support of the World They will ensure further growth of production, investment and an electricity distribution system operator and supplier to consu­ In 2017, we completed the reconstruction of the systems of Bank. DTEK Zaporizka TPP has been chosen as the pilot site for management efficiency. In 2017, mining machinery manufacmers — Kyivenergo was reorganized. We have established an autonomous regulation of frequency and power at 11 power this project implementation. turers were added in DTEK Group: Svet Shakhtyora, CORUM operational holding company for electricity distribution and grid units. This means that these power units can automatically supDruzhkovka Machine-Building Plant and ETC Mining Machines operation — DTEK GRIDS B.V. It is planned to complete the forIn general, our projects support the goals of the UN Global Comport the ENTSO-E frequency in automatic mode. In 2018, such which are our old and main suppliers of machinery and equipmation of the target asset portfolio in 2018. pact where DTEK has been a party since 2007. This annual report work will continue at other power units of our thermal stations. ment. This integration allowed completing the creation of a full shows the contribution of DTEK Group into the achievement of production cycle in coal mining. Such shared centre for managWe have a significant amount of work to do, but this will lead to an Investment programmes for developing the power grids form sustainability goals of the United Nations. ing coal mining and equipment production in the future will allow improvement in the quality of Ukrainian electricity and will create an integral part of improving the quality of electricity supply. The us to work more effectively on improving and manufacturing healthy competition for European companies. After all, the synmost part of Ukraine's power grids was built in 1960–1970, and they were designed according to regulations of the 1950s. Our People new machinery, and will also improve the supply of spare parts. chronization of energy systems does not only open up wide opportunities for the export of Ukrainian electricity. This also projects promote solving the problems of high level of equipment The company's primary task is to establish a culture of valuing I am pleased to note that the Novator project promoted operameans that European energy companies will have access to wear, non-compliance of grids with modern technical requireone's own life. We would like to ensure that safe behaviour at tional improvement which became part of our production culUkrainian consumers, and this will contribute to increased comments and allow eliminating the power deficit that has arisen in production facilities is firmly established in the habit of every ture. The economic effect of this project as per the results of petition and quality of service delivery. the process of town development. While communicating with employee. At the second stage of the corporate development the consumers, we also become men of today. In 2017, the constrategy the company's target is to reduce the rate of occupastruction of utility consumer service network was completed. The tional injuries to level below 0.75. According to the results of consumers can choose the most convenient channel for comUkraine began the transformation of energy. We are ready to use this opportunity to build a new Ukrainian energy sector: clean, efficient, 2017 this rate (LTAFR) was 0.57. municating with us: customer service centres, contact centres, and competitive. DTEK Group implements the projects that support these changes. I am confident that we will create an updated DTEK: websites and social networks. innovative and modern, where energy leaders outside Ukraine can learn a lot. 6 7 About DTEK Group 01 About DTEK Group 04 DTEK Group’s 2030 Development Strategy 02 Key indicators of 2017 05 DTEK Group’s top management 03 Mission, vision and values 01 About DTEK Group Key Production and Financial Indicators of 2017 36.5 637.8 DTEK Group develops business streams in the energy sector. DTEK Group companies produce coal and natural gas, generate electricity at thermal power plants and renewable energy power plants, transmit and supply heating and electricity to end consumers and provide energy services. Production facilities are integrated into operating holdings with companies managing day-to-day activities in each of the business streams. billion kWh million kWh generated by TPPs and CHPPs generated from RES The company is the largest domestic investor. DTEK’s Euro­ the company’s activities. This objective is achieved by forming bonds are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange. sustainable social partnerships with local government bodies and communities. The company’s contribution to the devel 43.2 DTEK Group companies have 73,000 employees. DTEK is one of corporate social responsibility is highly valued: DTEK has of the best employers in Ukraine according to international audit been holding top positions in the Transparency and CSR Index firm EY and Ukrainian business publications. since 2012. DTEK follows the principles of sustainable social development and is a part to the United Nations Global Compact. BuildDTEK is part of the financial and industrial group SCM. The shareing a relationship of trust with society lies at the foundation of holder of the group is Rinat Akhmetov. billion kWh 27.7 of electricity distributed million tonnes of coal produced Revenue Assets 145,070 million UAH 152,492 million UAH 73,000 EBITDA Capital investments 37,195 million UAH 10,388 million UAH employees 1,655.3 million cubic meters Net profit 4,628 million UAH Taxes paid 22,517 million UAH of gas produced 10 11 Structure of Actual ownership share in the companies DTEK Group as of December 31, 2017, % Coal production and processing Gas production DTEK B.V.’s Corporate Centre is responsible for long-term planning and management of the entire Company % Company % business. Operating holdings serve as centres of industry-related expertise and focus on opera­ DTEK Dobropolyeugol LLC 100.0 Neftegazrazrabotka LLC 100.0 ting activities. This management structure facilitates the effective development of each business DTEK Rovenkyanthracite LLC* 100.0 Investecogaz LLC 100.0 line and contributes to the growth of investment attractiveness. DTEK B.V. is the owner of all DTEK Sverdlovanthracite LLC* 100.0 Naftogazvydobuvannya PrJSC 74.9 operating holdings. Donskoy Anthracite JSC 100.0 Mine Office Obukhovskaya JSC 100.0 Sulinanthracite LLC 100.0 Renewable energy DTEK B.V. DTEK Pavlogradugol PrJSC Mine Bilozerska ALC 99.9 95.4 Company Wind Power LLC % 100.0 Strategic Holding Company DTEK Mine Komsomolets Donbassa PrJSC* 95.3 Primorskaya WEP LLC 100.0 CCM Kurakhivska LLC 99.9 Primorskaya WEP 2 LLC 100.0 CCM Pavlogradska LLC 99.9 Tryfanovka Energy LLC 100.0 Operating holdings and areas of operation Mospino CPE LLC* 99.0 Wind Tech LLC 100.0 DTEK Oktyabrskaya CCM PJSC 60.9 Orlovka Wind Electric Plant LLC 100.0 DTEK Dobropilska CCM PJSC 60.1 Solar Farm 1 LLC 100.0 DTEK DTEK DTEK DTEK Solar Farm 2 LLC 100.0 ENERGY B.V. GRIDS B.V. RENEWABLES B.V. OIL & GAS B.V. Solar Farm 3 LLC 100.0 Electricity generation Solar Farm 4 LLC 100.0 Company % Coal production DTEK Skhidenergo LLC* 100.0 and processing Tehrempostavka LLC* 100.0 Electricity distribution Electricity DTEK Dniproenergo PJSC 73.6 Company % Solar energy generation Electricity DTEK Zakhidenergo PJSC 72.3 DTEK Power Grid LLC* 100.0 distribution and Gas production DTEK Energougol ENE PrJSC* 95.7 Mining grid operation machinery Wind energy Kyivenergo PJSC 72.9 manufacturing Mining machinery manufacturing DTEK Donetskoblenergo PJSC* 71.5 Others* Company % DTEK Krymenergo PJSC** 57.7 CORUM Druzhkovka Machine-Building DTEK Dniprooblenergo PJSC 51.7 100.0 Plant LLC * Companies performing service and trading functions. ETC Mining Machines LLC 100.0 Pershotravenskyi Repair and Engineering 99.0 Trading companies Plant LLC Key tasks of the strategic holding company: Key tasks of the operating holdings: Company % Svet Shakhtyora PJSC 61.2 •• long-term planning; •• improving operating efficiency; DTEK Trading SA 100.0 •• development of new businesses; •• development of industry-related expertise; DTEK Trading LLC 100.0 •• investment portfolio management and long-term borrowing; •• implementation of investment projects; Service companies DTEK Hungary Power Trade LLC 100.0 •• development of the managerial talent pool; •• professional growth of employees; DTEK Trading Limited 100.0 Company % •• reputation management; •• management of day-to-day activities. DTEK Power Trade LLC 100.0 DTEK Scientific and Project Centre LLC 100.0 •• interaction with central government bodies. Interenergoservice LLC 100.0 Elektronaladka LLC 99.0 According to the Law on the Electricity Market, the companies DTEK Group makes relevant changes to its activities. Its elecDTEK Service LLC 99.0 must take measures to separate a distribution system operatricity distribution enterprises have been separated from DTEK tor from production, transmission and supply of electricity by Energy, and electricity supply has been split from electricity establishing the corresponding business entities. According distribution and grid operation. The operating holding company to the requirements of the law, the company’s unbundling proDTEK GRIDS B.V. (Netherlands) was established in 2017, and in cedure must be completed no later than December 10, 2018. the same year the decision was taken to establish the manageThese changes are an integral part of the reform of Ukraine’s ment company DTEK Grids LLC (Ukraine) to focus on developing energy sector conducted in accordance with European principroduction enterprises for electricity distribution and grid operaples to create a competitive electricity market. tion. The target asset portfolio is planned to be complete in 2018. * On March 15, 2017, the company declared that it had lost control over the companies and their assets located in the areas of Donetsk and Luhansk regions temporarily not controlled by the Ukrainian government. ** On January 21, 2015, the Crimean self-proclaimed government started to consider the movable and immovable property of DTEK Krymenergo as the property of the Republic ** In 2018, DTEK GRIDS will cease to supply electricity to consumers, the responsibility being transferred to the electricity supply companies in DTEK Group. of Crimea. 12 13 Business areas of DTEK Group’s DTEK RENEWABLES: renewable energy operating holdings DTEK Renewables is one of the three largest investors in the Ukrainian renewable energy sector. DTEK Energy The company is implementing projects in solar and wind energy. The main product of DTEK Energy is the kilowatt hour. The company’s enterprises operate in The second project of the company in the wind energy sector the areas of coal production and processing; heat and electricity generation. is the construction of 200 MW Prymorsk WEP. The first stage 210 MW installed capacity (100 MW) is planned to be completed by the end of 2018. 1 000 МW The next promising business line in the renewable energy secproject portfolio till 2020 tor being developed by the company is solar energy. In 2017, DTEK Energy performs operational management of the mines 17.5 GW 10 MW Tryfanivka SPP was put into operation, which will conthat produce steam and coking coals of G-grade. The company tribute to an annual emission reduction of 12,000 tonnes of CO2 installed capacity of TPPs and CHPPs processes coal at its own and third-party CCMs. The coal is equivalent. This pilot project of the company in solar energy mainly consumed by thermal power plants in Ukraine. 200 MW Botievo wind farm is DTEK Renewables project in wind showed the expediency of further development of this direction. energy sector. Today the wind farm is the largest one in Ukraine. DTEK Renewables plans to build a 200 MW solar power plant in In the area of heat and electricity generation, the company manCompany Fuel the Dnipropetrovsk region in 2018. ages nine thermal power plants and two combined heat and The environmental impact from the wind farm operation is an power plants. TPPs and CHPPs supply heat to the cities they are DTEK Skhidenergo annual emission reduction of 600,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. located in. At the same time, the heating pipelines are mostly DTEK Kurakhivska TPP coal grade G, DG owned by municipalities. DTEK Luganska TPP coal grade T, A All generated electricity is supplied to the United Energy System (UES) of Ukraine and simultaneously sold to the Wholesale DTEK Dniproenergo DTEK OIL&GAS: gas production Market. DTEK Burshtynska TPP operates on an isolated energy island that is synchronized with ENTSO-E, the European energy DTEK Zaporizka TPP coal grade G, DG system. Thus, DTEK Zakhidenergo successfully operates in DTEK Kryvorizka TPP coal grade A, T the Ukrainian and European energy systems. The company ranks first among private companies in Ukraine in terms of natural gas production DTEK Prydniprovska TPP coal grade A, T, G, DG volume. DTEK Oil&Gas has also become a sector leader in terms of intellectual potential. DTEK Zakhidenergo 856,188,000 tonnes DTEK Burshtynska TPP coal grade G, DG commercial reserves of high-volatile steam coals at the company’s deposits DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP coal grade G, DG 23 wells. The extracted gas is processed and brought to the DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP coal grade G, DG 25 billion cubic meters standard requirements at gas processing facilities: Olefirivka preliminary gas processing terminal (PGPT), Semyrenky complex DTEK Donetskoblenergo proven gas reserves gas processing facility (CGPF) and Machukhy gas processing Company Coal grade produced facility (GPF). Myronivska TPP coal grade T, G DTEK Pavlogradugol G, DG Kyivenergo Neftegazrazrabotka was established to explore and develop new The company efficiently drills very deep wells, which became sites. The company majors in geological exploration works and DTEK Dobropolyeugol G, DG CHPP-5 natural gas possible due to investments in up-to-date equipment and innodevelops the Khoroshevska site in Kharkiv region. Mine Bilozerska G, DG vative technologies. A consistent build-up of gas production in CHPP-6 natural gas DTEK Oil&Gas explores opportunities for business expansion. Ukraine is possible only through intensive development of the The company’s strategy envisages both participation in subdepths of over 5,000 to 6,000 meters. soil use auctions and acquisition of already operating promisThe main operating asset is Naftogazvydobuvannya. The coming assets. The company is also ready to use its experience and DTEK Grids: electricity distribution and grid operation pany produces gas and gas condensate at the licensed sites expertise to manage projects of other companies, the licensed of Semyrenkivske and Machukhske fields from the depth of sites of which are characterized by complicated mining and geoover 5,400 meters. As of January 2018, the company operates logical conditions. The company actively participates in the implementation of the best European practices in the energy sector of Ukraine. Mine Office Obukhovskaya Mine Office Obukhovskaya in engaged in high-quality anthracite Corporate rights to Mine Office Obukhovskaya belong to DTEK B.V. production and processing. The company’s products are supplied (Netherlands). DTEK has begun the process of dividing distribution compa3.6 million customers to Russian Federation, Ukraine, Europe, Asia, North America and nies into a distribution system and grid operator, as well as a Africa. receive electricity from the distribution supplier of electricity to consumers. These changes are an integral part of the energy reform, which is aimed at estabcompanies lishing an electricity market as per the European model. DTEK Grids focuses on developing enterprises for electricCompany Licensed territory ity distribution and grid operation. It is planned to complete the formation of target asset portfolio in 2018. Kyivenergo Kiev Distribution companies purchase electricity at the Wholesale Market for supply to their customers. The companies serve DTEK Dniprooblenergo Dnipropetrovsk region 3.6 million customers: steelworks and machine-building plants, mines and factories, as well as social facilities and DTEK Donetskoblenergo Donetsk region* households in Kyiv, Donetsk and Dnipropetrovsk regions. DTEK Power Grid Donetsk region* DTEK Energougol ENE Donetsk region* * Excluding the temporarily occupied territories. 14 15 Operating geography of DTEK Group Coal Production and Processing Wind energy Gas production Solar energy Those companies, which are not under the company’s operational management, are not represented in the map. Mining machinery Thermal generation manufacturing Electricity distribution Under construction Kyiv: Electricity and heat generation and distribution Kyivenergo Mining machinery manufacturing ETC Mining Machines Vinnytsia region: Electricity generation DTEK Zakhidenergo: Ladyzhynska TPP, Ladyzhynska HPP, Ladyzhynska SPP (under construction, capacity – 1 MW) Dnipropetrovsk Region: Coal production and processing DTEK Pavlogradugol: Pershotravenske Mine Office, Pavlogradske Mine Office, Dniprovske Mine Office, Ternivske Mine Office, Geroiv Kosmosu Mine Office CCM Pavlogradska Electricity generation DTEK Dniproenergo: Kryvorizka TPP, Prydniprovska TPP Zaporizhia Region: Solar Farm 1: Nikopol SPP (construction Electricity generation started in 2018, capacity – 200 MW) DTEK Dniproenergo: Zaporizka TPP Electricity distribution Wind Power: Botievo WPP DTEK Dniprooblenergo Primorskaya WEP and Primorskaya WEP 2: Mining machinery manufacturing Prymorsk WEP (under construction, capacPershotravenskyi Repair and ity – 200 MW) Engineering Plant Orlovka Wind Electric Plant: Orlivka WEP (promising project, capacity – 100 MW) Donetsk region: Coal production and processing Ivano-Frankivsk region: DTEK Dobropolyeugol and Mine Electricity generation Bilozerska: Bilozerske Mine Office, DTEK Zakhidenergo: Burshtynska TPP Dobropilske Mine Office Luhansk region: DTEK Dobropilska CCM Electricity generation CCM Kurakhivska DTEK Skhidenergo: Luganska TPP DTEK Oktyabrskaya CCM Lviv region: Electricity generation Electricity generation DTEK Skhidenergo: Kurakhivska TPP DTEK Zakhidenergo: Dobrotvirska TPP DTEK Donetskoblenergo: Myronivska TPP Kherson Region: Poltava region: Gas production Electricity generation Electricity distribution Naftogazvydobuvannya Tryfanovka Energy: Tryfanivka SPP DTEK Energougol ENE* DTEK Donetskoblenergo* Kharkiv region: Russian Federation: DTEK Power Grid* Mining machinery manufacturing Coal production and processing Svet Shakhtyora Mine Office Obukhovskaya, Mining machinery manufacturing Donskoy Anthracite, CORUM Druzhkovka Machine-Building Gas production Sulinanthracite: Mine Office and Plant Neftegazrazrabotka CCM Obukhovskaya * In the part of grids located in the controlled territory of the Donetsk region. 16 17 02 February Key indicators of 2017 September DTEK ESCO launched a set of energy-efficient products under the Smart WATT brand at the retail market. This is the first comprehensive solution for households in Ukraine to improve energy efficiency. The set includes a two-zone energy meter, LED lamps, smart outlets, a brochure with tips for rational use of electricity, and an energy manager badge. The sets are available for all regions of Ukraine. A quick installation of the meter is additionally provided to customers of Kyivenergo, DTEK Dniprooblenergo and DTEK Donetskoblenergo. According to the survey of employers’ attractiveness conducted by the international audit company EY, DTEK is one of the top 10 in Ukraine. EY considered the image, corporate culture, remuneration, management practices and other indicators when ranking comThe President of Ukraine awarded the energy workers of DTEK Power Grid — Vladimir Pobezinsky and Sergei Grechka — with panies. According to the survey, the companies from the top-10 list are deliberately building a strong employer brand and pay special the orders “For Courage” of the 3rd degree. The awards were presented for heroism shown during restoration of power transmission attention to the professional development of employees, providing them opportunities for growth. lines in the Avdiivka area. From January 30 to February 5, during military hostilities, the company’s energy workers reconstructed 110 kV high-voltage lines that apply voltage to Avdiivka, Avdiivka Coke Plant, Donetsk filtering station and city distribution grids. October March DTEK signed a partnership agreement with the Climate Bonds Initiative. It is a non-profit international organization that promotes the implementation of projects in sustainable energy and infrastructure through the development of a debt capital market. The partnerDTEK lost control over the companies located in the ATO area. The company considers the demand to re-register the companies in ship is aimed at developing financial solutions for green energy projects. The company’s initiative supports Ukraine’s goals to increase the territories temporarily uncontrolled by the Ukrainian government unacceptable. On March 15, the company lost control over DTEK the share of renewable energy sources in the energy balance and opens up the opportunities for fundraising at the international market. Mine Komsomolets Donbassa PrJSC, DTEK Sverdlovanthracite LLC, DTEK Rovenkyanthracite LLC, Mospino CPE LLC, Zuivska TPP, as well as DTEK Donetskoblenergo PJSC, DTEK Energougol ENE PrJSC and DTEK Power Grid LLC in the part of the grids located in the DTEK Prydniprovska TPP has converted its Unit 7 to burn high-volatile steam coal instead of anthracite. Similar works at Unit 8 were ATO area. Upon the loss of control, the company applied to the central governmental authorities of Ukraine. In case of unlawful use and completed in December. A transition to G-grade coal allows to minimize supplies of the imported anthracite by 80,000–90,000 tonnes per sale of the company’s products, the company initiates measures against the guilty parties in accordance with Ukrainian and internamonth, thereby increasing the use of domestic coal. The company plans to conduct such works at other units too. DTEK Prydniprovska TPP tional law. The employees of these companies were offered employment in other enterprises of DTEK located in the area controlled by was originally designed to burn anthracite. Due to the lost control over anthracite mines located in the ATO zone, the company imports this the Ukrainian government. coal grade and works on switching the plant to high-volatile steam coal, the production of which is not affected by the hostilities. An agreement was concluded with financial institutions on the long-term restructuring of DTEK Energy’s loans. This fact balDTEK Trading obtained a license for electricity supply at unregulated tariff. Entering the domestic electricity trading market is one of anced the company’s financial capacity to service its loan portfolio and develop its business. The need for restructuring arose because of the preparation stages for the company to start working in a new market environment, the transition to which will be a result of the energy geopolitical and macroeconomic circumstances in Ukraine. A successful completion of the negotiations allowed restoration of investors’ reform. The license enables the company to sell electricity in all regions of the country. According to the company’s estimate, about 10% confidence in the company and the country. The terms for the majority of previously opened credit facilities were unified and the repayment of Ukrainian industrial consumers are already interested in electricity purchase from independent suppliers. period was extended until June 30, 2023. The interest rate is floating and linked to Libor/Euribor + 5% per annum. DTEK Oil&Gas has completed the reconstruction of the Machukhy gas processing facility. It is now one of the most technologically-advanced oil and gas facilities in Ukraine. Reconstruction was completed in a record-breaking six months. The project’s realisation has led to a doubling of the plant’s capacity from one to two million cubic metres of gas per day and the integration of modern production soluMay tions. Prime Minister of Ukraine Volodymyr Groysman was present for the official opening of the upgraded Machukhy GPF. DTEK took first place in the Website Transparency and CSR Index. CSR Development Centre has compiled the Website Transparency Index for 100 largest Ukrainian companies. The index is based on an international methodology developed by the Centre in cooperation with Beyond Business (Israel) and has been published since 2012. This is the only one tool for monitoring the development of corporate November social responsibility in Ukraine. The DTEK’s contribution is highly valuated: the company enters the top 3 each year, and was No. 1 in 2013 and 2016. The General Meeting of Shareholders of Kyivenergo PJSC decided to reorganize the business by establishing two companies. The first company will distribute the electricity and operate the grids, and the second company will supply the electricity to end consumers. These changes are an integral part of the Ukrainian energy reform. The reform aims to create a market by implementing a number of European Union directives in the energy sector and obliges companies to separate a distribution system operator from the production, July transmission and supply of electricity. DTEK Academy, INSEAD business school (France) and IE Business School (Spain) concluded a memorandum to develop and DTEK and Tavria State Agrotechnological University (TSATU, Zaporizhia region) concluded a cooperation agreement. The docuimplement joint training programmes in Ukraine. The training programmes will be focused on the development of key managerial ment provides for the training of specialists in renewable energy with the possibility of their employment at the company’s enterprises; joint skills: creation of a successful team, critical thinking, ability to see opportunities, and decision-making in challenging situations. The basis research and development projects; the development of innovations. Wind energy is a new industry for Ukraine, which created a demand of cooperation is the methods of business schools developed for training of managers of international companies. The decades of experifor new professions and requires relevant experts. ence of DTEK Academy will allow to consider the challenges and needs of Ukrainian business. December August DTEK Energy acquired CORUM Druzhkovka Machine-Building Plant LLC, Mining Machines Engineering and Technical Centre LLC DTEK implemented its first solar energy, which allowed to form a long-term vision of development in this segment. and 61.2% of shares in Svet Shakhtyora PJSC. The integration of mining equipment manufacturers allows creating an effective platform 10 MW Tryfanivka SPP was put into operation and connected to the United Energy System of Ukraine. The power plant will generate for the development and improvement of coal mining technologies, as well as ensuring consistent warranty and post-warranty service. 11–12 million kWh annually, which will help to reduce CO2 emissions by 12,000 tonnes. EUR 7.1 million was raised from Ukrgasbank to Ukraine needs to increase G-grade coal production for maximum possible conversion of thermal generation to domestic resources, and finance the construction. this acquisition will positively affect the result. At public hearings of the local community in Primorsk, Borysivka village and Botievo joint local community, the construction The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine approved 12 standards of vocational education developed by DTEK. In 2017, of Prymorsk WEP was agreed. The installed capacity of the wind farm will be 200 MW; the planned investment volume will exceed the standards for specialties were approved: underground electrical fitter, electric locomotive operator, electrician for repair and instalEUR 300 million. During 2018 GE (General Electric) will supply 26 wind turbines for stage 1 during 2018; the whole project involves lation of cable lines, repairman for maintenance of heating substations, truck-mounted platform and hydraulic ram operator, a chemical the installation of 52 wind turbines. The wind turbines will be installed in forest belts, so as not to affect agricultural activities. The first water treatment technician, a power unit operator, miner for repair of mine workings, field service team electrician, steam and gas turbine stage of construction works on Prymorsk WEP is expected to be complete in late 2018, and connection to the United Energy Systems of equipment repairman, electrician for maintenance of electrical equipment of power plants. The company’s participation in the developUkraine and electricity supply is planned for early 2019. ment of standards is aimed at improving the quality of education. The vocational schools can incorporate these standards in their curricula. 18 19 03 Mission Mission, vision and values 04 DTEK Group’s 2030 Development Strategy We are working in the name of progress and social prosperity. Our energy brings light and warmth to people. DTEK Group’s Development Strategy is consistent with Ukraine’s energy strategy. The company is actively engaged in promoting the best European practices aimed at reforming the energy industry, modernization of enterprises and creation of new facilities, and social development of regions Vision where it operates. It’s contributing to the accomplishment of the country’s key tasks: energy indeWe are a dynamically developing Ukrainian company that strives for leadership in the European energy markets. Our success is based on pendence, energy efficiency and development of renewable energy. people, efficiency and advanced technologies. Values Development Concept Professionalism Unity DTEK will actively develop in Ukraine and enter the markets of neighboring countries as a diversified energy Our employees have extensive professional knowledge, carry out We value team spirit, unity and solidarity. We can only achieve their duties responsibly and diligently, and accomplish their tasks strong results as a team. We enjoy both working and socializing company with secured fuel resources. in a timely and workmanlike manner. together. Our common potential comes from the diverse experience and knowledge of each employee. Our unity comes from DTEK will focus on the sale of electricity to all categories of consumers while maintaining high standards of We strive to achieve the best results while making the best possithe common pursuit of the same ideas and goals while underble use of human, natural and financial resources. service and building a strong retail brand. standing and supporting each other. DTEK will support and develop key success factors: the talents and potential of its employees and efficiency Responsibility Openness of production, investments and management. We are building our business on the understanding that all of our We are open and keep our employees, partners, shareholdefforts should serve the interests of society. We bear responsiers and other external parties informed about important issues DTEK will participate in the reform and modernization of Ukraine’s economy, social development of regions bility for the quality of our work and the observance of corporate regarding our development, creating a foundation for working together in a spirit of trust. We conduct our business on the basis where it operates, and promotion of best standards in industrial and environmental safety. standards, for meeting our obligations, for using resources prudently, and for protecting the environment. We are responsible for of principles that are clear to our employees and partners. the people who make the success of our company possible – our employees. Pursuit of excellence We create the right conditions for the development of talents and abilities of our employees, implement the latest technologies, and improve production and management processes. As we expand our business, we strive to instill confidence in our employees and contribute to the successful development of Ukraine. 20 21 Six strategic vectors of development Energy sector People DTEK’s energy business is based on the extraction of coal and gas, and electricity production at People are the backbone of the company and the source of its competitive advantages. DTEK will thermal and renewable generation plants. continue to invest in the development of our personnel and promotion of an innovation culture. The company intends to maintain at least a 25% share of the elecIt is expected that in 2018, an RAB-based tariff will be introduced People are the company’s intellectual capital, so a system of management, which will help organize personnel management tricity market until 2020. The company plans to continue develo­ in the distribution segment, which will increase the investment continuous personal development for employees is created; business processes in the most efficient manner, as well as cultiping the renewable energy assets, first of all, wind energy assets attractiveness of the business and create favorable conditions for all managers are trained in personnel management processes. vate and attract talents to the company. by implementing the Pryazovskyi Wind Park construction project, further development. The focus is on the formation of a corporate culture that creand in solar generation — creation of new facilities. ates conditions for efficient achievement of business goals, DTEK will continue with large-scale investments in the develIn gas production, the company will focus on active drilling of wells employee engagement, building loyalty to the company and opment of its personnel and will promote an innovation culThe key tasks of coal mining are to meet the company’s thermal at the Semyrenkivske and Machukhske fields under a long-term adopting the company’s values. ture in production and management. The company’s goal is to power plants’ fuel needs and the creation of safe working condidevelopment programme. An exploration survey will be carried out use the Human Capital instead of Managing People philosophy tions. in the Khoroshevska area, and the company will participate in aucDTEK plans to use state-of-the-art IT technologies in the areas according to which employees act as business partners. tions to purchase new licensed sites from the unlicensed site list. of human resources, benefits and incentives, and organizational Society Efficiency The company has a zero-tolerance policy in respect of injuries caused by industry, for that reason DTEK strives not only to reduce costs, but to explore new opportunities to obtain maximum return establishing a culture of valuing one’s own life is a critical task. DTEK intends to reduce the workplace from used resources. DTEK’s competitive ability and leadership are based on the three pillars: injury rate by introducing safety control parameters and creating modern production facilities efficiency of management, efficiency of production and efficiency of investments. where complex sections will be automated. Efficiency of production is impossible without timely moderntages for consumers and the economy in general. From the point DTEK promotes comprehensive development of Ukraine with Today, the Ukrainian energy sector is undergoing large scale ization of our production companies, which requires investof view of consumers, DTEK’s efficiency means lower electricity the primary focus on the regions where the company’s facilities reforms that will result in liberalization and openness of the marment efficiency. DTEK Energy’s enterprises were established in consumption; for partners this means a lower energy component operate. One of the company’s primary goals is to establish partket, establishing market coal pricing mechanisms and tariffs in the 1950s–1970s. Today they need total renovation. The company in product cost, while for Ukraine this means increased energy nership with society, to promote joint initiatives with local resi­ the electricity generation and distribution segments. DTEK is determines investment priorities and chooses the best engineersecurity, the implementation of innovations, a favorable investdents for urban development and to facilitate an understanding actively engaged in supporting the reforms by participating in ing solutions to minimize human involvement in the coal producment climate, and increased effectiveness of the entire economy. by local communities of the challenges the business faces. working groups on the development of draft laws. The company tion process, upgrade and construct new power units and create is actively engaged in promoting the best European practices modern grids. Business efficiency is a prerequisite for a sustainable long-term The company implements large-scale social programmes to aimed at reforming the energy industry and creating an effective development. improve living standards in the cities and towns where the comcompetitive environment. It is ready to implement transformaFor production efficiency, the company is implementing the Novapany operates, including those targeting environmental protections in its activity. tor continuous improvement system and developing a culture of tion. For this purpose, DTEK has developed and is implementing lean production. Novator becomes the basic model for employee an environmental strategy. In general, the programmes include A particular focus will be on preserving and improving the combehavior: each employee has the right to make a reasonable sugfive main directions: energy efficiency in the utilities sector, pany’s reputation. DTEK demonstrated the high level of business gestion for improving efficiency at his/her workplace. The best healthcare, support of socially important infrastructure, develtransparency and social responsibility, and will continue to do so proposals are implemented, and their authors are awarded. This opment of the business environment, and encouraging the initiin the future. approach is conducive to business development and has advanatives of local communities. Customers Ukraine “plus” Liberalization of the energy market means that consumers have the right to choose their suppliers. Ukraine is the key priority for DTEK’s development. The company’s largest investments are In order to effectively operate in a free market, the transition from an electricity supply company to channeled into the development of Ukraine’s energy sector and economy. New capacities are built, a customer-oriented business has become DTEK’s key task. new technologies are introduced and new businesses are set up. Effective operation on external markets is impossible when there is no strong production base at home. The company is developing common customer management standThe company is expanding its range of services by adding energy ards for all distribution companies by replacing the obsolete service efficiency services: implementation of pilot projects started in the DTEK tries to develop commercial relations with external marThe company has become the face of Ukrainian business for forsystem with Western standard service. The network of CSC is already industrial and budgetary spheres with the use of energy service mechkets. One of our main tasks is to expand technical and business eign partners. DTEK strives to represent the Ukrainian business expanded and its operating principles are unified. Online services are anisms. Further diversification of high quality products and services will opportunities to export electricity, implement modern and innosector to international partners as a transparent, responsible replacing consumer billing books. In the next few years, it is planned allow an increase in customer satisfaction to 90% by 2030. vative commercial mechanisms, and reach end consumers on and efficient company that is oriented toward a long-term susto introduce a common centralized billing system, thus establishing the European markets. DTEK is ready to take part in the project tainable development. the foundation for the large-scale deployment of Smart Grid and Smart The company will be actively developing DTEK’s retail brand to make for synchronization with ENTSO-E, and will do everything necesMetering technologies. reliability and innovations available to everyone. sary to get its power units and grids ready for integration into the European energy system. 22 23 Stages and priorities of DTEK Group’s development strategy The long-term corporate strategy determines key areas of business development, 2 management projects and technologies. 1 STAGE STAGE 3 STAGE (2013–2015) (2015–2020) (2020–2030) Integration, infrastructure, reform Efficiency Innovations Minimising human Management model Scaling of LEAN projects intervention in production Pilot projects for new construction of Asset integration Business process automation power units Traditional Reconstruction of facilities Expansion of the list of products and Introduction of innovations services business Formation of trading, sales and Creation of sales infrastructure Large-scale new construction marketing functions Pilot LEAN projects Pilot innovation projects SMART technologies Formation Growth Stabilisation Team building Business self-sufficiency Leadership in Ukraine New business Implementation of base projects Progressive growth Access to new markets Entering into adjacent Participation in strategic Expansion of asset businesses: horizontal partnerships portfolio integration Acquisition of assets Leadership on target markets Strategic partnership/acquisition of Expansion of asset portfolio M&A energy-generating assets operating on target markets: taking leadership positions on DTEK’s coal base 24 25 05 DTEK Group’s top management Maxim Dmitry Igor Philipp Ivan Timchenko Sakharuk Shchurov Leckebusch Gelyukh CEO of DTEK CEO of DTEK Energy CEO of DTEK Oil&Gas CEO of DTEK Renewables CEO of DTEK Grids Mr. Timchenko has been heading DTEK since July 2005. Mr. Sakharuk has been heading Mr. Shchurov has been working Mr. Leckebusch has been heading Mr. Gelyukh has been heading the company since October 2017. for the company since September the company since April 2018. the company since February 2018. Under his leadership, DTEK has become the largest Ukrainian company. Since 2011. 2005, DTEK’s portfolio has grown to 31 mines, 10 TPPs, 2 CHPPs, and 6 disHe joined DTEK in March 2010 as the He has extensive experience working Joined the DTEK team in 2005, worktribution companies. In 2013, DTEK became a major shareholder of Nafto­ Deputy Legal Director. In May 2011, From April 2013 to September 2016, in senior management positions in the ing as head of the investment departgazvydobuvannya, the largest private gas producing company in Ukraine. he was appointed as the head of he was in charge of Naftogazvyelectric power, utilities and renewable ment from 2005 to 2008. He then In 2014, DTEK completed the construction of 200 MW Botievo Wind Farm, DTEK legal support directorate. From dobuvannya PrJSC, a key production energy sectors. moved to the Kyivenergo JSEC as which is one of the five largest wind farms in Central and Eastern Europe. August 2014, he held the position of asset of DTEK Oil&Gas. He joined head of the investment department, in In 2015, DTEK successfully implemented a new corporate governance strucexecutive director at DTEK Energy. In DTEK Group from Novatek, Russia’s He started his career in 1989 in the aer2011 he headed the Regulatory Policy ture, which provides for effective unbundling of strategic planning and operaOctober 2016, he was appointed as largest independent gas producer, ospace industry with MBB Deutsche and Investments Directorate, and the tional functions. In 2016, DTEK restructured the loan portfolio of its operating acting CEO of DTEK Energy. where he was the head of its subsidiAerospace (Germany) and MitsubiStrategy Directorate of Kyivenergo in holdings. This allowed the company to balance its financial capabilities with ary Novatek-Tarkosaleneftegaz. From shi Heavy Industries (Japan). During 2012. He has held the post of Deputy respect to loan servicing and future development. In 2017, a pilot project in From 2008, Mr. Sakharuk worked for 1998 to 2007, he worked at Samahis time with ABB, ALSTOM Power Commercial Director of DTEK Energy solar energy was implemented — Tryfanivka SPP was constructed. Squire, Sanders & Dempsey LLP, interraneftegaz (Yukos Oil Company, Rusand Ferrostaal, his responsibilities since September 2013 and exercised national law firm. sian Federation), where he rose from included supervising project developthe functions of Electricity Distribution Along with 20 other leaders of the world’s largest energy companies, oil and gas production operator to ment and engineering of multiple-fosand Sales Director of DTEK Energy Mr. Timchenko was a co-founder and signatory of Energy for Society, In 2000, he graduated with honours sil-fuel and biomass power plants in all from the Kharkiv National Univerdeputy general director. since March 2017. a global initiative of the World Economic Forum. major regions of the world. sity of Internal Affairs majoring in In 2002, he received a Ph.D. in TechHe began his career in 2001 as an From 2002 to 2005, Mr. Timchenko worked as a senior manager at SCM, Law. In 2001, he received a Master’s nical Sciences at the Ufa State PetroEven as he acquired his extensive economist at Intron. where he was responsible for SCM’s energy business until it was spun off into degree in Law Enforcement with leum Technological University. In 2000, conventional power plant know-how, DTEK. Mr. Timchenko began his career as a consultant at Pricewaterhousehonours from the same university. In he received a second university he spent more than 10 years overseeEducated at the Donetsk National UniCoopers (1998–2002), where he advanced to a senior auditor position. 2002, he obtained Master’s Degree degree in Finance and Credit at the ing the development and operation of versity, he graduated with a master’s in International and Comparative Samara State University of Economnumerous geothermal, wind, solar and degree in Finance in 2003. He is a member of the Association of Certified Chartered Accountants Law from the Chicago-Kent College biogas projects, which qualified him (ACCA). ics. In 1998, he graduated from the of Law. During his employment with Samara State Technical University, for his most recent position as head of He received a degree in Production Management with honours from the DTEK, Mr. Sakharuk successfully where he received a degree in Oil and the MVV Energie Group’s generation Donetsk State Academy of Management in 1997. He continued his educacompleted the Energy of Leader proGas Field Development. division. In that post, he successfully tion at Manchester University and received a BA degree in Economics and gramme, a joint programme of the managed the transformation of the Social Sciences with honours. London Business School and DTEK company’s conventional power plant Academy. portfolio into a continuously growing renewable energy asset base. Mr. Leckebusch holds a degree in aeronautical engineering from the Munich University of Applied Sciences. 26 27 Review of macroeconomic indicators and industries 01 Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators in 2017 03 Electricity Market 02 Coal Market 04 Natural Gas Market 01 Ukraine’s macroeconomic Producer price index and consumer price index, % Data: The State Statistics Service of Ukraine. indicators in 2017 120.5 126.4 GDP trends 112.0 113.9 114.4 2017 values are based on a USD/UAH exchange rate of 26.6, and 2018 values are based on a USD/UAH exchange rate of 28.3. * Forecast of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine. +3.0% 108.9 2016 2017 2018 * +2.5% +2.4% 3,217 Producer Price Index (PPI) Consumer Price Index (CPI) 2,983 * Forecast of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine. 2,385 The consumer inflation rate was significantly affected by the reduction of certain types of commodities due to unfavourable weather conditions in the beginning of the year, the unstable situation with livestock and the improving domestic demand for domestic food. At the same time, growth rates for prices on non-food products, which are mainly imported, were lower than 93 112 114 in the previous year. Core inflation according to the results of 2017 accounted to 9.5% the income of the population in 2017 was UAH 2,475.8 billion and 2016 2017 2018* (5.8% in 2016). The growth acceleration of the cost of services expenditures UAH 2,544.8 billion. At the same time, the growth of included in the core inflation made an impact due to an increase income due to wages increased by 31.1% compared to 2016. GDP, UAH bln GDP, USD bln Change, % in production costs and the rapid recovery of consumer demand, including an increase in the level of minimum wages and pensions. As of December 2017, 46.2% of households received subsiThe largest contribution to the level of core inflation was made by dies. As noted by the NBU, in December there was a decrease the services of fast food, higher education and the maintenance of in the number of households that applied for subsidies, and According to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, high consumption, the EU market representation adjacent territories. the average amount per household was UAH 732.4. This is due of Ukraine and active construction work are the key factors of GDP growth. to the increase in household income due to the revision of wages The average nominal wage of full-time employees in December against a background of moderate changes in tariffs for housing was UAH 8,777, which is 35.5% higher compared to the same and utilities management. NBU forecasts economic growth by 3.4% in 2018. The key factors 3.3 percentage points due to a decrease in the share of bank period in 2016. According to the State Statistics Service of Ukraine, will be private consumption through the preservation of positive loans and foreign investments. rates of change in real wages, the continuation of the policy of fiscal In the industrial sector, capital investments were allocated as easing, and tightening of monetary policy to bring the consumer follows: processing industries accounted for 51.6%, mining sector Distribution of full-time employees by wage level in 2017, % inflation to the target level. including excavation for 25.2% and energy sectors for 21.2%. Data: The State Statistics Service of Ukraine. The companies and organizations allocated UAH 412.8 billion for Investments were allocated to acquire tangible assets, mainly for capital investments in 2017, which is 22.1% more than in 2016. the procurement of equipment. 27.1 26.6 In the structure of capital investments, the equity of companies 26.1 and organizations accounted for 69.9%, budgets of all levels The net inflow of foreign direct investments was USD 2.2 billion, 23.1 23.4 23.5 accounted for 12.7%, private investments in housing construction while the year-on-year net inflow was USD 3.3 billion. At the same for 7.8%, bank loans for 5.3% and foreign investments for 1.4%. time, the net inflow to the real sector is USD 1.6 billion. 20.7 Thus, in 2017 the share of budgets of all levels increased by Structure of capital investments, % 12.6 Data: The State Statistics Service of Ukraine. 10.3 8.7 31.9 32.7 7.6 6.6 12.3 12.6 Up to UAH 3,200 UAH 3,200–4,000 UAH 4,000–6,000 UAH 6,000–10,000 More than UAH 10,000 Total Total 412.8UAH bln 326.2 UAH bln The beginning of year The end of year 14.0 33.1 33.3 13.8 2017 2016 Industry Agriculture Construction Transport, warehouses, postal activities Others 30 31 Industrial production index, % In 2017, industrial output practically remained at the level of Balance of payments, USD mln last year, despite the termination of trade connections with Data: The State Statistics Service of Ukraine. Data: The National Bank of Ukraine. the temporarily occupied territories. As noted in the report 2,566 of the NBU, iron and steel production decreased by 3.6%; 102.8 103.0 the reduction in the production of steel, pig iron and ferro-alloys 99.9 was offset by the increased production of pipes. 92 In addition, the higher indicators of iron and steel industry in 1,346 comparison with the forecast are due to the rapid reorientation –1,340 –4 of enterprises to new sources of raw materials supply, as well as –2,594 favourable foreign economic conditions. –2,088 In the sales of industrial products, the share of long-term goods 2016 2017 2018* increased by 12.8%, investment goods by 9.3%, and short-term * Forecast of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine. goods by 3.6%. –4,658 Current account Capital transactions Financial account Balance of payments Industry, construction, retail trade and agriculture are core sectors on which the national GDP primarily depends. 2017 2016 According to the results of 2017, the scope of completed construction work grew by 20.9% and retail sales increased by 8.8%, but agriculture product index decreased by 2.7%. In 2017, the current account deficit in the balance of payments increased to USD 2.1 billion (USD 1.3 billion in 2016) The growth of imports of goods and services prevailed over exports by 2%. Cross-border trade in commodities in 2017, USD mln According to the forecast of the National Bank of Ukraine, in 2018 the current account deficit will remain at 3.5% of GDP, Data: The State Statistics Service of Ukraine. whereas the balance of the net liquidity balance is expected to be positive, with 1.8% of GDP. Export Import The financial account capital inflow in 2017 was observed both the end of 2019 instead of the previously expected 21.1 billion. in the public sector and in the private sector. At the same time, The reasons for the decline are peak payments on external public RF 3,937 RF 7,202 the public sector attracted USD 2.1 billion against a capital debt and the formation of the deficit of the net liquidity balance at outflow of 0.8 billion in 2016, and the private sector attracted the level of 1.1% of GDP. According to the National Bank, a new Poland 2,725 China 5,647 USD 2.5 billion compared to 3.4 billion in 2016. The sources programme of cooperation with the IMF will be needed to restore of revenue in the public sector: USD 1.3 billion from the bond reserves, which should commence in 2020. issuance of the external public loan and EUR 580 million from Turkey 2,519 Germany 5,444 the European Commission. Since January 2018, the NBU discount rate has been revised to 16.0% per annum. A more hardline monetary policy is aimed at In 2017, the international reserves of the National Bank of Ukraine preventing further deterioration of household and business inflation Italy 2,470 Poland 3,453 increased by 21%, mainly due to the IMF loan, and it amounted expectations. In addition, this is a response to the increased risks to USD 18.8 billion as of January 1, 2018. This volume covers of changing the cooperation renewal terms with the IMF, growth India 2,206 Belarus 3,205 3.6 months of future imports and allows Ukraine to meet its acceleration of consumer demand in connection with the raising obligations and current operations. The NBU forecasts a decline of social standards and the implementation of the reduced fiscal China 2,039 USA 2,525 in gold and foreign exchange reserves to USD 17.8 billion by policy by the government. Egypt 1,831 Switzerland 1,682 The government and government-guaranteed debt, USD bln Germany 1,754 Italy 1,624 Data: The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. The Netherlands 1,676 France 1,564 27.3 25.4 Total Total Hungary 1,326 Turkey 1,263 43,266.6 49,598.5 Total Total Exports of goods and services in 2017 amounted to USD 52,329.6 million, and imports to USD 54,955.0 million. 76.3 USD bln 70.9 USD bln Exports increased by 16% year-on-year, while imports increased by 23.3%. The negative balance of foreign trade amounted to USD 2,625.4 million. 48.9 45.6 Geographically, exports of goods to the EU and Asia increased In 2017, the main Ukrainian exporting segments were food prodby 30% and 9.6%, respectively. At the same time, the EU counucts (including grain) with 41.0%, the iron and steel industry with 2017 2016 tries account for 40.5% of Ukraine’s foreign trade, and Asia for 23.4%, engineering with 9.9% and mineral goods with 9.1%. 32.4%. Despite the fact that the export of goods to the Russian In imports, oil products prevail with 23.6%, engineering goods Internal External Federation changed by 9.6% (USD 345 million), the ratio was with 20% and the goods of the chemical and associated indus9.1% compared to 9.9% in 2016. tries with 13.2%. The share of EU countries in the import of goods increased to According to the forecast of the NBU, the role of exports in ecoUkraine’s government and government-guaranteed debt in 2017 increased by 7.5% in USD equivalent, or UAH 5.3 billion; 41.9%, and the ratio of the Russian Federation increased to nomic growth will increase due to favourable terms of trade and the growth is 11%, or 211.9 billion. 14.5%. Although the volume of imports from Asia increased by better access to foreign markets. At the same time, an increase 19.5%, the region’s ratio in the total import decreased to 20.1% in domestic consumer and investment demand will further lead The ratio of total debt to GDP in 2017 decreased to 71.8%, this was achieved for the first time since 2011. against 20.3% in 2016. to an increase in imports. According to the Ministry of Finance, this ratio is gradually approaching the optimal value of 60%. 32 33 Coal 21% Market Ukraine terminated the production Ukraine imports of coal for energy sector 5.1 mln tonnes 28.1 of anthracite imported of coal in 2017 It’s the top line since 2014 mln tonnes of thermal coal produced in 2017 –13.5 % by 2016 Ukraine increases investments in the production of high-volatile steam coal grades to replace the anthracite in the energy sector 6 UAH mln 068.6 + 21.9 % by 2016 02 Thermal coal balance Coal Market Sector regulation and pricing The Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine is the main governmental body determining policies in the coal mining sector. Coal in Ukraine is sold under direct contracts between mining companies and consumers or via State Enterprise Derzhvuhlepostach, which acts as the wholesale coal market The operator distributes coal products at fixed calculated prices. This results in cross-subsidisation of loss-making stateowned mines at the expense of profitable ones. The crosssubsidisation does not fully cover the financial demands as a few mines operate at a breakeven level. Furthermore, the state operator for some state-owned mines. Derzhvuhlepostach allocates funds to support state-owned mines by partially Coal reserves in Ukraine are estimated at 34.4 billion tonnes, There are 85 mines in the territory temporarily not controlled by is established by the order of the Ministry of Energy and Coal covering some expenses in the production cost of coal. which is 3% of the world’s total reserves. Most of the reserves the Ukrainian authorities, and 60 of them produce thermal coal. Industry of Ukraine. consist of thermal coal, coking coals account for about 30%. Since March 2017, Ukraine has completely terminated the producThe main reserves are found in the Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk and tion of coal in the occupied territory, where all the anthracite mines Lviv–Volyn coal basins, as well as in the Dnipro–Donetsk and are located. According to the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Zakarpattia coal depression. The deposits are characterised by Resources, 36 mines are already completely flooded and cannot Average coal selling price of state-owned mines, UAH/tonne deep occurrence and thin seams (0.8–1.0 m). Work is carried be restored. According to the agency, Ukraine will need internaData: The Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. out at depths of 500 to 1,000 meters. tional support in the conservation of dozens of mines after the resThe prices exclude VAT and transportation costs. toration of control over the occupied areas of Donbass. 2,425 There were 150 coal mines in operation at the beginning of 2014. 2,200 Coal production in Ukraine, mln tonnes Countries supplying thermal coal to Ukraine November Total in 2017, thousand tonnes September Total 40.9 Data: The Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. 39.7 2,000 Total 34.9 759.4 1,730 April 449.5 1,370 August Total 118.9 5,090.8 1,200 26.6 28.3 24.2 thousand 1,038 tonnes 3,763.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 6,3 6.8 5.9 4.8 2.0 4.2 1.6 3.9 0.9 In 2017, the ministry advised on the revision of the indicative price for coal produced by the state-owned mines and sold to thermal generators three times. This was reasoned by the necessity to ensure the stable operation of the country’s power system. T C T C T C 2015 2016 2017 RF RSA USA Poland Private companies The government continues supporting the state-owned mines by for UAH 1.3 billion for measures to ensure domestic production of State-owned companies providing subsidies which are, first of all, transferred to cover the gap coal and further reform of the public sector, UAH 753 million for T Thermal coal C Coking coal between the coal selling price and the production cost, as well as to loss-making mine liquidation and UAH 10 million for supporting reform the industry. In particular, national budget for 2018 provides the construction of Novovolynska Mine No. 10. Ukraine has been importing coal for electricity production since the beginning of the military conflict. In March, Ukraine terminated the anthracite production which led to an increase in imports. In 2017, the volume of imports exceeded 5 million tonnes, which was the highest since 2014. For the first time, coal supplies from the United States began. State support of state-owned mines 1,729,000 Coal fuels one-third of Ukraine’s electricity demand. According to Coal consumption at TPPs and CHPPs, Indicators 2015 2016 2017 the forecast fuel structure for 2017, it was expected that thermal generation uses 26.3 million tonnes of coal, of which 7 million mln tonnes 1,212,000 1,120,000 The production tonnes are anthracites. In fact, the thermal power plants and Data: The Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. cost of heating plants consumed 24.8 million tonnes, which, according marketable 2,067.8 2,160.0 2,726.9 Total coal products, to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, is 20.8% lower than in 2016. Total 31.3 UAH 28.6 Total Such a significant reduction in coal consumption in 2017 is due to the cessation of supplies from Ukrainian companies in the territory 12.8 24.8 Total 26.6 The price per tonne of marketable 1,001.1 1,156.0 1,658.4 temporarily not controlled by the Ukrainian authorities. Considering coal products, that anthracite is used for a significant part of the generation, fuel 2015 2016 2017 9.4 5.0 UAH will be imported to ensure the production of electricity. Later Ukraine plans to completely replace the anthracite with high6.1 Funds for covering the gap between the coal selling price and Data: Laws of Ukraine on the State Budget, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of production cost for the state-owned mines, UAH ths volatile steam coal grades, the production of which is not at risk of Ukraine, Energobusiness magazine. termination due to military hostilities. According to the government, in 2017 Ukraine has already saved 4.1 million tonnes of anthracites due to the conversion of a number 19.2 18.5 18.7 21.6 Initially, the national budget for 2017 included UAH 870 million to cover the gap between the coal selling price and the proof power units to the combustion of G-grade coals, as well as duction cost, and UAH 847.1 million were included for the programme of the restructuring of the coal and peat industries. the increase in electricity production by other types of generation. However, in fact, UAH 1.7 billion were assigned in 2017 to the state-owned mines to cover coal production costs, and UAH 0.6 billion were assigned to restructuring. 2015 2016 2017 2018* High-volatile steam Anthracite 36 coal grades 37 Resolution No. 289 on approving the procedure for formation of forecast market-based wholesale price of electricity of the National Energy and Utilities Regulatory Commission dated The exchange trading indicated the market-based price in 2017. The Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine recommended purchasing thermal coal for electricity generation on the basis of competitive Key legislative events of 2017 03.03.2016 also includes the calculation methodology for bidding from May to December. The volume of electricity was The government decree No. 733-p dated 24.05.2017 on the ConWhen reforming the state-owned mines, it is proposed to divide the indicative price of coal. The indicative price is taken into meant to be at least 10% of DTEK Energy TPP's consumption in the cept of the 2020 Governmental Target Economic Programme for them into prospective mines and mines lacking in prospects. account for setting the thermal generation tariff. At the same same period in 2016. The Ukrainian Energy Exchange commodity Coal Industry Reform became the main event for the coal industry. The first include those that have a significant amount of industime, the market-based wholesale price is approved for a year exchange conducted such tenders in July. DTEK Trading and State trial coal reserves and can reach a break-even level of operation As indicated in the document, 96% of the state-owned mines within a short period. The second include the mines that are subwith breakdown for each quarter and it may be revised during the Enterprise Derzhvuhlepostach participated in them. As a result, have been operating without reconstruction for more than ject to liquidation (those mining the remaining volume of indusyear. For the year of 2017, the price was set twice: in December the whole tendered volume was sold: 1.5 million tonnes, and the 20 years. The depreciation of the active part of industrial productrial reserves or that cannot break-even) and mothballing (those 2016 and March 2017. weighted average price was 2,050.98 UAH / tonne (excluding VAT). tion assets has reached a much larger scale: out of 17,000 basic having low technical and economic indicators, high depreciation plant equipment units, two-thirds have completely worked out of the mine equipment, require a significant amount of capital their statutory service life and need urgent replacement. A signi­ investment to break even and large industrial coal reserves). API2 index reflects the price for thermal coal with a calorific value of 6,000 kcal/kg delivered CIF ficant number of loss-making unprofitable mines continue their the ports of Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Antwerp operation due to the slow restructuring of the industry. Given As part of the implementation of this concept, the Cabinet the difficult economic conditions, there is no scope for the govof Ministers of Ukraine adopted an order No.1019-r dated Data: IHS Markit (McCloskey). ernment to support such mines. 06.12.2017 on the establishment of the state enterprise National Coal Company. The document provides for the reorganization Average annual price, USD/tonne The Concept is addressed to overcome the crisis in the coal of the state enterprises by joining the established company, industry by comprehensive solution to problematic issues. which is intended to optimize the structure and concentrate the Average monthly prices in 2017, USD/tonne The document identifies the following areas: resources. •• optimisation of non-core assets of coal-mining companies; The new company includes 19 enterprises: Yuzhnodonbasskoye •• making coal-mining companies more attractive for investors; No. 1 Mine Group, N. S. Surgay Mine, Selidovugol, Toretskugol, 2015 56.77 •• development of a social protection mechanism for Mirnogradudol, Pervomaiskugol, Volynugol, Lvovugol, Pre-start employees who were made redundant and tackling Directorate of Mine No. 10 Novovolynskaya, Integrated Company environmental problems; Ukruglerestrukturizatsiya, Novovolynsky Repair and Mechanical 2016 59.77 •• quicker preparation of mines for privatisation; Plant, Dongiprouglemash, Yuzhgiproshakht, Dneprogiproshakht, the State Research, Engineering and Design Institute of the Coal 94.51 •• determining specific measures to reduce the production Industry UkrNIIproekt, the State Scientific Research Institute 93.94 92.03 cost of marketable coal products; of Organization and Mechanization of Mine Construction, Scien91.36 88.51 •• making the prices for marketable products economically tific and Technical Centre Ugleinnovatsiya, Directorate on Facility 85.46 sound. Construction Ukrshakhtgidrozaschita. 2017 84.50 75.42 83.44 82.32 73.35 74.50 79.18 UAH 1.5 billion is the expected annual savings resulted from the establishment of the National Coal Company. Private companies set prices for coal products that are not used in In 2017, the prices on global coal market increased significantly. thermal generation for electricity production based on supply and One of the key reasons for market changes is supply disruptions The State Programme for Restructuring the Coal Industry demand, taking into account the general trends on international from key exporting countries — Australia and South Africa. This and domestic markets. was due to the deterioration in climatic conditions and strikes in mining and logistic companies, as well as increased demand at Potentially prospective. the consuming end. Prospective mines. State support required. Quick privatization. First-priority privatization. Liquidation. 7 mines 15 mines 11 mines Data: Annual report of the Minister of energy and coal industry of Ukraine for 2017. 38 39 Electricity Electricity consumption is under recovery +0.3% +0.8% –0.8% Market 150.5 –11.3% 149.3 149.7 150.9 2015 2016 2017 2018* bln kWh (gross) % vs previous period * According to the forecast electricity balance of the United Energy System of Ukraine (UES). Ukraine increased the growth of 847 renewable energy development Electricity generation in Ukraine in 2017 МW 155.4 bln kWh is the installed capacity according +0,4% by 2016 to the forecast +181.4% by 2017 GenCos TPPs 28.9% HPPs and PSPPs 6.8% Others 9.2% NPPs 55.1% 03 Electricity In 2017, cessation of Ukrainian anthracite supplies significantly escalation of the situation in the ATO area, the forcible seizure affected the energy sector. At the end of January, the railof Ukrainian enterprises located in the territory of certain areas way communication with enterprises located beyond the line of Donetsk and Luhansk regions, and it imposed a ban on cargo Market of demarcation in Donetsk and Luhansk regions was blocked. Since anthracite in Ukraine is extracted only in this region, this led to a cessation of shipments of such coal for heat generation. transportation through the line of conflict. Consequently, Ukraine completely stopped coal production and electricity generation on the occupied territories. Electricity balance (In 2016, the electricity generation by Ukrainian GenCos TPPs burning anthracite was about 20 billion kWh, or 13% of the total volume.) For this reason the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine introTemporary emergency measures on the electricity market were in effect until mid-July inclusive. During this period, power The Ukrainian energy system is united. Centralized operational and All generated electricity is sold to the State Enterprise “Energo­ duced an order On the Adoption of Temporary Extraordinary plants using А-grade coals for electricity generation stopped to process control of the United Energy System of Ukraine (UES) is rynok”, which is the Wholesale Electricity Market operator. DistribuMeasures on the Electricity Market No. 103-р dated 15.02.2017. store fuel. carried out by National Power Company “Ukrenergo”. The main tion companies buy electricity on the Wholesale Market to supply it In the accounting period, there were 342 emergency repairs at TPP task of the national company is to balance the production and to end customers. The further escalation of the conflict was followed by the implementation of the decision of the National Security and units operating under price-based bids. This is 176 fewer repairs consumption of electricity in the country and prevent violations compared to 2016. The average duration of emergency repairs of operational regimes and system-wide failures, thus ensuring Ukraine is switching from the existing single buyer model to a Defence Council from 16 March On Urgent Additional Measliberalized market by adopting the Law On the Electricity Market ures to Counter Hybrid Threats to Ukraine's National Secudecreased by 11 hours. NPPs had 19 emergency repairs of power uninterrupted operation of the UES of Ukraine. All operational units which equals the figures of 2016. commands and instructions of the dispatcher are subject to unconNo. 2019-VIII dated 13.04.2017. This Law implements the requirerity . The document was adopted as a result of the significant ditional fulfilment by all business entities whose facilities are conments of the EU Third Energy Package and determines the terms nected to the UES of Ukraine. Thus, electricity producers cannot of switching to the new market model up to July 1, 2019. These changes enable direct relations between power producers and change the load of the generating equipment at their own discreconsumers. Electricity generation, mln kWh tion and deviate from the approved schedules. Data: The Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. The installed capacity of the UES of Ukraine as of December 31, 2016 85,576.2 1,896,3 1,560.3 80,950.0 Data: NPC “Ukrenergo”, excluding the capacities in the temporarily occupied territories. 10,567.3 9,297.5 23,897 960 1.9 46.5 Total Total 6,220 12.1 155,414.4 12,414.4 13,107.2 154,817.4 Total Total 51,389 100 44,960.4 49,902.3 МW % 13,835 6,477 12.6 26.9 2017 2016 NPPs GenCos TPPs CHPPs, municipal CHPPs and isolated generating plants HPPs and PSPPs RES GenCos TPPs NPPs CHPPs, isolated generating plants HPPs and PSPPs RES On August 4, the maximum consumption of electricity was fixed at 18,760 MW. On this day, unit No. 4 of the Zaporizka NPP was unloaded to be put into the planned repairs. The maximum energy consumption was covered by all efficient generating equipment, and additional GenCos TPPs burning anthracite were added: 5 power units of DTEK Kryvorizka TPP, 2 power units of DTEK Prydniprovska TPP and 1 power unit of Zmiivska TPP (Centrenergo). The generating mix to meet peak loads differs significantly from the mix of installed capacities. Coal-fired 100/200/300 MW units of TPPs are the main capacities used to level out the load profile in the UES of Ukraine. Generation, ICUR* and specific fuel consumption of the thermal generation companies Electricity generation, Specific fuel mln kWh ICUR, % consumption, g/kWh Companies 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 GenCos TPPs DTEK Energy 37.1 40.6 35.7 36.4 400.0 400.8 Centrenergo 6.3 9.9 9.3 14.6 404.7 412.4 Donbasenergo 2.3 8.1 50.6 31.7 402.8 396.8 * Installed capacity utilization rate (ICUR). ICUR for GenCos TPPs DTEK Energy is indicated excluding power units under mothballing and oil/gas units. Thermal generation companies are switching power units from anthracite coal to gas to minimize the risks of shutdown due to fuel shortages. In 2017, there were switched two power units of DTEK Prydniprovska TPP and one unit of Zmiivska TPP (Centr­energo). In 2018, it is planned to continue these operations: the completion of work on the switching of one power unit of Trypilska TPP and Zmiivska TPP (Centrenergo) is expected, as well as the commencement of work on two power units of DTEK Prydniprovska TPP. 42 43 Electricity purchase on the Wholesale Electricity Market, % Electricity consumption in Ukraine Data: SE “Energorynok”. 82.4 84.8 Consumption, million kWh Share in total consumption, % Consumer categories Change, Change, 2017 2016 2017 2016 9.4 +/– % 7.1 Consumption (gross) 149,726.0 149,346.4 379.6 0.3 Total Total Consumption (net) 118,719.5 118,258.0 461.5 0.4 100.0 100.0 3.6 2.8 100 2.7 100 2.7 Including % % 1.6 1.6 1. Industry 50,897.6 49,995.4 902.2 1.8 42.9 42.3 0.4 1.1 Iron and steel 28,994.7 28,872.3 122.3 0.4 24.4 24.4 Fuel 3,628.8 3,597.5 31.3 0.9 3.1 3.0 Machine-building 3,962.8 3,706.4 256.5 6.9 3.3 3.1 2017 2016 Chemical and petrochemical 2,889.9 2,968.5 –78.6 –2.6 2.4 2.5 At regulated tariff — suppliers operating at the regulated tariff At unregulated tariff — suppliers operating at an unregulated tariff Food and processing 4,430.0 4,214.3 215.7 5.1 3.7 3.6 Exports Losses Others NCT – temporarily occupied territory of Luhansk and Donetsk regions Construction materials 2,281.7 2,198.8 82.8 3.8 1.9 1.9 94 suppliers operated at an unregulated tariff on the Wholesale Electricity Market in 2017, and in 2016 — 89 suppliers. Others 4,709.7 4,437.5 272.2 6.1 4.0 3.8 The largest number of such suppliers operates in Kharkov region. 2. Agricultural consumers 3,635.8 3,513.2 122.6 3.5 3.1 3.0 According to licensing conditions, the suppliers operate at the regulated tariff exclusively on the fixed territory, and such suppliers are Oblenergo. The suppliers operating at the unregulated tariff have the right to carry out economic activities 3. Transportation 7,010.5 6,795.5 214.5 3.2 5.9 5.7 throughout Ukraine. 4. Construction 878.9 814.1 64.8 8.0 0.7 0.7 5. Utilities 14,940.6 15,190.7 –250.1 –1.6 12.6 12.8 6. Other non-industrial consumers 6,291.8 6,031.9 259.9 4.3 5.3 5.1 7. Households 35,064.3 35,917.3 –852.9 –2.4 29.5 30.4 Data: Interfax-Ukraine based on data from the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. Over the last three years, electricity consumption in Ukraine has remained nearly unchanged. This is due to a decrease in the number of consumers. In 2017, on the temporarily occupied territory of Luhansk and Donetsk regions, the cross-flows of electric energy were cut off in April and July, respectively. Up to this point, the monthly growth in consumption was 1.3–3.9% Electricity exports, mln kWh Countries 2017 2016 Change, +/– Change, % Hungary 2,851.6 3,055.6 –204.0 –6.7 Moldova 1,133.9 3.7 1,130.2 306.5 times Poland 894.8 957.4 –62.646 –6.5 Slovakia 162.0 0.1 161.9 1,620 times Romania 124.1 0.0 124.1 100.0 Total 5,166.3 4,016.9 1,149.4 28.6 Data: Interfax-Ukraine based on data from the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. In 2017, Ukraine increased electricity exports by 28.6% compared to the previous year. According to the data from the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, in money terms, electricity exports amounted to USD 235.5 million (vs. USD 152.1 million in 2016). In 2017, electricity was not supplied as a part of the provision of emergency mutual assistance. 44 45 Sector regulation and tariffs Average producers' price-based bids, UAH/MWh Data: SE “Energorynok”. The National Electricity and Utilities Regulatory Commission The electricity market in Ukraine is based on the single buyer (NEURC) is a collective body acting independently from any govprinciple, which is SE “Energorynok”. At the same time, based 965 1,505 689 1,164 ernmental and local government bodies. Its objective is to carry on the forecast electricity balance in the UES of Ukraine, out governmental regulation, monitoring and supervision of which is approved by the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, business entities in the energy and public utilities sector. Regu­ the National Commission approves tariffs for electricity supply lation is exercised through the legislative and regulatory framefor individual producers and the forecast wholesale market price 1,234 work, licensing operations, and setting price and tariff policies for electricity. Thus, the producers sell all the electricity they The average selling price of The average selling price of for producers and consumers. generate to SE “Energorynok” at the tariffs set by NEURC. electricity, GenCos TPPs electricity, GenCos TPPs 1,595.7 1,242.3 UAH/MWh UAH/MWh The wholesale market price, % 992 Data: SE “Energorynok”. 19.01 24.46 1,284 1,414 824 978 71.02 65.33 2.43 2.26 2017 2016 4.17 3.80 0.75 1.34 DTEK Zakhidenergo DTEK Dniproenergo Donbasenergo Centrenergo DTEK Skhidenergo The average wholesale 2.71 2.65 The average wholesale market price market price 1,353.27 –0.09 0.16 1,315.03 According to the SE Energorynok , the largest number of flexible power units in 2017 was recorded by DTEK Zakhidenergo. UAH/MWh UAH/MWh Regional electricity distribution companies (Oblenergos) transNEURC sets fixed tariffs for end consumers all over Ukraine. Elecmit electricity to all categories of consumers. There are also indetricity distribution companies supply electricity to their consumpendent suppliers in the market that distribute electricity at an ers at these tariffs. In 2017, the Commission revised tariffs once unregulated tariff, but do not own networks. for households. The tariffs increased by 3–30% depending on electricity consumption. 2017 2016 The price of electricity sold to SE “Energorynok” The expenses of NPC “Ukrenergo” The amount of subsidized certificates and compensation The expenses of SE Energorynok Subsidies to subsidized consumers, UAH bln Excise tax The cost of system-wide technological expenses The cost of electricity purchase at tariffs 45.4 In 2017, preferential electricity tariffs were in effect for the following 43.8 consumer categories: The average wholesale market price increased by 2.9% compared to 2016. This is due to an increase in the average selling •• Households, 36.6 price of the producers, payment of NPC “Ukrenergo” in connection with the growth of investment costs for the design and •• Consumers paying for electricity at time-of-day based construction of new substations and transmission lines, as well as an increase in excise tax. tariff rates, In 2017, the average selling price of electricity for the Wholesale Electricity Market was 96.11 kopecks/kWh vs. 85.92 kopecks/ •• Moloda Gvardiya children's centre. kWh in 2016. The average purchase price, including export deliveries, was 109.01 kopecks/kWh (98.25 kopecks/kWh in 2016). 2015 2016 2017 At present, there is only one competitive segment in the eleccast electricity demand, SE “Energorynok” prepares a merit Other categories of electricity consumers are divided into two Once a company starts using RAB regulation, it is obliged to tricity market — thermal generation. Each generating unit of order of generating units for each hour on the ascending princiclasses. The first class is represented by consumers connected annually invest 50% of its returns on the old regulatory asset TPP submits a price-based bid for each hour of the next day. ple, from the least expensive to the most expensive. Generating to networks with a voltage of 27.5 kV or more, and the second base in the new one. The company can use the remaining part At the same time there is a mechanism limiting the system marunits that offered to produce electricity at the lowest price are class is made up of consumers connected to networks below of the profit at its own discretion. Oblenergos must meet strict ginal price, differentiating between day hours and night hours. the first to be included in the merit order. The last accepted bid 27.5 kV. Until April 2017, the unified retail tariffs were valid for requirements: 100% settlements with Energorynok, asset valuThe limit set on the system marginal price is determined by SE sets the price for electricity for all TPP units included in the merit these consumers all over Ukraine. In May, to eliminate regionations and continuous monitoring and compliance with the set “Energorynok”. Based on submitted bids and day-ahead foreorder for this hour. based cross subsidies, a transition was made to the market forservice quality requirements. There are advantages of RAB regmation of retail tariffs, which are set based on the region and ulation: the tariff is set for 3 to 5 years, allowing companies to consumption class. The transition to a new tariff-setting model forecast their expenses and revenues for several years ahead. is formalized in NEURC Decree No. 1129 dated 13.06.2016 This will help systematically reduce the critical depreciation rate On approving the procedure for setting market-based retail of equipment which will improve the quality of electricity supply tariffs for electricity sold to consumers . in Ukraine. In 2017, the transition of power supply companies to RAB regulaAmendments to the Procedure for setting incentive-based tariffs tion failed in spite of the regulatory document package adopted came into force on 1 April 2016. The amendments make it posin 2013. sible to switch to RAB regulation on the 1st day of any quarter. In 2017, the rate of return on the regulatory asset base was set Under the RAB regulation, NEURC will set tariffs and the threshat 12.5%. It is expected that in 2018 RAB regulation will be introold value of returns for Oblenergos once for several years ahead. duced for distribution companies. 46 47 Key legislative events of 2017 Renewable energy sector The key event of 2017 was the entry into force of the Law of •• License conditions for business activities on the resale of elecIn 2017, a record growth in green energy capacity was docu­ Despite the active construction of green power plants, their Ukraine No. 2019-VIII dated 13.04.2017 On the Electricity Market tricity (trading activities) — (NEURC Decree No. 1468 dated mented — 301.4 MW (+138.9% by 2016). This indicates share in the total balance of the United Energy System of Ukraine of Ukraine . 27.12.2017) the renewed interest of investors in the sector as a result of remains small — less than 2% in electricity generation. The rates stabilization of country risk and a favourable regulatory environof capacity growth make it possible to forecast an increase in the The Law ensures the fulfilment of Ukraine's obligations under •• License conditions for business activities on electricity supply ment, as well as the influence of the global trend — the reducshare of green energy in the future. the Energy Community Treaty and implementation of some to a consumer (NEURC Decree No. 1469 dated 27.12.2017) tion of the cost of technology. energy documents of the European Union in the energy sphere: Directive 2009/72/EC concerning common rules for the internal •• License conditions for business activities on electricity distribution (NEURC Decree No. 1470 dated 27.12.2017) market for electricity; Regulation No. 714/2009 on conditions for Commissioning of installed capacities in green energy sector, MW access to the network for cross-border transmission of electricity; •• License conditions for business activities on implementation of 847 Directive 2005/89/ЕС concerning measures to safeguard security the functions of a guaranteed buyer (NEURC Decree No. 1471 of electricity supply and infrastructure investment. dated 27.12.2017) WPP 550 According to the document, a new model of the electricity market •• Market rules (NEURC Decree No. 307 dated 14.03.2018) will become active starting from July 1, 2019. SPP •• Market rules of the day-ahead and intra-day market (NEURC Under the two-year preparatory period of market reform, legisOthers Decree No. 308 dated 14.03.2018) lative and regulatory norms of secondary legislation should be Total adopted. There should be taken the organizational measures for •• The Transmission System Code (NEURC Decree No. 309 the creation of infrastructure market entities, purchase and comdated 14.03.2018) 301 missioning of software and technical support for the market oper•• The Distribution System Code (NEURC Decree No. 310 dated ator and transmission system operator, separation of Oblenergo 14.03.2018) and certification of transmission system operator. The measures 233 259 also should be taken to eliminate cross-subsidization and bring •• The commercial electricity metering code (NEURC Decree 282 prices for end consumers to an affordable and reasonable level, No. 311 dated 14.03.2018) to provide solutions to the debt repayment problems that arose 126 •• Rules of the retail electricity market (NEURC Decree No. 312 in the Wholesale Electricity Market. 133 dated 14.03.2018). As of March 2018, within the framework of the implementation 104 Another significant event for the industry was the adoption of of the electricity market reform, the following documents were 68 26 the Energy Strategy of Ukraine in a new edition. The Cabinet of adopted by NEURC but did not enter into force: Ministers approved the Energy Strategy of Ukraine Security, Effi32 24 10 9 12 10 18 15 •• License conditions for business activities on implementation of ciency, Competitiveness (Order No. 605-р dated 18.08.2017). 7 the functions of the market operator (NEURC Decree No. 1466 This is the base document of the state energy policy, which dated 27.12.2017) defines the goals of the industry development for the period 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (forecast) until 2035. The set goals are expected to be achieved in stages •• License conditions for business activities on electricity generaby implementing action plans that will be developed by working tion (NEURC Decree No. 1467 dated 27.12.2017) groups under the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry. In 3,010 private households SES (+1,901 households by 2016) were installed. Ukrainians began to move more actively to solar electricity, due to the support of local authorities as well. For example, in Lviv region, 10 % of the loan amount for solar panels are returned to households from the regional budget, and in Zhytomyr region this figure is 20 %. According to the State Agency on Energy Efficiency and Energy Saving of Ukraine, at the end of 2017 the capacity of household SES reached 51 MW (+34.3 MW by 2016). Main tasks and challenges in 2018 In 2017, the total installed capacity of generating electricity from renewable sources reached 1,416 MW, and the production volume — 2018 is the key year for preparation of the electricity market •• Implementing measures under the electricity retail market 2,086 million kWh. reform for which the following is required: reform 80.5% of electricity generation was provided by solar and wind power plants. •• Ensuring NEURC capacity: the rotation of the current members •• Preparing consumers and other market participants for work of the commission and the appointment of seven new ones under new conditions Share of RES in installed capacity and electricity generation in 2017 •• Implementing measures for the separation of Oblenergo •• Eliminating the mechanisms of cross-subsidization and bring prices (tariffs) for end consumers to an economically sound •• Certifying a transmission system operator level 9.0% 34.0% 19.0% •• Purchasing and commission the software and technical •• Settling issues of arrears arising in the Wholesale Electricity support of the market operator, transmission system operator 25.0% Market. and distribution system operators Installed Electricity capacity generation 1,416* 2,086 MW mln kWh 66.0% 47.0% Small hydro, biomass and biogas Solar power Wind power * According to the estimates of the Ukrainian Wind Energy Association and the State Agency for Energy Efficiency and Power Saving. Data are given excluding 494 MW in the AR of Crimea and private households. 48 49 The Ukrainian segment of renewable energy sources (RES) The wind power segment is represented by only 13 companies. comprises 230 companies. Most of them work in segment Such a significant difference between the number of players of solar generation and operate small solar power plants. in the solar and wind power is due to a number of features of The exception is CNBM and Active Solar, as well as DTEK RES, the implementation of projects: wind power obtains higher which is implementing a project for the construction of a 200 MW entry threshold and longer project implementation than Nikopol solar power plant. the solar power. Largest renewable energy players Company Capacity, MW Current CNBM (SPPs) 267 Wind Power (WPPs) 200 Wind Parks of Ukraine (WPPs) 163 Vindkraft (WPPs) 75 Rengy Development (SPPs) 68 Eco Optima (WPPs) 45 Declared perspective projects Solar power generation DTEK Renewables 200 TIU Canada 80 CMEC 50 Others 220 Total 550 Wind power generation DTEK Renewables 200* Vindkraft 94.6 Guris 32.4 Others 55.0 Total 382 Data: UWEA, Ukrainian Association of Renewable Energy, DTEK RES, open sources. * 100 MW capacity plants are planned to be built in 2018. Industry regulation Key incentives for the development of renewable energy in In addition, a number of provisions of the Law of Ukraine Ukraine — a green tariff, denominated in euros, a favourable On the Electricity Market No. 2019-VIII dated 13.04.2017 and regu­latory environment and a reduction in country risk. other legislative acts are aimed at promoting the development of the industry. In particular, the state guarantees the support of In 2017, the Energy Strategy of Ukraine was adopted until 2035, the sector until 2030, and companies are given the opportunity which provides for a gradual increase in the share of renewable to conclude an agreement with a guaranteed buyer for the purenergy sources in the final energy consumption. At the first stage, chase and sale of electricity before commissioning the faciliby 2020, green energy should reach 11% of total electricity conties in renewable energy. On the other hand, the law introduces sumption. To achieve this goal, the total capacity of renewable responsibility for imbalances for electricity producers from energy sources should be 5 GW. By 2035, the share of renewable renewable sources. This obligation is to compensate a guargeneration in total electricity consumption is expected to reach antee buyer with the cost of the unbalance settlement due to 25%. At the same time, the planned indicator, by 2035, includes the deviation of the actual electricity supply from the previously 10%, which is attributable to solar and wind generation. Thus, declared one. For green energy, liability for imbalances is introthe new energy strategy confirmed the earlier adopted course for duced from 2021, which will grow by 10% per year and it should the development of green energy in the country. reach 100% by 2030. The following tasks and challenges exist for the renewable energy sector in 2018: •• To restore trust and interest of foreign investors in the Ukrainian •• To increase the new capacities commissioning rate to achieve renewable energy sector. the targets of the Energy Strategy of Ukraine. 50 51 Natural gas 20% market of natural gas was produced by private companies 40% natural gas was produced New historic low by DTEK Naogaz among of natural gas consumption private companies 31.9 bln cubic meters –4% by 2016 The target level of natural gas production 27 in Ukraine by 2020 is Gas produce in Ukraine in 2017 20.5 bln cubic meters bln cubic meters This calls for the following: 1. The industry deregulation; adoption of bill No. 396-D +2.4% by 2016 2. Public auctions for the issuance of mining licenses 3. Access to the geological information to a­ract investors 04 Natural gas consumption Natural Gas Market Natural gas production and import Natural gas production in Ukraine, bcm Data: Gas producers association of Ukraine. Structure of natural gas consumption in Ukraine, bcm 15.2 1.1 1.3 14.6 Data: NAK Naftogaz of Ukraine. Total Total 0.5 0.5 15.8 1.0 1.1 1.6 17.6 20.5 20.1 4.1 4.2 Total Total 31.9 4.4 3.8 33.2 2017 2016 9.1 9.7 Ukrgazvydobuvannya Private companies Ukrnafta 2017 2016 According to operational data, natural gas production in Ukraine increased by 2.4% in 2017. Thus, Ukraine provides its own production for 64.3% of the total natural gas consumption. Households (direct use and district Industry Process losses, liquid gas production heating companies) The moderate growth in gas production is due to the imperfection of auctions for deposits from the unlicensed site list prevented Unauthorized tapping, District heating for state-funded State-funded organizations of the regulatory and investment environment. Thus, a long a higher rate of gas production growth in 2017. At the same time, not documented volumes organizations and industry process by the State Service of Geology and Mineral Resources the regulatory environment was also characterized by further of Ukraine to extend the validity of existing licenses for mineral positive changes: amendments were made to the Tax Code, resources use and issue new ones, the regulated order of which lowered the rent rates for natural gas production from new land allocation for hydrocarbon production and the absence wells (for more details, see Regulatory Environment). Ukraine’s natural gas consumption in 2017 was 31.9 bcm. This is the next all-time low consumption during the whole independence period. The industrial enterprises are continuing to reduce the natural gas The growth of production and process losses is associated with Average price for imported natural gas in 2017, USD/thousand cubic meters consumption which is contributing to a decrease in the indicators an increase in the volume of transit of the Russian resource to Data: Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine. all over Ukraine as a whole. Europe. Transit supplies were 93.5 bcm (+12.1%), which entailed an increase in production and process costs of PJSC Ukrtransgaz On the other hand, residential users take the first place in to 2.2 bcm (+29%). terms of consumption. Taking into account that energy-saving 252.9 technologies are not yet used in the housing and utilities secSince 2016, the natural gas uniform tariff has been set on all resi246.9 248.1 239.5 tor, there is considerable potential for reducing the use of gas dential consumers and heating companies. During 2017, the tariff 229.5 232.2 or for replacing it with other energy carriers. In 2017 the use of was reviewed once for these categories of consumers – starting 224.9 natural gas for domestic purposes was 15.8 bcm. At the same from April 1, it was set at 6 957.9 UAH/thousand cubic meters time, the residential users directly consumed 11.2 bcm (–5.9% (6,879 UAH/thousand cubic meters from May 1, 2016 to March 31, 213.7 214.5 212.9 208.4 210.1 by 2016), and utility companies consumed 4.6 bcm (–19.3%) for 2017). The price is set for non-domestic consumers. NAK Nafogaz heating houses. of Ukraine price lists serve as a reference for the market. Natural gas prices for non-domestic consumers in 2017, UAH/thousand cubic meters Data: NAK Naftogaz of Ukraine, all prices include VAT. Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec In 2017, Ukraine’s natural gas imports came exclusively from Europe. 10,141.2 9,918.0 Ukraine did not directly import natural gas from the Russian Federation as in 2016. 9,692.4 9,439.2 9,016.8 In 2017, Ukraine imported 14.1 bcm of natural gas (+27.0%), The creation of an open and transparent market, which was 8,516.4 8,749.2 all volumes came from Europe. Out of these volume, 5.4 bcm facilitated by the adoption of the Law on the Natural Gas 8,374.8 (+86.2%) of natural gas were imported by private traders and Market No. 329-VII of 09.04.2015 and a number of statutory 8,282.4 8,250.0 8,230.8 8,008.8 direct consumers, NAK Naftogaz of Ukraine imported 8.7 bcm documents, provided for the emergence of competition and (+6.1%). stimulated the creation of independent players. So, in 2017, natural gas was imported from 67 companies, whereas a year earlier it was supplied from 34 companies. Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 54 55 Regulatory environment In 2017, a number of initiatives were approved for the develTransparent and open auctions for new licensed sites. One opment of domestic gas production, due to which the industry of the key issues in the oil and gas industry is providing a simple, recovery is expected. transparent and competitive system for distribution of special permits for exploration and production of hydrocarbons. HowIntroducing fiscal incentives. Draft Law No. 6776-D dated ever, the legislation for regulating operation in the oil and gas 14.11.2017 on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine ensurindustry has become obsolete. This has led to instances where ing the balance of budget revenues in 2018 was adopted by the conditions for licence distribution are not specific: there is the Verkhovna Rada and signed by the President of Ukraine. no open auctions, and preferences are used instead. In 2017, This document introduces stimulating taxation for gas producthe State Service of Geology and Mineral Resources of Ukraine ers: ad valorem rates for natural gas production from new wells did not conduct any auctions for the issuance of licenses for oil are set at 12% and 6%, depending on the depth of the deposits. and gas deposits. The formation of the system of subsoil use In addition, government guarantees have been given to mainauctions will help to reform the industry and attract investments. tain ad valorem rates at this level for five years. An additional solution to the issue of conducting auctions is Decentralization of payments. The largest royalties – ad valothe discovery of geological information. An independent site rem payments – are being previously paid to the state budget selection for the development carried out by the investor will in full. Since January 1, 2018, 5% of ad valorem payments will be simplified through the liberalization distribution of geolobe levied on the development of local communities on the tergical information. Thus, investors will be able to optimize their ritory of which gas is produced. This initiative should motivate solutions and independently decide selected sites for auctions. the regions to engage in a constructive dialogue with the gas In the world practice, such an approach has long been popular – producers. In addition, in 2017, new rules were adopted for the open data on deposits and licenses, wells and available results development of oil and gas deposits, and the requirement for on seismic research. the re-evaluation of reserves every five years was cancelled. Solving the problem of “sleeping licenses”. In hydrocarbon It is expected that 2018 will be decisive and lay the foundation for production, there are many examples when a company that a new positive trend in gas production. Among the key reforms received a special mining permit can simply have this right for that the industry needs: 5 to 10 years and not develop the site. According to some estiDeregulation of the approval system. Draft Law No. 3096-D mates, the number of “sleeping licenses” has reached about dated 25.05.2017 on amendments in regulatory legislation of 30% of all licensed areas in Ukraine. Toughening supervision Ukraine as to the improving of oil and gas industry, has been and recalling “sleeping licenses” from unscrupulous owners decided by the Verkhovna Rada in the first reading. This docuwith subsequent auctions for such sites will help to attract effecment is to significantly simplify the procedure for commissiontive investors. ing of oil and gas deposits and accelerate the process of land Modernization of the Natural Resources Code taking into allocation for drilling wells. The Verkhovna Rada voted for this account European standards. The current code was adopted document in the second reading on March 1, 2018. in 1994 and is obsolete as of today. 56 57 Operating results 01 Production operations 03 Financial results analysis 02 Investment projects 01 Production operations In 2017, DTEK Group enterprises produced 27.7 million tonnes of coal, of which gas coal grades accounted for 22.9 million tonnes (+8.2% compared to 2016), and anthracite and lean coal accounted for 4.8 million tonnes (–52.5%). They produced and supplied 37.1 billion kWh of electricity (–7.4%), transmitted 43.2 billion kWh of electricity (–5.8%) over grids and produced 1.655 million cbm of natural gas (+1.5%). Key Performance Indicators of DTEK Group 12 months 12 months Indicators Units Change, +/– Change, % 2017* 2016 Coal production thousand tonnes 27,706.0** 31,250.6 –3,544.6 –11.3 including G, DG grades thousand tonnes 22,914.8 21,174.3 +1,740.5 +8.2 including А, Т grades thousand tonnes 4,791.2** 10,076.3 –5,285.1 –52.5 Coal concentrate production thousand tonnes 13,609.3** 16,039.2 –2,429.9 –15.1 including third-party CCMs thousand tonnes 1,424.9 719.3 +705.6 +98.1 Electricity generation (supply) million kWh 37,103.7 40,071.0 –2,967.3 –7.4 including DTEK’s RES million kWh 637.8 608.4 +29.4 +4.8 Electricity transmission over grids million kWh 43,155.1 45,809.2 –2,654.1 –5.8 Electricity export million kWh 4,999.5 3,983.9 +1,015.6 +25.5 Coal exports*** thousand tonnes 748.2 1,333.1 –584.9 -43.9 Coal imports thousand tonnes 2,571.7 222.2 +2,349.5 +11.6 t. Natural gas trading million cbm 1,952.0 2,460.8 –508.8 –20.7 including gas import million cbm 19.6 15.4 +4.2 +27.3 Natural gas production million cbm 1,655.3 1,630.9 +24.4 +1.5 Gas condensate production thousand tonnes 54.8 56.1 –1.3 –2.3 * Indicators of the assets located on the territories of Donetsk and Luhansk regions temporarily uncontrolled by Ukrainian authorities have not been consolidated in the statements since March 2017, for the company has no control over these assets. *** Including trading operations outside of Ukraine. ** Including Mine Office Obukhovskaya JSC Indicators Units 12 months 2017 Coal production thousand tonnes 2,912.0 Coal concentrate production thousand tonnes 1,774.9 Since September 1, 2016, DTEK Energy has not been consolidating the indicators of Mine Office Obukhovskaya JSC into its statements since the management of the company has been transferred to DTEK B.V. strategic holding. 60 61 DTEK Energy Electricity generation Manufacturing statement for 2017 In 2017, DTEK Energy’s TPPs received 18.9 million tonnes of coal products, of which 2.3 million tonnes were imported, including 0.9 million tonnes for Mine Office Obukhovskaya. Coal production and processing Volume and sources of coal supply to DTEK Energo’s TPPs in 2017, thousand tonnes The company’s priority was to increase the production of gas coal grades. This ensured that stations fired by these coal grades could carry increased loads and intensify electricity generation. In addition, this facilitates implementation of the plan to generate thermal power with DTEK Donetskoblenergo Myronivska TPP (T, G) – – 242.5 maximum replacement of anthracites with gas grades of coal, the extraction of which is not limited by military operations. DTEK Zuivska TPP (G, DG)** – – 296.6 Run-of-mine coal production Run-of-mine coal production DTEK Kurakhivska TPP (G, DG) – 36.3 3,957.8 by grades by enterprises DTEK Zaporizka TPP (G, DG) 93.9 60.4 2,665.9 DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP (G, DG) 90.6 22.9 2,517.9 DTEK Luhanska TPP (T, A) 792.7 32.5 449.1 24,794.0 DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP (G, DG) 120.5 627.3 570.6 Total, thousand tonnes DTEK Kryvorizka TPP (T) 858.6 6.9 332.1 DTEK Prydniprovska TPP (T, A, G, DG) 279.2 16.6 440.1 DTEK Pavlogradugol 20,142.1 DTEK Burshtynska TPP (G, DG) 46.3 84.4 4,298.8 DTEK Dobropolyeugol 2,128.7 TPP (coal grade used) Import Other producers DTEK Energy (Ukraine) G, DG 22,914.8 Mine Bilozerska ALC 644.0 Т 610.0 DTEK Komsomolets Donbassa G-grade-coal-fired units of DTEK Energy TPPs managed by the company have increased their electricity output to the United Energy 610.0 System by 15.3%, or 3.6 billion kWh. DTEK’s TPPs have supplied a total of 27.1 billion kWh of electricity for the reporting period. These generating units carried an increased load during the year, which, among other things, made it possible to compensate for the drop in А 1 269.2 DTEK Rovenkyanthracite electricity production by plants fired by anthracite coal. 678.2 DTEK Sverdlovanthracite 591.0 Electricity production and supply by DTEK Energo’s TPPs in 2017, million kWh 349.5 DTEK Donetskoblenergo Myronivska TPP (T, G) 34.70 Run-of-mine coal Run-of-mine coal processing and coal concentrate 283.9 shipment production DTEK Zuivska TPP (G, DG)** 798.3 29.24 737.2 1,328.2 DTEK Prydniprovska TPP (T, A, G, DG) 12.69 G, DG G, DG G, DG 1,137.9 5,412.6 17,468.4 10,758.5 2,604.2 DTEK Energy TPPs DTEK Kryvorizka TPP (T) 14.53 2,340.7 5,250.8 2,631.4 SCM Group companies DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP (G, DG) 58.90 2,383.1 119.7 2,677.5 19,055.0 11,834.4 DTEK Luhanska TPP (T, A) Others 25.05 42.1 2,332.3 Others Total, thousand tonnes Total, thousand tonnes 5,163.8 59.8 DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP (G, DG) 39.30 4,731.4 DTEK Energy TPPs 6,309.5 58.2 А 630.8 DTEK Zaporizka TPP (G, DG) 57.62 А 1 017.8 5,856.2 5,610.2 DTEK Energy TPPs 79.6 А 118.0 Т 445.1 6,822.7 Total, thousand Т 568.8 DTEK Kurakhivska TPP (G, DG) 6,095.5 50.84 tonnes Т 79.6 8,795.8 DTEK Burshtynska TPP (G, DG) 42.71 7,880.5 TPP (coal grade used) ICUF, % The coal concentrate supply to the company’s thermal stations was 10.4 million tonnes; SCM Group enterprises received 0.3 million Average ICUF in 2017 was 35.74%. tonnes, and other domestic consumers received 1.1 million tonnes. Ukrainian coal was not exported. Electricity production * ICUF is indicated without taking into account gas-and-fuel-oil-generating units and mothballed units. Electricity supply using bus bars **The data of DTEK Zuivska TPP are given for the period of operational management. G stands for gas coal, DG stands for long flame coal, The data do not include indicators of warehouses. T stands for lean coal, A stands for anthracite. 62 63 Coal production and processing Commercial Activity In 2017, miners of DTEK Energo produced 24.8 million tonnes of coal, of which 24.2 million tonnes are energy coal and 0.6 million tonnes Coal shipments in the foreign and Electricity supply to foreign markets are coking coal. (In 2016, coal production was 30.7 million tonnes, of which energy and coking coal accounted for 29.8 and 0.9 million domestic markets tonnes, respectively.) In 2017, coal products only from Mine Office Obukhovskaya were In 2017, the company supplied 5 billion kWh under internationMain factors that have affected the performance indicators: sold in foreign markets. The company made shipments to conal contracts, which is 25.5% higher than in 2016. Supplies were sumers in Europe, Canada, India and North Africa. The year-end made to Hungary, Moldova, Poland. •• Since March 2017, DTEK has had no control over DTEK Mine record. Compared to 2016, that is 8.2%, or 1,740.5 thousand results showed that the volume of export supplies amounted to Komsomolets Donbassa PJSC, DTEK Sverdlovanthracite LLC, tonnes of coal more. Such a significant result was achieved 748.2 thousand tonnes, which is 43.9% lower than in the previDTEK Rovenkyanthracite LLC and Mospino Coal Preparing despite the fact that the preparation of new coal faces was ous year. The decrease is due to the fact that since the second Enterprise LLC because of their capture and the unacceptable complicated by deteriorating mining and geological conditions quarter a significant part of the coal resource has been sent to Electricity supply under foreign trade demand to re-register those companies on the temporarily within the development area. the Ukrainian market to minimize the anthracite deficit that had contracts in 2017, million kWh uncontrolled territory of Donetsk and Luhansk regions. At arisen in connection with the cessation of the production of this the end of 2017, the production of anthracite coal grades In 2017, the total processing volume of run-of-mine coal was coal grade. In particular, 911,000 tonnes were supplied to meet at the company’s Ukrainian mines decreased by 76.6%, or 19.1 million tonnes (–23.4% compared with 2016), the coal 2,971.0 the needs of DTEK Energo’s thermal power generation. 6,153.2 thousand tonnes, as compared to the previous year. concentrate production volume was 11.8 million tonnes (–24.7%). In addition, the company began to import coal products from •• The extraction of gas coal grades is not limited by military In particular, the company’s coal concentrating mills processed South Africa, Poland and the United States to ensure uninteroperations. The company’s priority was to increase the share 16.5 million tonnes of run-of-mine coal, the coal concentrate rupted power supply in Ukraine. On the whole, DTEK Energo 1,133.9 of these coal grades in the fuel mix of its thermal power plants. production was 10.4 million tonnes. Third-party CCMs processed imported 2,571.7 thousand tonnes of coal, 88.7% of which were 894.8 In 2017, the miners produced a total of 22.9 million tonnes 2.6 million tonnes of coal, and their coal concentrate production supplied to its own thermal power plants. of G-grade coal, which is the company’s historic year-end reached 1.4 million tonnes. In 2017, the supplies of coal to Ukrainian industrial consumers decreased by 27% to 2 million tonnes, which is related to the loss Hungary, Moldova Poland of control over the assets in the ATO zone. Slovakia, Electricity generation Romania In 2017, DTEK Energo supplied 36.5 billion kWh of electricity to the United Energy System of Ukraine. That is 7.6% or 3.0 billion kWh Import and supply of natural gas down year-on-year. on the domestic market In 2017, the total sales volume of natural gas in the Ukrainian Main factors that have affected the performance indicators: domestic market amounted to 1,952 million cubic meters. •• An increase in electricity production by nuclear and •• A drop in electricity supply by DTEK Skhidenergo by 20.6%, or Both imported and Ukrainian coal was traded. In particular, hydroelectric power stations by 6.5%, or 5.9 billion kWh. 2,376.5 million kWh, due to the loss of control over Zuivska TPP. 19.6 million cubic meters of natural gas were imported from The predictive electricity production balance in Ukraine was Europe: most of it was supplied by Hungary, the rest came revised towards increasing the share of these types of electricity •• A drop in electricity supply by DTEK Dniproenergo by 20.1%, or from Slovakia. The increase in the imported volume of natural generation because of the emergency situation in the energy 2.342 billion kWh. Since February 11, DTEK Prydniprovska TPP gas was made possible by Hungary-related cross commodity industry. The imposition of the state of emergency, which and DTEK Kryvorizka TPP have not been receiving anthracite trading operations. lasted until mid-July, was preceded by a railway blockade and from the company’s mines located in the ATO zone. After seizure of enterprises located in the anti-terrorist operation the heating season ended, the plants were stopped in order (ATO) zone. These events were followed by the decision of the to accumulate the coal resource for electricity production National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine On Urgent in the summer period of maximum energy consumption. So Additional Measures to Counter Hybrid Threats to Ukraine’s the company began to import anthracite and prepared its National Security . On March 16, 2017, the Head of State power plants for bearing the load. Until August, the capacities imposed this decision in his Decree No. 62, which terminated of power plants were not fully employed due to the lack of cargo movement across the confrontation line. Consequently, demand in the UES of Ukraine. Ukraine completely stopped coal and electricity production at •• An increase of electricity supply by 11%, or 1,752.9 billion kWh, the enterprises located in the ATO zone. by DTEK Zakhidenergo and Kyivenergo. Enterprise Electricity supply, (coal grade used) million kWh DTEK Zakhidenergo (G, DG) 14,995.0 DTEK Dniproenergo (G, DG, A, T) 9,334.9 DTEK Skhidenergo (G, DG, A, T) 9,165.0 Kyivenergo (gas) 2,672.8 Myronivska TPP (T, G) 284.0 Total 36,465.9 G stands for gas coal, DG stands for long flame coal, T stands for lean coal, A stands for anthracite. 64 65 Production capacities of DTEK Energo TPPs as of January 1, 2018 Production capacities of DTEK Energo TPPs as of January 1, 2018 Power Total installed Date of commissioning / Running time, Major repair / Power Total installed Date of commissioning / Running time, Major repair / unit unit number capacity, MW last major repair or retrofit hours retrofit number capacity, MW last major repair or retrofit hours retrofit DTEK Kurakhivska TPP DTEK Kryvorizka TPP retrofitting is planned for 2024–2025; retrofitting completed in 2017; 1 315 1963/2017 297,622 3 200 1972/2007 293,723 the installed capacity is expected to increase the installed capacity increased by 33 MW by 25 MW 2 300 1964/1998 312,436 retrofitting is not planned retrofitting is planned for 2022-2023; 4 210 1973/2017 267,502 the installed capacity is expected to increase retrofitting completed in 2013; 3 300 1965/2013 272,775 by 15 MW the installed capacity increased by 18 MW retrofitting completed in 2009; 4 300 1966/2005 252,820 plans are in consideration 5 222 1973/2015 248,012 the installed capacity increased by 12 MW 5 282 1967/1994 301,239 major repair is planned for 2021 retrofitting completed in 2013; 6 225 1973/2013 247,090 6 282 1968/1995 246,410 mothballed the installed capacity increased by 15 MW retrofitting completed in 2010; 7 282 1970/1991 190,390 mothballed 7 225 1974/2016 258,927 the installed capacity increased by 15 MW it is being considered to change the design retrofitting completed in 2012; 8 282 1969/1996 263,906 fuel, i.e. to convert to burning the mixture of 8 225 1974/2017 256,287 the installed capacity increased by 15 MW anthracite and G-grade coal retrofitting completed in 2015; 9 282 1972/1994 178,750 mothballed 9 225 1975/2015 252,676 the installed capacity increased by 15 MW it is being considered to change the design Total 1,532 10 300 1972/2017 208,118 fuel, i.e. to convert to burning the mixture of anthracite and G-grade coal DTEK Luhanska TPP Total 2,925 9 200 1962/2017 331,137 mothballing is considered from 2020 DTEK Prydniprovska TPP retrofitting completed in 2012; 10 210 1962/2012 318,847 in 2017, the design fuel was changed: the installed capacity increased by 35 MW 7 150 1958/2013 337,253 the plant was converted from burning 11 200 1963/2004 318,252 retrofitting is not planned anthracite to burning G-grade coal in 2017, the design fuel was changed: 12 175 1963/1996 199,661 mothballed 8 150 1958/2014 360,531 the plant was converted from burning anthracite to burning G-grade coal retrofitting completed in 2014; 13 210 1967/2014 298,676 retrofitting completed in 2012 without an the installed capacity increased by 35 MW increase in the installed capacity; it is planned retrofitting is planned for 2024–2025; 9 150 1959/2012 331,805 to change the design fuel in 2018: 14 200 1968/2006 289,491 the installed capacity is expected to increase to convert the plant from burning anthracite by 10 MW to burning G-grade coal retrofitting is planned for 2022-2023; it is planned to change the design fuel in 2018: 15 200 1969/2005 302,742 the installed capacity is expected to increase 10 150 1960/2006 331,246 to convert the plant from burning anthracite by 10 MW to burning G-grade coal TPG No. 4 100 1957/279,039 mothballed 11 310 1962/2016 266,286 major repair is planned for 2022 Total 1,495 12 285 1964/1990 221,579 mothballed 13 285 1964/1997 299,570 mothballed DTEK Zaporizka TPP retrofitting completed in 2012; the installed 14 285 1966/1993 246,384 mothballed 1 325 1972/2012 288,819 capacity increased by 25 MW Total 1,765 retrofitting is planned for 2022-2023; 2 300 1972/2017 280,970 the installed capacity is expected to increase DTEK Burshtynska TPP by 30 MW 1 195 1968/2017 300,106 major repair is planned for 2022 retrofitting completed in 2014; 3 325 1972/2014 284,380 2 185 1965/2014 287,499 major repair is planned for 2020 the installed capacity increased by 25 MW retrofitting is planned for 2020-2021; 3 185 1966/2013 299,101 major repair is planned for 2019 4 300 1973/2016 266,412 the installed capacity is expected to increase 4 195 1966/2014 321,767 major repair is planned for 2018 by 30 MW phase I retrofitting completed in 2013; 5 800 1975/1995 148,998 unit fired by fuel oil and gas. Reserved 5 215 1967/2013 311,970 phase II retrofitting completed in 2016; the installed capacity increased by 20 MW 6 800 1976/1993 127,365 unit fired by fuel oil and gas. Mothballed 7 800 1977/1992 133,190 unit fired by fuel oil and gas. Reserved major repair completed in 2015; 6 195 1967/2015 315,971 the installed capacity increased by 10 MW Total 3,650 66 67 Kyivenergo Production capacities of DTEK Energo TPPs as of January 1, 2018 Kyivenergo supplies energy and heat to the capital of Ukraine. Electricity is produced by two combined heat and power plants, Power Total installed Date of commissioning / Running time, Major repair / The company’s total installed capacity for electricity production CHPP-5 and CHPP-6. In 2017, Kyivenergo increased its electricity unit is 1.2 GW and 8.8 thousand Gcal/h for thermal power. The comproduction by 4.9%, or 124.9 million kWh, because of adjusting number capacity, MW last major repair or retrofit hours retrofit pany fully meets Kyiv’s demand for electricity. In the centralized the predictive electricity balance to ensure the reliability of DTEK Burshtynska TPP heating and hot water supply sector the company takes up 75% the Kyiv energy hub. The volume of electricity transmission via of the capital’s market. At the same time, the heating pipelines are grids increased by 1.4%, or 126.5 million kWh. retrofitting completed in 2012; mostly owned by municipalities. 7 206 1968/2012 297,283 Thermal power is produced by CHPP-5, CHPP-6, four heating the installed capacity increased by 21 MW The main fuel for Kyivenergo CHPPs is natural gas. 1,675 million plants and 177 boiler houses. In 2017, thermal energy supply retrofitting is planned for 2021-2022; cubic meters of gas were used in 2017, of which NAK Naftogaz dropped by 11.2%, or 0.7 million Gcal, due to more comfortable 8 195 1968/2009 311,612 the installed capacity is expected to increase Ukraine delivered 1,348 million cubic meters, and DTEK Trading weather conditions. by 13 MW delivered 327 million cubic meters. In addition, CHPPs used 186.3 thousand tonnes of fuel oil, and block boiler houses used retrofitting is planned for 2023-2024; 772 tonnes of coal for thermal energy production. 9 195 1968/2016 294,110 the installed capacity is expected to increase by 13 MW retrofitting is planned to be completed in 2018; 10 195 1969/2004 306,212 the installed capacity is expected to increase by 15 MW Key operational indicators of Kyivenergo CHPPs retrofitting is planned for 2025-2026; 11 195 1969/2011 276,357 the installed capacity is expected to increase by 13 MW Enterprise Indicators 2017 2016 Change, +/– retrofitting is planned for 2027–2028; Electricity production, million kWh 1,515.8 1,494.6 +21.2 12 195 1969/2012 268,858 the installed capacity is expected to increase by 13 MW Electricity supply, million kWh 1,231.6 1,198.1 +33.5 Total 2,351 Internal electricity consumption 7.9 8.1 –0.2 CHPP-5 (for electricity generation), % DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP Internal electricity consumption 54.9 51.5 +3.4 5 100 1960/2017 348,539 major repair carried out in 2017–2018 (for heat generation), kWh/Gcal ICUF, % 24.7 24.3 +0.4 6 100 1961/2015 340,200 mothballing is considered from 2018 Electricity production, million kWh 1,659.5 1,554.3 +105.2 retrofitting is planned for 2020–2021; 7 150 1963/2011 352,122 the installed capacity is expected to increase Electricity supply, million kWh 1,441.2 1,349.9 +91.3 by 10 MW Internal electricity consumption retrofitting completed in 2014; 5.3 5.4 –0.1 8 160 1964/2014 326,506 CHPP-6 (for electricity generation), % the installed capacity increased by 10 MW Internal electricity consumption Total 510 54.6 51.0 +3.6 (for heat generation), kWh/Gcal DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP ICUF, % 37.9 35.4 +2.5 1 300 1970/2017 254,799 major repair carried out in 2017–2018 Electricity production, million kWh 3,175.3 3,048.9 +126.4 Electricity supply, million kWh 2,672.8 2,547.9 +124.9 2 300 1971/2009 253,253 major repair is planned for 2019 Thermal energy generation, thousand Gcal 5,964.0 6,580.5 –616.5 3 300 1971/2011 241,946 major repair is planned for 2020 Total Thermal energy supply, thousand Gcal 5,542.1 6,238.7 –696.6 retrofitting is planned for 2020–2021; 4 300 1971/2001 242,968 the installed capacity is expected to increase Internal electricity consumption, million kWh 510.6 525.1 –14.5 by 25 MW ICUF, % 30.2 28.9 +1.3 5 300 1971/2003 223,741 mothballing is considered from 2018 retrofitting started in 2018; the installed 6 300 1971/2004 230,276 capacity is expected to increase by 25 MW Total 1,800 DTEK Donetskoblenergo Myronivska TPP TPG No. 2 100 1953/2004 285,814 under repair TPG No. 3 60 1954/1998 335,195 mothballed in 2017, the design fuel of boiler No. 10 was changed – it burns G-grade coal instead of TPG No. 5 115 2004/2013 75,444 anthracite; in 2018, it is planned to change the design fuel of boiler No. 9 – to switch it from burning anthracite to burning G-grade coal Total 275 68 69 DTEK Grids: electricity transmission over grids DTEK RENEWABLES: renewable energy For 2017, DTEK’s distribution companies have transmitted 43.2 billion kWh of electricity to their consumers. This is 5.8% or 2.7 billion kWh down year-on-year. The company increased its supply of green energy to the United Energy System by 4.8%, to Main factors that have affected the performance indicators: 637.8 million kWh. This is the amount the whole Ukraine consumes over two days. •• Recovery of demand by the industrial consumers in Ukraine: an been in control of the grids of DTEK Energougol ENE PJSC, increase by 0.9 billion kWh to 50.9 billion kWh against reducing DTEK Power Grid LLC and DTEK Donetskoblenergo PJSC consumption by the public utility consumers and households located in the areas of Donetsk region temporarily not conby 1.1 billion kWh to 50.0 billion kWh due to more comfortable trolled by the Ukrainian government. Main factors that have affected the performance indicators: weather conditions in summer and autumn. In 2017, the company’s enterprises reduced the actual losses in •• Kyivenergo has increased electricity transmission by 126.5 mil•• Botievo Wind Farm has supplied 634.1 million kWh of energy, the foundation of the development strategy in this segment grids to 6.99% (–25.3%). In particular, for DTEK Donetskoblenlion kWh and DTEK Dniprooblenergo has maintained the scope which is 4.2%, or 25.7 million kWh more than in the same of renewable energy. Construction of the power plant began ergo the figure is 24.68% (–20.2% compared with 2016), for DTEK of electricity transmission at the previous year’s level. period of 2016. The key growth factor is favourable weather in March. Tryfanivka SPP is equipped with 37 thousand solar Energougol ENE it is 15.36% (–36.5%), for Kyivenergo it is 7.01 conditions and well-coordinated repair campaign. The availpanels supplied by Chinese company JA Solar and inverters (–6.2%), for DTEK Dniprooblenergo it is 4.63% (–0.9%), for DTEK •• DTEK Donetskoblenergo, DTEK Power Grid and DTEK Enerability factors of the wind turbines and the plant infrastructure manufactured in Italy by ABB company. Its electricity has Power Grid it is 1.87% (–32.0%). gougol ENE have reduced electricity transmission by 18.8%, or remain sustainably high: 98.33% and 99.23%, respectively. been supplied to the United Energy System of Ukraine since 2.7 billion kWh. Since March 2017, the company has no longer The average figure for Ukraine is 11.77% (+0.3%). 1 August. Over 2017 the plant produced 3.7 million kWh. •• Start of operation of Tryfanivka solar power plant with the The availability factor of the equipment was 99.29%. capacity of 10 MW located in Kherson Region. This is the company’s first project in solar energy, the results of which became Electricity supply to consumers in 2017, million kWh DTEK OIL & GAS: gas production In 2017, Naftogazvydobuvannya, the key production asset of DTEK Oil & Gas, increased its production of natural gas by 1.5%, to 1,655.3 million cubic meters. This became a new record in the history of the company and private gas production in Ukraine on the whole. Gas condensate production amounted to 54.8 thousand tonnes. Main factors that have affected the performance indicators: •• Completion of drilling and commissioning of 5,600 meters deep After winning an open tender to provide drilling services, a new at well No. 34 at Semyrenkivske Field. contractor – the Belarus company Belorusneft – was engaged and began drilling well No. 25 at Semyrenkivske Field. This will •• Intensification of flowrates and major repairs of active wells. be a directional, 5,714-meter-deep well. This project will also •• Retrofitting and upgrade of the surface infrastructure to ensure include pitless drilling accompanied by sludge dewatering. uninterrupted and safe operation of gas processing facilities. When repairing wells, DTEK Oil & Gas started using the snubbing technology. Snubbing is a high-tech repair method since it makes In 2017, the company continued to invest in drilling deep it possible to carry out works in a short time without stopping wells and developing complex mining and geological sites. production and with minimum negative consequences for natural New technologies and equipment are used for that purpose. gas deposits. Although this technology is widely used in gasFor example, at well No. 34 of the Semyrenkivske Field the producing countries, in Ukraine it is used only sporadically by company used pitless drilling for the first time and quit storing some companies since it requires modern imported equipment. rock in the works execution location to comply with modern In 2018, the company plans to use snubbing to carry out repairs international environmental standards. at two more wells at Semyrenkivske Field. Industry Households Utilities Other non-industrial consumers Agriculture Transport Construction * Data are given without taking into account the electricity transmission to consumers in the ATO zone who received 0.6 million kWh in 2017. 70 71 02 Investment projects DTEK Energy Coal production and processing In 2017, DTEK Group increased its capital investments by 34%, to UAH 10.4 billion. Investments In 2017, DTEK Energo focused on increasing its production of gas coal grades to ensure maximum into coal mining and processing, upgrade of thermal power plants and capacity building in conversion to domestic coal in thermal power generation. To this end, the company devised a new the renewable energy sector were significantly increased. Those projects not only ensure the stable development strategy for DTEK Dobropolyeugol envisaging production of 15 million tonnes of G-grade operation of Ukraine’s energy system, but also create a long-term prospect to replace electricitycoal from 2018 to 2020. There are also projects implemented at the mines of DTEK Pavlogradugol and generation capacities. aimed at ensuring stable ventilation of mine openings to increase the coal production rate. The Novator continuous improvement programme as well as involving employees in the improvement process. For example, Key projects in 2017 energy efficiency projects implemented by DTEK ESCO are also 23% of the staff took an active part in the programme and As part of equipment fleet development of On upgrading processing capacities: aimed at increasing generation efficiency. These projects are submitted about 44,000 ideas for consideration, 72% of which DTEK Dobropolyeugol: based on the internal expertise of employees. They know better have already been implemented. •• The construction and installation of the filter-press section how to improve the quality of equipment operation and make •• A modern CLS 450 cutter-loader (by Svet Shakhtyora) was at Dobropilska CCM have been completed. In global coaltheir job safer. In its turn, the company helps put their ideas into DTEK ESCO scaled energy efficiency projects using the energy delivered to Dobropilska Mine. The cutter-loader is designed processing practice, belt filter-presses are one of the most practice. Such an approach shapes the culture of innovation, while service mechanism whose model was developed and put into taking into account the specific mining and geological conditions widely applied solutions, which makes it possible to reduce operational improvement becomes part of the production culture. practice a year earlier. The energy service allows upgrading of Dobropillia and can hoist a load of over 2,000 tonnes of coal environmental footprint by switching the plant to a fully-closed production and buildings and reduce energy consumption. per day, equaling the performance level of more expensive water-slurry cycle. The application of filter presses makes UAH 2 billion is the economic effect of the Novator programme At the same time, such projects also mean an increased level of imported alternatives. it possible to obtain two products: pure water, which returns by the end of 2017. Such a high figure was made possible with production automation for industrial enterprises. to the enrichment process, and solid waste. Therefore, there •• A modern 260-metre-long SP-251.13 scraper conveyor (by is no need for a sludge tank. Svet Shakhtyora) was installed at Almazna Mine. The conveyor is equipped with BP250 gearboxes that made it possible to fit it •• The construction of rock-disposal dumps at Dobropilska CCM Investments, UAH million (IFRS, excluding VAT)* with more powerful two-speed motors. This will increase the and Oktyabrskaya CCM is underway using the innovative speed of coal transportation by 36%, up to 10.8 tonnes per “green dump” technology, which will also reduce the burden on minute. the environment. The project includes covering each tier of the Business segment 2017 2016 Change, +/– Change, % dump with clay while constructing an internal drainage system On ensuring stable ventilation of mine openings at to prevent pollution of underground waters, as well as planting DTEK Energy 8,416 6,194 2,222 35.9 DTEK Pavlogradugol: vegetation. In 2017, the first stage of the Dobropilska CCM project and the second stage of the Oktyabrskaya CCM Coal production and processing 4,552 3,912 640 16.4 •• Retrofitting of the ventilation system at Dniprovska Mine is project were completed. The Oktyabrskaya CCM project is underway, within the framework of which a project is being planned to be fully implemented in 2018, the same is planned Electricity generation 1,526 588 938 159.5 implemented to replace the main fans with an increase in power for the Dobropilska CCM project in 2018–2019. to 3.8 MW. In 2017, main fans No. 1 and No. 2 of Dniprovska Kyivenergo 1,199 769 430 55.9 Mine were commissioned and construction of Start-Up Facility •• In addition, DTEK ESCO specialists upgraded the lighting 1 was completed. system in the main building of the Dobropilska CCM. This Others 147 98 49 50.0 made it possible to reduce the cost of lighting by 90.5% of •• The construction of the new ventilation shaft at Yuvileina DTEK Grids: electricity transmission over grids 992 827 165 19.9 the baseline energy consumption level, while the lighting Mine continues. In fact, this project has developed into the of workplaces improved three times. The expected result construction of a new mine as it provides access to 19 million DTEK RENEWABLES 370 8 362 by 46 times is saving 1.1 million kWh per year. In 2018, it is planned to tonnes of industrial coal reserves. Underground equipment continue with upgrading the lighting system: works began in DTEK Oil & Gas 1,143 932 211 22.6 was commissioned to transport people last year, and in the conveyor gallery section. 2017, work was already being done to prepare it for the start DTEK Group 10,388 7,781 2,607 33.5 of load-hoisting. In particular, a narrow gauge track was laid •• DTEK Kurakhivska CCM installed a frequency converter with at ventilation shaft No. 3, and the construction of a disposal a capacity of 160 kW per transport water pump. This measure * Excluding the cost of intangible assets. point, a charging shed and an emergency equipment storage is expected to save 350 thousand kWh per year. The project continued. In addition, electricity is provided at the mine and was implemented by DTEK ESCO under an energy service on the surface. It is planned that the ventilation shaft will start contract valid for 4 years. hoisting loads in 2018. In 2017, the company extended the validity of special permits for using the resources of Dniprovska Mine (for 20 years), Pavlogradska Mine (for 20 years) and Ternivska Mine (for 15 years). 72 73 Electricity generation Kyivenergo In 2017, the company’s priority in thermal power generation was to increase the share of Ukrainian Ukrainian energy companies are increasingly oriented towards the customer needs and improving coal in the fuel mix of its power plants. In the absence of anthracite coal production such decision quality of their services. Kyivenergo is one of the first to introduce services that simplify communication strengthens Ukraine’s energy security. In 2018, the company will continue to work towards between the customer and the company and to increase the network automation level to bring Kyiv converting TPPs from burning scarce anthracite to G-grade coal. energy industry closer to implementing the Smart Grid concept. Key projects in 2017: In 2017, during its upgrade of generating capacities the comKyivenergo customers are using online services more and pany completed the first stage of construction of a condens•• Conversion of generating units No. 7 and No. 8 of DTEK Pry­ While retrofitting each unit, the electrostatic precipitators are more actively. If at the beginning of the year only 27% of ing economizer on the NAS-209 hot water boiler of CHPP-6 in dniprovska TPP from anthracite to gas coal grades. This allows upgraded to achieve the dust emission targets set forth in Direcpayments were made via the Internet, and at the end of the Kyiv. This helped increase thermal generation capacities due cutting down on anthracite imports and increase the contive 2001/80/EC. year this figure was already 51%. Contributing to this are to utilizing the heat of flue gases (after-cooling of the combussumption of Ukrainian coal. active development of existing web services and launches tion products) and therefore reduce the consumption of natuIn addition, DTEK ESCO implemented a number of projects to of new ones. ral gas by 10%. When the project is completed, it is expected •• DTEK Kryvorizka TPP completed the second stage of Unit 1 reduce energy consumption at its thermal power plants in 2017. that the savings will exceed 100 million cubic meters of natural retrofitting. The retrofit will help expand the unit’s installed •• DTEK Burshtynska TPP performed technical re-equipment gas per year and the company’s environmental performance capacity from 282 to 315 MW and increase its flexibility range of its microclimate control systems in the main control room Among the new web services that the company launched in 2017 will significantly improve: carbon dioxide emissions will drop by by 58 MW to 158 MW, while reducing its specific fuel conachieving a 50% reduction of electricity consumption by cliis the Personal Account for Grid Connection, which significantly 20,000 tonnes per year, nitrogen oxides emissions will drop by sumption. mate control systems. The project implementation provided reduced the time necessary for processing documents and ful18.8 tonnes per year and carbon oxides emissions will drop by •• The retrofit of Unit 10 at DTEK Burshtynska TPP is underway. the staff with more comfortable working conditions, including filling customer requests. For example, if developing connec10.6 tonnes per year. The project is aiming at increasing the unit’s installed capacity reduced noise level. The expected annual savings are 1 miltion specifications used to take more than a month, now it takes by 15 MW to 210 MW, expand its flexibility range by 30 MW to lion kWh. The project was implemented under an energy serno more than five days. The company’s improvements affected 105 MW, raise the boiler efficiency to 90% and enhance the vice contract valid for 4 years. Ukraine’s position in the World Bank’s Doing Business 2018, The installation of a condensing economizer was a signifiunit’s reliability during peak hours. In the beginning of 2018, a ranking that assesses the business climate of countries around cant project of Kyivenergo in 2017. The company was one the generating unit was connected to the grid. •• DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP implemented three projects on the world. One of the components of this ranking is the Getting of the first in Europe to install such powerful and modern technical re-equipment of pumps that are expected to save Electricity topic where Ukraine improved its position going two equipment. •• DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP began construction of a solar power 2 million kWh of energy per year. Frequency converters were places up thanks to Kyivenergo’s efforts. plant with the capacity of 1 MW. The plant will be located on installed during the upgrade of the water filtration unit pumps the bank of the Southern Buh, at the TPP dam. The electricat the TPP, on the replaced network pump and on the pump A customer only applies for connection on the company’s webIn addition, the company continued its work on updating its heatity generation is expected to be 0.6 million kWh per year, and equipment of the condensate storage tank. These projects site, and the programme determines the connection type autoing networks. This remains an urgent issue for Kyiv as today the the payoff period is 8 years. improved reliability of the equipment and, consequently, matically using the cadastral number of the land lot, devises the wear rate of heating mains is 67%. As such, non-heating perithe heat and water supply systems in the town of Ladyzhin. specifications and the agreement and calculates the distance ods are the time for replacing sections of heating pipelines and from the declared facility to the power supply point and the cost network repairs. In 2017, the company replaced 15 km of heating of connection. In the future, the same procedure will be used for mains using its own resources requests on power increase for already connected facilities. 99 TPPs of DTEK Energo began implementing the energy management system. Consulting services were provided by DTEK ESCO Kyivenergo is continuing to improve its system of recording and In general, Kyiv’s electricity needs grow by about 4–5% per year. transmitting data on the volume of thermal energy consumption. and the international company TÜV SÜD. The project is aimed at reducing internal energy consumption by TPPs. It is expected At the same time, more than half of the grids were constructed To make payments convenient and charges transparent the comto save 10% of the baseline energy consumption level. In 2018, it is planned to integrate the energy management system into 30 years ago, so the company is actively upgrading the infrastrucpany offered its customers new web services in 2017: Personal the business processes of power plants and to certify the system for compliance with the ISO 50001:2011 standard. ture to meet the growing demand. Kyivenergo plans to increase Account for Hot Water Supply and Central Heating and, specifinvestments in new technologies every year to bring the Ukrainian ically for homeowners’ associations of apartment houses and capital closer to the Smart Grid implementation. building cooperatives, Personal Account for Asset Holders. This service allows the apartment house manager to enter the heat Upgraded generating units of DTEK Energy’s TPPs and upgrade plans for 2018 meter readings from each apartment. Key power supply projects of 2017: No. 5 No. 7 No. 8 No. 6 No. 9 •• Technical re-equipment of the 110/10 kV switchgear at Solo­ Kyivenergo develops the Smart Metering concept. In mulDTEK Kurakhivska TPP menska substation. Retrofitting will help relieve the grids, ti-storey buildings, heat and electricity meters are installed No. 10 No. 13 significantly increase reliability of power supply and decrease that are equipped with M2M (Machine-to-Machine) DTEK Luhanska TPP pressure on the energy hub. modems. Modems transmit information to a single dataNo. 1 No. 3 •• Retrofitting the 110/10 kV Pozniaky substation to increase rebase over a mobile network. 10,000 meters are already DTEK Zaporizka TPP liability of power supply to the left bank area of Kyiv and lift equipped with such modems. No. 9 No. 8 No. 7 No. 9 No. 10 restrictions on connection of new customers. DTEK Prydniprovska TPP No. 7 No. 5 No. 6* No. 5 No. 10 •• Retrofitting the 110/10 kV Centre substation. The existing caDTEK Burshtynska TPP pacity of 80 MVA was not enough to connect new customers, and there were difficulties with reserving capacity. The company No. 3 No. 1 replaced the equipment, installed power transformers by HyunDTEK Kryvorizka TPP dai Heavy Industries and introduced an automated electricity No. 8 metering system. The project also helped improve monitoring DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP of electricity quality parameters, switch lines in the automatic mode and reduce the response time in case of any deviations. 2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (plans) Upgraded generating units Conversion of generating units from anthracite to gas coal grades * Major repair increasing installed capacity. 74 75 DTEK Grids: electricity transmission over grids The key objective of the company is to make the transition from the enterprises selling electricity to the customer-oriented business. The company’s distribution enterprises have built a customer service network offering a wide range of communication channels. In the future, it is planned to focus on developing web services. An integral part of service quality improvement is investment programmes for development of power grids. Such projects are aimed at improving the reliability and quality of power supply to consumers. In 2017, the company’s distribution enterprises fully built a centres or through social networks. Creating a high-availability customer service network that covers all household subscribers. system for its customers is one of the company’s strategic Customers are offered various communication channels to goals. At the end of 2017, Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) choose the most convenient from them. All electricity supply DTEK Dniprooblenergo was 83%, for DTEK Donetskoblenergo it issues can be communicated to the service centres, contact was 80%, for Kyivenergo it was 66%. Household customer service network as of 2017 CSCs CSCs CSCs 1 23 1 20 1 13 Customer reach Customer reach Customer reach 1,509,677 886,790 1,160,149 DTEK Dniprooblenergo DTEK Donetskoblenergo Kyivenergo Contact Personal account centres and PayHub •• 24/7 support •• Online services for personal and Android or iOS mobile devices •• Free call •• All personal account information and transactions •• Basic electricity supply issues (meter reading submission, (meter reading submission, calculation of the cost of consultations on the customer’s account and current tariffs) consumed electricity, payment, receipt by e-mail) •• Consultations on individual issues •• International standards of payment system security •• Accident handling request •• No fee •• Plan of scheduled maintenance operations Customer Websites Service Centres (CSC) for customers •• One-window approach •• Information about the company’s work •• All electricity supply services, •• Online services for signing agreements with the company including grid connection and for connecting to power grids •• Energy-efficient Smart WATT kits •• Detailed information on current tariffs for households and legal entities •• Notifications on scheduled maintenance 76 77 Key projects in 2017: Distribution enterprises’ data as of January 1, 2018 •• DTEK Donetskoblenergo: the company has completed •• DTEK Dniprooblenergo: the first stage of construction of the technical re-equipment of Gorod-5 substation in Mari150/10/6 kV Naddniprianska substation in Dnipro has been Total length of power Total number Total capacity Number Enterprise upol. During the upgrade, the equipment of the 35 kV switchcompleted. The substation will provide an additional capactransmission lines, km of SSs of SSs, MVA of customers gear was replaced, and a modern 6 kV electrical module with ity for connecting new consumers and improve reliability of vacuum circuit breakers was mounted. This has helped to power supply to the existing and planned substations powDTEK Dniprooblenergo 50,135 12,629 11,401 1,509,677 enhance the reliability of power supply to consumers, reduce ering the city’s underground, and will allow to dismantle the DTEK Donetskoblenergo 33,872 7,095 5,265 886,790 transmission losses and improve work conditions. obsolete system of overhead power lines. •• A new transmission line was built and 14 transformer substaA topical issue for electricity consumers was connection of their Kyivenergo 13,510 4,101 7,998 1,160,149 tions were restored, providing power supply to the villages of facilities to power grids. Availability of energy infrastructure is an DTEK Power Grid 1,888 39 888 509 Bakhmut district, the residents of which lived without electricimportant component in assessing the investment attractiveness ity for more than a year because of military operations. of regions and it affects economic development. Despite the staDTEK Energougol ENE 95 28 47 7,045 ble demand for connection, it is difficult to define the increase in •• DTEK Power Grid: the company completed an upgrade of the volume of electricity net supply. According to the company’s Total 99,500 23,892 25,599 3,564,170 two substations in Kramatorsk to improve the reliability of estimates, such projects account for an average growth in conelectricity supply to consumers and create additional opporsumption of less than 2% per year. tunities for connecting new subscribers. It has installed an automated substation control system integrated into the comThe company’s distribution enterprises are making purposeful As part of power grid development, 22.8 km high-voltage Customer Average Interruption mon information system of the high-voltage electric network efforts aimed at increasing availability of their power grids, speand cable transmission lines were built, and 97.3 km of them dispatch centre. It will allow for the remote equipment control cifically through revision and simplification of connection procewere retrofitted; 2,895.1 km of high-voltage transmission lines Duration Index (CAIDI), min and fault identification. dures and introduction of specialised communication channels. were repaired, of which 711.2 km were rewired. Moreover, For example, Kyivenergo launched a new web service for all its 130.5 •• The company completed construction of the double-circuit 22 substations and distribution points were upgraded and 118.5 customers called Personal Account for Grid Connection (see the 2,395 facilities were repaired. All these projects are aimed at 115.0 high-voltage 110 kV Ocheretyne–Avdiivka Coke Plant Branch Kyivenergo section). providing reliable and uninterrupted power supply to consumers Line. The new lines provide reliable power supply to Avdiivka and contribute to improving the quality of life in communities. and the plant thanks to the power supply from the govern. ment-controlled territory. The most part of Ukraine’s power grids was built in 1960–1970 and they were designed according to regulations of the 50’s. For this reason, the key problem of the industry is a high wear rate and non-compliance with modern technical requirements, Number of connections made in 2017 which is an obstacle for ensuring high-quality electricity supply to consumers and development of urban infrastructure. 2015 2016 2017 Standard connection NonThe company’s investment projects contribute to solving these CAIDI is the ratio of the sum of all customer interruption durations to the total number of First degree Second degree Third degree standard problems as they provide high-quality power supply to consumers, customer interruptions. The index is measured in minutes. conneceliminate the capacity deficit that arose in the process of urban Enterprise (up to 16 kW (from 16 kW to (from 50 kW to The index does not include force majeure situations and de-energizing according to inclusive) 50 kW inclusive) 160 kW inclusive tion development and reduce losses in electricity transmission. emergency shutdown schedules. Data are given for all distribution enterprises of the company, including Kyivenergo. city/town village city/town village city/town village DTEK Donetskoblenergo 346 300 66 6 6 2 28 Kyivenergo 526 – 292 – 2 – 293 DTEK Dniprooblenergo 2,176 1,280 891 334 11 5 194 DTEK Power Grid 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 Total 3,048 1,580 1,249 340 19 7 519 78 79 DTEK RENEWABLES: renewable energy DTEK OIL & GAS: gas production Development of various types of power generation can create a platform for the stable performance Ukraine set the goal to increase production of natural gas to fully cover its needs with its own gas of the Ukrainian energy sector in the future, given the need to replace capacities. DTEK is open to resources by 2020. Modern technologies and equipment play a big role in the efficiency of field innovation and new lines of business. The total portfolio of projects that DTEK Renewables plans to development and therefore for production growth. In terms of the technology level and equipment implement by 2020 is 1 GW. used assets of DTEK Oil & Gas have become the industry benchmark. Its experience is important for the progress of gas production in Ukraine, so the company constantly conducts specialised conferences and trainings open to all experts. Key projects in 2017: •• DTEK Renewables has started construction of the first stage During 2018 GE (General Electric) will supply and install 26 wind of Prymorska wind farm in Zaporizhia Region. turbines with the capacity of 3.8 MW each. The ordered wind turKey projects in 2017: bines are GE’s most advanced products that adapt to the direc•• Completion of drilling and commissioning of 5,600 meters deep stream chromatograph and humidity meter. This allows real-time tion and force of the wind. Installation and further maintenance The total capacity of the wind farm will be 200 MW; well No. 34 at Semyrenkivske Field. The well achieved a high determination of the content and physical and chemical propof the wind power equipment will be carried out by the GE office the investment volume will be EUR 300 million. Every year daily flowrate of 400,000 cubic meters of gas. The company erties of the gas, as well as monitoring the dew point temperain Ukraine. Prymorska wind farm will generate 650–700 million kWh used the method of pitless drilling for the first time to comply with ture (one of the key indicators of the quality of gas supplied to of green energy contributing to reducing СО2 emissions by •• Tryfanivka solar power plant with the capacity of 10 MW started the strictest international environmental standards. the main gas pipeline). 700–750* thousand tonnes per year. generating power. It was built and put into operation in August •• Flowrate intensification of well No. 51 at Machukhske Field. Moreover, the company retrofitted commercial metering units 2017. EUR 8.1 million, including borrowings, were invested The well was treated with acid, which more than doubled gas at Semyrenkivska complex gas treatment plant and Olefirivska in the project. By implementing it DTEK Renewables started production up to 150,000 cubic meters per day. preliminary gas treatment plant. The metering stations were also In 2017, the project implementation was agreed at public hearbuilding its target portfolio of solar power generation projects. equipped with automatic flow chromatographs, humidity meters ings of the local community in Primorsk, Borysivka village and •• Start of drilling of 5,714-meter-deep well No. 25 at SemyrenIn December 2017, the company agreed with the communiand redundant metering systems. Representatives of UkrtransBotievo joint local community. After that the company began kivske Field. ties of Nikopol District of Dnipropetrovsk Region to construct gaz PJSC and Ukrmetrteststandard SE noted the high project constructing the administration complex and the central distrithe solar power plant with the capacity of 200 MW. The company •• Retrofitting and upgrade of the surface infrastructure to ensure implementation level. Taking into account the fact that other bution point where the main control and automation equipment is preparing the necessary permission and project documentauninterrupted and safe operation of gas processing facilities. Ukrainian gas producing companies did not achieve such a conof the wind farm will be located, as well as high-voltage equiption for the project implementation. The power plant is planned vergence between the main and redundant systems, the reprement that provides supply of electricity to the grids. In 2017, the company’s large-scale infrastructure project was to be built in 2018. sentatives called the project the industry benchmark. the completion of retrofitting of the gas processing facility at Machukhske Field. This project enabled the plant to double its capacity – up to 2 million cubic meters of gas per day. * Electricity generation from fossil fuels is accompanied by emission of greenhouse gases. To estimate these emissions, a СО2 equivalent is used as a standardised reference for DTEK Oil & Gas became Ukraine’s first company to get all all emissions of greenhouse gases. To calculate the contribution of renewable energy sources to emission reductions the conversion factors for СО2 intensity per 1 kWh are used, A new gas processing line was constructed and equipped with its facilities ready to sell natural gas in energy units. This is calculated from averaged figures of thermal power plants. In 2010, the National Environmental Investment Agency of Ukraine established the standard of 1.063 kg of СО2 per 1 kWh. efficient separation and heat exchange equipment. In addition, an important condition of the Gas Transportation System an automated process control system was installed based on Code of Ukraine. Transition to energy units will contribute a new generation of Siemens equipment (Germany). As part of to sustainable market development in accordance with this project, DTEK Oil & Gas was the first among Ukrainian gas the requirements of the EU directives and regulations. producers to equip its gas metering station with an automatic DTEK RENEWABLES Botievo WPP Prymorsk WEP Orlivka WPP 200 МW 200 МW 100 МW Tryfanivka SPP Nikopol SPP 10 МW 200 МW 80 81 03 Financial results analysis The following income changes took place in the key business segments: •• income from coal sales increased by 14.8%, to UAH 6,704 mln, compared to UAH 5,838 mln a year earlier. Income from coal export amounted to UAH 1,832 mln compared to UAH 2,397 mln in 2016; •• income from electricity generation increased by 18.6% and amounted to UAH 56,248 mln compared to UAH 47,413 mln in 2016; •• income from electricity transmission and supply in the domestic market increased by 1.4% and amounted to UAH 54,303 mln compared For 2017, the consolidated revenue of DTEK Group was UAH 145,070 mln. The product to UAH 53,548 mln in 2016; distribution costs increased to UAH 111,891 mln. As of the end of 2017, the net profit amounted •• income from thermal energy production, including the compensation for the difference in tariffs, increased by 14.9% and amounted to to UAH 4,628 mln. UAH 10,296 mln; •• income from gas and gas condensate sale dropped by UAH 1,023 mln and amounted to UAH 10,395 mln compared to UAH 11,418 mln The net operating cash flow for 2017 was UAH 23,754 mln (in 2016, it was UAH 26,314 mln). in 2016. The capital expenditures increased by 33.5% and amounted to UAH 10,388 mln. Cost of goods sold In 2017, the cost of goods sold increased by UAH 6,067 mln and amounted to UAH 111,891 mln. The increase in the cost of goods sold is linked to a rise in the expenses on process fuel, equipment, and consumables. Dynamics of the consolidated financial performance of DTEK Group, UAH mln* As of 2017, the gross profit was UAH 33,179 mln, which exceeds the respective 2016 indicator by UAH 7,188 mln. The gross margin increased from 19.7% in 2016 to 22.9% in 2017. Indicators 2017 2016 Change, +/– Change, % Revenue 145,070 131,815 +13,255 +10.1 Operating expenses and income As of 2017, the general and administrative costs grew by 12.1% and amounted to UAH 3,040 mln. The main general and administrative Cost of goods sold (111,891) (105,824) +(6,067) +(5.7) expense item is staff costs, including payroll taxes, which accounted for 65.7% of all general and administrative costs in 2017. Selling expenses increased by 9.5% and amounted to UAH 1,575 mln, which was caused by an increase in transportation costs. Operating income 1,260 714 +546 +76.5 Other operating expenses dropped by 34.9% and amounted to UAH 3,742 mln. The decrease in other operating expenses is mainly due Operating expenses (3,742) (5,752) –(2,010) –(34.9) to the restoration of reserves for accounts receivable as well as the reduction in charitable donations and sponsorship expenses in 2017. EBITDA 37,195 30,621 +6,574 +21.5 Other operating incomes dropped by 76.5% and amounted to UAH 1,260 mln. EBITDA margin 26% 23% +3 pp +10.3 EBIT 26,484 18,923 +7,561 +40.0 Liabilities and equity EBIT margin 18% 14% +4 pp +27.1 Since the end of 2016, the volume of credits and loans had grown from UAH 73,177 mln to UAH 81,213 mln by the end of 2017. In 2017, DTEK Group restructured a significant portion of its bank borrowings amounting to UAH 14,035 mln by signing supplementary contracts Net profit (loss) 4,628 (1,215) +5,843 +480.9 to reschedule the principal debt repayment. In addition, during the restructuring, financial liabilities amounting to UAH 6,437 mln were converted into borrowings. In 2017, the company also obtained a loan from Ukrgasbank in the amount of UAH 215 mln. Assets 152,492 140,597 +11,895 +8.5 Long-term and short-term financial liabilities in 2017 decreased by 61.8%, or by UAH 11,895 mln, and amounted to UAH 7,340 mln. Capital investments 10,388 7,781 +2,607 +33.5 As of the end of 2017, DTEK Group’s accounts payable dropped by 9%, from UAH 18,695 mln to UAH 17,015 mln. Advances received as * All data in the Financial Results Analysis section are sourced from the audited consolidated statements of DTEK B.V. of 31 December 2017 decreased by 3.2% and amounted to UAH 8,327 mln. Assets Income In 2017, the assets of DTEK Group increased by 8.5% compared to 2016 and amounted to UAH 152,492 mln. The income of DTEK Group is derived from electricity wholesale to SE Energorynok, the sale of coal, gas and gas condensate, as well as the distribution of electric and thermal power to end consumers. The book value of non-current assets increased by 16%, to UAH 108,877 mln. Current assets decreased by UAH 3,094 mln, from UAH 46,709 mln in 2016 to UAH 43,615 mln in 2017. This change is mainly caused by an 18.9% drop in current financial investments in In 2017, income from the sale of electricity to end consumers in Ukraine and exports accounted for 42% of the consolidated revenue; 2017 compared to 2016. the income from electricity wholesale to SE Energorynok – 39%; gas and gas condensate sale – 7.2%; sale of thermal energy to end consumers – 6.6%; sale of coal – 4.6%. The major part of the income – 94% of the consolidated revenue (including the compensation for the difference in heat tariffs) – was Cash flow generated by the company in the Ukrainian domestic market. The share of export income in the consolidated revenue was 6%: as of the end of 2017, the income from export sales increased by UAH 1,679 mln year-over-year up to UAH 8,435 mln. In 2017, the net cash flow from operating activities dropped by UAH 2,560 mln and amounted to UAH 23,754 mln. At the same time, the investment activity payments in 2017 decreased by UAH 684 mln compared to 2016 and amounted to UAH 15,892 mln. Expenditures on financial activities in 2017 amounted to UAH 8,500 mln. 82 83 Corporate governance 01 Corporate governance structure 03 Compliance and corporate ethics 02 Supervisory boards of operating holding companies 04 Dividend policy 01 Corporate governance structure 02 Supervisory boards of operating holding companies Structure of the supervisory boards The corporate governance system of DTEK Group is established in accordance with the best global standards of public international corporations, which contributes to implementing the company’s DTEK ENERGY B.V. DTEK RENEWABLES B.V. DTEK OIL & GAS B.V. strategic development priorities. This ensures not only the independence of each line of business, Оleg Popov Oleg Popov Oleg Popov but also the transparency and effectiveness of decisions taken at all governance levels. Damir Akhmetov Damir Akhmetov Damir Akhmetov Iryna Mykh Iryna Mykh Iryna Mykh Sergey Korovin Sergey Korovin Sergey Korovin Johan Bastin Johan Bastin Robert Sheppard DTEK B.V. Catherine Stalker Robert Sheppard Corporate Secretary of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK OIL&GAS B.V. and DTEK RENEWABLES B.V. (without voting rights) is Oleksiy Povolotskyi. General Meeting of Shareholders Management Board DTEK DTEK DTEK DTEK ENERGY B.V. GRIDS B.V. RENEWABLES B.V. OIL & GAS B.V. General Meeting General Meeting General Meeting of Shareholders General Meeting of Shareholders of Shareholders of Shareholders Oleg Popov Damir Akhmetov Supervisory Supervisory Supervisory Board Board Board Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., Member of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., Management DTEK OIL&GAS B.V. and DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., DTEK OIL&GAS B.V. and DTEK RENEWABLES B.V.; CEO of SCM JSC Chairman of SCM Advisors (UK) Limited Management Board Management Management Board Board Board Graduated from the Donetsk Polytechnic Institute in 1991 and In 2010, he graduated from Sir John Cass Business School (City, from the Donetsk State University in 1996. University of London) with a MSc in Finance. From 1991 to 2000, he worked in various state institutions. Since February 1, 2013, he has worked at SCM Advisors (UK) Limited, where he currently holds the office of Chairman. He was invited to join SCM as deputy general director in 2000. He held the office of executive director from 2001 to 2006. Damir Akhmetov is also a member of the Supervisory Board of Oleg Popov has been CEO of SMC since January 2006. He is Metinvest B.V. Strategic Holding DTEK B.V. exercises general management Management boards are the executive bodies of the companies also the chairman of the supervisory boards of FC Shakhtar and of operating holdings. At the same time, the supervisory board responsible for managing day-to-day activities and implementFUIB PJSC, and is on the supervisory board of Metinvest B.V. provides strategic management of the corresponding line of ing the strategy approved by the supervisory boards. business and monitors managerial actions. Since 2008, DTEK He approves key financial, investment and personnel decisions has been putting independent directors on the supervisory The quality of the corporate governance contributes to related to both the management company and SCM Group’s boards: there are currently three of them on the operating holdthe successful development and improvement of the compaassets and assesses the performance of their directors. ings’ supervisory boards. Managers regularly present reports ny’s investment attractiveness. It also gives additional assuron the execution of previously adopted decisions on in-person ances to shareholders, partners, customers and contributes to meetings of the board. the strengthening of the internal control system. 86 87 Sergey Korovin Iryna Mykh Robert Sheppard Johan Bastin Member of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., Member of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., Member of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., Member of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V. and DTEK OIL&GAS B.V. and DTEK RENEWABLES B.V. DTEK OIL&GAS B.V. and DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., DTEK OIL&GAS B.V., Independent Director, DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., Managing Partner of Iveaghouse Senior lawyer of SCM JSC Chairman of IPM Advisors Capital Investment Advisors In 1993, Sergey Korovin graduated with honours from the Faculty of Applied Mathematics and Cybernetics of the Lomonosov Iryna Mykh graduated from the law school of the Ivan Franko Robert Sheppard graduated from the University of Wyoming in Dr. Bastin holds a MSc in Urban Planning from the Eindhoven UniMoscow State University. State University in Lviv in 1994. She later studied at the Osgoode 1972 and has a Bachelor’s degree in Physics and Mathematics. versity of Technology in the Netherlands and a Ph.D. in Regional Hall Law School, York University, Toronto, Canada. He graduated from the Columbia Business School in 1991 with an Planning with a specialty in Public Administration and PubIn 2002–2008, he worked at the Danish and Russian offices of Executive MBA degree. lic Finance from the Université de Montréal in Canada. He also the international consultancy McKinsey & Company. Starting From 1996 to 2006, she was a senior lawyer at Siletskyi and attended the MBA programme at the McGill University in Monin 2008, Sergey Korovin was responsible for working with Partners, an affiliate of Squire, Sanders & Dempsey LLP, where He began his career in the oil industry at Amoco in 1972. treal. telecommunications companies and served as a member of she became a partner in 2006. From June to October 2008, In the mid-1980s, he worked at Amoco Exploration as a vice the Board of Microsoft’s Russian office. she was a legal adviser to Ukrainian Agrarian Investments Group president. He was Executive Director at GUPCO (Gulf of Suez From 1985 to 1992, Mr. Bastin served as Resident Team Direcowned by Renaissance Capital. She then worked as Head of Petroleum Company) from 1992 to 1995. He was President and tor at Harvard University’s Institute for International Development In 2010–2017, he was Director of Energy Business Development General Director of Amoco representative offices in Argentina the Legal Department of Klub Syra Ltd. until June 2009. She was (HIID) in Indonesia, providing advice to Indonesia’s Minister of at SCM JSC. and Egypt from 1995 to 1998. He worked as Chief Operata senior lawyer at Voropayev & Partners law firm until 2017. Finance on infrastructure investment, fiscal decentralization and ing Officer and then as President of Sidanco from 1998 until it privatization of state-owned companies. From 1993 to 2002, he Iryna Mykh currently holds the office of senior lawyer at SCM JSC. merged with BP. From 2002 to 2004, he was Senior Vice Presiheld several senior management positions with the European dent at BP responsible for overseeing assets in Russia. Later on, Bank for Reconstruction and Development in London (UK), he was appointed as General Director of Soma Oil and Gas. lastly as Business Group Director responsible for loans and equity investments in infrastructure, transport and energy utiliHe is currently the chairman of consulting company IPM Advisors ties, municipal and environmental services and energy efficiency and Non-Executive Director of Soma Oil and Gas. across the entire EBRD’s geography. After the EBRD, from 2002 until 2009, Mr. Bastin was Managing Director at Darby Private Equity, a major private equity fund manager and subsidiary of Franklin Templeton Investments, providing mezzanine finance to companies in Central and Southeast Europe. From 2009 until 2015, Mr. Bastin was CEO of CapAsia, an international fund and asset management company headquartered in Singapore and focusing on private equity investment in the infrastructure and energy sectors in Southeast and Central Asia. Since mid-2015, Dr. Bastin is a managing partner of Iveaghouse Capital Investment Advisors, a Netherlands-based investment boutique, advising on corporate strategy, investment finance, renewable energy and M&A. Catherine Stalker Oleksiy Povolotskyi Member of the Supervisory Board of DTEK ENERGY B.V., Corporate Secretary of the Supervisory Boards of Independent Director DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK OIL & GAS B.V., DTEK RENEWABLES B.V.; Acting Director of corporate Catherine Stalker graduated from the Heriot Watt University governance, risk management and compliance of DTEK LLC; in Edinburgh (UK) with a Bachelor’s degree and obtained her lawyer Master’s degree from the London School of Economics. Oleksiy Povolotskyi graduated from the law school of the Kharkiv She began her career in 1991 with the Bank of England as University of Internal Affairs. Later on, he obtained a Master’s a research analyst and banking supervisor. From 1995 to 2007, degree in the Scarman Centre at the University of Leicester (UK). she worked at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Moscow and Berlin, where she was the Partner in charge of the client practice for HR management in the CEE-CIS region. She led client projects Before becoming a lawyer at Squire, Sanders & Dempsey LLP, on executive compensation, organizational restructuring and an international law firm, he taught law and held the position of human resource management. the director of international relations department at the Kharkiv University of Internal Affairs. Catherine is now based in the UK where she advises a range of companies on corporate governance, with particular focus on He joined DTEK in 2010. He is currently responsible for developthe effectiveness of their boards. ing and maintaining a corporate governance system within the entire DTEK Group, building a centralized risk management system as well as implementing compliance functions and anticorruption policies. He is a member of the Board of the Professional Association of Corporate Governance and a member of the Ukrainian Bar Association. 88 89 Activities of committees under supervisory boards 03 Compliance and corporate ethics Committees are consulting and advisory bodies under supervisory boards of operating holding DTEK Group conducts its business openly and transparently, in full compliance with the regulatory companies that review and prepare recommendations on field-specific matters for subsequent requirements of the jurisdictions of its enterprises and companies. DTEK’s unconditional priority approval by supervisory boards. Meetings of the committees are held on a regular basis. is ethical business conduct with zero tolerance for corruption. Audit committees under the Supervisory Boards Committee on appointments, remunerations and DTEK openly declares its anti-corruption standards and pays •• Training employees in ethical and anti-corruption standof DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK OIL&GAS B.V. and corporate governance under the Supervisory special attention to the development of compliance culture. ards and the basics of sanctions compliance. Since 2017, DTEK’s anti-corruption programme was highly appreciated in these areas have been included in the training programme DTEK RENEWABLES B.V. Board of DTEK ENERGY B.V. the Transparency in Corporate Reporting study conducted by for all of the company’s employees. An e-course has been the experts of Transparency International Ukraine*, an independdeveloped for distance learning. In addition, trainings are conChairman: S. Korovin Chairman: C. Stalker ent international organization. ducted monthly for managers and employees exposed to high Committee member: I. Mykh Committee member: O. Popov compliance risk. In 2013, the company enacted the Code of Ethics and BusiMain tasks: Main tasks: ness Conduct which established the principles of relations with •• Check of counterparties, assessment of corruption and authorities and counterparties, as well as those of preventsanctions risks. A new compliance questionnaire has been •• supervision of the internal control and risk management sys•• assistance to managers in raising the effectiveness of personing conflicts of interest among employees. The requirements developed to identify counterparty risks within the framework tem, internal and external audit; nel management and corporate governance systems; of the Code and the compliance policy are implemented by of KYC (know your client) procedures and continuous moni•• analysis and consideration of validity and reliability of financial •• monitoring and preparation of recommendations on the comthe compliance management department. The members of toring of transactions using a risk-based approach. All conand other reports; pany’s non-market strategy (social initiatives and partnerthe supervisory boards and the officers of holding companies tracts with counterparties include an anti-corruption and ships, reputation management, GR) for managers; actively support the department’s initiatives, which contribute to anti-sanctions clause, which is common practice in interna•• consideration of matters related to risk management systems, strengthening the compliance culture. In particular, in December tional companies but not widely used in domestic business so internal control and compliance with applicable law; •• monitoring and preparation of recommendations on imple2016, the supervisory boards of all operating holding companies far. This clause reflects changes in the risk assessment and menting the best global practices in corporate governance for approved a compliance function strategy that introduces new was developed taking into account the recommendations of •• preparation of recommendations for the supervisory boards managers, as well as motivation, assessment, remuneration approaches in the ollowing areas: the national legislation, international principles and legislaon candidates for auditors approving financial statements; and development of top managers; tion, best foreign practices and the experience of sanction •• evaluation of the scope and quality of audit procedures, as well •• Approval of regulatory documents. Rules and procedures enforcement. •• preparation of recommendations on appointing top managers require the compliance management department’s participaas the degree of independence and impartiality of the auditor. for the supervisory board; tion in the processes of harmonizing the companies’ regula•• Approval of contracts where a counterparty and/or •• preparation of recommendations on the structure of the supertory documents: regulations, policies and procedures. the essence is associated with increased compliance visory board and its committees; risk. It is required that donation transactions in the field of •• Corporate investigations. The compliance management sustainability, charity, gifts, mergers and acquisitions be •• monitoring compliance with the basic principles and legisladepartment participates in corporate investigations on variapproved by the compliance management department. Labour Safety and Environmental Protection tive requirements of corporate governance in the company’s ous report categories (as part of the investigation team or as Committees under the Supervisory Boards of jurisdictions, as well as with corporate governance standards an expert). The company continues operating an automated system of DTEK ENERGY B.V. and DTEK OIL & GAS B.V. of DTEK Group. •• Risk assessment of conflicts of interest among employaccounting for and approval of business gifts and business hosees. Self-disclosure of potential conflicts of interests among pitality. The Code of ethics and business conduct, as well as Chairman: R. Sheppard employees was implemented. It is conducted when hiring the company’s internal rules, set limits to hospitality and giving Committee member: I. Mykh and promoting an employee to another position or enterprise and accepting business gifts. Main tasks: of the DTEK Group. The company annually runs a conflict of interest disclosure aimed at minimizing the risks of such situ­ •• identification of occupational safety and environmental proations. tection risks, development of measures to minimize them; •• development of a motivation system for the staff to observe * Transparency International Ukraine is a representative office of the international anti-corruption non-governmental organization Transparency International. The study was conducted to assess the implementation of compliance policies in the largest companies of the country and was published in 2017. The study looked at websites and legal documents of 50 private occupational safety rules; companies and holding companies, as well as 50 state companies. https://ti-ukraine.org/research/prozorist-korporatyvnoi-zvitnosti/ •• carrying out trainings on emergency elimination at the enterprises of DTEK Group. 04 Dividend policy DTEK’s dividend policy is based on maintaining the balance between the need to invest in the development of production facilities and the shareholders’ right to participate in the distribution of the company’s profits. Such approach is the determining factor contributing to the long-term growth of the shareholder value of DTEK. 90 91 Sustainability 04 Occupational health and industrial safety 01 Sustainability 05 Environmental protection 02 Society 06 Sustainable power engineering 03 Employees 07 Annexes 1-3 Sustainability 5 key areas of social partnership programmes 1. Energy efficiency in the utilities sector 2,607.3 mln UAH 2. Health care Environmental protection including environmental tax 3. Development of socially-important infrastructure 4. Increasing local communities' activity 517.1 mln UAH 5. Development of business environment 3.5 Occupational health and safety 197.6 mln UAH bln UAH Social infrastructure maintenance DTEK Group invested in sustainability 40.8 mln UAH projects in 2017 Employee training As part of social partnership, DTEK Group supports projects 172.6 mln UAH that create more comfortable living conditions in the cities Social partnership located in the areas of its enterprises 14 utility networks (heat, water and gas pipelines) Energy-Efficient Schools: New Generation project: energy efficiency training for schoolchildren 41 parks and recreation areas The training session was held in 231 children's playgrounds and sports grounds 858 schools in 23 regions of Ukraine 5 sports facilities in the 2017/2018 academic year +11 times by 2016 126 educational institutions Your Hometown Begins with You project: development of 8 medical facilities and rehabilitation centers social activity and initiative among the residents were created, repaired, landscaped and equipped in 2017 16,000 residents participated directly +2.2 times by 2016 01 Sustainability Sustainability Objectives and Management Membership in Associations, International and National Organizations DTEK is a participant of the United Nations Global Compact network and a member of the Global Compact Alliance in Ukraine. DTEK is a member of the European Business Association and the American Chamber of Commerce, the European-Ukrainian Energy Agency, and the U.S. — Ukraine Business Council. DTEK is one of the founders of Energy for Society, a global social initiative of energy companies. DTEK is a member of professional associations: the European Association for Coal and Lignite (EURACOAL), the Union of DTEK is a member of CSR Centre, an expert organization that the Electricity Industry (EURELECTRIC), European Federation Sustainability objectives are integrated into the business strategy of the company. DTEK openly promotes corporate social responsibility to achieve compreof Energy Traders (EFET). informs stakeholders about important issues of its development. As the company's policy prehensive and profound changes in Ukraine. scribes, all actions and resolutions match the society interests. In its policy, the company focuses on the rational use of resources In 2017, company continued working on the following: Key Events and Public Recognition in 2017 and reduced impact on environment, keeping its personnel health •• Creating a system to preserve the health and life of employees and improving industrial and occupational safety standards, and extend their time in employment February observance of the corporate ethics standards and fulfillment of its obligations to the employees and society. With this purpose, DTEK In Halych central hospital, Ivano-Frankivsk region, with the participation of the President of Ukraine, a new building was opened, for •• Creating conditions for sustainable development and improvGroup improves its production and management processes, which the company acquired an anesthesia machine as part of the social partnership programme. ing the quality of life of local communities in the regions where introduces the best standards of industrial and environmental the company operates safety, invests in the employees' development and occupational April safety, and implements the best international practices for social •• Enhancing energy awareness of Ukrainian organizations, For the first time in Kurakhove there was a large Come on, let us play! football tournament. development of communities. companies and citizens In Lviv, with the support of the company, the Forum for Cooperation and Partnership was held — a landmark dialog platform between In its activities, DTEK Group is guided by the Sustainable Develop•• Securing efficient power generation, transmission and supply local government bodies, local executive bodies, public and international organizations, business, international donors. ment Policy of SCM Group and DTEK's Corporate Social Respon•• Compliance with the best practices in the industries regarding sibility Policy. Dobropillia Educational Complex No. 1 was the first educational institution in Ukraine where Blower-Door Test was conducted, a techno­ efficient use of energy resources logy that accurately determines the places of heat loss for the subsequent thermal modernization of a building. •• Compliance with the highest international standards of business ethnics and the best business practices. May The Energy-Efficient Schools: New Generation project won the national contest of corporate social responsibility projects and was recognized as the best social project in Ukraine contributing to the achievement of the UN sustainable development goal No. 12 Ensuring Sustainable Consumption and Production Patterns . DTEK's main principle is to maintain a stable social partnership with the communities and local self-governance bodies of regions operations, to make those towns more comfortable to live in. The Sustainability Committee of DTEK and Regional Policy Directorate of DTEK Energy plan and June implement the sustainable development projects. 42 territories where the company operates were involved in the Your Hometown Begins with You project. September The Committees' tasks are: Stakeholders: The Energy-Efficient Schools: New Generation project is being implemented at national level. All Ukrainian schools received free •• Identification of challenges and approval of social develop•• Employees and their families access to the online platform energyschool.org.ua where the students can take two courses on energy efficiency and take part in ment strategies for the regions of operations the Smart House game. •• Citizens in areas where the company operates •• Approval of reform plans of social facilities on the balance sheet of DTEK Group •• Non-governmental organizations •• Development of the occupational medicine system •• Local authorities November •• Implementation of the environmental protection strategy •• Experts and analytical centers Zelenodolsk and Dobropillia became the first cities in Ukraine to join the UN Global Compact. •• Consideration of non-production issues that can significantly •• Academic circles and scientific community affect fulfillment of the company's business targets. •• Media •• Population of Ukraine as a whole. December The Directorate' tasks are: The performance of the development programmes and social and economic situation was evaluated using the City Progress Index •• Planning, implementation, monitoring and assessment of effimethodology, which was developed jointly with Deloitte and allows development of a road map for the sustainable development of ciency of social projects communities. Researches were carried out on 6 territories where the company operates — Aleksandrovskiy and Dobropilsky districts, Cooperation with stakeholders is an important compoDobropillia, Belitskoe, Belozerskoe, Novodonetskoe (Donetsk region). •• Cooperation with stakeholders nent of sustainable development. The company adheres to the principle of information transparency and provides the •• Development of corporate social responsibility in Ukraine stakeholders with information about its activities. Partner­ •• Participation in Ukrainian and international sustainable deve­ ship and constructive dialog with stakeholders are conlopment initiatives. ducted on a systematic basis, which allows them to receive timely information about their interests and expectations. 96 97 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns DTEK follows the principles of sustainable social development and is a party to the UN Global Compact. Under the social partnership programmes with the territories where the 6 to 11 grade schoolchildren are trained on rational consumption of energy resources in everyday life and master the acquired skills through the implementation of projects on energy efficiency under the Energy company operates, the projects are implemented ensuring the achievement of the goals of the Efficient Schools: New Generation project. Energy-efficient activities, which are implemented by schools UN Global Compact. under the training programme can reduce electricity consumption to 20.5%. DTEK ESCO carried out 14 energy-efficient projects for the enterprises of steel, energy and coal industries employing the energy service mechanism. As a result of completed projects, energy consumption was reduced by 35–90%. At DTEK Energy TPP, the energy management system is being implemented under the international standard ISO 50001:2011. This will unify approaches to power saving and bring them in line with Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages international practice, increase the efficiency of energy resources, and improve the culture of energy In 2017, 14 projects were implemented aimed at promoting a healthy lifestyle. saving. This allowed the opening of 90 sport facilities (see the Society for the details). Retail customers were offered a comprehensive solution for rational energy consumption — a set of energy-efficient products and services Smart WATT (see the Society, Sustainable Energy, and Investment Projects for the details). Ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts The Energy-Efficient Schools: New Generation project reduced the inequality within city and village In 2017, the company became a member of the working groups on the implementation of Directive schools in access to modern teaching methods due to the creation of an open online platform energy­ 2003/87/EC requirements to the establishing of a scheme for trade in greenhouse gas emissions. school.org.ua. In 2015 — 4% of the total quantity of village schools participated in the project and in 2017 The participation in the system of monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions has — 36%. The transition to online platform ensured the increase in number of the schools participating in been initiated. The pilot project is being implemented at DTEK Zaporizka TPP (see the Environmental the project from 79 in the 2016/2017 academic year to 858 in the 2017/2018 academic year. Protection for the details). Employees of the company under the development of professional competencies are provided with the free Reducing greenhouse gas emissions is facilitated by the implementation of renewable energy projects. self-education in the corporate university — DTEK Academy (see the Society, Employees for the details). Thanks to the operation of Botievo WPP (200 MW capacity) and Tryfanivka SPP (10 MW capacity), СО2 emissions were reduced by 680,000 tonnes in 2017. Further reduction of emissions is facilitated by the projects for construction of Prymorsk WPP (200 MW) and Nikopol SPP (200 MW). Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all The general principle of water resources management applied by all companies is economical Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage and rational utilization. Enterprises use both circulating water supply systems and reuse of water forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss (see the Environmental Protection for the details). Since 2013, the distribution enterprises of the company continued implementing programmes for ornithological safety of electric networks. Coal mining enterprises of the company perform compensatory forest planting to restore plantations disturbed during mining operations. Also biological re-cultivation of lands is carried out. In 2017, Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all 13 hectares of forest were planted and 23.86 hectares of land were reclaimed. The company develops the renewable business. The Botievo WPP, with a capacity of 200 MW, generates more than 600 million kWh per year. The Tryfanivka SPP built in 2017 will generate 11–12 million kWh per year. This is enough to provide more than 200,000 households with electricity Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable (see the Production operations, Investment Projects for the details). development The company develops partnership relations with international donor organizations, state funds for implementation of joint projects in the field of sustainable development in the areas where the company Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment operates. In 2017, 66 partnership projects were supported (see the Society for the details). and decent work for all In order to develop the business environment in communities with a monoeconomy, the preferences are given to local contractors. This approach was implemented in 10 areas where the company operates. In addition, with a view to develop entrepreneurship, an infrastructure has been created and maintained The UN Global Compact includes 17 goals to provide consultations and technical assistance in drawing up business plans and fund raising for the regions. In 2017, despite unstable social and economic conditions, the company raised the salaries to the employees, a social package was preserved. The total amount of social benefits for the employees, including pensioners and veterans, was UAH 494 million (see the Society, Employees for the details). Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation INDUSTRY, INNOVATION In 2017, the projects were implemented to improve the quality of socially important infrastructure: AND INFRASTRUCTURE 14 utility networks are modernized, 41 recreation areas are landscaped, 134 medical facilities and educational institutions are repaired, 231 children's playgrounds and sports grounds are open. While implementing the projects, the company uses/provides for use modern and innovative technologies/equipment (see the Society, Sustainable Energy for the details). Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable PEACE AND JUSTICE Programmes of social partnership with the areas where the company operates are aimed at ensuring STRONG INSTUTIONS sustainable development and cover 55 areas. The programmes are implemented in five key areas: energy efficiency in the utilities sector, health care, supporting socially-important infrastructure, developing business environment and increasing local communities' activity. The company annually implements projects in these areas (see the Society for the details). 98 99 02 Society Social Partnership Programmes Your Hometown Begins with You Interregional Project The main goal of the project is the development of public activity and initiative among the residents, involving them in solving the problems of the areas. The company has been implementing the project for six years. Under the project, every resident has the opportunity to contribute to improving the Программы социального партнерства Since building trust with the society is a prerequisite for the company's business, it pays great quality of life of his district, city, village. Supporting the initiatives of the residents, the company helps everyone to realize their importance in the sustainable development of the community. attention to social partnership with communities. The main goal of the social partnership programmes is to ensure sustainable social, economic and cultural development of communities by improving the quality of life of people in the areas where DTEK Group operates. The Your Hometown Begins with You project consists of a com•• Youth Center is a place for the implementation of chalpetition for mini-grants, for which residents can submit their lenging ideas! — the center's activities are aimed at realizing project for the improvement of local facilities. The selection of the potential of the new generation, the development of creativthe best projects involves local communities through the website ity and social activity (Bilytske, Donetsk region) Instruments of sustainable development of the communities Strategies are developed jointly by business, local authorities, of the social partnership programme http://spp-dtek.com.ua/, where an online voting is conducted for each project. In 2017, •• A guest at a fairy tale — cultural and entertaining tourist are the strategies for the territories' social and economic experts, and the public, whose representatives form committees 64,200 residents took part in the voting. space for guests and residents of the district (Halych district, development, which are developed on the basis of the road for managing and implementing strategies. Then the strategies Ivano-Frankivsk region) map principle. This allows to offer comprehensive solutions for are approved by local authorities, and the committees monitor In addition, the evaluation of the best projects is carried out by a the most acute problems. This approach allows the community their implementation. This allows involvement and uniting of •• Village stadium — landscaping the stadium and popularizcompetitive commission, which included the head of the UN Global to raise funds for the implementation of social projects – both the population in solving acute and urgent issues of sustainability. ing a healthy lifestyle (Zaozernoe, Vinnytsia region). Compact in Ukraine, representatives of the company, the media, from business and government funds, and from international and athletes. The commission identified five best projects, which In 2017, the project was expanded by a contest of ideas for donor organizations. received additional grants in the amount of UAH 20 to 100,000. a large grant — this allowed residents to submit projects to improve the city space. 154 ideas were submitted by the comInvestments in the directions of social Number of projects implemented under The winners of the national stage were: munities in 15 pilot territories. The contest commission selected the best ideas of each of the territories, and then the working partnership programmes in 2017, UAH mln the social partnership programmes in 2017, group developed and implemented the project. In cooperation •• HUB TOBIG Greenhouse of public and business venunits tures of the city — creative space for supporting business with the local communities, the central town square was opened projects and innovations in the social sphere (Pavlograd, in Ternovka, sports ground in the skate-land-park in Pavlograd, 2.0 72 1 Dnipro­petrovsk region) winter sports ground in Pershotravensk, a football field in Schastiye; the central street in Dobrotvir is landscaped, the children's 86.6 3.3 7 •• Heat insulation of joints of concrete plates — four apartplayground in the city park of Dobropillia is comprehensively ment building co-owners associations are united to conduct landscaped; a space for recreational facilities for the residents 13 heat insulation in residential buildings (Belozerskoe, Donetsk of Novodonetskoe is arranged; the hall of the Community Center region) in Belozerskoe was renovated. Total Total 172.6 168 Development of the Your Hometown Begins with You project, mini-grants 39.8 75 Indicators 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 40.9 Number of settlements that took part in the project 18 19 15 38 42 Number of applications submitted for the consideration 262 401 396 500 539 by the commissions Energy efficiency in the utilities sector Energy efficiency in the utilities sector Development of socially-important infrastructure Development of socially-important infrastructure Number of winning projects 105 167 140 210 268 Increasing local communities' activity Increasing local communities' activity Number of residents who took part in the project 5,600 6,535 5,918 7,222 16,000 Health care Health care Development of business environment Development of business environment The maximum size of the mini-grant from the company, UAH 20,000 20,000 30,000 30,000 50,000 Fund raising by the communities, UAH mln 1.4 1.2 2.0 2.3 6.0 Social partnership programmes consist of interregional From 2007 to 2017, within the framework of social partnerprojects and local projects, which are designed taking into ship programmes, about 2,000 projects were implemented, account the specifics of each community. in which DTEK Group invested more than UAH 1,039 million. 100 101 Energy-Efficient Schools: New Generation 5 Key Areas of Social Interregional Project Partnership Programmes Energy-efficient schools: new generation, energyschool.org.ua is an online educational programme DTEK Group implements social partnership programmes in 55 areas where the company operates. on energy efficiency for schoolchildren of 6–11 grades aimed at fostering environmental values, The social investments are allocated in five key directions: energy efficiency in the utilities sector, responsible attitude to energy consumption and formation of skills in rational energy use. health care, supporting socially-important infrastructure, developing business environment and Two training courses developed by the company under the project — Fundamentals of Energy increasing local communities' activity. Saving and Energy Consumption, and The ABC of Housing and Utilities Management — were ratified by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. In addition, they participated in the Smart House online game as well as in social and creative contests with the participation of the parents. 1. Energy efficiency in the utilities sector Energy efficiency is the driver of sustainable economic development in Ukraine. DTEK Group invests in projects that increase utility-sector energy efficiency and social infrastructure, and upgrade of street lighting in cities and settlements. Important condition for improving the quality of the communities' life is upgrade of heat supply systems and the implementation of enerIn 2017, 79 schools from 32 settlements of Vinnytsia, Donetsk, attracted from other donors. The Heat Keepers company allocated gy-efficient measures of socially important facilities — kindergartens, schools, hospitals, public places. Dnepropetrovsk, Ivano Frankivsk, Zaporozhye, Lugansk regions UAH 2.3 million for the insulation of the roof of the school No.1 and Kiev took part in the project. This allowed the project to cover in Dobropillia. First, the school conducted special studies using In 2017, the efforts in the field of heat supply were directed to purchase equipment and materials for repair work. So, in Pershotravensk 41,300 people — students, parents, and teachers. Blower-Door Test — a technology that accurately determines the a boiler was purchased for the Pivdenna boiler house which heats 70 % of the residential properties and social facilities. In Zelenolevel of heat in the building and the place of air losses. After this, dolsk, heat meters have been installed for 7,000 residents and consultations have been held on the rational use of energy resources. For the acquired skills consolidation, an interregional contest is a set of measures for the insulation of the loft with lcynene eco In the cities of Greater Dobropillia, the company, in partnership with the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), held, in which students develop energy-efficient measures for foam. According to the experts' calculations, in the next heating supported the opening of the Resource Center of apartment building co-owners association on lean energy issues under the Munictheir school aimed at saving and rational use of heat and elecseason, the heat savings will be about 30 %, which will signifiipal Energy Reform in Ukraine project. For Botievo united territorial community, a gas fiscal metering instrument was installed, tricity. The best projects of schoolchildren receive mini-grants in cantly reduce the load on the school boiler room and, as a result, which allowed to connect the settlement to the gas distribution system Zaporozhgaz . The project made the residents feel comfortable the amount of up to UAH 50,000. In 2017, the company allocated will reduce the CO2 emissions. during the autumn-winter heating season. In addition, the company installed a solid fuel boiler and reconstructed the heat supply sysgrants to 43 schools for the implementation of projects. The introtem in the general education school in Botievo. duction of energy-efficient measures allowed schools to reduce electricity consumption by 170,000 kWh. In general, electricity conAnother innovation of the project in the 2017/2018 academic Energy-efficient measures (replacement of windows, door blocks, in some cases — replacement of radiators, installation of new pipelines) sumption in schools involved in the project is reduced by 20.5 %. year was the creation of virtual interregional classes to study were carried out in community halls of Mikhailovka in Vinnytsia region, Silets and Polonichnaya in Lviv region, in schools No. 1 and No. 2, the ABC of housing and utilities management and participation in kindergartens Ivushka , Rosinka in Schastiye, Lugansk region, in schools No.1 and No.2, kindergarten Beryozka in Petropavlovka It should be noted that for the first time under the Energy-Effithe Smart House game. High school students from Burshtyn and of Lugansk region, Stepanovsk school of Donetsk region. cient Schools: New Generation project, the investments were Zelenodolsk are united in three interregional classes. Street lighting remains an acute problem for many territories: it is either absent or requires significant modernization. An unsatisfactory state of lighting negatively affects the level of personal safety, and due to the poor condition of roads, it increases the risk of injury, especially during the winter. To partially solve this problem, there were financed the projects on street lighting modernization in 14 areas Development of the Energy-Efficient Schools: New Generation Interregional project where the company operates. Main streets and places in the villages of Aleksandrovsky, Dobropillia, Halych and Kamenka-Bugsky districts (Donetsk, Ivano-Frankivsk and Lviv regions) were lighted. In Burshtyn (Ivano-Frankivsk region), lighting was installed in the central city square and in the street, in Kurakhovo and adjacent settlements (Donetsk region) for the first time in many years street lighting appeared, in Pershotravensk and Ladyzhin (Dnipropetrovsk and Vinnytsia regions) main streets were lightened. Number of schools 11 55 150 79 858 2. Health care 1 20 11 32 475 DTEK Group pays great attention to the issue of health care so that the employees of its enterprises and local residents receive quality medical care in time. Number of territories The greatest projects of 2017: •• Nimshin (Ivano-Frankivsk region): major repairs of the premises of the field-midwife station, serving 500 residents. Now the station 1st wave 2d wave 3d wave 4th wave 5th wave is provided with cold and hot water supply, essentials are purchased, the roof has been repaired, and a ramp has been installed. of the project of the project of the project of the project of the project •• Halych (Ivano-Frankivsk region): for the surgical department of the regional hospital, an anesthetic and respiratory apparatus was purchased and installed. •• Kamenka-Bugskaya (Lviv region): 35 new windows were installed in the central district hospital. In 2017, an open access to energyschool.org.ua was provided for all schools. This brought the project to the national •• Roya, Kurakhovo (Donetsk region): a field-midwife station, which serves about 2,500 residents, is equipped with furniture and level: 858 schools are registered for training courses in energy efficiency courses in 2017/2018, 2018/2019 academic facilities. years. Thus, the geography of the project has expanded significantly and covers 475 settlements in 23 regions of Ukraine, including regional centers. •• Myronivsky village (Donetsk region): an outpatient clinic which serves about 8,000 residents, received medical facilities, an ECG recorder Heaco 1201. The educational online platform energyschool.org.ua allows to reduce the inequality in access to modern methods of teaching between city and village schools. In 2015, 4 % of the total quantity of village schools participated in the project and •• Schastiye (Lugansk region): a device for radio wave therapy Surgitron EMC with dermatological electrodes was purchased for it is increased up to 36 % in 2017. a city hospital that serves 30,000 people. •• Shishatsky district (Poltava region): modernization of the Shishatskaya district hospital is continued. In 2017, the roof of the children's department was overhauled and modern medical equipment was purchased, which greatly facilitates the examination and treatThe project's methodological and organizational support is every 1,000 schools participating in the project can save up ment of patients. In particular, a telecard, a contactless indicator of intraocular pressure, ECG recorder, a coagulator, concentrators for provided by the Municipal Development Institute All-Ukrainian to 5,200 MWh annually, which is equivalent to a 4,742 tonne oxygen saturation during resuscitation, a compressor inhaler and other modern devices have been purchased. Charitable Organization. According to the Institute's calculations, reduction in CO2 emissions. •• Vinnitsa: a colonoscope and a bronchoscope were purchased at the Regional Children's Clinical Hospital. A mobile ultrasound system was purchased for the regional clinical oncology dispensary. 102 103 3. Development of socially-important infrastructure Corporate Culture and Volunteering The company supports the projects aimed at improving the quality and accessibility of social services, addressing major problems of vital infrastructure elements, improving affordability of education and leisure. The greatest projects of 2017: The main goals of DTEK Group's corporate volunteering are creating conditions for employees' self•• Documentation has been prepared that allows the use of bottom ash materials in road construction. The Shulgin State Road Scientific fulfillment, promoting corporate culture and making a practical contribution to the development and Research Institute (with the participation of DTEK and PPV Knowledge Networks) developed Methodological recommendations of local communities. This implies voluntary participation of its employees in socially-important for the use of bottom ash materials of DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP in road construction . The National Aviation University conducted research and developed the Expert opinion on the use of bottom ash of DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP while repairing and constructing projects with support of the company. roads and airfields , which are coordinated with the Shulgin State Road Scientific and Research Institute. The design and estimate documentation for the implementation of the pilot project on the road section of Perekalki — Rogaly — Dobrotvir railway station — Matyashi has been developed . •• Dobropillia (Donetsk region): works on covering the football field have been completed. •• Schastiye (Lugansk region): the main auditorium of the Community Cultural Center for 500 people has been renovated and equipped. All ceremonial events of the city are held in the Community Cultural Center. •• Silets (Ivano-Frankivsk region): the public space for leisure of 120 square meters area was created and landscaped. •• Zaozernoe (Vinnytsia region): the park-exhibition is landscaped. •• Burshtyn (Ivano-Frankivsk region): for Doverie Center — communities of people with disabilities — comfortable conditions have been created due to major repairs. •• Iverskoe (Donetsk region): reconstruction of water supply wells and cleaning of sewage system were carried out. •• Novoukrainka (Donetsk region): a pumping station was purchased and installed for pumping water into the village. •• Trifonovka (Kherson region): major overhaul of artesian well and water intake for uninterrupted water supply of 700 villagers was carried out. •• Annovka (Donetsk region): a pavement with a length of 1 km was laid. •• Repairs are carried out, a material and technical base is improved for children's and school educational institutions, cultural centers in the villages of Dobropilsky, Aleksandrovsky, Kamenka-Bugsky districts, Vinnytsia region, Dobrotvir, Myronivsky, Kurakhovo. 4. Increasing local communities' activity Promoting development of public, cultural and sport initiatives is important for the company, for changes in the quality of life depend on activity and initiatives of each particular resident. The greatest projects of 2017: •• The first Greencity Sport Fest sports festival was held in Zelenodolsk, where a rock concert and the battle of DJs, a graffiti championship, streetball, beach volleyball and football competitions, extreme sports were organized. The festival was attended by 1,600 people. •• In Dobrotvir there was held the sports and athletic meeting for children and young people called United Country. East and West Together . Football Spartakiads took place among the cities where power plants operate, which were attended by six teams, and the winners received valuable prizes. In total, the tournament attracted 1,500 people. •• Support was provided to FC Burshtyn , Ladyzhin school of boat racing, creative teams of the Belozerskoe Community Cultural Center. In 2017, the company allocated UAH 4.1 million for the development of the cultural sphere, supporting the local events and the development of cultural traditions of the communities. 5. Development of business environment The company's enterprises primarily work in single-industry towns. For the development of economically self-sufficient communities, the company supports small and medium businesses to stimulate the creation of new jobs and attract investors to the regions. This contributes to the growth of tax revenues to local budgets. In order to economically develop the territories where DTEK Group enterprises operate, in 2017 a list of preferences for local contractors was approved for the purchase of products and services. This approach is aimed at creating competitive opportunities for small and medium businesses, as the company purchases centrally and through tender procedures, in which large companies from all over the country participate. In 2017, the preferences were introduced in 10 pilot areas of Donetsk, Ivano-Frankivsk and Lviv regions. In particular, when evaluating suppliers' proposals, local contractors can count on 5 additional points out of 100. Also, they are given DTEK is guided by five values: professionalism, responsibility, In 2017, the company continued to implement initiatives aimed at the opportunity to review prices after bidding (individual re-bidding), to sign a three-year contract with the possibility of reviewing the price, pursuit of excellence, unity and openness. At the heart of valsupporting internally displaced persons from the war territories. to pay an advance payment for the procurement of materials required for the execution of the order. The preferences are granted if ues is the philosophy of the company: Be the best in everything the local contractor provides jobs to local residents and it is a payer of taxes to the local budget. that we do . The most important task of the company's corpoThe company annually develops healthy lifestyle and environ­ rate culture is to strengthen the value kernel, which is common mental protection initiatives. Such initiatives have already Business Development and Support Projects: for all enterprises. become a tradition. For example, about 3,800 volunteers took part in the annual Clean City event in 27 areas where the com•• 9 local economic development agencies continued working with the representatives of small and medium businesses, organizing The company cares about improving the social climate of pany operates. It was collected 1,060 cubic meters of garbage information meetings with donor organizations, advising in the preparation of business plans and providing technical support to business the teams and it is working on building a system for continuand planted 1,457 plants, which were purchased with funds start-ups for the first-time entrepreneurs. In 2017, 203 jobs were created in Dobropillia, Dobrotvir, Ladyzhin and Zelenodolsk. ous diagnosis of employees' moods. A research of social clisaved due to efficient use of electricity and water. The volun•• In the cities of Greater Dobropillia there are four modern commercial pavilions equipped to support local producers. mate is carried out annually and 68,000 employees took part teers also repaired attractions and benches, planted flowers. in it in 2017. Quantitative results are supplemented by in-depth •• Kamenka-Bugsky Industrial Park with an area of 24.5 hectares is included in the register of industrial parks of Ukraine. interviews and focus group studies. The obtained data form the •• In Kyiv, the company supported the iHUB-reopening project. iHUB is a network of innovation and entrepreneurship centers (Ukraine, basis for planning activities in the field of personnel manageGeorgia, Moldova) that provide access to training, the community, investors and the workplace for start-ups. iHUB is the official ment, building internal corporate communications and are an UNESCO-UNEVOC center in Ukraine, which conducts more than 250 events per year. argument for making managerial decisions. 104 105 03 Employees Employee Engagement Planning of the need for the employees, recruitment of personnel, as well as HR management is carried out in accordance with the legislation of Ukraine, collective agreement, recruitment provisions, internal labor regulations, instruction On the Procedure for Execution of Work DTEK Group's HR management system corresponds to the Ukrainian legislation, industry regulations Incapacity Certificates and On procedure for scheduling of vacation leaves and granting leave and internal regulatory documents. The HR management system regulates employees' recruitment, to the employees. remuneration, career advancement, training and development. Internal selection of candidates is primarily used when recruiting selected through employment centers, Internet recruiting on job personnel for vacant positions: vacancy announcement for search websites, etc. DTEK respects their right to set up trade unions and other com•• Social surveys of employees the employees of the company's enterprises, obtaining CVs from the applicants, interviews for compliance with qualification When recruiting, the company takes into account the applicants' munities that represent their interests. The company cooper•• Collecting employees' requests and suggestions. criteria and needed personal qualities. External candidates are appropriate education level, and whether they have the necessary ates with these authorities and holds an open dialog with them. knowledge, skills, experience and competence level. It ensu­res that potential problems are identified and solved in a timely manner. Collective agreements are another guarantee of employees' proThe main aims of the company's HR policy are as follows: Number of newly recruited employees by DTEK Group in 2017, people tection. The company pays special attention to compliance with •• Attracting the most talented employees in the labor industry and collective agreements. The agreements provide for market conditions of labor remuneration, social benefits, payments to Gender breakdown Age breakdown retirees, and the company's occupational safety and personnel •• Providing competitive remuneration and incentives to employees Men Women Up to 30 years Aged from 30 to 50 Aged over 50 training liabilities. The company executives yearly report on fulfillment of agreement conditions. •• Developing employees' potential 5,997 1,682 2,838 3,943 901 The company is in a constant dialog with its employees. For that, •• Establishing a single corporate culture. enterprises use several mechanisms to make the employees' Such a system is an effective tool that leaves open opportu­ voices heard at the top: nities for the employees' initiatives. DTEK Group enterprises have a significant impact on employment in the regions of their activities. The enterprises provide •• Trade unions' cooperation and regular meetings with trade stable wages, social package, adherence to the internal working schedule, etc. union leaders Priority tasks in HR: •• Communication meetings between the staff and heads of enterprises and relevant directorates •• Coverage by SAP HCM of all the company's enterprises for •• Communication meetings between enterprise heads and the implementation of the Creation of Unified HR Settlement Center project Payment, Remuneration and Incentives opinion leaders •• Implementation of the Generation project aimed at provid•• Personal reception of employees by the director of the coming enterprises with personnel; staff retention, development pany (the so-called director's hour ) and HR manager and motivation. The project envisages the creation of tools Personnel performance is annually evaluated in the first quarter of the year; this evaluation •• Regular HR-days, when HR managers meet with employees for forecasting the needs and sufficiency of labor resources, determines the amount of remuneration, objectives for the next year, training and development directly at workplaces and answer questions, inform about taking into account the quality and time factors programmes, and career advancement. the projects, initiatives, HR-activities, and provide feed•• Implementation of measures on improving the social climate back on the status of resolving the issues raised at previous to increase the level of loyalty and involvement of employees. meetings In 2017, the approach was changed and the coverage of personnel In 2017, the company raised its salaries to employees and performance annual evaluation was expanded among the operatretained the full social package. ing personnel. For a more objective evaluation, the coefficient of labor input (CLI) was applied. The CLI is the personal contribution At enterprises that are on the line of demarcation, in 2017, there Total number of personnel of DTEK Group in 2017, people* was an outflow of highly skilled personnel due to a change in of each worker to the overall result of the division based on which the individual score is assigned. The criteria for calculating the CLI the place of residence, with a shortage of highly qualified speinclude: performance of work duties, compliance with labor procialists in the labor market. Due to the closure of DTEK Kryvorizka tection, safety and competence requirements. TPP and DTEK Prydniprovska TPP (see Production operations), part of the plant personnel was in the forced outage, and certain In DTEK Energy, the Regulation on Employee Remuneration categories were transferred to a four-day working week. Once Management was created, in which basic payments and a social the plants are operating at full load volumes, the operation mode Seasonal employees 4,285 package for employees of all enterprises were unified. of the employees was restored. Part-time employment 143 Social benefits and incentives granted to the employees of DTEK Group in 2017, UAH thousand* Women 18,878 Total Support for pensioners and veterans 144,716.0 50,067 Men 68,945 Improving living conditions 142,735.0 68,802 Full employment Financial aid 100,898.0 Corporate events 32,386.0 64,660 Full-time employees Voluntary health insurance 20,727.0 Health care 20,606.0 One-time bonuses for employees 19,852.0 Social package * Excluding Mine Office Obukhovskaya. Others 12,084.0 494,004.0 * Excluding funds transferred to trade union organizations for the improvement of employees' health and cultural work. 106 107 Approach to Responsible Restructuring and Personnel Training and Development Retirement of Employees There were no dismissals of personnel at DTEK Group's enterprises due to changes in the industrial DTEK provides its employees with an opportunity to develop their potential at DTEK Academy, and labor management in 2017. the corporate university. When restructuring the enterprises, it is possible to use Collective agreements of enterprises stipulates the minimum Within the framework of training and development the comIn 2017 the following company's corporate professional standthe following mechanisms: period during which employees should be notified of the forthpany conducts: ards served as their basis for the state standards of vocational •• Outsourcing non-core functions coming changes. The legislation specifies the period of two education: underground electrical fitter, electric locomotive months, and in respect of coal enterprises – three months. •• Compulsory professional training of employees, including operator, roadway repair miner, coal processing operator, •• Transfer of social facilities to the communal property training on specific specialties, the development of professteam and gas turbine equipment repairmen, a power unit •• Natural staff reduction (retirement, voluntary redundancy, etc.) sional corporate standards for key occupations of manufacoperator, a chemical water treatment technician, a maintenance turing enterprises locksmith, the electrician for repair and installation of cable •• Dismissal of employees by agreement of the parties. •• Promotion of a culture of professional competence with lines, field service team electrician, the electrician for the mainthe professional skills competitions held among employees tenance of power plant equipment. •• An annual assessment of activities at all of the company's Profession-oriented schools. DTEK Energy has developed Forecast of employees' retirement, % enterprises the training course. The training is carried out by the internal trainers in the school of chief engineers (for electricity generation com•• The Employee pool programme, which allows to plan and panies, 12 employees were trained in 2017), foreman schools (for Percentage of employees who will retire after 5 years Percentage of employees who will retire after 10 years develop career maps. electricity transmission companies, for coal mining – 60 employAccording to the results of 2017, 69 employees were recomees), schools for masters (for electricity generation companies, Men Women Men Women for coal production – 31 employees), coal processing schools mended to the Employee pool of production facilities. (at coal processing plants, 18 senior managers at five plants), 7.5 6.1 12.8 11.1 Priority tasks of the company in the field of personnel training HR school (for all divisions in the direction of HR management – and development: 40 employees), finance schools for non-financial personnel (for all divisions – 27 employees), institute of project managers (for •• Creation of a Center for assessment and confirmation of workelectricity transmission companies – 54 employees). ers' proficiency testing on the basis of three branches of DTEK Academy In addition, the programme Working mentoring in producWellness Programmes, and Promoting •• Establishment of an Independent certification center for workers tion is implemented on a permanent basis at coal production and electricity generation enterprises. In 2017, the programme a Healthy Lifestyle was adapted and the procedure for working mentoring in DTEK •• Introduction of integrated occupations universal miner , Dniproobl­energo and Kyivenergo was approved. electrician and welder in power sector to the State Classifier of Professional Work Names (DK 003: 2010) and approval of the standards of these professions. 980 mentors were trained at coal production enterprises; The company's enterprises annually allocate funds for organization of leisure and health promotion mentors were assigned to 2,325 employee-students. Professional standards. In 2017, professional corporate of employees and their families in various health resorts. This is organized together with trade standards served as their basis for the professions: in the coal At the electricity generation enterprises, 225 mentors were union committees. industry – conveyor operator , shaft (underground) , electrained, mentors were assigned to 511 employee-students. tric locomotive driver (underground) ; in the energy sector – fuel-engine operator , electrician for the repair of electrical At the electricity transmission enterprises 61 mentors machines, chemical water purifier , repairman for the mainwere trained, 52 employee-students were assigned to the tenance of heat points ; in the field of electric transmission – mentors. The employees of enterprises and their families visited kabel , Belaya Akatsia (Odessa); Children's summer camp electrician for the distribution substation equipment repair , the following health resorts: Dzhura (Kremennaya); Zhemchuzhina , etc. energy auditor , operator of elevated work platform and auto Mirgorod , Berezoviy Gai (Mirgorod); Carpathians , Moreover, the employees can use prophylactic sanatoriums of hydraulic hoist . E-courses and test tasks are developed in Professional contests and competitions are aimed at proSpring , Dnipro-Beskid , Crystal (Truskavets); Roscha DTEK Service that provide medical treatment focusing on preaccordance with corporate professional standards. moting the high standards of DTEK Energy employees' skills. (Kharkov); Berdyansk (Berdyansk); tourist and hotel comvention of diseases and overall strengthening of the body. In 2017, work was initiated to create a new profession of univerIn 2017, in honor of the Miner's Day, contests were held Best plex Sea Republic (Berdyansk); recreation camps Skazka , sal miner and to introduce this profession into the State Classiin the occupation and competitions, where all miner's occuSelena , Avtomobilist (Kirillovka); health complex Odessa­ fier of Professional Work Names (DK 003: 2010). The introduction pations were presented. Electricity generation enterprises hold of a new profession will facilitate the operational HR managethe contests for the professional skills of welders, inspectors, ment due to the performance of interchangeable functions, and power unit operators, as well as the Best in the occupation will also shorten the time for employee training. The creation of competition among the staff of duty staff in the electrical workintegrated professions, as well as the introduction of partial qualshop. Electric power transmission enterprises hold competitions ifications into the training system at the production facilities, corin the professional skills of teams. responds to the implementation of the decisions of the state Plan Work with universities. In 2017, the company continued coopfor the National Qualifications Framework implementation. eration with higher educational institutions, which is aimed at providing production enterprises with young specialists, including those for occupations in short supply. In 2017, professional standards and the state standards of vocational education developed on their basis received a positive expert assessment of the European Education Fund. 108 109 Training and development of staff – DTEK Group investments in training and development of the employees, UAH mln in figures of 2017 40.8 22,4 man hours – the average number of hours of 38,853 instances of training 27.2 26.6 training per employee per year the company's employees 17,708 2015 2016 2017 5 contests of professional skills among the company's instances of technical and engineering employees employees are held training by the company 8 specialized schools 1,869 instances of training emplo– operate in the company yees by external trainers 9 leading technical universities of Ukraine – 4,772 partners of DTEK instances of technical and engineering employees training World skills by external trainers Ukraine – competition of working qualifications for promo­ ting the working occupations among people under 23 years with the support of the company 63,202 training instances 110 111 04 Occupational Health and Industrial Safety Approaches, management standards and training in Occupational Health and Safety DTEK Group's main principles of occupational health and safety are preserving life, health and All of the company's enterprises consider their activities in the field of occupational health and safety working capacity of employees in the course of their entire employment. Among the main tasks of as an integral part of successful production and the necessary condition for achieving strategic goals. the company is the cultivation of a culture of conscious and attentive attitude of the employees to both their personal safety and safety of others. This process requires a correction of the thinking of employees, the consistent introduction of knowledge and principles that underlie any production action. The section Occupational health and safety (OHS) is a mandaIn 2017 for the development of the internal OHS management tory clause of collective agreements at all the company's entersystem, the enterprises continued the introduction of the Occuprises. This clause includes the obligations of the administration pational Safety Culture programme and Occupational Safety Ini­ and trade union organizations to fully implement the legislation tiatives programme aimed at increasing the production culture in this area. To improve the state of the OHS management sysand conscious attitude towards ensuring safe working conditem, internal regulatory documents of DTEK Group enterprises tions. have been submitted and are to be agreed with trade union organizations. In 2017, Naftogazvydobuvannya and Kyivenergo passed a In accordance with the collective agreement, the entersurveillance audit successfully confirming its certificates prises of DTEK Group undertake: of OHS management system to the international standard OHSAS 18001:2007. •• To conduct certification of workplaces 100% of the employees are covered by the certification •• To provide workers with the necessary tools, overalls, special scope. At other enterprises of the company, surveillance/ footwear, means of personal and collective protection, deterre-certification audits were conducted in 2016. gents •• To ensure the stable operation of surface and underground health centers with an uninterrupted purchase of medicines DTEK Group enterprises conduct mandatory training and occuand equipment pational safety knowledge tests of employees in accordance with the requirements of the legislation of Ukraine. The procedures •• To organize and conduct vocational training and training in are valid for conducting briefings, training and testing of know­ occupational safety ledge, which determine the types, frequency and procedure for •• To conduct periodic medical examinations organizing and conducting these activities. The training is conducted both in the workplaces and in training centers. •• To inform the employees about occupational health risks and take measures to minimize and eliminate such risks. Basic approaches to training on OHS issues: The occupational safety departments also initiated the introduc•• Involvement of all members of personnel into a training protion of such clauses in the collective agreement as the provision cess of emergency medical care, in-depth clinical and surgical exam•• A multi-level knowledge testing system ination of the employees with suspected occupational diseases and others. •• Differentiation of employees by qualification level and specia­ lization At all enterprises of DTEK Group there is a provision On the security of contractor services , which unifies the requirements to occu•• Usage of visualization tools. pational safety, industrial, fire and general safety. The provision stipulates for a scheme of actions and the allocation of responsibility for ensuring the safety of work carried out by the contractor In 2017, UAH 2.6 million were allocated for training the organization, the contractor's assessment of compliance with the employees in corporate standards of OHS. 37,500 employsafety requirements, the list of documentation and requirements ees completed the training. for actions to ensure the safety of the contractor's work. The Occupational Health and Safety Management System is •• Conducting primary, periodic and extraordinary medical exaimed at improving the safety of employees of enterprises and aminations of personnel Occupational Injuries contractors, reducing occupational injuries, providing employ•• Carrying out measures to prevent injuries among the popuees with effective means of personal protection. Indicators 2015 2016 2017 lation. Investment priorities related to occupational and health Suffered non-lethal injuries 322 399 285 safety are focused on: DTEK Group investments in Occupational Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate (LTAFR) 0.500 0.530 0.570 •• Purchase of overalls, special footwear, means of personal and collective protection, fire protection means Health and Safety, UAH mln Suffered lethal injuries, number of people 9 9 5 •• Implementation of comprehensive measures to improve 517.1 Fatal Accident Frequency Rate (FAFR) 0.014 0.010 0.010 working conditions 478.3 •• Compliance with the regulatory requirements for sanitary 319.9 and living conditions at enterprises •• Regular conduct of certification audits for compliance with For each case of injury to the employee in the workplace, in addition to the state inspection, an internal investigation is being the Occupational Health and Safety Management System of conducted. Correction measures for avoidance of such injuries in the future are being developed based on these investi­ the national regulatory requirements and the international gations. standard OHSAS 18001:2007 •• Equipment and provision of cabinets for labor protection 2015 2016 2017 112 113 The map of main activities at the Occupational Health and Safety Department Health Care of Employees, and Occupational Medicine •• Control of the psycho-physiological state of personnel •• Video instructions before the work shift Control of the dynamics of two medical and social indicators (infection rate and health index) •• Training and knowledge tests based on the PROTEK programme makes it possible to better influence reduction of the company's financial losses and increase •• Stimulation for performance of OHS indicators: financial and non-financial labor productivity. reward Coal production and processing •• Registration and monitoring of critical risks •• Line of trust on OHS issues, an algorithm for responding to calls is implemented •• A project for the management of hazardous activities with the use of The Novator: a System of Continuous Improvement •• Emergency and fire training •• Stimulation for performance of OHS indicators: financial and non-financial reward Electricity generation •• 200 and 300 MW power unit simulator training area for training the personnel •• A specialized training area for certified electric welders. It was certified by the E.O. Paton Institute for Electric Welding •• Provision of video cameras and voice recorders to brigades for recording the work process in order to monitor the quality of conducting targeted briefings •• Remote access to control room video cameras •• Stimulation for performance of OHS indicators: financial and non-financial reward Electricity distribution •• Safety Walk programme for accounting workplace audits •• A system for recording dangerous activities and situations, information that each employee can input and, together with the company, eliminate •• Hotline for OHS issues, an algorithm for responding to calls is implemented •• Fire and Object Training •• 24-hour monitoring of compliance with safety requirements •• Control of the culture of production, technological discipline •• Automated systems for emergency and fire safety •• Emergency and fire safety training Natural gas production •• First medical aid training sessions In 2017, DTEK Group production facilities continued to implement The purpose of the project is to support the employees of enter•• Annual Conference on Occupational Health and Safety and Environmental a project that establishes the guaranteed control over the qua­ prises demobilized from the ATO area. A staff of 10 psychologists Protection lity and reliability of periodic medical examinations and medicarries out the consultation, psycho-correction, psycho-educacal examinations when becoming an employee. It was decided tion of the employees, and also conducts group-training sessions •• Contests Best voluntary fire brigade , Best in the occupation to use psycho-physiological expertise as an additional tool to and lectures for those in need of psychological support. ensure the authenticity of medical examinations of employees engaged in hazardous operations. Doctors of DTEK Service are In June, the Correction of the social and psychological climate in necessarily on the commissions for medical examinations. the teams of production enterprises programme was launched. A healthy social and psychological climate increases the effiThe results of the medical examinations of 33,908 employees ciency of work, contributes to reducing accidents and injuries in In order to protect against natural disasters, DTEK Group enterprises carry out technical, organizational and training acti­ were subjected to additional control in 2017. In 2017, DTEK Pavlo­ the workplace, and also ensures high satisfaction, involvement vities: flood protection, lightning protection status control and automatic firefighting equipment, ensure the readiness of gradugol saw a 1.8-fold increase in the identification of workers and loyalty of employees. The list of psychological services promeans of personal protection and protective structures, preparing a fund for quickly adapting premises to shelter personnel who, for health reasons, require a transfer to another job not vided within the framework of the programme (training sessions, during combat operations. related to harmful/hazardous factors in the work environment testing, information meetings, and psychological consulting) has and the work process. been made and is being improved. Also at the enterprises of the company the implementation of Medical and psychological rehabilitation project continued. 114 115 Health Care of Employees, and Occupational Medicine 10.93 – 457 incident-per-employee rate with temporary disability in 2017 11.17 1,500 employees were medical workers, among which there are 26 doctors ZVUT – ( — per employee in production facilities in 2016) 32 56 provided with a unified database for monitoring emergency medical aid health index of employees and health posts activities of medical facilities of — health index in 2017 providing medical care enterprises (in 2016 the health index around the clock, out of which (percentage of employees who 17 are underground 52.5 ) 8,139 was not ill during the year) was people received medical treatment at healthcare facilities more than 1.7 million inspections of the employees 32,500 before the shift 172,000 employees were accepted employees employed in jobs of increased danger, underwent psycho-physiological examination under the medical examination Centralized executive office Uniform standards of medical care 116 117 05 Environmental Protection Программы социального партнерства Implementation of standards on Environmental Protection All DTEK's enterprises continue their activities on implementing and improving environmental management systems in 2017. For compliance with the requirements of the international standard ISO 14001:2004, surveillance audits of the environmental management systems DTEK Group's strategic tasks include introduction of modern technologies and the best practices to of DTEK Skhidenergo, DTEK Dniproenergo, DTEK Dniprooblenergo, DTEK Donetskoblenergo, Kyivenergo, Naftogazvydobuvannya, minimize the impact of production on the environment and optimize use of hazardous substances and DTEK Renewables were successfully passed. In addition, recertification audits of DTEK Zakhidenergo, DTEK Power Grid, and DTEK Energougol ENE were passed, as well as internal regulatory documents for the implementation of the standard requirements at and materials. other companies were carried out to meet the requirements of the updated ISO 14001:2015 standard. The auditing companies confirmed the compliance of the enterprises' environmental management systems with international requirements. The company's environmental activities are guided by the Environmental Policy of DTEK. The policy declares a mission, goals •• Ensuring the environmental safety of enterprises Environmental protection Approach to and principles. The document defines the following long-term •• Continuous improvement of the environmental management system to reach better indicators of environmental perforlegislation Environmental Impact objectives of the company in the field of ecology: mance. Under the Contract of Association between Ukraine and the EU, Prevention and minimization of the negative impact on the envi•• Environmental protection including pollution prevention, The company also supports initiatives in the field of environstatutory acts of the European Union were implemented, which ronment is one of the main priorities in the organization of the resource management, mitigation of impacts on climate mental education and upbringing. For example, in order to caused the following legislative changes: environmental activities of DTEK Group enterprises. The structure change, protection of biological diversity and ecosystems promote green energy, the Industrial Tourism programme has of responsibility is defined in all processes of the environmental •• The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by Order No. 605-р dated management system, the main elements of which are: •• Development of renewable energy and upgrade of DTEK been launched. Weekly in spring-summer season there are free 18.08.2017 approved the Energy Strategy of Ukraine for Energy TPP excursions for tourists to Botievo wind farm. In addition, wind the period until 2035. The state and energy companies require •• Implementation, operation and improvement of the environpower engineers monthly conduct information and educational •• Ensuring compliance with mandatory legislation and other a high level of environmental responsibility, compliance with mental management system in accordance with ISO 14001. tours for schoolchildren and students. In 2017, a thousand tourrequirements high environmental standards of production, transportation, ists visited the station. •• Carrying out audits of the environmental management system. transformation and consumption of energy. •• Identification and assessment of environmental risks and •• The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by Order No. 796-р dated opportunities, development of measures for their manage08.11.2017 approved the National Plan for Reducing Emisment. sions from Large Combustion Plants. The document provides that by 2028 emissions of dust and sulfur oxides to the atmos•• Development and implementation of environmental proEnvironmental costs of DTEK Group in 2017, UAH thousand phere should be reduced by 40 and 20 times, respectively, grammes (annual, prospective) in the field of air protection, and until 2033, nitrogen oxide emissions will drop four times rational use of water resources, regulation of waste water and in accordance with the requirements of Directive 2010/75/EC. groundwater quality in the area of production facilities, waste Capital Operating Additional Total business Business segment management and land reclamation. investments expenses expenses segment •• The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by Order No. 820-p dated 08.11.2017 approved the National Waste Management Strat•• Holding annual environmental training sessions for the enterDTEK Energy 319,148.3 738,203.3 59,106.6 1,116,458.2 egy in Ukraine until 2030, which was developed in compliance prises' employees. with the requirements of Directive 2008/98/EC On Waste . Coal production and processing 26,349.8 97,064.7 34,398.2 157,812.7 •• Work with contractors and suppliers. According to the TechAs a part of the strategy objectives implementation, national and regional waste management plans will be developed. nical Policy of Electricity Generation Companies, the contracElectricity generation 292,749.4 633,817.6 10,376.5 936,943.5 tors – suppliers of equipment must meet the requirements of •• The Law of Ukraine On Amendments to the Tax Code of ISO 14001, and the technical specifications for the purchase Kyivenergo – 6,868.9 13,570.0 20,438.9 Ukraine and Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine Concernof materials are drawn up taking into account the requireDTEK Grids: electricity ing Ensuring the Balance of Budgetary Incomes in 2017 ments to environmental protection. 49.1 452.1 761.9 1,263.1 No. 1791-VIІI dated 20.12.2016 indexed the environmental tax transmission via grids DTEK Group enterprises monitor environmental impact in rates that operated in 2016, by 12%. accordance with current environmental legislation. In particular, DTEK RENEWABLES – 152.6 – 152.6 •• The Law of Ukraine On Environmental Impact Assessment enterprises control emissions and discharges in laboratories, DTEK Oil&Gas 29,323.6 811.5 469.0 30,604.1 No. 2059-VIІI dated 23.05.2017 implements the requirements control of the waste accumulation impact on soil and air, control of Directives 2003/4/EC and 2011/92/EC and establishes a of groundwater quality, atmospheric air at the border of the sani­ new mechanism for assessing the impact of planned activities, tary protection zone of enterprises, the technical condition of which presents an increased environmental hazard. The law environmental facilities and purification equipment. Environmenprovides for the failure to comply with the provisions with tal monitoring data make it possible to determine the degree of the possibility of suspending the activities of the enterprise in production impact on the environment and timely respond to the event of a negative conclusion of the authorized body. possible adverse changes. •• Order No. 548 of the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources The Automated System of Environmental Performance project of Ukraine as of 28.12.2016 (effective from 21.02.2017) has been implemented at the thermal power plants of DTEK amends the methodology for calculating the amount of damEnergy since 2015. The project includes four functional units ages for excess emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere. aimed for process automation: calculation of the environmental According to the methodology, the fines can be accrued on tax, monitoring of condition of ash and slag pipelines and ash the basis of a documentary check; the accrual of penalties dumps, condition of the monitoring systems for exhaust gases, occurs from the moment of committing the violation; the fact and information on environmental emergencies. In 2017, the proof elimination of violations can be confirmed only in the presject was expanded by automating the process of inspection manence of the state environmental inspector. agement of compliance with the environmental legislation. 118 119 Preservation and Restoration of Biological Diversity Water Resources Since 2013, the distribution enterprises of the company continued Since 2015, the company annually holds the regional Leleka The general principle of water resource management at Water intake by DTEK Energy enterprises implementing programmes for ornithological safety of electric competition, which aims to attract children and young people to the company's production facilities is economical and networks. An integrated approach to this issue not only allows proprotect white storks. In 2017, 14 children – the winners of the conefficient use. Production facilities use both circulating water in 2017, thousand cubic meters tection of birds, but also improves the reliability of electric power test – were awarded valuable gifts. supply systems and water reuse. This ensures optimal water supply to the consumers. In general, the provision of ornithological consumption. safety of electrical equipment remains a new issue for the UkrainIn 2017, 20 nests of white storks, which were on the transElectricity generation companies use circulating cooling of ian energy sector. Previously, power engineers only dealt with mission lines of DTEK Dniprooblenergo and DTEK Donetsk­ main and auxiliary equipment, water reuse systems, circulating the protection of electricity transmission lines from damage and oblenergo, were moved to special artificial platforms. hydraulic ash removal systems. Efficient water consumption emergency situations, and at present the cooperation with ecoloIn just four years, 95 nests were transferred. at coal-extraction and preparation enterprises is ensured by gists and ornithologists is also being given attention. the euse of mine water for production needs and by recycling DTEK Dniprooblenergo monitors the impact of power lines on water supply at coal-preparation plants. Distribution companies ornithofauna in the Dnipropetrovsk region in cooperation with use mainly utility and drinking water, the intake of which is Total the Dnyprovsko-Orylsky Nature Reserve since 2015. Monitoring allows allocation of areas for installation of bird protection The implementation of measures continues to motivate employees to environmental activities. Its main goals are to increase carried out mainly from utility water pipelines. 1,703,644.0 devices. 121.8 km of electricity transmission lines have already commitment to environmental issues and popularize the nature 1,595.0 been surveyed. This project is aimed at protecting white storks reserve fund objects. For example, the employees of DTEK and other species of birds. For example, in the north of the region Donetskoblenergo and DTEK Dniprooblenergo planted 939 trees 51,342.5 on the electricity transmission line supports, a stock dove nesting and 18 bushes, including on the territory of the reserve Pictur69,023.6 is found (Columbaoenas) – a species listed in the Red Book of esque canyon on the river Kamenka in the Tokov granites. Ukraine and a long-eared owl (Asio otus) – a species that needs TPP DTEK Energy made an expert analysis of the conprotection according to the Bern Convention on Conservation of dition of water-cooling reservoirs, an assessment of Wild Fauna and Flora. the bio­melioration work and the possibility of fish farm1,581,683.0 ing. Pilot projects on biomelioration and fish farming at DTEK are under implementation at Ladyzhуnska TPP and Kryvorizka TPP. Surface waters Air emissions, climate change and Under the development of renewable energy, a project has been commenced for building a mini-hydroelectric power Underground waters Water supplied to utilities system greenhouse gases plant at the Dobrotvirsk Reservoir. Other sources Pursuant to the requirements of Directive 2003/87/EC on esta­ Emissions of greenhouse gases in blishing a scheme for trading greenhouse gas emission quotas, cooperation with the World Bank has been initiated, which is carthe equivalent of СО2, thousand tonnes ried out under the Partnership for Market Readiness project. The goal of the project is to prepare the participation of DTEK Energy TPP in the national greenhouse gas emissions trading system. DTEK starts preparing for the participation in the system for monitoring, reporting and verification of greenhouse gas emissions with the technical support provided by the World Bank. DTEK Zaporizka TPP was selected as a pilot project. In 2017, the company continued work at the power unit No. 1 of Total DTEK Krivorizka TPP for the construction of new electrostatic precipitators, at the power unit No. 10 of DTEK Burshtynska TPP – for the reconstruction and technical reequipment of electrostatic 43,679.9 precipitators, for the power unit No. 1 of DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP the project documentation was developed and the first phase of the Technical reequipment of GCP of the power unit No. 1 with reaching a residual dust content of not more than 50 mg/Nm3 project commenced. After the upgrading, all generating units will provide a residual dust content in the flue gas not greater than 172.0 50 mg/Nm3 and will be equipped with continuous flue gas mon3,325.4 itoring systems. 40,182.5 Video surveillance systems for flue gases are installed at TPPs of DTEK Energy, which allows boiler unit operators to obtain additional current information on combustion modes in the boilers. Emissions of nitrous oxide Emissions of methane Emissions of carbon dioxide Gross air emissions of pollutants, thousand tonnes Nitrogen oxide (NOx) Sulfur oxide (SOx) Carbon oxide (CO) Solid substances Total 85.2 489.3 6.5 118.3 863.8 120 121 Sources water intake for industrial, utility and drinking water supply Wastewater discharge Name of the enterprise Sources water intake for industrial, utility and drinking water supply DTEK Energy companies continuously monitor the quality of •• Stormwater sewer system reconstruction of DTEK Prydnidischarged waste water, implement projects to upgrade treatprovska TPP ment facilities, reuse waste water in technological cycles. TPP •• Stormwater sewer and treatment facilities (treatment of In order to reduce the negative impact of waste water on the surthe first portions of stormwater fluids) of DTEK Ladyzhynska DTEK Kurakhivska TPP Siverskyi Donets-Donbas Channel and Kurakhove Reservoir (Vovcha River) face and underground waters of DTEK Energy TPP, the quality TPP of discharged waste water and condition of underground water DTEK Luganska TPP Siverskyi Donets River •• Repair of pumping equipment of the hydraulic ash-removal is monitored. Also all plants monitor the quality of waste and underground water in the area of ash dumps in accordance with system of DTEK Luganska TPP DTEK Prydniprovska TPP Dnipro River the approved schedules and clean water-cooling reservoirs •• Correction of design and project estimate documentation DTEK Kryvorizka TPP Dnipro-Kryvyi Rih Channel and the water-cooling reservoir from bottom sediments. Reconstruction of waste water disposal and treatment of The main measures on prevention and minimization of wastewathe motor-road transport department DTEK Dobrotvirska DTEK Zaporizka TPP Kurakhove Reservoir (Dnipro River) TPP. ter discharges taken by DTEK Energy TPP in 2017 are as follows: DTEK Burshtynska TPP The water-cooling reservoir at Hnyla Lypa River Most of the waste water volume of the distribution companies •• Development of the project Technical re-equipment by installing an automated system for monitoring and accountbelongs to the utilities and is directed to the central sewer sysDTEK Dobrotvirska TPP The water-cooling reservoir at Western Bug ing of water consumption at the discharge channels No. 1 tem. Utility fluids in the areas without the central sewer system DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP The water-cooling reservoir at Southern Bug and No. 2 of DTEK Prydniprovska TPP are directed to waste pits and cleaned by a biological method. DTEK Myronivska TPP The water-cooling reservoir at Luhan Mines and CCM In 2017, the total volume of waste water was 1,131,542,800 cubic meters. Production including dust suppression, utility and drinking needs: Underground waters of Pavlograd Regional Office for Water Supply and DTEK Pavlogradugol Sewage Treatment, Dnipro – Western Donbass State Enterprise of Water and Waste Water Services Containment of pollutants in waste water, tonnes Underground and mine waters, surface waters of the production department of Biological oxygen demand (full) 183.8 DTEK Dobropolyeugol water supply and sewerage of Dobropillia, Water of Donbass Public Utility Company, Vodyana River, pond of Hnylusha River, artesian wells Pioneer Weight of oil products 5.3 Surface waters of the production department of water supply and Weight of suspended matters 705.2 DTEK Dobropilska CCM sewerage of Dobropillia Weight of dry residue 89,200.1 Surface waters of the production department of water supply and Kurakhivska CCM 27,567.8 sewerage of Selydove Weight of chlorides Surface waters of the production department of water supply and Weight of sulfates 21,467.6 Pavlogradska CCM sewerage of Pavlograd Weight of ammonium nitrogen 8.5 Use in recycling water supply Weight of iron (total) 3.0 Pavlogradska CCM Mine waters Weight of nitrates 47.9 DTEK Dobropilska CCM Mine waters DTEK Oktyabrskaya CCM Mine waters Surface waters of the production department of water supply and Industrial waste water discharge facilities of DTEK Energy TPP Kurakhivska CCM sewerage of Selydove Name of the enterprise Industrial waste water discharge facilities DTEK Kurakhivska TPP The water-cooling reservoir at (Vovcha River) DTEK Luganska TPP Siverskyi Donets River DTEK Prydniprovska TPP Dnipro River DTEK Kryvorizka TPP Inhulets River DTEK Zaporizka TPP Kakhovka Reservoir (Dnipro River) DTEK Burshtynska TPP The water-cooling reservoir (Hnyla Lypa River) DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP The water-cooling reservoir (Western Bug River) DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP The water-cooling reservoir (Southern Bug River) DTEK Myronivska TPP The water-cooling reservoir (Luhan River) DTEK Pavlogradugol Samara River DTEK Dobropolyeugol Byk River, Hnylusha River, Vodyana River 122 123 Waste Management and Reclamation of Lands Wastes formation and management in 2017, thousand tonnes 99.9 % of the wastes generated at the production facilities In order to exclude the occurrence of ash and slag wastes of DTEK Energy enterprises are non-hazardous, but require emission to the environment, replacement of the ash and slag the availability of free land for placement. In this regard, the pripipelines at the company's plants is carried out, and 5,383 were mary goal of the company's environmental policy is increasing replaced in 2017. 13,831.3 the use of bottom ash materials that are formed as a result of coal combustion for the electricity production. For the preservation, maintenance and restoration of forest 10,214.8 plantations, disturbed as a result of mining operations, in 2017 Bottom ash material can be used in the construction industry for coal mining and processing companies conducted compen3,107.2 the production of cement and concrete, which will help reduce satory planting of 13 hectares of forest instead of the worked the use of natural raw materials and reduce greenhouse gas up forest plantations. The enterprise carried out biological emissions. At present, the construction organizations receive reclamation of land on reclamation sites on an area of 23.86 bottom ash material on a limited scale on the average of 5–10 % hectares. in Ukraine, whereas in the European countries this figure is 95 %. One of the key initiatives at DTEK Energy's enterprises is to optimize the use of hazardous substances and materials. In 2017, the work to reduce the use of asbestos-containing materials In 2017, DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP and DTEK Kryvorizka TPP was continued. Thus, at the electricity generating enterprises implemented the projects for the selection and prepapartially replaced asbestos-containing materials with alternaration of fuel slag for recycling. This allowed export of tive substances and materials during repairs, brickwork and 30,900 tonnes of high-quality slag from Sibelco (the globthermal insulation of equipment. DTEK Donetskoblenergo and al leader in production of abrasives). DTEK Dnipro­oblenergo covered 3,677 square meters of roofs Volume of wastes formation of I-IV grades with materials that do not contain asbestos. The volume of wastes disposal of I-IV grades Also the companies replace mercury-containing energy-savVolume of wastes recycling and processing of I-IV grades ing lamps with LEDs, which are as economical as possible and One of the most promising areas of the use of ash and slag is do not harm the environment. Moreover, oil-filled equipment road construction. Expert opinions on the use of ash and slag is replaced with vacuum gas-insulated equipment with a dry were developed to be sent to DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP, DTEK dielectric, as well as with oil-sealed transformers. It enables Bursh­tynska TPP, DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP, DTEK Kurakhіvska improving environmental safety by ruling out possible oil spills. TPP, DTEK Kryvorizka TPP and DTEK Prydniprovska TPP. They were approved by the M. P. Shulgin State Road Scientific 2,094 tonnes of hazardous wastes that DTEK Energy compaResearch Institute in 2017. This will make it possible to add the nies formed as a result of their economic activity in 2017 were use of ash and slag materials to the design and project estimate transferred to specialized enterprises licensed by the Ministry documentation for construction, reconstruction and capital of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the handling repair of principal and regional roads. of hazardous wastes. DTEK Energy does not import, export (including international transportation) or process hazardous In order to promote this material in 2017, DTEK Energy held a wastes. round table The use of ash and slag materials of coal plants in road construction . The event was aimed at the exchange of knowledge and experience, as well as the formation and impleIn 2017, DTEK Dniprooblenergo became a partner of the promentation of joint initiatives in this area. ject Environmentally sound treatment and final disposal of One of such projects is Major repairs of the road section polychlorinated biphenyls , which is being conducted at Perekalky – Rogaly – Railway station Dolyna roads (Lviv region) the initiative of the United Nations Industrial Development using the ash and slag from Dobrotvirska TPP ; It is implemented Organization (UNIDO) with the support of the Global Enviunder the social partnership programmes with the communironment Facility and the participation of the Dnipropetrovsk ties. In 2017, the design and project estimate documentation RSA. The purpose of the project is to fulfill the obligations was developed and preliminary agreements were reached with undertaken by Ukraine after the ratification of the Stocklocal authorities on the financing of the project in 2018. holm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants. Programmes aimed at increasing the use of flue ash, slag and ash are developed and implemented at DTEK Energy TPP for the use of ash and slag volumes increase. In particular, the design DTEK Oil&Gas in 2017 introduced higher ecological standards and project estimate documentation was developed and and switched to a non-immersed method of drilling wells, which the project Technical re-equipment of the GCP of power genereliminates the impact on the environment. ation unit No. 1 of DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP has been launched, aimed at increasing the selection of dry ash up to 50,000 tonnes In the construction of gas wells, drilling cuttings – a mixture of per year. In addition, pre-design technical and economic calcurocks, materials and drilling fluids – are formed, which legally lations were carried out for two power plants of DTEK Zaporizka allow to be placed near wells. The non-immersed method of TPP, the options for dry ash dumps were considered and the type drilling allows cleaning of cuttings using special equipment. of installation was considered. Development of the design and DTEK Oil&Gas cleans the entire amount of cuttings: solids are project estimate documentation is planned in 2018. taken to specially equipped polygons, and the released fluid is reused in drilling. After the completion of the well construction, there are no wastes on the working site. Then the land plot is recultivated and reduced to the initial state. In 2017, the amount of utilization of ash-slag was 819,000 tonnes. Overall DTEK Energy TPP used 319,000 tonnes of ash and slag for their own needs (construction of ash dumps, etc.) and 500,000 tonnes were sold to external customers. This constitutes 17.6% of the total ash and slag content. 124 125 06 Sustainable Energy Power Saving and Energy Efficiency Innovation DTEK Group improves its production processes by introducing modern technologies and equipment, which is aimed at increasing the efficiency of work. DTEK Energy's enterprises actively continued work on the DTEK, the first energy company in Ukraine, provided consumers with the comprehensive energy implementation of the system of continuous improvement the Operational improvement has become part of the comefficiency and power saving services. This business line is being developed by DTEK ESCO. Novator, which is being implemented from 2013. The Novator is pany's production culture. More than 50,000 employees aimed at engagement of the personnel of all levels in the proreceived training in basic instruments since the beginning of The company implements projects at industrial, residential, administrative, and social facilities. cess of change and qualitative modifications in order to increase implementation of the system of continuous improvement The services are rendered on the basis of energy service contracts and performance contracts. the efficiency of work and reduce costs. the Novator. The employees submitted 92,000 ideas, and In the retail business, the company offered a set of energy-efficient products and services under Each employee can suggest ideas and proposals for improvmore than 70 % of initiatives were implemented. Thisprovided about UAH 4 billion of economic effect for the years the Smart WATT brand. ing production and management processes. Internal expertise 2013–2017. allows to identify resource-intensive processes and bottlenecks, find a solution and rebuild work. Thus, the Novator system of continuous improvement contributes to the increase of the efficiency of equipment operation and reduction of acciDTEK Oil&Gas has successfully implemented innovative appro­ dents, improvement of production processes and optimization aches and modern research tools since 2014 in gas production. For industrial enterprises, DTEK ESCO experts performed 14 the Smart WATT sets are two-way power meters, as well as indiof the time of operations execution, improving the quality of In the field of exploration and development of fields, one of the energy-efficient projects, of which eight projects have already vidual heat meters for houses with a horizontal heating system. customer service. most ambitious projects was the large-scale 3D seismic explorabeen completed. It is expected that these projects will save up to Also LED lamps, sockets with timers, an instruction with tips for tion at the Semyrenkivske and Machukhske fields. The company 10 million kWh per year, which will result in a reduction of carbon saving electricity and heat are included in the sets. The sets can The company uses such instruments and lean production methregularly conducts high-tech laboratory studies, processing and dioxide emissions by 9,000 tonnes. In addition, the completed be purchased on the DTEK ESCO website or in the customer ods as continuous improvement teams (Kaizen), just-in-time interpretation of well-geophysical research. The data is proprojects allowed to make the reliability of equipment operation service centers of Kyivenergo, DTEK Dniprooblenergo, and (JIT), value stream mapping (VSM), organization of an effective cessed by Petrel, KAPPA, tNavigator and Echometer, which are stronger and to increase the level of industrial safety, as well as to DTEK Donetskoblenergo. In 2017, the customers purchased workplace (5S), improvement cycle (PDCA), total productive the best industry standards in the world. On the basis of the improve the working conditions of employees and to improve the 2,379 Smart WATT sets. maintenance (TPM), and standard operating procedures (SOP), received information, digital 3D models of deposits are created. quality of heat and water supply of cities. For example, the instalThe company's experts, together with the DTEK Academy, condeployment of KPI strategy and system implementation for senThese models are an important instrument for making managelation of 12 frequency converters at the Central CСМ has ensured duct customer training on the basis of energy audit and ior management positions. rial decisions, since they allow monitoring and analysis of the the reliability of the pump equipment operation of the plant. energy management. In 2017, about 150 people were trained, hydrocarbon deposits state in real-time and promptly make deciModer­nization of the network pump at DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP has In 2017, the Novator was focused on the search for the potential including employees of DTEK Energy, Corum Group, representsions to improve the efficiency of development. improved the heat supply of the Ladyzhyn city, and the installation of the main production indicators and the formation of a proof the frequency converter on the water filter unit has increased atives of apartment building co-owners association and the grammes for their achievement. The employees attended the In the repair of wells, the company began to apply snubbing the quality of supplying the city with drinking water. Modernization media. The participants of the training independently conduct following training sessions: Analysis of the Potential , Analtechnology, which relates to a high-tech repair method. In addiof the lighting system of DTEK Dobropilska CCM has increased and defend express energy audits of their facilities – offices or ysis of the Process Effectiveness , Data Analysis , and Probtion, most of the processes in the company are automated. the level of illumination of workshops and workplaces by three retail premises, residential houses or enterprises. As a result of lem Solving Instruments . Employees are taught to understand The integrated control system of the technological process, times, which reduces injuries. A more comfortable environment the express energy audits, more than 30 projects were identithe relationship between their activities and production results, the automated system of operational dispatch control, telemefor workers was also provided by the project for modernization of fied and selected for implementation using the energy service apply data analysis tools to identify root issues, and seek out try of wells, modern points of commercial gas accounting, autothe climate support system at DTEK Burshtynska TPP. mecha­nism. best practices for improving production processes. matic systems of emergency protection and early detection of In addition, to promote energy services, DTEK ESCO experts emergency situations have been introduced. In the budget sphere, pilot projects were implemented on the In 2018, it is planned to introduce certification of the employees terms of the energy service contract, which is valid for seven participated in a series of seminars organized by the Friedrich on the knowledge of the methods of improving business proIn 2017, DTEK Oil&Gas launched a project to create a laboratory years. In the two nursery schools of Kiev the modernization of Ebert State Agency for Energy Efficiency and Power Saving of cesses. This will be another step in achieving the goal of changof innovations, the Engineering Center , which will facilitate heating systems was performed, with automation of heat points Ukraine and the Fund. Training seminars were held in 23 regional ing the culture and model of employees' behavior, combining the search for and implementation of the most up-to-date soluand the installation of thermostats on radiators and temperature centers as part of the road show for energy services for the budget the best traditions of enterprises and innovation. tions in all production processes. sensors in the premises. Thanks to the measures, the average sphere. The purpose of the event is to familiarize the municipalimonthly heat energy saving was 28 % and 39.5 %. In 2018, DTEK ties with the opportunities provided by the energy service mechESCO plans to take an active part in the implementation of energy anism for modernization of the settlements infrastructure, as well service projects in the public sector all over Ukraine. as to form a dialog between cities and investors, energy service companies. Within the framework of the seminars, the peculiariIn 2017, the company launched a set of energy-efficient ties of purchasing energy services through the ProZorro system products at the retails market under the Smart WATT were discussed in detail. According to the results of the educabrand, which is designed for domestic consumers. This project tional campaign, six cities addressed to DTEK ESCO to conduct expands the list of services of distribution companies and pro40 comprehensive energy audits of budget buildings and to plan motes energy saving tools among the residents. At the heart of energy-efficient activities. Energy saved in 2017 due to measures on reduction of energy consumption and increase of energy efficiency Indicators Unit of measure Result Amount of energy saving kWh 118,152,790.2 Amount of heat energy saving Gcal 4,732.6 Amount of heat energy saving GJ 19,829.6 The amount of fuel saving TOE 9,647.8 The amount of fuel saving GJ 282,752.7 Economic impact UAH 222,739,698.6 126 127 Customer focus In the conditions of the energy market reform and the formation of a competitive retail electricity market, the company pays special attention to providing the customer with timely and quality service. General principles in respect of quality of goods and serService Center (CSC). Customer feedback has been rebuilt to vices are: continuously analyze requests, isolate system issues and formulate measures to minimize and resolve identified issues. •• Timely performance of scheduled maintenance checks in full DTEK Dniprooblenergo and DTEK Donetskoblenergo opened •• Investing into enhancement of reliability and continuity of new CSCs, which serve more than 720,000 household and power supply and increase of electricity quality 18,000 legal clients. Customers are offered new services and •• Taking organizational and technical measures aimed at products: electric heating, energy efficiency, Smart WATT set, decreasing emergencies and the time needed to eliminate home internet, and fixed communications. Kyivenergo has them provided its clients with new services in 2017 such as the Personal account for connections , a preliminary entry to the CSC •• Increase of customer satisfaction. through the company's website, and a mobile application PerIn 2017, under the development of customer services and improvsonal Cabinet for Electricity Supply was launched. In addition, ing the quality of services, there was implemented a system for the companies offered new interconnection channels to cusquality monitoring of services and a pilot project for online montomers – Viber, Facebook. The contact capacity of the contact itoring of the knowledge quality of the employees of Customer center is expanded by 30%. 128 Annex 1 Grounds for exempting organizations from reporting boundaries Tekhrempostavka LLC, Pershotravensky Repair and Engineering The reporting boundaries do not include DTEK Krymenergo About the Report and Non-Financial Reporting Process Plant LLC, DTEK Service LLC, DTEK Trading LLC, and Power Trade LLC are beyond the reporting boundaries (the impact of PJSC; DTEK Zuivska TPP, and DTEK Sverdlovanthracite LLC, including: Chervonyi Partyzan Mine Office RC, Sverdlova these companies is insignificant or the data is not consolidated Mine Office RC, Sverdlova CCM RC; DTEK Rovenkianthracite This report, including a Sustainability Section (hereinafter sustainability. The previous report was published in 2017 and pursuant to GRI indicators). Companies operating outside Ukraine LLC, including: Rovenkivske Mine Office RC, Yasenivska Mine referred to as the Report), includes material facts on sustainability contained information on DTEK’s operations in 2016. were not included within geographical reporting boundaries: Office RC, Komendantska CCM RC, DTEK Mine Komsomolets activities of DTEK Group in the 2017 calendar year (from January The Report has been prepared with the use of: DTEK B.V., DTEK Oil&Gas B.V., DTEK Renewables B.V., DTEK Donbassa PJSC, Mospino Coal-Preparing Enterprise LLC, and 1 to December 31). It also sets out certain facts about 2017 Energy B.V., DTEK Finance B.V., NGD B.V., Primorskaya WEP also some of the undertakings operated by DTEK Power Grid that are directly related to the Company’s activities in 2016 •• GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines B.V., DTEK Holdings Limited, DTEK Trading Limited, DTEK LLC, DTEK Donetskoblenergo PJSC, and DTEK Energougol ENE or important in the context of understanding the sustainability •• 17 goals of the UN Global Compact. Trading S.A., DTEK Finance PLC, DTEK Investments Limited, PJSC, control over which was lost due to military operations in objectives. DTEK Hungary Power Trade LLC, Obukhovskaya Mine Office Donbas region. This document is the Company’s fifth integrated report, and the JSC, Donskoy Antratsit JSC, Sulinantratsit LLC. eighth report disclosing the Company’s activities in the area of Material topics GRI compatibility level While evaluating the materiality of the topics for the purposes of leading energy companies, and dialogs with the stakeholders, non-financial reporting, DTEK relies on the principles of viability the following material topics of the Report have been identified C С+ B B+ A A+ and relevance in the Ukrainian context. Following an audit of (based on expert assessment by the management of the DTEK information materials in mass media, research of social climate Group): Self-declaration in DTEK’s companies, analysis of non-financial reports of the Third party check Low Materiality Medium Materiality High Materiality GRI check Background: International Reporting Limits and Scope New philosophy: socially and clientModernization of energy systems and reBenefits of various tariffs for consumers focused energy sector covery of capital assets (Eastern Europe) The Report covers the range of DTEK’s activities, approaches The structure of the Company is set out in About DTEK Group to management and interaction with stakeholders, as well section (page 12). The non-financial reporting includes as performance indicators in such areas as the economy, quantitative and qualitative (descriptive) elements in the areas of Safety of network infrastructure for Promotion of responsible energy Energy efficiency and reduction of greenenvironment, human resources, public relations, and customer DTEK’s business and its subsidiaries having the most significant population consumption house gas emissions focus. impact on the economy, environment and social aspects of the Company’s activities in the regions of Ukraine. Combined use of fuel types, developScientific research and development Interaction with clients ment of renewable energy sources Cooperation with contractors Investments in new technologies Management of environmental exposures Organizational Boundaries of Non-Financial Reporting Background: Ukraine 1. Electricity generation 3. Coal Production and Preparation Risk of monopolization of the Ukrainian Improvement of environmental DTEK Skhidenergo LLC, including: DTEK Pavlogradugol PJSC, including: DTEK's strategy and investments patterns market monitoring system DTEK Kurakhivska TPP Pershotravneve Mine Office SIU DTEK Luhanska TPP Pavlogradske Mine Office SIU Need for national strategy for Enhancement of living standards of populaDniprovske Mine Office SIU Preservation of biodiversity DTEK Dniproenergo PJSC, including: sustainable development tion in cities with the company’s presence Ternivske Mine Office SIU DTEK Kryvorizka TPP Geroiv Kosmosu Mine Office SIU DTEK Zaporizka TPP Partnership with NCO Occupational Safety DTEK Prydniprovska TPP DTEK Dobropolyeugol LLC, including: Dobropilska Mine Office SIU Management of wastes until their full DTEK Zakhidenergo PJSC, including: Bilozerska Mine Office SIU Salaries and wages standards utilization DTEK Burshtynska TPP DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP DTEK Dobropilska CCM PJSC Quality of education and health care DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP Pavlogradska CCM LLC Development of social entrepreneurship services Kurakhivska CCM LLC DTEK Donetskoblenergo PJSC: DTEK Oktyabrskaya CCM PJSC DTEK Myronivska TPP Reform of the coal industry and the power 4. Renewable energy sector in general. 2. Electricity distribution Wind Power LLC DTEK Power Grid LLC Primorskaya Wind Power Plant LLC DTEK Donetskoblenergo PJSC DTEK Energougol ENE PJSC Primorskaya Wind Power Plant 2 LLC Tryfanovka Energy LLC Calculation of Indicators DTEK Dniprooblenergo PJSC Wind Tech LLC Kyivenergo PJSC The data is sourced from the official reporting forms submitted indirect greenhouse gas emission as it is very low compared to Orlovska Wind Farm LLC annually to the state statistics authorities. Some indicators the direct emission. Solar Farm 1 LLC are gathered and calculated in accordance with the internal The average recorded quantity of regular employees is used for 5. Oil and Gas reporting forms verified by the responsible representatives of the companies as part of the internal audit procedures. the calculation of a turnover rate. PJSC Naftogazvydobuvannya Greenhouse gas emission data includes only direct emission The calculation methodology was described in detail in the data. SCM Group currently does not calculate the volume of Report on DTEK Group's Sustainability Activities, 2008-2009. 129 130 Annex 2 Content of pollutants in waste water, tonnes DTEK Group's Quantity Performance Indicators Year BOD* Petroleum Suspended Dry Chlorides Sulphates Ammonia Total iron Nitrates products substances residues nitrogen Economic Indicators 2015 544.3 14.7 2,579.9 237,370.4 55,285.5 62,082.1 30.0 17.3 323.3 DTEK Group’s economic performance indicators are set out in the Review of macroeconomic indicators and industry survey and 2016 389.3 10.1 2,352.4 183,803.7 35,169.3 52,673.5 27.7 15.7 282.3 Performance Results sections hereof. 2017 183.8 5.3 705.2 89,200.1 27,567.8 21,467.6 8.5 3.0 47.9 Environmental Indicators * Biochemical oxygen demand. Specific emission of pollutants into atmosphere, tonnes per 1 unit of manufactured products Total volume of reused and recycled water, tcm Specific emission into Specific emission into Specific emission into atmosphere, tonnes per atmosphere, tonnes per 1 tonne atmosphere, tonnes per 1 MW Year Indicator 1 thousand Gcal of supplied Business segment of extracted coal of supplied electricity thermal power 2015 4,883,221.2 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2016 6,495,344.4 Electricity generation (per 1MW of electricity — — — 0.01969442 0.02236863 0.020358780 0.42583624 0.72604298 1.089757455 2017 6,050,243.6 generated) Coal mining and processing (per 1 tonne of 0.00637079 0.00649675 0.00531092 — — — — — — coal extracted) Total volume of water use for own needs by source, tcm Water supplied by Underground Gross emission of greenhouse gas, thousand tonnes Year Total Surface waters municipal and other Other sources* waters entities Carbon dioxide Nitrous oxide In equivalent СО2, Year Methane Total 2015 1,700,101.5 1,620,121.9 1,718.2 67,043.0 11,218.4 (СО2) (N2O) tonnes 2015 215.6 42,824.3 0.728 43,040.7 47,606,643.9 2016 1,816,517.6 1,743,516.6 1,597.7 58,265.7 13,137.5 2016 234.5 45,108.6 0.632 45,343.8 50,265,704.9 2017 1,635,908.7 1,578,146.5 951.2 50,117.8 13,386.2 2017 158.3 40,080.9 0.553 40,239.8 43,598,174.9 Wastes treatment, tonnes Specific emission of pollutants into atmosphere, tonnes per 1 unit of manufactured products Indicator 2015 2016 2017 Methane Carbon dioxide (СО2) Nitrous oxide (N2O) Volume of disposal 12,552,654.6 13,238,278.7 13,831,285.3 Business segment 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Transferred to third party organizations 2,225,661.2 853,070.6 709,980.7 Generation (per 1MW 0.0004 0.0004 0.0004 1.1038 1.0869 1.0891 0.0047 0.0050 0.0051 Volume of disposed, recycled wastes 1,656,912.1 3,906,109.0 3,107,214.1 of electricity generated) Coal mining and Total 16,435,228.0 17,997,458.4 17,648,480.2 processing (per 1 tonne 0.1218 0.1247 0.1049 0.0098 0.0092 0.0068 0.0012 0.0001 0.00002 of coal extracted) Total volume of industrial wastes, tonnes Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) N2O, hexafluoride, tonnes Volume of wastes at the beginning of the year, tonnes Volume of wastes at the end of the year, tonnes HydrochloroCarbon Year ChlorofluoroTrichloroethane Year fluorocarbons Galons tetrachloride barren rock sludge tailing other wastes barren rock sludge tailing other wastes carbons (CFC) (С2Сl3H3) (HCFC) (tetrachloromethane) 2017 10.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.02 2015 422,775,499.5 42,160,986.6 0 5,980,280.4 430,207,946.6 42,703,457.5 0 6,241,993.0 2016 430,207,946.6 42,703,457.4 0 6,241,993.0 437,566,472.2 43,287,511.7 0 6,700,441.8 2017 265,090,464.0 34,989,241.0 0 6,621,078.0 244,697,528.0 39,673,587.0 0 1,859 284.0 131 132 Average employment term at electric power plants of personnel who left the organization Remediation of lands, ha within the year, persons Area of lands subject to remediation Area of lands subject to Area of lands remediated in the Gender Age Years with company Year Total number of at the beginning of the year remediation at the end of the year reporting year Year employees who less than from 30 to over 50 less than 1 from 1 to 5 over 5 2015 453.3 423.7 26.6 left the company women men 30 years 50 years years year years years 2016 389.3 496.9 30.1 2017 4,227 1,316 2,911 625 2,095 1,507 905 829 2,792 2017 295.2 198.7 39.3 Data is given for electricity generation and distribution undertaking within the reporting limits. Occupational health Personnel structure by categories, persons Personnel categories Age Gender Accident indicators Year less than 30 from 30 to 50 MSE workers over 50 years male female years years Indicator 2015 2016 2017 2015 28,805 80,897 22,866 64,281 22,050 29,694 79,503 Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate (LTAFR) 0.500 0.530 0.570 2016 26,841 77,550 21,508 60,517 22,321 27,735 76,611 Fatal Accident Frequency Rate (FAFR) 0.014 0.011 0.010 2017 16,918 46,273 11,599 37,510 14,082 15,862 47,329 Source: data from the management report. Occupational illness Governing bodies structure* by age and gender, persons Indicator 2015 2016 2017 Age, years Gender Number of governing Year Occupational illness rate 0.69 0.68 1.17 bodies personnel less than 30 from 30 to 50 over 50 years male female years years Lost day rate 19.84 29.76 36.64 2015 133 0 82 51 111 22 2016 162 6 108 58 109 19 Personnel 2017 1,258 128 753 377 1,057 201 * Governing bodies include general directors, directors, members of the board (including committees). Personnel turnover rate 2015 2016 2017 Total number of new employees by age and gender, persons 6.53 7.48 6.92 Indicator is set out in reporting limits. Personnel turnover rate is calculated in accordance with the internal management reporting as it allows including reasons for workers quitting their Gender Age jobs in more details and receive more adequate turnover data (e.g. include transfer of personnel within the DTEK Group). Year male female less than 30 years from 30 to 50 years over 50 years 2017 5,997 1,682 2,838 3,943 901 Number of outsourced employees, persons 2015 2016 2017 Number of education and professional development instances 429 836 70 Including Year Total instances of education internal external Recorded personnel size as of 31 December 2017, persons MPSE (engineers MPSE (engineers workers workers and technicians) and technicians) Average recorded personnel Recorded personnel size as of 31.12.2017 (including workers on maternity leave and mobilized personnel) size (excluding workers 2015 51,639 16,267 29,223 4,667 1,482 on maternity leave and full part-time mobilized personnel) total permanent temporary women men 2016 67,494 17,795 40,389 6,770 2,540 employment employment in 2017 2017 63,202 17,708 38,853 4,772 1,869 67,146 68,945 64,660 4,285 18,878 50,067 68,802 143 133 134 Energy sector Direct use of energy with indication of primary sources Total Natural gas, Year Fuel oil, GJ Coal, GJ Coke, GJ Petrol, GJ Oil fuel, GJ tonne GJ GJ of coal equivalent 2017 62,537,001 9,440,564 388,836,185 506 185,633 578,291 461,578,183 15,749,436 135 136 Annex 3 Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact Page/references Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines GRI, UN GA to additional and UN Global Compact reporting Description sources of Page/references element information/direct GRI, UN GA to additional answer reporting Description sources of Externally-developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or element information/direct GRI 102-12 18–19, 97, 109, 124 other initiatives to which the organization subscribes, or which it endorses answer GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 10 Memberships maintained by the organization in industry or other associations, GRI 102-13 97 and/or national or international advocacy organizations GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10, 14–15 A statement from the CEO about the relevance of sustainability to the organization GRI 102-14 5–7 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 16 and its strategy for addressing sustainability Number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of countries GRI 102-15 A description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 22–24 GRI 102-4 where it has significant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in 16 the report A description of the organization’s values, principles, standards, and norms of GRI 102-16 20, 91 behavior, such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics GRI 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 12 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics: Markets served (including a breakdown by geographic locations where products GRI 102-6 14–15, 16–17 a) internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice about ethical and lawful and services are offered; sectors served; and types of customers and beneficiaries) GRI 102-17 behavior, and organizational integrity; 91 The scale of the organization, including: b) the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or total number of employees; unlawful behavior, and organizational integrity total number of operations; GRI 102-18 Corporate governance structure 86 GRI 102-7 net sales (for private sector organizations) or net earnings (for public sector 10–11, 82–83 organizations); The process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics GRI 102-19 86–90 from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees total capital broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 26–27, 87–90 quantity of products or services provided Information on employees and other workers: Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body GRI 102-21 96 on economic, environmental, and social topics a) total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender; The composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: b) total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), executive or non-executive; by region; independence; c) total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender; tenure on the governance body; 106, 108, GRI 102-8 number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the d) whether a significant portion of the organization’s activities are performed by Annex 2 GRI 102-22 26–27, 86–90 workers who have legal status of self-employed persons or private entrepreneurs, nature of the commitments; or persons who are not members of the company’s permanent or temporary gender; personnel, including permanent and temporary personnel of the company’s subcontractors; membership of under-represented social groups; e) explain any significant variations in the numbers of personnel reported (such as competencies relating to economic, environmental, and social topics; seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries); stakeholder representation f) explain how the data have been compiled Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer in the A description of the organization’s supply chain, including its main elements as they GRI 102-23 organization(and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management 26–27 GRI 102-9 14–15 and the reasons for this arrangement) relate to the organization’s activities, primary brands, products, and services 86–90 Significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply chain during the reporting period, including changes in the location of, or changes in, Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body, including Guidelines for operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; whether and how stakeholders are involved; independence is considered; expertise top management 14–15, 18, 60, 64, GRI 102-24 and experience relating to economic, environmental, and social topics are recruitment are in place GRI 102-10 changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, 70–71, 80, considered in the DTEK Group (from and alteration operations (for private sector organizations); Annex 1 Human Resources Policy) changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Conflict of interest: a) processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are Whether and how the organization applies the Precautionary Principle or approach GRI 102-25 91 12, 43, 90–91, 103, 113, avoided and managed; GRI 102-11 (an organization’s approach to risk management in operational planning, or when 119 developing and introducing new products) b) whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders 137 138 Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact and UN Global Compact Page/references Page/references GRI, UN GA to additional GRI, UN GA to additional reporting Description sources of reporting Description sources of element information/direct element information/direct answer answer 12, 86–90 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual No evaluation was The development, GRI 102-38 in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation performed during the approval, and updating for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country reporting period of the organization’s purpose, value or Ratio of the percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, mission statements No evaluation was highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median GRI 102-26 approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, of the DTEK Group, GRI 102-39 performed during the percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental, and social topics strategies, policies, reporting period highest-paid individual) in the same country and goals related to economic, environmental and social GRI 102-40 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 96 impacts are made with the involvement of the 99% of employees Supervisory Board covered by collective GRI 102-41 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements bargaining agreements Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective within the reporting GRI 102-27 86, 96, 106 knowledge of economic, environmental, and social topics boundaries KPI of the top GRI 102-42 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 96, 100 management include performance The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of indicators with Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s performance with engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any respect to governance GRI 102-43 96, 100 respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics, including of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation GRI 102-28 of economic, independence of evaluation and its frequency; actions taken in response to process environmental, evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance and social topics. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement The performance GRI 102-44 103–104 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns is controlled by the Supervisory Boards All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements: Highest governance body’s role in identifying and managing economic, GRI 102-29 environmental, and social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities; the use 96, 100 a) all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or 12–13, 16–17, of stakeholder consultation GRI 102-45 equivalent documents; Annex 1 b) whether or not any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s GRI 102-30 90, 96 statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report risk management processes for economic, environmental, and social topics Within the scope of GRI 102-46 The process for defining the report content and the topic boundaries Annex 1 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental, activities of committees GRI 102-31 and social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities under supervisory GRI 102-47 All material topics Annex 1 boards Standards update The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the to GRI4 version in GRI 102-32 organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are CEO The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the GRI 102-48 accordance with https:// covered reasons for such restatements www.globalreporting. org/standards/ GRI 102-33 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 86, 106 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics Nature and total number of critical concerns: GRI 102-49 Annex 1 and topic Boundaries a) total number and nature of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest 48–50, 58, 90, 96, 100, GRI 102-34 GRI 102-50 Reporting period Annex 1 governance body; 106 b) mechanism(s) used to address and resolve critical concerns GRI 102-51 The date of the most recent previous report Annex 1 Remuneration policies: Remuneration a) the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives; policies are based on: GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Annex 1 GRI 102-35 performance evaluation b) how performance criteria in the remuneration policies relate to the highest Victoria Grib, approved targets, and governance body’s and senior executives’ objectives for economic, environmental, Sustainability KPI and social topics Department Director GRI 102-53 The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents at the Regional Policy Process for determining Directorate remuneration is based Process for determining remuneration, and whether remuneration consultants are csr@dtek.com GRI 102-36 on the evaluation of involved in determining remuneration the approved strategic This integrated Report objectives and KPI was prepared in Process for determining accordance with GRI 4 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration: how stakeholders’ views are sought remuneration is based GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Sustainability Reporting GRI 102-37 and taken into account regarding remuneration, and, if applicable, the results of on the evaluation of Guidelines selfvotes on remuneration policies and proposals the approved strategic declaration of GRI 4 objectives and KPI application 139 140 Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact and UN Global Compact Page/references Page/references GRI, UN GA to additional GRI, UN GA to additional reporting Description sources of reporting Description sources of element information/direct element information/direct answer answer GRI 102-55 GRI Content Index Annex 3 GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 91 This integrated Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly Report was prepared GRI 206-1 None registered practices and their outcomes in accordance with GRI 4 Sustainability Total weight or volume of materials used by non-renewable materials used and Reporting Guidelines GRI 301-1 124–125 renewable materials The organization's policy and current practice with regard to seeking external self-declaration of GRI 102-56 assurance for the report GRI 4 Comprehensive GRI 301-2 Percentage of recycled or reused input materials Annex 2 application. Nonfinancial reports of the GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Annex 2 DTEK Group before 2012 were subject to the GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization 126 independent audit Explanation of the material topic and its boundary (an explanation of why the topic is GRI 302-3 Energy intensity No analysis was made GRI 103-1 material, where the impacts occur; the organization’s involvement with the impacts), Annex 1 why each topic is material and topic boundary GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 72–75, 126 The management approach and its components: GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 126 an explanation of how the organization manages the topic; GRI 103-2 a statement of the purpose of the management approach; Annex 1 GRI 303-1 Total volume of water withdrawn, with a breakdown by sources 121–122, Annex 2 policies, goals and targets, responsibilities, resources, grievance mechanisms, GRI 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water by the organization 121–122, Annex 2 specific actions and initiatives included in the management approach An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, GRI 303-3 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Annex 2 including the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management GRI 103-3 Annex 1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and approach; the results of the evaluation of the management approach; any related GRI 304-1 120 adjustments to the management approach areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 82–83 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity GRI 304-2 120 in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue, or expenditure (including a description GRI 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 120 of the risk or opportunity and its classification as either physical, regulatory, GRI 201-2 or other; a description of the impact associated with the risk or opportunity; the No data is available Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken; the methods GRI 304-4 habitats in areas affected by the operations of the organization, by level of extinction 120 used to manage the risk or opportunity; the costs of actions taken to manage the risk risk or opportunity) GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Annex 2 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement GRI 201-3 108 GRI 305-2 Direct (Scope 2) GHG emissions 120, Annex 2 obligations The company does not GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Annex 2 receive any financial GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from government assistance from the GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Annex 2 government GRI 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Annex 2 GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage No analysis was made The proportion of senior GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Annex 2 management hired from Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant GRI 202-2 the local community at GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions Annex 2 locations of operation significant locations of operation is 95% Total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges by destination; quality of GRI 306-1 the water, including treatment method; whether the water was reused by another 123 Extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services organization. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used supported, current or expected impacts on communities and local economies, GRI 203-1 72, 100–104 including positive and negative impacts where relevant, and whether these Total weight of waste, with a breakdown by type and disposal methods, and how the GRI 306-2 Annex 2 investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements waste disposal method has been determined Significant identified indirect economic impacts of the organization, including GRI 306-3 Total number and volume of significant spills Irrelevant GRI 203-2 positive and negative impacts and significance of the indirect economic impacts in 100–104 the context of stakeholder priorities Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous GRI 306-4 under the terms of the Basel Convention, Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of Irrelevant GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 104 transported waste shipped internationally Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related GRI 205-1 91 GRI 306-5 123 and the significant risks identified habitats significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff GRI 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 91 GRI 308-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 119 141 142 Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact and UN Global Compact Page/references Page/references GRI, UN GA to additional GRI, UN GA to additional reporting Description sources of reporting Description sources of element information/direct element information/direct answer answer Significant actual and potential negative impacts on the environment in the supply Not relevant GRI 308-2 No evaluation was done Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child chain and actions taken Child and forced labor labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor, including: are prohibited under Total number and rate of new employee hires and total number and rate of employee Ukrainian law GRI 401-1 107, Annex 2 turnover, by age group, gender and region GRI 408-1 a) operations and suppliers that employ child labor and young workers (under the age of 18 years) exposed to hazardous work Company does not Benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the organization but are not operate in the countries GRI 401-2 107 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation b) Operations and suppliers that employ child labor by type of operation and exposed to risks of such supplier, and by countries or geographic areas of operations and suppliers violations of human Percentage of employees that returned to work after parental leave ended, and rights percentage of employees retained by the organization after parental leave ended, Not relevant GRI 401-3 by gender; total number of employees that returned to work after parental leave Annex 2 ended that were still employed 12 months after their return to work, by gender; Child and forced labor return to work and retention rates of employees that took parental leave, by gender Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced are prohibited under or compulsory labor either in terms of type of operation and supplier; countries or Ukrainian law Minimum notice periods prior to the implementation of significant operational GRI 409-1 geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk; measures taken GRI 402-1 108 Company does not changes and whether the notice period is specified in collective agreements by the organization intended to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor operate in the countries Percentage of workers whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization, exposed to risks of such GRI 403-1 that are represented by formal joint management-worker health and safety 112–113 violations of human committees rights Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies GRI 403-2 113 GRI 410-1 No evaluation was done and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender or procedures that are relevant to operations GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 113, 115 Company does not Total number of identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous operate within the GRI 411-1 GRI 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 112–115 peoples and actions taken territories of indigenous peoples Average hours of training that the organization’s employees have undertaken during Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights GRI 404-1 109–110, Annex 2 GRI 412-1 No evaluation was done the reporting period, by gender and employee category reviews or impact assessments Transition assistance programmes provided to facilitate continued employability Total number of hours devoted to training on human rights policies or procedures GRI 404-2 and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of 109 GRI 412-2 No evaluation was done concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations employment Percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category who received Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts GRI 404-3 107 GRI 412-3 No evaluation was done a regular performance and career development review during the reporting period that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies and Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact GRI 413-1 100–105 GRI 405-1 percentage of employees per employee category by gender, age group, and other Annex 2 assessments, and development programmes indicators of diversity Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local GRI 413-2 Irrelevant Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee communities GRI 405-2 No analysis was made category, by significant locations of operation GRI 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society No evaluation was done No data on such GRI 406-1 Non-discrimination Significant actual and potential negative social impacts identified in the supply chain situations was received GRI 414-2 No evaluation was done and actions taken The right to freedom of associations is set forth Company does not Total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made directly in collective bargaining GRI 415-1 provide aid to political and indirectly by the organization by country and recipient/beneficiary Operations and suppliers in which workers’ rights to exercise freedom of association agreements parties or collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken by Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety GRI 407-1 Employees have the GRI 416-1 126–128 the organization intended to support rights to exercise freedom of association and impacts are assessed for improvement right to strike collective bargaining Negotiation is the main Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes No incidents have been dispute resolution GRI 416-2 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life reported method cycle, by type of outcomes 143 144 Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact and UN Global Compact Page/references Page/references GRI, UN GA to additional GRI, UN GA to additional reporting Description sources of reporting Description sources of element information/direct element information/direct answer answer Irrelevant The company is engaged in a permanent Notification of dialog with population customers about risks Whether there were disputes or situations where land use issues had to be discussed and authorities in related to electricity MM6 with the local communities (population, authorities) the areas where the consumption please company operates see Sustainable Power section No disputes have been Types of information required by the organization’s procedures for product and registered GRI 417-1 service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product or service Pursuant to the sanitary categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures standards, electrical The company is installations under engaged in a permanent 220 KV do not require dialog with population actions aimed at Which mechanisms relating to investigation of complaints related to land use are and authorities in protection of consumers ММ7 the areas where the used by the company health in connection company operates with the impact of No disputes have been electromagnetic fields registered Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes No incidents have been There have been GRI 417-2 MM9 Any resettlements within the reporting period in connection with the mining works concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes reported no resettlements GRI 417-3 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 76, 128 Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the long term, broken EU10 60–80 down by energy source and regulatory regime Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of No incidents have been GRI 418-1 Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by energy source and by regulatory customer privacy and losses of customer data reported EU11 60–72 regime 258 non-monetary Total monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and sanctions and UAH 64 EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy 60–72 GRI 419-1 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services million of fines in the environmental sphere In which way biodiversity of offset habitats is compared to biodiversity of the affected EU13 No evaluation was done areas Amount of land disturbed or rehabilitated/recultivated by the company in the ММ1 Annex 2 Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next 5 to 10 years, broken down by reporting period EU15 Annex 2 job category and regions Area and percentage of lands where biodiversity reproduction is required, at the MM2 268.87 ha Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees involved in construction, end of the year EU17 No data is available operation and maintenance of energy objects Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailing at the beginning and at the end of the MM3 Annex 2 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor workers who took relevant health and reporting period EU18 No data is available safety training courses No incidents have been reported Number of people physically or economically displaced and compensation, broken EU22 No evaluation was done The right to freedom of down by type of project associations is set forth in collective bargaining Number of injuries and fatalities, diseases to the public related to damage caused EU25 113 agreements by company assets ММ4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week’s duration Employees have the EU26 Percentage of population unserved in licensed distribution or service areas No data is available right to strike Negotiation is the EU27 Number of residential disconnections for non-payment No data is available main dispute resolution method EU28 Power outage frequency 78 Company does not Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to indigenous peoples’ EU29 Average power outage duration 78 operate within the MM5 territories, and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are territories of indigenous formal agreements with indigenous peoples’ communities EU30 Average plant availability factor by energy source and by regulatory regime 78 peoples 145 146
