NetDimensions’ UNGC Communication on Progress (COP) 2017 Table of Contents Managing Director’s Statement 3 About NetDimensions 4 Executive Summary 5-6 Human Rights 7 Introduction 7 Achievements 7 4.2.1 Walk for Millions – the Community Chest of Hong Kong 7-8 4.2.2 Food Drive 8-9 4.2.3 Days for Girls Healthy Food and Hygiene Drive 9-10 4.2.4 Heep Hong Society 10-13 4.2.5 Blood Drive 14-15 4.2.6 Astig Pinay 15-16 4.2.7 Fair Trade Coffee 16 Measuring Goals set for 2017 17 Setting goals for 2018 17 Labor 18 Introduction 18 Achievements 18 5.2.1 LINGOs/Humentum 18-19 5.2.2. Enhancement data protection documentation 19 5.2.3. Modern Slavery Statement 19 Measuring Goals set for 2017 19-20 Setting goals for 2018 20 Environment 21 Introduction 21 Achievements 21-22 Measuring Goals set for 2017 23 Setting goals for 2018 24 Anti-Corruption 24 Introduction 24 Achievements 24 7.2.1 Training and Compliance 24 7.2.2 EcoVadis 25 Measuring Goals set for 2017 25 Setting goals for 2018 26 2 www.NetDimensions.com 2. About NetDimensions NetDimensions is a global provider of learning, knowledge and performance management solutions for Highly Regulated Industries, where operational and compliance requirements are particularly complex. NetDimensions provides companies, government agencies and other organizations with talent management solutions to personalize learning, share knowledge, enhance performance, and manage compliance programs for employees, customers, partners, and suppliers. Through our offices worldwide, as well as through a global reseller network that extends to over 40 countries, NetDimensions serves over 400 clients with more than 4.4 million active users. Since March 2017 NetDimensions has become a wholly owned subsidiary of Learning Technologies Group plc (LTG) which is listed on the London AIM market. Post the acquisition of NetDimensions by LTG, the company went through an ‘integration’ process so that going forward certain common functions could be provided by the parent company. These are HR, Finance, Facilities and Marketing. NetDimensions remains a standalone company within LTG, with its own leadership team, but now benefits from the expertise and professionalism of having these core functions provided by central specialists. This change has been disruptive to some of our 2017 CSR objectives. LTG’s position on corporate responsibility, employee development, inclusion and diversity, social and environmental responsibility is set out on page 12 of the Annual Report of the Directors (https://ltgplc.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/LTG_Report_2016.pdf). 4 www.NetDimensions.com 3. Executive Summary Similar to last year, we kicked off our CSR efforts for 2017 with the Walk for Millions Walkathon in Hong Kong. We had 18 participants whom together raised around US$1,100, to which another US$1,100 was added by NetDimensions, yielding nearly US$2,200 in aggregate to charities in Hong Kong. We then organized a food drive in Hong Kong, the Philippines and in EMEA. W e collected almost 130 kg of food items in Hong Kong, while our colleagues in EMEA donated over £220 in cash plus more than 140 food items to food banks, and the Philippines donated US$200 of food items to the kids in Brgy, Culiat Quezon City. On February 25th, NetDimensions sponsored the Days for Girls Healthy Food and Hygiene Drive in Culiat, Quezon City, Philippines. Together with members of Days for Girls (Manila Chapter), five of our employees spent a morning with around 40 children ages 4-8 from families that live below the poverty line, and taught them about the importance of schooling, personal hygiene and eating healthy food. In March, we donated around US$270 to the UNICEF. UNICEF is a leading humanitarian and development agency working globally for the rights of every child. Child rights begin with safe shelter, nutrition, protection from disaster and conflict and traverse the life cycle: pre-natal care for healthy births, clean water and sanitation, health care and education. In April, we organized an eyeglasses recycling program in partnership with the Hong Kong Polytechnic University. 7 pairs of eyeglasses were donated to benefit people who cannot afford new eyeglasses. In May, NetDimensions committed around US$1,800 to sponsor the Heep Hong Society of Hong Kong once again to organize a full day activity for children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), specific learning difficulties, and other special needs. We co-hosted a Lantau Island / Tai O / Sky 100 Day Trip with the kids and their families. We continued to collaborate with the Hong Kong Rugby Union Community Foundation – the Astig Pinay Exiles Rugby Team, a newly established rugby team composed of (currently) sixteen domestic helpers in Hong Kong. Our sponsorship enabled the team to purchase rugby kit and gear, and go through formal rugby coaching training. Every Sunday, they meet at Happy Valley or the South Island School to learn and practice. According to Amnesty International, domestic helpers in Hong Kong are often at risk of serious human and labor rights violations. In addition, integration of foreign domestic helpers in Hong Kong with other local communities is 5 www.NetDimensions.com almost non-existent. This initiative is looking to enhance integration of domestic helpers into Hong Kong’s society. In October, we once again organized voluntary staff blood donations at our Hong Kong office, with 4 donating participants in total. Blood donor organizations globally highlighted an almost 30% drop in the number of people donating blood globally compared to a decade ago. NetDimensions once more wanted to emphasize the tremendous importance of the donation of blood and by doing so saving people’s lives. In December, we joined the Heep Hong Society of Hong Kong in a half day activity for children with specific learning difficulties and other special needs. The event was hosted at the Wan Tsui Centre, an early education and special child care centre in Chai Wan. About 12 children and 10 NetDimensions volunteers took part in an event that is part of the school’s social adaptation programme, which is designed to improve the adaptability and active participation of the students in different community activities. Emphasis is put on enriching the children’s sensory experience and improving the required cognitive, social and communication skills. NetDimensions donated HK$10,000 to Heep Hong Society, part of which will help cover the costs of this programme. We are also happy to join the partnership fund with Heep Hong Society from December. Partnership fund is operated by the Social Welfare Department. This is tripartite partnership among the welfare sector, the business community and the Government to help the disadvantaged. The Partnership Fund for the Disadvantaged provides matching grants for applicant welfare NGOs in accordance with the contribution from business corporations in cash and on a dollar-to-dollar basis. I.e. If we donate 10,000, Partnership Fund will grant an additional $10,000. Throughout the year, we continued to work with, and support LINGOs and again saw them increasing the use of the NetDimensions-donated NetDimensions Talent Suite Learning Management System substantially. LINGOs now has a total of 88 of their member NGOs (and approximately 24,000 active users) working with our NTS system. The following sections summarize NetDimensions’ engagement with the United Nations Global Compact in 2017 in more detail. They also reflect on CSR goals we had set in 2016 for 2017 and set new goals under the Ten Principles for NetDimensions to strive for in 2018. NetDimensions will continue to communicate on progress under the United Nations Global Compact, and aims to continuously improve its business practices and environment in line with the Global Compact. 6 www.NetDimensions.com 4. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights . Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 4.1 Introduction Respect and support of Human Rights continue to be key to our philosophy on how we do business and treat our employees, partners and counterparts. Over the course of 2017 we took a number of steps to promote the UNGC principles related to Human Rights in our business and value chain. Below is a summary of our achievements in this area and of how we lived up to the measurements we had set ourselves for the year in our COP 2017. We will also set new goals for 2018 to continue our efforts to enhance, respect and/or improve human right in our company and business environment. 4.2 Achievements 4.2.1 Walk for Millions – the Community Chest of Hong Kong Similar to last year, we kicked off our CSR efforts for 2017 with the Walk for Millions Walkathon in Hong Kong. We had 18 participants whom together raised around US$1,100, to which another US$1,100 was added by NetDimensions, yielding nearly US$2,200 in aggregate to charities in Hong Kong. 7 www.NetDimensions.com The Community Chest of Hong Kong is an independent, Hong Kong-based non-profit organization. As one of the most important charities in Hong Kong, The Community Chest serves as an umbrella organization to provide grants to a wide range of charities and community projects, especially in relation to elderly services, family and child welfare services, medical and health services, community development services and the environment. 4.2.2 Food Drive In February, NetDimensions staff in the APAC and EMEA regions participated in food drives. In Hong Kong, office staff donated 129.3 kg (206 items) of food (that’s equivalent to 308 meals) to Feeding Hong Kong, who redistributes the food items to partner charities, all of whom are registered non-profit organizations working with underprivileged individuals in Hong Kong. Though often seen as a rich city, a shocking 1.5 million people in Hong Kong are chronically hungry. 8 www.NetDimensions.com Our home-based staff contributed to their own ‘virtual food drive’ by donating to local organizations using our donation guide. donated a fantastic £220 plus 147 individual items of food such as tinned goods, pasta, toilet paper & sleeping bags. 4.2.3 Days for Girls Healthy Food and Hygiene Drive On February 25th, NetDimensions sponsored the Days for Girls Healthy Food and Hygiene Drive in Culiat, Quezon City, Philippines. Together with members of Days for Girls (Manila Chapter), five of our employees spent a morning with around 40 children ages 4-8 from families that live below the poverty line, and taught them about the importance of schooling, personal hygiene and eating healthy food. The event started off with nursery rhymes, storytelling, and discussions, followed by songs and a video presentation on personal hygiene and nutrition, then ended with organized games. After the games, all children received a gift (stationery for school use) and had a healthy and nutritious lunch together. 9 www.NetDimensions.com 4.2.4 Heep Hong Society In May, NetDimensions sponsored a day trip for the the Heep Hong Society of Hong Kong. The Heep Hong Society providers support for children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), specific learning difficulties, and other special needs. The children and their families visited the Tian Tan Buddha and shrine, had lunch at the Po Lin monastery, visited a local fishing village and the Sky 100 observation deck at the International Commerce Center. 10 www.NetDimensions.com 11 www.NetDimensions.com In December, we donated HK$10,000 to Heep Hong Society Social Adaptation Programme and joined in a half day activity for children with specific learning difficulties and other special needs. We played games and tea time together. 12 www.NetDimensions.com 13 www.NetDimensions.com 4.2.5 Blood Drive 4 employees from NetDimensions’ Hong Kong office voluntarily donated blood to local blood banks in December 2017 in their support and respect of human rights and health. We believe blood donations are very important because blood is a unique fluid required for people to live that cannot be made other than by a human body itself, hence can only be obtained through donations, and can save people’s lives. 14 www.NetDimensions.com 4.2.6 Astig Pinay In 2013, there were 320,000 foreign domestic helpers in Hong Kong. 48% were from the Philippines, 49.4% from Indonesia. According to Amnesty International, domestic helpers in Hong Kong are often at risk of serious human and labor rights violations. This initiative is looking to enhance integration of domestic helpers into Hong Kong’s society. The NetDimensions sponsored touch rugby team has continued to grow since its start in March, 2016, and now has over 20 active members with more women joining every week. Every Sunday, they meet at Happy Valley or the South Island School to learn and practice. Our sponsorship enabled the team to purchase rugby kit and gear, and go through formal rugby coaching training. The team has also had the opportunity to learn from guest coaches like Chris Garvey, an experienced women’s rugby coach for the Hong Kong women’s team and Valley’s premiership-winning side, and Adrienne Garvey, a Hong Kong women’s rugby player. They were also recently featured on the local online sports news publication, More Chaos (https://www.morechaos.com/single-post/2017/10/22/A-sporting-tribute-to-the-domestichelper). This year one of the team members, Khaz Brizuela, was able to attend a non-contact coaching course at the Elite Rugby Training Center in Kowloon Tong. Here’s what she had to say about her time on the rugby team: “I still can't imagine how far me and my team and this sport has changed our life in so many unimaginable ways. Our first rugby training session made me decide to join the Astig Pinay Exiles rugby team. We met people of different races and played with them as well. That was the first time I dived to make a try and my teammates were cheering me on. And I felt proud of myself. 15 www.NetDimensions.com As we all know, being an overseas workers is a hard, tough, risky job for all Filipinos not just in Hong Kong, but all around the world. The fact that you are away from your family and especially our kids is one of the biggest sacrifices we make. Playing rugby makes a big impact to decrease my loneliness for my 2 sons in the Philippines. My teammates have become my second family. A family away from home. I still want to pursue coaching courses to widen my knowledge, to share it with all my fellow Filipino sports enthusiasts like me and also introduce it to my fellow Indonesian overseas workers.” 4.2.7 Fair trade Coffee To show respect to local coffee farmers and their rights to a fair existence, NetDimensions continued to use 100% fair trade coffee in its Hong Kong and Manila offices. The coffee at our Philippines offices comes from an organization called Coffee For Peach (CFP), which started off as an Income Generating Program of a peacebuilding movement in the Philippines and now is an independent commercial business that also trains coffee farmers in the different provinces of the northern Philippines. 16 www.NetDimensions.com 4.3 Measuring Goals set for 2017 # 2017 COP Goal % Achieved Summary 1 Organize at least 3 CSR 100% Counting the Blood-drive, events/efforts in relation to these Walkathon, Heep Hong society principles volunteering event, Food Drive as CSR events, we organized 7 CSR events in relation to these principles last year 2 Submit the COP2016 to UNGC and 100% We submitted our COP2017 to remain an active participant under the UNGC on 3 February 2017 UNGC 3 Increase total annual CSR spending 0% The company-wide spent (calculated in time and budget) decreased (calculated in time compared to 2016 by at least 10% and budget) during the integration of NetDimensions into LTG during 2017. 4 Maintain the use of fair trade coffee 100% Percentage of fair trade coffee beans in NetDimensions’ global beans out of the total coffee bean consumption as a consumed worldwide grew percentage of all coffee beans used from 98.9% in 2016 to 100% in above 95%. 2017. 4.4 Setting goals for 2018 We target to achieve the following in 2018 in relation to UNGC’s Principles in relation to Human Rights: 1. Organize and/or sponsor at least 3 CSR events/efforts in relation to these principles; 2. Submit the COP2018 to UNGC and remain an active participant under the UNGC; 3. Measure our total annual CSR spending (calculated in time and budget); 4. Maintain the use of fair trade coffee beans in NetDimensions’ global coffee bean consumption as a percentage of all coffee beans used above 95%. We will also investigate the possibility to extend the use of fair trade to other products such as tea. 17 www.NetDimensions.com 5. Labor Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 5.1 Introduction We support the Principles above and believe that labor conditions should be fair and respectful towards employees’ rights and status as free individuals. NetDimensions will not tolerate or accept any forced, compulsory and/or child labor within its company and value chain. Below is an overview of our 2017 efforts in relation to the UNGC Labor-related Principles and related goals we had set for the year. 5.2 Achievements 5.2.1 LINGOs/Humentum Throughout the year, we continued to work with, and support LINGOs and again saw them increasing the use of the NetDimensions-donated NetDimensions Talent Suite Learning Management System substantially. LINGOs now has a total of 88 of their member NGOs (and approximately 24,000 active users) working with our NTS system. In July of this year, LINGOs merged with InsideNGO and Mango to form Humentum; under this name they are now offering Humentum Learning Services to their community. The new organization serves development, humanitarian, civil society, and other international social sector organizations. As communicated in our 2013 COP, NetDimensions committed to providing its proprietary developed learning platform NetDimensions Talent Suite free of charge to NGO LINGOs (Humentum) and the Last Mile Learning initiative which makes worldclass courses and learning opportunities available online at no cost in areas such as basic finance, basic management, project management and other developmentspecific topics. These courses are delivered to users via the NetDimensions Learning Management System and accessed through either the Global Last Mile Learning 18 www.NetDimensions.com portal or national portals run by local associations and training providers. All content on the platform are available in various online formats as well as in packages of facilitation and participant materials for face-to-face instruction. All materials are available in a variety of languages. The core learning paths of Last Mile Learning can be used to develop key management. 5.2.2. Enhancement data protection documentation Partly in preparation of the EU General Data Protection Regulation which will become active on 25 May 2018, we substantially increased our internal data protection policy and training framework during 2017 in, inter alia, the area of human resources. 5.2.3. Modern Slavery Statement NetDimensions’ parent company, LTG, has published a Modern Slavery Statement putting in place systems to comply with the Modern Slavery Act 2015. The statement sets out the steps taken to ensure that slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in our supply chain. This along with our Business Ethics, Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy emphasize our desire to do business ethically and responsibly. 5.3 Measuring Goals set for 2017 # 2017 COP Goal % Achieved Summary 1 With regards to LINGOs (Humentum): 99% By the end of 2017, 88 a total of 90 NGOs having LINGOs member NGOs implemented/started using the system started using the system and with a total of 24,000 active users on a total of 24,000 active Users the NetDimensions provided NTS used the system platform 2 Continue to monitor the 20 CSR KPIs 50% Since the integration of identified NetDimensions into LTG, Legal & HR have become centralised function so it is no longer possible to track certain metrics. 3 Improve 2017 staff sickness 0% Since the integration into absenteeism company-wide LTG, the NetDimensions HR compared to 2016 department has been reorganised and centralised. 19 www.NetDimensions.com There is no reliable sickness/absenteeism data for 2017 although this should be available in 2018. 4 Improve the 2017 ‘regretted attrition; 0% There has been material KPI compared to 2016 employee turnover during the integration into LTG and reliable data to analyse regretted attrition is not available for 2017. 5 Have zero office and work related 100% We had no accident or RSI accidents (RSI included) incidents staff members during 2017. 6 Perform staff completing engagement 0% No survey was conducted satisfactory survey and improve during the integration related overall 2017 score compared process. In January 2018 a to 2016 survey has been conducted in association with companywide staff focus groups, which should form the baseline for future improvements. 5.4 Setting goals for 2018 We target to achieve the following in 2018 in relation to UNGC’s Principles in relation to Labor: 1. With regards to LINGOs/Humentum: a total of 95 NGOs having implemented/started using the system with a total of 26,500 active users on the NetDimensions provided NTS platform; 2. Continue to monitor the CSR KPIs 3. Measure staff sickness absenteeism company-wide 4. Have zero office and work related accidents (RSI included) 5. Conduct a staff attitudes survey and make a set of recommendations based on the feedback; 20 www.NetDimensions.com 6. Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and use of environmentally friendly technologies 6.1 Introduction NetDimensions is determined to reduce its carbon footprint and add its weight in preserving the earth’s environment and livability for next generations. Whilst NetDimensions is involved in software development, marketing and sales, hence active in a low carbon exhausting industry, NetDimensions recognizes that it can nevertheless act responsibly and make a difference in relation to reducing carbon footprint. Below is a summary of our 2017 achievement related to the UNGC Principles surrounding Environments and our related goals for 2018. 6.2 Achievements Supplier and Partner Code of Conduct We continued to communicate our Supplier and Partner Code of Conduct to our partners and suppliers. The Supplier and Partner Code of Conduct clearly articulates NetDimensions’ views on CSR and its support of the Ten Principles under the UNGC. Whilst the code is not binding to those parties it has been communicated to, it does send out a very clear message on the values NetDimensions thinks are critical in doing business. NetDimensions included a copy of the code in a number of its new supplier and business partner contracts. Over the course of the year, an approximate total of 5 partner and supplier organizations have received and read a copy of the code. 21 www.NetDimensions.com 22 www.NetDimensions.com 6.3 Measuring Goals set for 2017 # 2017 COP Goal % Achieved Summary 1 Continue implementing the Supplier 100% We continued implementing and Partner Code of Business to as the Supplier and Partner Code many partners and suppliers as of Business to new partners possible and suppliers and communicated the code to around 15 companies in 2017 2 Reduce our companywide air travel 0% We did not record the figures as calculated on a per employee due to the integration into LTG. basis compared to 2016 3 Reduce our companywide kilowatt 100% We have reduced the usage usage as calculated on a per by 9.4% in 2017. employee basis compared to 2016 4 Reduce our companywide paper 100% We have reduced the usage usage as calculated on a per by 13.96% in 2017. employee basis compared to 2016 5 Organize at least one CSR event in 100% We participated in eyeglasses relation to this principle recycling program in Hong Kong. 23 www.NetDimensions.com 6.4 Setting goals for 2018 We target to achieve the following in 2018 regarding to UNGC’s Principles in relation to Environment: 1. Continue implementing the Supplier and Partner Code of Business to as many partners and suppliers as possible; 2. Monitor our companywide air travel as calculated on a per employee basis; 3. Reduce our companywide kilowatt usage as calculated on a per employee basis compared to 2017; 4. Reduce our companywide paper usage as calculated on a per employee basis compared to 2017; 7. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 7.1 Introduction NetDimensions believes corruption and bribery to be a major challenge in international business and is in full support of this Principle under the UNGC. In recognition of this principle we continue to train and educate our staff and partners on how to recognize bribery and corruption and how to report any suspected bribery or corruption. 7.2 Achievements 7.2.1 Training and Compliance During 2017, NetDimensions continued to communicate its Supplier and Partner Code of Conduct in its value chain and (re-)educated its global staff in anti-corruption and anti-bribery through our internal NetDimensions Talent Suite instance. In addition we updated our internal Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. 24 www.NetDimensions.com 7.2.2 EcoVadis NetDimensions was awarded its second Silver CSR rating by EcoVadis in December 2016, a global CSR assessment company providing supplier sustainability ratings for global supply chains, meaning that we again scored comfortably in the top 30% of companies evaluated by EcoVadis. This as well provides an objective demonstration of NetDimensions’ substantial and change-making CSR efforts and we hope to continue making progress in this regard. The assessment result of 2017 has not been released yet. 7.3 Measuring Goals set for 2017 # 2017 COP Goal % Achieved Summary 1 Have 100% of our front-line staff 0% We can't get this number for completing the anti-corruption and 2017 given the acquisition but anti-bribery compliance will start monitoring this from acknowledgment statements at least 2018, now that compliance has once been centralised in LTG. 2 Make our Code on Business Conduct, 100% This is a part of the onboarding Ethics and CSR awareness available process for all employees joining to 100% of our newly onboarding the company. frontline staff 3 Assign either our course on Business 0% We did not record this due to the Conduct, Ethics and CSR awareness integration into LTG. or our Anti-Bribery and AntiCorruption course (including exam questions) to 100% of our staff 4 Continue implementing the Supplier 100% We continued implementing the and Partner Code of Business to as Supplier and Partner Code of many partners and suppliers as Business to new partners and possible suppliers and communicated the code to around 15 companies in 2017 25 www.NetDimensions.com 7.4 Setting goals for 2018 We target to achieve the following in 2018 regarding to UNGC’s Principles in relation to Anti-Corruption: 1. Have 100% of our front-line staff completing the anti-corruption and antibribery compliance acknowledgment statements at least once; 2. Make our Code on Business Conduct, Ethics and CSR awareness subject to 100% of our newly onboarding frontline staff; 3. Assign either our course on Business Conduct, Ethics and CSR awareness or our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption course (including exam questions) to 100% of our staff; 4. Continue implementing the Supplier and Partner Code of Business to as many partners and suppliers as. 26 www.NetDimensions.com
