OKQ8 Scandinavia Sustainability Report 2017/18 Table of contents 01 We are pleased to welcome you to OKQ8 Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report 2017/18. As one of Scandinavia’s leading fuel companies, it is important to explain Introduction how we take a proactive approach to reducing our environmental impact, while creating a positive effect on Welcome to this year’s report 2 society. Key results of the year 3 The path to a long-term sustainable company 4 This is OK-Q8 AB’s Sustainability Report, and it is in compliance with both the Danish and the Swedish Annual Accounts Acts. OK-Q8 AB has its own 02 offices and activities through subsidiaries in Sweden and Denmark, which make up the OK-Q8 group. The group also has a joint venture agreement Sustainability in OK Detaljhandel AB, owned by OK Ekonomisk Förening. These constitute the name OKQ8 Scandinavia, which is one of Scandinavia’s largest fuel per area companies.The Group is referred to as OKQ8 Scandinavia in this report. In cases where OK Detaljhandel AB is not included in the sustainability report, Life with OKQ8 Scandinavia 7 this is described either in text or footnote. Additional information on the Our social commitment 10 Group’s structure and its subsidiaries is provided in Chapter 3. We care about our customers 14 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Meet one of our customers 16 option. Focus on sustainability in the supply chain 17 Fuels with the least possible environmental impact 20 Sustainable transports and storage 24 Our environmental work 25 Sustainable stations 28 We are preparing for the mobility of the future 30 03 Our company About OKQ8 Scandinavia 31 Economy 34 Compliance and reporting 36 Goals and results 40 UN Global Compact 41 GRI content index 42 Welcome to this year’s report We know that transport today is The fuel industry is constantly developing, our CO2e emissions by 31 percent per m3 responsible for around one-third of and we need to be proactive to of sold product, and reduced our energy the total emissions of carbon dioxide ensure that we remain relevant for our consumption by 12 percent per m3 of emissions (CO2e emissions). As a fuel customers, our suppliers and our partners. sold product. Another focus area is our and energy company, we bear a great We work ceaselessly to promote the initiatives in social sustainability, where deal of responsibility for the climate development of more climate-adapted we work to achieve a workplace with impact generated by transports. It also and environmentally-friendly fuels and equality and with employees who are means that we play an important role products. happy and able to progress, and where in the pursuit for a more sustainable differences are encouraged. We intend to development. It is absolutely essential for our be a company, which reflects society, with company’s future that we think big and an inclusive culture that helps to reduce If we as a company are to make any utilise social development to create exclusion and supports diversity. difference, it is essential that we set sustainable solutions. Technical progress ambitious goals for how we can affect is opening exciting opportunities. We During the year, we supported refugees society in a positive direction. When can already see initiatives in driverless through initiatives such as offering we completed our own sustainability cars, artificial intelligence and the internships and jobs for new arrivals. Our strategy, it was important to us that development of electrical motors. But the Christmas gift to Save the Children in it tied in with the global initiatives for potential is even greater. We must be at Denmark and Sweden was a further way sustainable development. That is why the cutting-edge of technical progress so for us to help reduce exclusion among our three long-term goals are based on that we are a driving force for tomorrow’s children and young people. three of the UN’s global sustainable sustainable solutions and, through that, a development goals: Reduced inequality, sustainable future. The year’s Sustainability Report gives Sustainable cities & communities and concrete examples and describes many Combatting climate change. Current and prospective challenges will of the initiatives we have taken to foster a impact our future and affect our business better society, now and in the future. One Through our sustainability strategy, strategy. We must constantly adapt to example is our sustainable stations, which we commit ourselves to reduce our meet challenges such as climate change, not only offer renewable fuel and quick environmental impact and generate urbanisation and mobility, limited chargers for electric cars, but are also a positive development on society in natural resources, digitalisation and operated with minimal environmental an economic and responsible way. Our electrification, as well as the phasing-out impact. These stations use 50 percent strategy and goals also support the UN’s of fossil fuels. less electricity than traditional stations, Global Compact, as does our Code of and are an important component in our Conduct, which is also based on the UN Sustainability in practice goal to reduce our CO2e emissions by 20 Global Compact’s 10 principles, including As a natural part of our approach to percent by 2030. human rights, working conditions, the sustainability we work actively to reduce environment and anti-corruption. both our own and the world’s climate J. Magnus Kamryd, CEO impact. Since 2014/15, we have reduced Sustainability Report 2017/18 2 Key results of the year Energy CO2e Social initiative 12% 31% 7,000 We have reduced our energy use by 12 % We have reduced our CO2e emissions by Thanks to the Solvatten project, 16,000 per m3 sold product since 2014/15 31 % per m3 sold product since 2014/15 people have access to clean water. Sustainable Brand Index Employee satisfaction Financial results 3,15 507 MSEK We are the industry leader in the fuel Employee satisfaction index has OK-Q8 Group’s combined profit in category in Sweden increased from 3.01 to 3.15 on a scale 2017/18 after tax from 1 to 4 LinkedIn During the year we have increased our number of followers to over 10,000 in Denmark and Sweden 3 Sustainability Report 2017/18 The path to a long-term sustainable company Over and above the needs of stakeholders Through a materiality assessment, we The materiality assessment is an overall and business risks and opportunities, have reviewed every part of our company. assessment of the areas which are we have also taken account of external The assessment gives us an overview of significant or which constitute a risk to trends in identifying the most important our most important challenges, risks and our company and stakeholders. The areas in relation to sustainability. opportunities. assessment takes into account the External trends are a factor, which we environmental, social and economic cannot affect, but which we must find With the help of external stakeholders factors. a way of relating to. External trends and our internal Sustainability Council, include climate change, urbanisation which consists of representatives from The most significant risks and how we and mobility, resource limitations and every division within OKQ8 Scandinavia, handle them a growing middle-class, as well as we have identified a number of areas Through our risk assessment, we have digitalisation and electrification. Our within sustainability, where we intend to identified the most significant risks in most important areas are shown in the prioritise our efforts and set goals. relation to our business activities and illustration on page 5. which imply a negative impact in the We are in ongoing dialogue with our following areas: Environment, social In our decisions, we also take into stakeholders, including customers, public issues and personnel, respect for human account the environmental review of agencies, interest groups and industry rights and counteracting corruption. the part of our organisation, which is organisations. On the basis of their We then identified the business risks for environmentally certified under ISO views, external trends, risk assessment these areas, as illustrated on page 5. 14001. This is a long-term and effective and the input from the Sustainability approach to sustainability, which also Council, we have carried out a materiality Of the identified risks, spills and leakage benefits our business. assessment. Based on the results of the are regarded as significant and are assessment, the Sustainability Council therefore considered as an area of action. provides recommendations for strategies, This is coherent with the assessment goals and activities for our sustainability of stakeholders and the Sustainability efforts. Council. All other risks are managed and described in the report under the relevant area. Sustainability Report 2017/18 4 Stakeholder dialogue & materiality assessment Identification and Input from Most material prioritisation of aspects stakeholders aspects Sustainability Strategy report and goals Stakeholder dialogue The dialogue ensures that our We recognize the importance of sustainability work is relevant and moving dialogue with the stakeholders that are in the right direction. The dialogue with Our most important stakeholders important to our business success. Part our stakeholders has mainly been through Customers Employees of our stakeholder process is to review individual interviews with representatives Owners Partners our stakeholder groups each year, and from the various stakeholder groups. Politicians State and municipalities to identify the most important ones, They have prioritised the areas that are Authorities NGOs so we can have a constructive dialogue of paramount importance to them and Suppliers Media about challenges and opportunities in contributed with overall views on the Industry organisations sustainability. direction of our sustainability efforts. Sustainability strategy We want to reduce our environmental impact and create a positive effect on society in an economic and responsible way Areas for social responsibility Current and potential risks • Environment • Spills and leakage • Social issues and personnel • Fraud • Respect for human rights • NGO activities at our locations • Counteracting corruption • Dependence on key individuals • Terrorist attacks • Fire and explosion • Violation of human rights by suppliers Most important areas Climate change Biodiversity and land use Air quality Political decisions New business areas Health & Safety Goals • We will reduce our CO2e emissions from • We will be in Top 50 on the • We will be in Top 50 on the own operations by 20 % by 2030 per Universum “Most Attractive ”Sustainable Brand Index” by 2025 m3 of product sold (base year 2014/15) Employer” ranking by 2025 5 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Materiality assessment Our materiality assessment provides us with guidelines for developing our strategi and goals for sustainability Climate change High priority Responsible supply chain Biodiversity and Air quality land use Ethics Spill and leakage Political decisions Security Sustainable stations New business areas Stakeholders Transparency Health and safety priorities Water use Diversity Human rights Wide range of fuels Public relations Talent management Noise Custumers satisfaction Circular economy Partnerships Ressource scarcity Brand perception Low priority Food range High priority OKQ8 Scandinavia’s priorities Challenges based on the The Sustainability Council Strategy Goals and opportunities Every division in OKQ8 Scandinavia UN’s sustainability goals is represented on the Company’s We want to reduce our environmental Inequality within and among We will be in Top 50 on the Universum impact and create a positive effect on countries must be reduced “Most Attractive Employer” ranking Sustainability Council. The Council meets society in an economic and responsible by 2025 regularly and based on the strategy, way Cities and local society must We will be in the Top 50 in the be inclusive, safe, resilient and “Sustainable Brands index” by 2025 goals and activities for sustainability sustainable are proposed. These are approved by Climate change and its We will reduce our CO2e emissions management before implementation in impacts must be combated from our own operation by 20 % by 2030 per m3 of sold product (base year the business areas. 2014/15) Sustainability work 2018/2019 Sustainable car washes New Swedish legislation The following will happen within OKQ8 We will build 50 new car washes in On July 1, 2018, the new reduction Scandinavia over the next year: Denmark and Sweden over the next obligation act will take effect in Sweden. three years. The car washes have built-in The legislation involves a reduction Network of quick chargers water purification and in greenhouse gas emissions from During 2018, a network totalling 30 quick environmentally-approved traditional fuels. Another proposal from chargers for electric cars will be installed Swan-labelled products. the Swedish government concerns at our stations in Denmark and Sweden. We are involved with the changing the sustainability criteria They are part of the EU project, GREAT, lobbying organisation, for biofuels. The final negotiations in which will establish a green motorway Sustainable Carwash in EU will take place during 2018 on the from Stockholm to Hamburg. Sweden, which works to reduce the level Renewables Directive that regulates the of car washing in the streets. raw materials which can be used. AdBlue-pumps The exhaust cleaning additive, AdBlue, Employer branding prevents hazardous nitric oxide emissions For us, it is vital to be an attractive by converting nitric oxide into safe employer for both existing and potential nitrogen and water vapour. We will employees. Our goal is to be in top 50 continue to install pumps dispensing of Nordic’s Most Attractive Employer AdBlue for private cars and commercial ranking by 2025. vehicles in Denmark and Sweden. Sustainability Report 2017/18 6 Life with OKQ8 Scandinavia The goal is to be a more Wide range of training courses A full 40 percent of attractive employer We provide many opportunities for our employees would We work with clear goals for constantly education and training to develop our recommend OKQ8 being an employer that is seen as employees. For example, we organise Scandinavia as a workplace attractive. During the year, we continued an annual Leader Day for our 130 or so with our initiative, Life with OKQ8 leaders from Denmark and Sweden. This Scandinavia. year the theme was Employer Branding. Survey: Nordic’s Most For future leaders in OKQ8 Bank, Shared Attractive Employer If we are to achieve our ambitious goal Service and Customer Service, we started During 2017, jointly with Universum, we we need to show both existing and a pilot project during the year called, analysed our place in the survey: Nordic’s potential employees what we can offer. Talent in Motion. Most Attractive Employer. One overall For that reason, we have condensed this goal is that by 2025 we will be among into four focus areas which describe what Our unique Mentoring programme the top 50 companies in Universum’s we, as a company, offer. is aimed at people in a leadership ranking. The survey shows that we are in position, who would like to improve their a space between 110-150. leadership skills. The programme involves Courageous leaders – we encourage personal meetings over a period of our leaders to be courageous in The balance between work twelve months, with a mentor from the taking decisions and driving our organisation. The programme focuses and leisure time is the thing business forward. on developing leadership in relation to which is valued highest business development, values, strategies, when today’s young people Family and leisure time – we value effective teams, personal leadership and choose an employer. a sound work/life balance, and we encourage rest and recuperation development. This is a highly respected Source: Nordic’s Most Attractive Employer ranking 2017 during free time. programme, which attracts a large number of applicants. Development & talent – we foster talent and offer training to Employee Satisfaction Index employees who intend to develop Since 2014, we have carried out an themselves or increase their internal employee survey twice a year expertise. the Employee Satisfaction Index. The results have improved from an average of Flexible workplace – We are mobile, 3.01 to 3.15 in 2017 on a scale of four, and we believe that a flexible which we are extremely happy with. The workplace makes us more effective response rate in 2017 was no less than and more receptive. 93 percent. 7 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Health and safety We carry out audits each year in For just over a year now, the employees We work strategically and operationally accordance with our audit plan. at the office on Sveavägen in Stockholm with health and safety at our stations and Audits can be carried out by us, by our have worked in an activity-based depots, as well as at our offices. Based owners or by an external player, such environment. Instead of traditional office on risk assessments and safety visits, as a certification audit. The aim of rooms, we share resources and places. We we have mapped our health and safety these audits is to assess whether the have more meeting places and premises work. Starting from these, we can then management system is being complied adapted to meet various needs. set goals and establish which preventive with, and that it is generating value and activities we need to focus on. efficiency. The development of health and safety A fundamental part of our approach to Training portal Based on our management system: How health and safety is our management On our training portal, we offer a we do things, we work with continuous system: How we do things, which largely range of online courses and training improvements in the health and safety follows the standards: OHSAS 18001 modules on security, health and safety area. Focus on improvement lies in (health and safety) and ISO 14001 and environment. Certain courses are mental health and safety, where perhaps (environment). This involves 18 different mandatory, while others are voluntary. the biggest challenges are in relation to processes including handling incidents The training is registered and forms a tougher social society. We have had an and crises, audits, Safety Walks, risk the basis of our training index which is increasing number of reported incidents assessment, handling suppliers, calculated as the number of training between 2016/17 (808 pcs.) and environment, health and safety and hours per employee. This year, we 2017/18 (943 pcs). The number of security. Oops & Ouch are our digital tool achieved a training index of 3.74, reported near misses has been contant for reporting undesired incidents. Around compared to our target of 3.7. throughout the same period. Compared 1,000 undesired incidents are reported to last year, the number of personal in the system each year. The purpose As part of our preventive work, we have injuries and the number of days absence of reporting incidents is to enable us to an excellent benefits pogramme for all has increased by 30 percent and 20 constantly improve and create a safer employees, such as a health contribution percent, respectively. and more secure working environment which can be used by every employee. and to reduce our environment impact. We measure absence due to illness carefully and look specifically at how we Safety Walks can reduce work-related absence due to Safety Walks are carried out several illness. times per year at each station, depot and office. The aim of the Safety Walks is to We have a health and safety committee identify and eliminate possible causes of in both Denmark and Sweden, wich incidents. During 2017/18, 2,275 Safety are composed so that all employees Walks were carried out, which is above are represented. The health and safety our target of 2,000. This signals to our committees meet twice a year to followemployees that we take health and safety up and discuss work-related issues and very seriously and always have the area in incidents, as well as to decide which mind. work-related activities should be carried out during the year. Sustainability Report 2017/18 8 Employees Number of employees Employment contract Employment type Permanent Temporary Full time Part time Total 3,001* Women/ Men Women/ Men Women/ Men Women/ Men Denmark 565 / 524 36 / 28 158 / 154 443 / 398 Sweden 692 / 627 279 / 250 372 / 442 599 / 435 * Includes full time, part time and hourly paid employees Employee categories Women Men Board, Q8 Danmark A/S 33% (2) 67% (4) Board, OK-Q8 AB 25% (2) 75% (6) Management 67% (4) 33% (2) Total number of employees 1,572 1,429 at OKQ8 Scandinvia Sick leave 52 % 48 % The company’s distribution of 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 women and men Denmark 1,9 2,111) 3,3 Sweden 5,4 5,9 5,7 1) Due to new payroll system, an average of 9 month is reported Incidents Own locations Contractors Number of incidents Incident index* Number of incidents Incident index* Type of incident 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Crime** 245 243 12.6 12.6 27 24 2.75 2.76 Personal injuries 117 85 6.00 4.41 51 42 5.19 4.83 Near misses 259 242 13.3 12.6 128 136 13.0 15.6 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Customer related incidents 27 29 1.39 1.51 12 7 1.22 0.81 * Incident index: Number of accidents x 200,000 per number of hours worked ** Contains only external incidents such as robbery, fraud, burglary and violence Employee accidents with lost working days LWC1) LWC Severity2) LWC Severity rate3) 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Own employees 14 12 7.07 3.42 5.08 2.13 Contractors 5 4 6.60 10.8 3.36 4.96 1) LWC (Lost workday cases) – Number of accidents wirh lost working days 2) LWC Severity – Number of lost workings days per LWC 3) LWC Severity rate – Number of lost working days at employee accidents x 200 000 per number of hours worked 9 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Our social commitment We help young people to find work In 2014, we started Youths On Their Way in Sweden, an internship programme with the pupose to reduce exclusion for individuals within the framework of the Swedish Public Employment Service job guarantee for young people. This means that we take on interns for three months to give them experience of working life. Through our customer service in Avesta, we take on around 50 young people every year. By far the most important things for us is that our internships will lead to actual work, and, to date, 40 percent of our interns have found a job after a year or so, which we are very pleased with. How did you come into contact with Congratulations! What advice would our internship programme? you give to other people in the same – I had recently graduated in position as you were? communications and PR, and I was – Go for it, even if it might be financially looking for a job through the Swedish tough. I really wanted to get into working Public Employment Service. I was asked life, preferably in Stockholm, but that if I would be happy to accept a job as an means really hard competition. If you intern, and I said yes. want something badly enough, you can make it happen. What qualifications do you have? – I completed my degree in Communications Science at Jönköping University last June. How long did your internship last, and After the internship what were you working on? I got a job at OKQ8 – I got an internship within the Scandinavia Communications Department at OKQ8 Scandinavia’s office in Stockholm. Interview with Katarina Bogic, 22 This lasted for three months, and then years old, who participated in the turned in to project employment, which, internship programme, Youths On of course, was really cool. My title is Their Way and then was employed on Communication Assistant, and I am a project. involved in a range of communications work. Sustainability Report 2017/18 10 This has really become a win-win situation, both for us as a company and for the people taking part. The programme has generated internal pride in what we as a company do, and at the same time, we have been able to utilise valuable knowledge. Martina Stenberg, Head of HR Short way helps new arrivals During the refugee wave of 2015, OKQ8 Scandinavia saw an opportunity to offer work to newly-arrived academics. It is important for us that we are a part of society and provide help where it is needed. That is why we then developed a mentoring programme, which is aimed at academics who have recently been granted residence permits. The aim is to introduce them to Swedish working life, and, so far, 15 people have joined the programme, which involves working at any of our offices in Sweden. Jana moved to Eskilstuna from Croatia three years ago. She holds a Bachelor’s degree in Business and Economics from the University of Belgrade. It means a lot to have the opportunity to work as an intern. It was very difficult for me to come from another country and find a job, despite the fact I have qualifications. The internship at OKQ8 Scandinavia has enabled me to learn a lot about the culture at Swedish workplaces, and this is incredibly valuable. After the internship, I found a job as a Finance Assistant in the Finance Department at Shared Services in Västerås – it feels fantastic, of course. Jana Perovic Jovanovic, Economic Assistant 11 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Managers encourage young people In Denmark in 2017/18, we supported the Association of New Danes mentoring programme, Break Youth Unemployment Now! Job-seekers between the ages of 15 and 30 take part in a boot camp, where they are given help with job-seeking tools and personality tests. They are also given the opportunity to meet employers. Station managers from OKQ8 Scandinavia are enthusiastically involved, and also act as mentors. This also helps develop their leadership qualities. We are involved because we want to make a difference. Since many of the employees at our stations are young, we have the opportunity of offering employment after the completion of the boot camp. On average, eight out of ten of the young people are in work, internships or training. What does this support mean for you? How do the results look? – It enables us to offer young people – Since 2014, over 400 people have more than just mentoring, which is our taken part. Almost 80 young people main activity. Some of the young people have then gone on to a mentoring feel that it is challenging to find a job. At programme, twelve of these with station our boot camps, they are given help in managers from Q8. Eight of these young writing job applications and CVs, learn to people later found jobs in one way or network, take a personality test and roleanother, which is fantastic. play practice employment interviews with a range of people, including managers What will happen in the future? from Q8. Afterwards, some of the young – We will continue with our boot people also want to have a mentor. camps, as they are popular in many municipalities. Several people have How do you view your collaboration asked whether we can do more, but, Cathrine Klokkedal, project leader, the with Q8? unfortunately, that would take resources Association of New Danes about Break Youth – They are a committed partner and which we do not have. I have heard that Unemployment Now! are really enthusiastic about making OKQ8 Scandinavia in Sweden has had Break Youth Unemployment a difference for young people, partly excellent results with their interns, and it Now! because Q8 has a large number of could be exciting to try a similar model young employees. We are proud of here in Denmark. In what ways does Q8 support the the collaboration and usually emphasise how it is possible 8 out 10 project? – Q8 supports Break Youth to achieve a great deal with Unemployment Now! by developing limited resources. A number of and taking part in our boot camps, our other companies have shown interest in working with us in the same way. Youths receive work, mentors, providing financial support, internship or education generating PR and offering their after participating in the premises. For us, it is incredibly valuable. mentoring program Break Youth Unemployment Now! Sustainability Report 2017/18 12 30 litres 7,000 We sponsor Solvatten in Uganda Sustainability is a constant focus area in everything we do. That is why it is important for us to participate actively in society and A Solvatten container contains ten Thanks to the project, 7,000 people litres of water, and can purify up now have access to clean and warm show a social commitment. to 30 litres of water per day using water in their homes every day sunlight alone. It can be used for Since 2015, we have sponsored a water seven years and gives during that purification project, Solvatten in Uganda, period approxemately 60,000 litres. which aims to distribute water purification The water in the Solvatten container containers to vulnerable families. Every time can be up to 75 degrees which means a car is washed in one of our car washes, that the energy use for water heating a Ugandan family gets four litres of clean is reduced and trees in the immediate water. Today, with the help of our customers, area can remain. No batteries, filters One carwash at OKQ8 Scandinavia we have provided 60 million litres of clean or chemical additives are needed just = 4 litres clean water to a family in water. That is incredibly rewarding. the sun Uganda How important is it for a company to How is the water purified? show social engagement? – The black Solvatten container, which All companies should build this type of contains ten litres of water, can be engagement into their values. There are opened like a book. When it is exposed many different solutions. It’s a matter to direct sunlight, the water is purified of visionary thinking and generating a by the heat of the sun and by UVA and, greater value in what you do. The whole especially, UVB light. The sun disinfects point is to make things better for the next the microorganisms, and neither filters generation. It is also a good thing when nor chemicals are necessary. When the the employees can see that the company water has been purified, an indicator is not just interested in profit, but can moves from a red, sad man to a green, also think long-term and with a human happy man. In Uganda, the whole perspective. process takes around two hours, and the water is heated to around 75°c. How did you get the idea of The car wash that does good Solvatten? For how long does the Solvatten – I met women who had problems container remain usable? Each time a car is washed, a family with poverty, contaminated water and – Used several times a day, it lasts for in Uganda can get four litres of clean sick children. That’s when the idea came seven years. This is a long-term project. water. Since 2015, OKQ8 Scandinavia to me of giving them a tool, which would Our goal is to reduce infectious illness has sponsored Solvatten, and the utilise solar energy. Solvatten saves throughout the world. Two billion people founder, Petra Wadström, values this women and girls from having to walk across the world have hygiene-related collaboration highly. long distances to collect firewood to heat infectious illnesses, often intestinal up the water. Solvatten now has 240,000 worms, and these are also a common What does OKQ8 Scandinavia’s users in 20 countries. cause of undernourishment. With support mean for Solvatten? improved hygiene and pure drinking In practice, this means that around Is there any Solvatten user who water, the children are full of energy and 7,000 people now have access to two particularly springs to mind? can go to school. litres of clean water per person every day. – I remember in particular some female In this case, there is a clear link between dairy farmers. They were forced to get the environmental aspects, from up incredibly early to boil water to wash carwash to clean drinking wate.r the cows’ udders before milking. But now they just save water in a Solvatten container and don’t have to get up so early. Thanks to clean udders and clean Petra Wadström won the 2017 EU hands, the milk keeps fresh longer and prize for female innovators brings in more money. 13 Sustainability Report 2017/18 We care about our customers We aim to be an enabler for people in motion, and always to be warm and welcoming. In recent years, we have taken a Lean approach, which helps us optimise customer satisfaction. Within this framework, we focus particularly on customer service. For example, our customers must always feel that they have received a personal welcome when they visit our stations or contact our sales people. This is how we provide customer service Around 120 people work in our Customer Service Departments in Sweden and Denmark. They answer questions and provide help with everything from ordering a new credit card to answer questions about our assurance products. Working smarter During 2017, we prepared forecasts for the staffing of Customer Service. Staffing is based I am totally on a range of factors, including what the staffing was in the corresponding period of the committed to creating preceding year, the particular day of the month and whether a campaign is in progress. a better world by Since we introduced this approach to staffing, we have seen clear and positive results, both developing the people who in regard to well-being and customer satisfaction. In general, we have satisfied customers work here and a low turnover of personnel. If the employees thrive and have good opportunities to Thorbjörn Bornsjö, Head of Customer Service make a good effort, it is clearly noticed in contact with the customers. We invest in leaders During the year, we implemented a pre-leadership programme, attended by twelve employees. The aim is that they will be leaders in the future. During the eight-month long education, three of the participants already have a managerial position. Mystery Shoppers Five times a year, every station is visited by a Mystery Shopper, who assesses everything from how clean the toilets are to the level of service given by the employees. We use the results in a concrete manner in our improvement efforts, so that we can see the particular areas, which need greater emphasis on information and training. Sustainability Report 2017/18 14 Our Customer Service in numbers 1 million calls per year 200,000 e-mail or Facebook contacts Phone queue times seldon over a minute Our NKI (Customer With KPI (Key Performance Indicator) we satistaction index) is at measure how friendly and courteous we 81 out of 100 are perceived. Whole 92 percent of our customers think we live up to this 15 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Meet one of our customers What does the agreement between How do you approach social yourselves and OKQ8 Scandinavia sustainability? involve? – This is an area where we and OKQ8 – It is a framework agreement with a Scandinavia are on the same wavelength. calculation formula controlling pricing. It Both companies are actively committed is updated every fourteen days. through initiatives such as the internship programme for young jobseekers. We Why did you choose OKQ8 are also two companies with a presence Scandinavia in particular? throughout Sweden. In many places – We chose OKQ8 Scandinavia because outside the major cities, it is particularly they were best positioned to deliver to important to be able to offer work to various departments across Sweden and young people. because they could supply HVO 100. Lena Sammeli-Johansson, How does your future need of fuel Was sustainability a parameter in look like? Sustainability Manager at the forestry your choice of fuel supplier? – One of our sustainability goals is to company, Sveaskog. – Absolutely. The sustainability reduce our CO2e emissions. That’s why perspective is vital for all our suppliers. Sveaskog about cooperation we are making every effort to increase OKQ8 Scandinavia meets our most the use of fossil free fuels where possible. with OKQ8 Scandinavia stringent standards. When we consider This is an area that we are constantly sustainability, we include the social discussing, and I am well aware that OKQ8 Scandinavia meets aspects as well as the environmental OKQ8 Scandinavia has an excellent our most stringent aspects. understanding of this. sustainability standards Can you give some examples of the Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest environmental aspect? forestry owner, with 14 percent of – As far as the environment is the productive forest land. Its core concerned, our ambition is to reduce operation is the sale of timber, wood our use of fossil fuels. That is why we pulp and biofuels. OKQ8 Scandinavia are using HVO, for example. For us, it’s has been a supplier to Sveaskog for important to have an ongoing dialogue over ten years. with our suppliers about the development and use of fossil free fuels. Sustainability Report 2017/18 16 Focus on sustainability in the supply chain Our core business as a fuel and energy company is to buy and sell oil products which meet our customers’ needs and requirements. Consequently, our environmental reporting focuses largely on our oil products. Customers Fossil raw materials Reﬁning Raw materials OKQ8 Scandinavia Private Refined products Fuels Business Additives Lubricating oils Renewable raw materials Stations and IDS Our supplier chain Since we neither extract oil nor own refineries, we are relative latecomers in the process. We purchase both fossil and renewable raw materials in the form of refined products and additives. Our fossil raw materials are obtained from various Nordic suppliers. The crude oil we use comes primarily from Russia and the North Sea. Our renewable raw materials are agricultural products in the form of vegetable or animal-sourced oils from many different countries. The majority of the oil products are distributed to our depots in Denmark and Sweden. We storage fuels at our depots, and blend in additives before they are distributed to our stations or to private and business customers. Lubricating oils are blended and packed at depots before they are distributed to customers. A large proportion of the used lubricating oils, for example from car workshops, are collected by us and returned to refineries for reuse, which generates both a financial and environmental benefit. 17 Sustainability Report 2017/18 High standards for suppliers suppliers to comply with this Code. Our to this and followed up to continue to We have high standards for our suppliers collaboration is based on dialogue and improve product sustainability. The in relation to sustainability – in particular shared values. As part of the procurement largest discrepancies are in raw material regarding traceability and working process, we review any certificates the production, meanwhile we have excellent conditions. For that reason, our audit supplier has achieved and the extent to knowledge of and are very confident process is important and thoroughly which we assess that the company meets about our suppliers’ commitment to the conducted. our standards. Through our thorough environment and social responsibility in ongoing checks and audits, including the actual production of the oil products. Basic requirements those carried out by an independent We have signed up to the UN Global third-party, we can be certain of a certain Suppliers of renewable fuels Compact, and when we select suppliers, level of quality of our current suppliers. When assessing renewable fuels, we we ensure that they are following these In the event of any irregularities, we also take into account a number of guidelines. Through the UN Global can rapidly renegotiate or terminate our own criteria and the UN Global Compact, we support ten important collaboration. So far, we have never had Compact’s 10 principles. For example, principles for human rights, working any reason to do so, which is something fuels must be produced in a way which conditions, the environment and antiwe are very pleased about. does not violate human rights. With corruption. third-party certification, such as the ISCC Suppliers of fossil fuels (International Sustainability & Carbon Suppliers of fuels and lubricants Companies that supply us with fossil Certification) and the RSPO (Round Table The fact that we neither extract oil nor fuels undergo a particularly thorough on Sustainable Palm Oil), as well as full own refineries ourselves, is something we review, since they represent a higher traceability, we can trust the handling regard as a strength. We are not bound environmental risk. Our suppliers largely of renewable fuels. Monitoring is carried to sell any specific product but can sell purchase their crude oil from Russia and out through our control system, which the products, which are demanded by the North Sea. The greatest risk in the follows the guidelines of the Act on the market and which we believe in. fossil fuel supply chain is that we do not Sustainable Criteria for Biofuels and OKQ8 Scandinavia has eleven Nordic have full traceability. Our suppliers often Bio liquids. One of the purposes of the fuel suppliers, six of whom supply fossil know which countries the oil comes from, Act is to protect land which has a high fuels and five supply renewable fuels. but raw materials from several different level of biodiversity. We have been We purchase finished products from sources are mixed together in the final granted a ”Production plant decision” refineries with which we have long-term product. For that reason, we require our by the Swedish Energy Agency, which relationships and which have a highlysuppliers to assess and evaluate their guarantees that all biofuels handled are developed approach to the environment suppliers in accordance with our Code sustainable in accordance with the Act. and sustainability. of Conduct for suppliers, or their own equivalent Code of Conduct. Environmentally labelled products Dialogue and checks In addition to fuels we select products Our Code of Conduct for suppliers is In connection with our third-party for our shops that are labelled with for based on the ten principles of the UN audits, we have identified risks relating example, Fairtrade and the Swan. The Global Compact. During our annual to compliance with our Code of Conduct labelling means that they are controlled procurement agreements, we require our further back in the supply chain for by a third party. fossil fuels. We have drawn attention Sustainability Report 2017/18 18 Questions and answers on how What happens with the high-risk What happens after the audit? we review our suppliers: suppliers? We follow up on the action plan after one We weight the various assessment year to ensure that the high-risk suppliers What are the goals for relating to fuel criteria and, at the same time, we weigh are actively addressing the issues in suppliers and sustainability? what proportion of our fuel portfolio we concern. We will assess all fuel suppliers on the purchase from the supplier concerned. On basis of a set of sustainability criteria. that basis, we then decide which suppliers we will audit in the near future. The aim What criteria are used to assess the is that all suppliers who are assessed as suppliers? high-risk will be audited by a third party Country of origin, raw material, whether by 2018/2019. the origin of the raw material is linked to social or ethical risks, which certifications How has this gone so far? are used to classify the raw materials and One of the high-risk suppliers have how the supplier apply to the appropriate already been audited during 2017/2018. ILO conventions. It is particularly in the fossil fuel supply chain that we find deviations. These are What are the results? in the form of deficiencies in the audit In our assessment, three of our eleven of the social area where environmental suppliers are high-risk suppliers. impact assessments have been made. We have asked the suppliers affected to make an action plan for correcting this. In the renewable supply chain, there are more certifications with requirements for both social and environmental issues. 19 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Fuels with the least possible environmental impact The greater part of our ourselves and by society of lower cleaning and protective additives for environmental impact comes emissions of greenhouse gases. At engines. As a result, CO2e emissions the same time, we are in continuous have been reduced by up to 35 percent from our fuels. That is why dialogue with our suppliers about fossil compared with fossil diesel. OKQ8 we are making every effort fuels, and our ambition is to develop Scandinavia currently sells diesel with a to increase the proportion our sustainability efforts jointly with 40 percent renewable content at around of renewable fuels in our them. Through this, we are constantly 450 sites in Sweden. existing products, as well as improving our suppliers’ knowledge and offering completely renewable our ability to control the supply chain Quota obligation in Denmark more effectively. In Denmark, there is a quota obligation alternatives. for fuels, and 5.75 percent of all energy The transport sector’s demand for sold in the form of liquid fuels for road The existing vehicle fleet, in which renewable fuels means that we currently transport must be renewable. The quota 98 percent of all passenger cars have sell primarily fossil petrol and diesel. will increase to ten percent in 2020. a conventional internal combustion Accordingly, we have a vital duty to We will, of course, comply with the engine, makes it essential to increase foster progress towards fossil free fuels legislation, and we are currently having the proportion of renewable fuel in by continuously improving our fuels, and ongoing discussions with suppliers, traditional petrol and diesel in order making them more sustainable. In 2016, car manufacturers, partners, industry to reduce CO2e emissions here and the proportion of renewable fuels in the organisations and the authorities on how now. Legislation in Denmark and transport sector as a whole increased, the CO2e emissions can be reduced in a Sweden, which is influenced by new EU and constituted, on an energy basis, 19 sustainable and long-term way. regulations, has a major impact on our percent of the fuel for transport on the approach to sustainability when it comes Swedish market, compared with 14.7 to fuels of the future. percent in 2015. An important part of our fuel strategy OKQ8 Scandinavia’s diesel now contains is to work with admixture, i.e. blending up to 40 percent renewable content, biofuel into traditional petrol and diesel, of which 35 percent is synthetic diesel and thereby reducing CO2e emissions. (HVO) and 5 percent RME, as well as This helps in reaching the goal set by Sustainability Report 2017/18 20 Petrol with a high proportion of GoEasy care for your engine biogas and 30 percent natural gas, of ethanol In Denmark during 2017, we launched a fossil origin. In spite of the natural gas’s We are working to increase the new Scandinavian fuel concept, GoEasy, fossil origin, it emits less CO2e emissions proportion of renewable fuels in fossil with new additives in all our liquid fuels, than petrol and diesel. fuels, as this has an immediate impact. which care for and clean the car´s engine. Autogas and electricity are other exciting GoEasy makes the car more reliable, Biodiesel reduces emissions by alternatives that we offer and that increases the engine performance and up to 90 percent could become even more important in service life, and thereby reduces fuel Diesel Bio HVO is our most the future. These alternatives, however, consumption and CO2e emissions. We environmentally-friendly diesel on the require new vehicles and infrastructure. intent to launch GoEasy in Sweden in Swedish market. It is a completely At our service stations in the Stockholm 2018. renewable fuel, which is produced from area, we have a higher proportion of vegetable and animal fats, including renewable fuels in our 95 octane petrol. E85 reduces greenhouse gases residual products and waste from The fuel contains up to 13 percent In addition to the synthetic renewable abattoirs. This biofuel is verified as renewable content, compared to the diesel, HVO 100, we have E85 in our environmentally and socially sustainable. normal five percent, which is possible range. This is a fuel which consists of both It reduces CO2e emissions by up to 90 through the admixture of renewable ethanol and environmental class 1 petrol. percent. The demand for biodiesel is synthetic petrol. At present, insufficient The mix is a little different between increasing, which is a very positive trend volumes of this fuel are available to summer (85 percent ethanol and 15 for the environment. But, at the same implement this at all our stations in the percent petrol) and winter (76 percent time, it represents a challenge for the rest of Sweden or in Denmark. ethanol and 24 percent petrol). Increased entire fuel industry, since access to the admixture of petrol in the ethanol makes raw materials used in production is Driving on rapeseed oil it possible to start the engine without an limited. Biodiesel on RME (rapeseed oil methyl engine heater when it is cold, and also ester) is another of the renewable fuels reduces hazardous exhaust emissions. We have decided to permit our suppliers we mix in our diesel, up to five percent in At present, our ethanol reduces CO2e to expand the raw material base for Sweden and seven percent in Denmark. emissions by 55 percent compared to the HVO they supply to us. At least 50 RME is based on rapeseed oil, and since petrol. percent of all HVO must be based on it is manufactured from a renewable abattoir waste. Over and above this, we raw material this helps to reduce CO2e Autogas which reduces also accept other residual and waste emissions. Our RME is tailored for the emissions products, such as PFAD, Palm Fatty Acid Nordic climate, has excellent lubrication We offer our customers in Sweden Distillate. properties and is of the highest technical two varieties of autogas. Biogas 100 quality. consists of 100 percent renewable At OKQ8 Scandinavia, our aim is to biogas extracted from sources such as enable everyone to play their part in sludge from sewage treatment plants, reducing CO2e emissions. That is why manure, landfill sites and crops. The other we during 2017/18 opened more autogas is Biogas Bas, which consists of a facilities offering Diesel Bio HVO, both for minimum of 70 percent renewable commercial vehicles and private cars. 21 Sustainability Report 2017/18 More electricity charging we are making a determined effort to PFAD points have them Eco label certified. Since the end of 2016/17, we have Electricity is an important element of accepted that our suppliers use PFAD as a the mobility of the future. We offer Our goal is that we in the future raw material in the HVO that we market. our customers fast charging with will develop, produce and sell only But we do impose a limit of a maximum electricity generated from solar, wind sustainable lubricants. At present, this of 50 percent PFAD content. We now and hydro power. A full charge for a is too expensive for the majority of have no raw palm oil in our diesel. Those standard electric car takes around 20–30 our customers. Sustainable lubricants of our suppliers of biodiesel which adds minutes. In collaboration with E.ON, cost two or three times more than the PFAD only choose palm oil suppliers who we are installing more quick chargers equivalent fossil-based products. The are certified under the RSPO sustainability at our stations. By the end of 2018, we reason for this is that the price of the standard. This means, for example, that will offer quick chargers in at least 30 crude oil for fossil-based lubricants is our suppliers’ subsuppliers must comply stations. E.ON is part of the EU project, significantly lower. with agreed codes of conduct, begin GREAT, which involves 50 quick charging the process of certification and reject points in Sweden (in collaboration with But if demand rises, and production deforestation. OKQ8 Scandinavia) and 20 in Denmark, along with it, we can keep the price to electrify the route from Oslo and down. Currently, purchases of sustainable Stockholm to Hamburg. lubricants are most often customers or industries which are subject to various Focus on green lubricating oils environmental requirements, such as Facts PFAD state-owned forestry companies, or • Palm Fatty Acid Distillate is produced Our range of lubricants is extensive. customers with their own environmental as a by-product from the production In total, we offer around 200 different goals. of palm oil, and is classified as lubricants under our Q8 Oils brand, ten residual product by the Swedish of which are sustainable. The sustainable During 2018/19, we are focusing on Energy Agency. lubricants contain a base oil of vegetable origin, with the fat from rapeseed oil marketing our sustainable products more • During palm oil production, the being refined into synthetic base oil. All intensively, and making them stand out primary aim is to extract palm oil for our sustainable lubricants comply with among fossil-based lubricants. All 20-litre the food industry. the European standard, EN 16807:2016. containers of sustainable lubricants • The PFAD content of crude palm oil This means that they contain at least have been fitted with green caps. On is five percent, and it is not possible 25 percent renewable components, and an ongoing basis, all the labels will be to use this in food products. Since are at least 60 percent biodegradable replaced to more clearly show that they PFAD is a residual product, it does in accordance with the OECD test 301 contain sustainable lubricants. not lead to increased production. B/F. The majority of our sustainable • In addition, we use only certified lubricants also meet the requirements for PFAD, in accordance with the environmental certification, and therefore RSPO standard (Round Table on Sustainable Palm Oil). For 2017/18, there is no crude palm oil in our HVO. Sustainability Report 2017/18 22 points for electric cars are being installed by the end of 2018. The charging points in Sweden, Denmark and Germany. are used to differing extents, depending Charging takes around 20–30 minutes. on where they are located in Denmark or The idea is to create a green motorway Sweden. According to the industry from Umeå in the north to Hamburg in organisation, Power Circle, around 17 the south. For some time, we have had a kWh of charging takes place every day well-established partnership with OKQ8 along the motorways, which is equivalent Scandinavia related to biogas, and we to around 350 kilometres driven. This are also responsible for the company’s number is low, but it is increasing charging infrastructure in Sweden. In steadily. The economics of building public realising GREAT, OKQ8 Scandinavia is an charging points is a challenge, but at important partner. E.ON we intend to build a position on the market, and we believe that this will be a Mattias Vendel, Program responsible within What does OKQ8 Scandinavia profitable business in the long run. If we Emobility Nordic at E.ON. contribute to? are to succeed, we need to find strong – When you are building a charging partners now, and to continue to build an Collaboration with E.ON infrastructure, it is a challenge to find infrastructure, both on our own and with around quick chargers for locations. You are competing with other partners. electric cars types of companies, which is able to generate more money. Thanks to OKQ8 How do you see the future of electric Jointly with the energy company, Scandinavia, we have access to two cars? E.ON, we are making it possible to parking places at each selected station, – Electric cars are really nothing charge electric cars all the way from with a total of around 30 completed or new. They were already around in the the north of Sweden to the south of planned locations in Sweden and five 19th century, and, at an early stage of Denmark. This new green motorway is in Denmark. OKQ8 Scandinavia has an the history of the car, there were more an EU project which leads all the way extensive network of stations, and their electric cars than cars with internal to Hamburg. willingness to contribute to this type of combustion engines. Other factors then infrastructure is a great advantage. contributed to fossil-fuelled vehicles How do you see your collaboration dominating the market. In my view, with OKQ8 Scandinavia on charging What has happened in the the discussion about the advantages of points? project so far? electricity over fossil fuels is over. The – E.ON is participating in the EU – To date, we have installed 35 of 50 only question is how long the transition project, GREAT, under which charging charging stations in Sweden, and 10 of to electricity and other renewable 20 in Denmark. They will be operational alternatives to fossil fuels will take. 30 45.000 GREAT – drive green from Stockholm to Hamburg GREAT stands for Green Regions with Alternative fuels for Transport, and is a That is how many minutes it takes That is the number of electric cars in project intended to establish 70 charging to charge an electric car at a OKQ8 Sweden today, which is equivalent points and three autogas stations along Scandinavia station. That charge to one percent of the total vehicle the main transport routes from Hamburg is enough for around 150–250 fleet. Three-quarters of them are via Denmark to Oslo and Stockholm. kilometres driving with a full battery, chargeable hybrid cars. In Denmark, OKQ8 Scandinavia will accommodate depending on the car model. the corresponding figure is under one 25 charging points in Sweden and 5 in percent. Denmark at its stations. The project is run by Region Skåne. The main partners are E.ON Sweden/Denmark, Fordonsgas Sweden AB, Nissan, Renault and the Danish Technical University, DTU in Denmark. Would you like to read more about GREAT? See https://great-region.org/org/ 23 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Sustainable transports and storage Fuel make up the largest The drivers are trained in economical The goals for logistics environmental impact within driving to reduce the use of fuel. An ISA • We will reduce our CO2e emissions system (Intelligent Speed Adaptation) from distribution by 20 % by 2030 transportation. For that reason, also helps the driver keep the correct per driven km, compared with the OKQ8 Scandinavia has taken a speed, as well as reducing the vehicle’s base year, 2014/15. number of measures to reduce fuel use. We follow up on the emissions the climate impact of our from distribution every quarter. • We will reduce our CO2e emissions from depots by 20 % by 2030 per transport and storage. m3 driven product, compared with Quality certified depots and the base year, 2014/15. As members of the KNEG network (the logistics Swedish acronym for climate-neutral In total, we have ten fuel storage depots Safety goods transport by road), we aim to in Denmark and Sweden, and we also We carry out comprehensive risk halve our CO2e emissions by 2020 as have access to an additional number assessments on the transport and compared with 2005. Certain parts of our through collaboration agreements. The storage of fuels, and we prevent incidents organisation are ISO certified for both logistics division are quality certified through training and safety procedures. quality and the environment. in accordance with ISO 9001 and At least once per month, our distributors environmental certified in accordance carry out extensive checks on, for Our distributors have a modern vehicle with ISO 14001. We are also covered by example, tyres, and also ensure that fire fleet with vehicle computers and GPS, the EU Seveso Directive, which regulates extinguishers and absorption materials which helps reduce the total distance how to limit the damage caused by are available in the event of spillage. driven. They use diesel which has the accidents involving hazardous chemicals, highest possible proportion of renewable such as fuels. fuel added. Our distributors reduce the total distance driven by careful transport planning and route optimisation. They also maximise load capacity in each transport by combining the distribution of multiple products such as petrol, ethanol, diesel and heating oil. Sustainability Report 2017/18 24 Our environmental work Our own operations contribute with only a small part of our total environmental impact. Even so, we have taken a large number of measures to reduce our environmental impact. Since 2014/15, we have made substantial progress towards our environmental goals. This has led to a reduction in our CO2e emissions of 31 percent, and of 12 percent in our energy use. During this period, we have implemented many improvement measures and made extensive investments. The challenge is to reach the next level on the way towards our climate goals for 2030. This will require dedicated and tireless effort. Focus on the most important • All fridges and freezers at our • Pumps with the exhaust-cleaning areas stations in Denmark now have doors additive, AdBlue, for cars, will be In our materiality assessment, we instead of being left open. This uses installed at 13 of our stations. discovered that the climate impact of less energy, which also reduces costs. • We are involved in and promote the our energy use and CO2e emissions are In Sweden, we replace the open development of alternative solutions our biggest environmental impact. For fridges to fridges with doors when to fossil fuels. You can read more that reason, we have developed concrete their technical service life ends. All about fuels here. goals focusing on these areas. freezers are already equipped with lids and/or doors. Spills and leakage, water consumption, • Destroyed lightbulbs are being waste, noise and air quality are other replaced with LED bulbs. areas which we are also focusing on to • We select environmentally-friendly improve. The materiality assessment alternatives throughout the supply also supports our ISO 14001 certified chain – From the products to be environmental management system in incorporated into our range to the identifying and planning environmental packaging. improvements. • We have carried out energy Small and large initiatives surveys at stations and depots, in This is examples of both small and large accordance with a new EU law. As initiatives we have taken to reduce our a result of the surveys, new ideas environmental impact. Many of these and suggestions have emerged, and have generated both environmental and these can be used to reduce our financial gains. energy uses. 25 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Waste and recycling Less spills and leakage DripStop for diesel To minimise waste and deal with We are working systematically to prevent To solve the problems of spills with diesel anything that we can no longer sell, we spills and leakage. The handling of spills is when fuelling, there is now DripStop on use a range of innovative approaches: governed by strict rules and ongoing risk all diesel pumps. Using a stop function • In Denmark, rum truffles are made assessment. Through procedures, safety on the nozzle prevents the last drops of from leftover Danish pastries. regulations, tests and compulsory training diesel from dripping onto the ground. As of our employees and distributors, we petrol does not drip in the same way as • We reduce the price of items which prevent spills and leakage as far as diesel from the nozzle, the need is not are approaching their best before possible. as big on the petrol pumps. If the last date. couple of drops go into the customer’s • Too Good To Go in Spill zones are in place in the ground tank rather than onto the ground, this will Denmark is fighting food under all our stations. This enables all prevent at least 3,000 litres of diesel to waste by helping our spills from the pumps to run down into be wasted. stores sell their left overs oil separators, to protect the ground and through an app. the environment surrounding a station. • We have increased our efforts in Oil separators have also been installed in sorting waste at the source,, both at the ground at our depots, which receive stations and at collection locations. and load fuels. We comply with the • We carry out a waste analysis before strict standards set by the authorities to our waste is collected, with the aim protect both the environment and the of reducing CO2e emissions. people who work and live in the area. • The majority of all windscreen Few spill accidents washer fluid comes in plastic bags In spite of safety measures, some spills rather than (as previously) in bulky which are difficult to contain do occur. plastic containers. During 2017/18 we had one significant Reduced energy use at our spill in Stockholm, Sweden totalling depots 700 litres of petrol. A full remidiation Over recent years, we have focused was carried out with no damage to the on optimising energy at our depots, environment. and this has been highly successful. Energy use at the depots has been A number of minor spills amounted reduced by 20 percent since 2014/15, to a total of 2,000 litres, of which 220 which is equivalent to a reduction in litres reached the environment. Full CO2e emissions of 58 percent. A major remidiation was carried out and there contributing factor in this is the switch was no damage from heating oil to more renewable to the environment. energy. Sustainability Report 2017/18 26 CO2e emissions Category Enhet 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Direct CO2e – Scope 11) ton 2,459 2,841 2,8914) 4,047 Indirect CO2e – Scope 22) ton 9,591 11,881 12,454 17,692 Other indirect CO2e – Secope 33) ton 11,616 11,252 11,339 12,021 Total CO2e ton 23,666 25,974 26,684 33,761 Total CO2e per sold m3 kg/m3 7.34 8.17 8.33 10.70 1) Scope 1: Direct CO2e emissions from company controlled buildnings and vehicles. 2) Scope 2: Indirect CO2e emissions from electricity and heat produced by other compny. 3) Scope 3: Other indirect CO2e emissions which are not Scope 1 and 2, are from distribution, air travel and customer sales. 4) The large reduction of scope 1 emissions is due to the fact that we no longer distribute fuel with own trucks in Sweden. CO2e emissions from activities Category Unit 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Stations and IDS ton 9,327 11,822 12,473 17,329 Distribution ton 11,293 10,868 11,005 12,786 Production of lubricating olis ton 887 953 1,006 1,188 Depots ton 294 363 448 616 Business travels ton 1,754 1,850 1,633 1,633 Offices ton 111 117 120 209 Energy use Category Unit 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Non-renewable energy kWh 47,195,302 52,491,566 55,691,415 62,408,990 Renewable energy1 ) kWh 79,933,598 78,986,734 84,480,785 80,291,410 Total energy use2) kWh 127,128,900 131,478,300 140,172,200 142,700,200 Renewable proportion of energy % 63 60 60 56 Total energiy use per m3 sold product kWh / m3 39.42 41.35 43.74 45.23 1) Includes renewable from electricity and drstrict heating 2) Energy type 76.6 electricity, 19.9 % district heating, 3.2 % burning oil and 0.3 % natural gas Development of the environment Since 2014/15, the CO2e emissions from our own operations have been reduced by 31procent and energy use was reduced by 12 procent. This significant reduction is mainly due to our efforts to reduce energy at our stations. At our depots, replacing heating oil with electricity and district heating has led to around 58 procent reduction of CO2e emissions. Another reason for the reduction of CO2e emissions is an increase in renewable energy in Denmark and Sweden, which has meant a decrease in the emission factors. Our starting point is that the contribution to biogenic emissions is neutral, since the quantity of emissions of biogenic origin generated during the use of the fuel is equivalent to the quantity of emissions taken up by plants and animals in the primary production. 27 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Sustainable stations Welcome to a sustainable service station! Ambitious sustainability targets run throughout our organisation, including the construction of new stations. In 2017, at Nykvarn, outside Stockholm, Sweden, we have built our eighth sustainable station based on environmental thinking throughout the process. The station offers quick chargers for electric cars, E85 and the diesel cleaning additive, AdBlue. The car Our sustainable wash has its own water treatment facility, and the sedum roof saves energy. All these are stations use up to aspects which reduces the environmental impact. Come along on a tour around a state-of50 percent less energy the-art and environmentally-friendly station. than traditional stations Linus Ekström, Manager Construction Projects New, sustainable Danish stations In Denmark, we will build seven new service stations along the motorway network over the next couple of years, and two of these will be manned. The stations will be completed during 2018/19, and the manned stations, which are being built on the Silkeborg motorway, will be built using our sustainable principles. Just like the Swedish stations, they will be built using glulam beams, and will have sedum plants as well as solar panels on the roof. Sustainability Report 2017/18 28 Framework of glulam beams Quick chargers for electric cars Solar panels The laminated wood binds CO2 and so The chargers are part of the ”green In Nykvarn, we have a large solar panel reduces the energy needs of the building. motorway” from Sweden and Norway installation on the roof. This makes the south to Hamburg. station self-sufficient for heating and Carbon dioxide/CO2 as a cooling agent lighting during the sunny days. CO2 or propane as the cooling agent in Environmentally-friendly jet washes fridges, freezers and fast food fridges There is an indoor jet wash facility. This is We are also proud to have installed generates a lower impact on the equipped with both a water purification Sweden’s largest solar panel system at environment than traditional fluoridised unit and an oil separator which means another station in Västberga, outside coolants. that used water is returned to the Stockholm, during 2017. On the roof of municipal water treatment plant. The jet our station in Västberga, we installed LED lights wash facility, which is equipped with high232 solar modules. In total, the output of Low energy-consuming LED lights in all pressure water only, also reduces water the solar panel system is around 70 kW, fittings is the obvious choice. use up to two-thirds. which is equivalent to generating 65,000 kWh (about the annual use of three Geothermal heating and free cooling Car care products by hose average houses). The station is fitted with a geothermal In the jet wash, Swan-labelled car care heating system with free cooling. products, such as degreasing agents During 2017, we had a total installed Geothermal heating is stored solar and shampoo, are supplied by hose. This output of around 120 kW, and this can energy which is recovered from the minimises use and waste through the generate approximately 110,000 kWh. ground. Through our geothermal reduction in plastic packaging. During 2018, we will continue to invest in heating installation, we minimise our solar electricity, both at existing stations CO2e emissions during both heating and Training and at newly-constructed sustainable cooling. Our employees receive regular training to stations. increase their environmental awareness, Sedum plants for example, in not allowing water to run, The plants on the roof provide insulation and by switching off lights if there is no against both heat and cold. They also motion-controlled lighting. absorb the rainwater instead of letting it run into the drains. This improves the air locally, and also prevents the drainage system from being overloaded. 29 Sustainability Report 2017/18 We are preparing for the mobility of the future OKQ8 Scandinavia’s role in society is to make things easier for people in motion. New technology, changed customer behaviour and the conditions in the market mean that our travel patterns, vehicles and preferences will change. This is the reason that we are carrying Three phenomena that affect our out intensive work to identify and develop new business. industry and our organisation: • Almost all the major car Analysing the future manufacturers have announced We constantly work to analyse how technology and market trends might change how that they will release models which people move, and the opportunities that this will bring. In collaboration with external are completely autonomous around experts, we have identified a number of trends which affect our organisation. These 2020. may, for example, involve technical progress linked to vehicles, where electric drive, data • Within five–ten years, electric cars connection and driverless cars are exciting developments. But we are also looking at will be cost-neutral compared to cars environmental and sustainability regulations as well as lifestyle and urban development with internal combustion engines. trends. Many of these trends feed off each other, and together they form the future that OKQ8 Scandinavia will need to adapt to. On the basis of these trends, we have produced a • Combined mobility solutions are number of scenarios for the mobility of the future. growing strongly. These services are based on customers having access What we are doing to a number of different mobility We see that there are many exciting opportunities to broaden our business, and we solutions via a digital interface, strongly believe in creating new services in partnership with other players. There are many and selecting the vehicle which is opportunities in new services for people on the road. These include new mobility services appropriate for a specific journey. and being a service partner for vehicles, as well as travel hubs with services which make things easier for people every day. In general, we believe that various types of services will grow in relevance, even where the cars are electric and driverless. We are also very interested in the sharing trend which is growing increasingly strong. In this, we see a clear link to our cooperative heritage. The aim is to develop and launch future-proof services from both a commercial and sustainable perspective. Sustainability Report 2017/18 30 About OKQ8 Scandinavia Our organisation, our visions and our values Organisation OKQ8 Scandinavia consists of OK-Q8 AB in Sweden and its subsidiaries in Denmark. OK-Q8 AB is jointly owned by OK ekonomisk förening and Kuwait Petroleum International, with each having a 50 % stake in the company. The group has a joint venture agreement OKQ8 Scandinavias station network in OK Detaljhandel AB, owned by OK Ekonomisk Förening. This together constitutes the consists of approximately 1,000 term OKQ8 Scandinavia, one of Scandinavia’s largest fuel companies. OKQ8 Scandinavia stations manned, unmanned and has around 1,000 stations designed for both cars and commercial vehicles. Many of IDS in Denmark and Sweden our manned stations offer car washes, indoor wash-it-yourself facilities, car hire and car 272 workshops. We also market products such as fuel and lubricants for customers in agriculture, the transport industry, shipping, workshops and cycling. In January 2018, Magnus Kamryd took over as CEO of the organisation. Vision and values OKQ8 Scandinavia’s vision, “we want to be an enabler for people in motion” is the basis of stations in Denmark – Q8, F24 and all our work. Our stations offer products and services which make things easier for people IDS in motion. In addition to fuel, we provide the best service on the market, availability and a generous range of car products, everyday items, well-prepared fresh food and organic 738 coffee. Our vision influences everything we do, from day-to-day operations to our overall strategy. It is clear in all processes, methods and personal contacts that this is part of our DNA. Values • Customer focus stations in Sweden – OKQ8, Minipris, • Open & honest Tanka and IDS • Quick & flexible • Competence Our values permeate our work, in large things and in small. It is important to bear in mind that implementing our values is an ongoing process which never ends. New employees are trained to understand our values at an induction day which is held twice per year. Our values are an integral part of our daily work, and are essential parameters when our 10 depots employees are assessed on their work inputs. 3 in Denmark and 7 in Sweden 31 Sustainability Report 2017/18 OK-Q8 Group legal structure OKQ8 Scandinavia 50% 50% OK Ekonomisk Förening Kuwait Petroleum Europe B.V. 100% 100% OK Detaljhandel AB OK-Q8 AB Individual franchise takers Other OK associations 20% 80% 100% OK-Q8 Marknad AB Q8 Danmark A/S 4% 81% 100% Petrolia AB OK-Q8 Bank AB 15% 100% Bensinpumpen Lantmännen Ekonomisk Förening BENFA Fastigheter AB 100% Arithma Holding AB 100% OK-Q8 Shared Service AB Governance structure OKQ8 Scandinavia does not itself produce Sustainability is highly visible in OKQ8 OKQ8 Scandinavia is governed by fuel, nor do we purchase crude oil or Scandinavia’s top management, as this a separate Board of Managers and refine petrol or diesel. We purchase all our group is responsible for the company’s a Board of Directors, as required by products, both traditional and renewable, sustainability strategy and goals. This Danish and Swedish law. The Board of on the open market. Our suppliers are group, consisting of CEO, CFO and Directors is responsible for the overall established mainly in Europe. Fuels are directors from the company’s four management of OKQ8 Scandinavia delivered to our depots in Denmark and divisions, is also responsible for allocating and the appointment and dismissal of Sweden, and then out to our stations, resources and making decisions in the Board of Managers. The elected both manned and unmanned. economic, environmental and social members of the Board of Directors are areas. Management decisions are made independent while additional members We also market products such as on the basis of recommendations from are elected by OKQ8 Scandinavia lubricating oil, heating oil and fuel for the Sustainability Council. employees in Denmark and Sweden. customers in agriculture, transport The Board of Directors seeks members industry, shipping and workshops. For By offering fuels and other car products who bring professional expertise in private citizens, we also offer heating and services, we help our customers areas that complement the company’s oil, insurance and electricity. OKQ8 move as sustainably as possible in needs, as well as a balanced age and Scandinavia also operates and markets urban environments, in the countryside gender distribution on the Board. The IDS (International Diesel Service) in and along the roads between. We are Board of managers is responsible for the Denmark and Sweden, to meet the needs convinced that services in the form of car company’s day-to-day management and of heavy traffic. washes, indoor wash-it-yourself facilities, report on strategic performance to the car hire and car workshops, everyday Board of Directors quarterly. Our business is based on being an items, coffee, parcel pickup and more, will enabler for people in motion. Our goal continue to be needed in the future. Our business model is to be a profitable company through OKQ8 Scandinavia is one of attracting new customers, creating new We are also investing resources in Scandinavia’s largest fuel companies. We and developing existing sites and being supporting and developing renewable operate in Denmark and in Sweden and at the cutting-edge of sustainable fuels. fuels and other solutions for the mobility our products are primarily intended for of the future. In addition to reducing private and business customers in the two Our work on sustainability aims to reduce the environmental footprint of our own countries. On a yearly, we sell around 3 our own and our products’ environmental operation, we are also holding detailed million m3 of fuel. impact, and to create a positive effect discussions with customers and the on society. In our business development vehicle industry to jointly find innovative efforts, we aim to find new business ways of reducing CO2e emissions and beyond fuels. other forms of environmental impact from our fuel products. Sustainability Report 2017/18 32 External collaboration Awards and prizes Sustainable Brand index We are committed to being a During the year, we received many Industry Leader 2017 on the Sustainable awards and prizes, and we are very proud Brand index in Sweden for the sixth responsible company, and we of that. It tells us that we are on the right time in seven years. Sustainable Brand support voluntary standards track in relation to sustainability. Index™ is the biggest Brand survey in and principles. the Nordic countries with a focus on Kuwait Petroleum (KPI) Excellence sustainability. Based on interviews The voluntary standards and Recognition Award with 32,000 consumers, the largest principles we support OKQ8 Scandinavia took home four prizes companies in the Nordic • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) when the winners of KPI’s Excellence countries are assessed in CHBÄST NS • UN Global Compact Recognition Award /ERA were selected. relation to sustainability. The BRA 20 17 • Agenda 2030 • Fu-Ture & Solvatten – the children’s survey is based on the ten • UN’s 17 global sustainable book which tells the story of the principles of the UN Global development goals Solvatten project in Uganda. Compact, supplemented by the consumers’ expectations of • Qvik Offer – the development and UN initiative the companies. implementation of a digital and OKQ8 Scandinavia supports the bonus campaign for the Qvik Offer. UN Global Compact’s 10 principles on human rights, labour rights, the • Double up – an improved bonus environment and anti-corruption, which system for holders of the OKQ8 Visa were signed in 2014. card. • Implementation of Quick-to-go in It is important that we are part of the Sweden. great influential group which supports this global standard. The principles correspond to our own Code of Conduct, our approach to sustainability and our policy. Similarly, we support the UN’s 17 global sustainable development goals in the development of our three sustainability goals. 33 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Economy The OKQ8 Group’s collective financial profit after tax for 2017/2018 amounted to SEK 507 million. Despite the fall in profit, it is considered that our finances are stable, and this enables us to take a long-term approach to our social and environmental responsibilities. Investment in renewing our station network continues, and that is why depreciation remains higher than in previous periods. We delivered higher volumes this year than last year, which we are very pleased with. The drop in profits in 2017/2018 are largely due to the impact on prices of our stocks. External factors which affected results were tax rises on fuels, price competition, the oil price and the weakness of the Swedish Krona. During our financial period, the world market price for fuels rose. The prices for the raw materials for our fuels are subject to a number of external factors over which we have no control, such as the economic cycle and supply. These in turn are affected by geopolitics, natural phenomena and political concerns. Fuel prices in our sales markets are also affected by the rules governing renewable fuels, and how fuels are taxed. OKQ8 Scandinavia is engaged in a number of social initiatives, which are intended to make a positive contribution to the environment and society in which we operate, including Solvatten and Save the Children. We did not have any separate environmental investments or expenses during 2017/18. Sustainability Report 2017/18 34 Economic result Economic value – genererated and distributed (MSEK) 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Revenue 34,242 31,868 32,293 36,436 Operating costs -17,859 -14,935 -16,832 -21,381 Salaries and benefits -744 -725 -721 -695 Point taxes Sweden -11,615 -11,644 -10,909 -10,419 Point taxes Denmark -3,361 -3,380 -3,428 -3,525 Corporation tax Sweden -147 -191 -100 -129 Corporation tax Denmark -12 -35 5 85 Net financial income 6 5 11 7 Donations -3 -3 -2 -2 Result 507 960 317 377 35 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Compliance and reporting Policies Code of Conduct Compliance An important component in our We support, and base our internal Code In accordance with Danish legislation, sustainability strategy is to ensure that of Conduct, on the UN Global Compact’s we have had a financial whistleblower we have guidelines and objectives principles on human rights, labour rights, system in place at Q8 in Denmark since for how we approach our social the environment and anti-corruption 2014. This system was implemented responsibilities, and that our employees and bribery. It follows from this that, in collaboration with the legal firm, are informed about and are familiar in our own organisation, we support Kroman Reumert, and guarantees that with these. This means that we have and respect protection for international all employees are given the opportunity policies for the environment, social and human rights within the sphere which to report events linked to corruption and employment conditions, human rights, we can influence; enforce regulations on money-laundering. At the beginning anti-corruption and bribery. labour rights; accept a large degree of of 2018/19, we are implementing a environmental responsibility throughout voluntary whistleblower system, which Safe, Sound & Sustainable our organisation and do not accept any will apply to all our activities in both Safe, Sound & Sustainable is our policy form of corruption and bribery. Denmark and Sweden. In more concrete for people and for the environment, terms, this means that all employees and it applies to our entire company. OKQ8 Bank has processes both to will be given the opportunity to report The concept of SSHE (Security, Health counteract corruption and to facilitate anonymously all serious events within & Safety and the Environment) refers to the exposure of money-laundering. OKQ8 Scandinavia relating, for example, aspects, which affect the environment, to violations of human rights as well as employees and society. Through our In the same way, we have a Code of in other areas described in our Code of Safe, Sound & Sustainable policy, we Conduct which our suppliers must follow Conduct. This whistleblower system will continuously assess the company’s risks and which are included in our suppliers’ ensure that OKQ8 Scandinavia’s ethics, to reduce all negative impacts on society, contract obligations. operational culture and brand are upheld. including reducing climate impact. The whistleblower system in OKQ8 Bank’s operation was implemented on 1 January 2018, and will be fully implemented throughout the whole organisation during Q1 2018/19. Internal fraud is not reported in Oops & Ouch, and is therefore not included in our incident statistics. During the year there has been one serious case of internal fraud, and this type of incident is investigated separately in accordance with our internal process. Sustainability Report 2017/18 36 Reporting Health and safety Environmental data This report covers the financial period Reported data relating to health and Reported data relating to the 1 March 2017 – 28 February 2018, safety covers all OKQ8 Scandinavia’s own environment covers all OKQ8 and is the OK-Q8 AB Group’s fourth activities and employees. The reported Scandinavia’s own activities. joint sustainability report. It has been data also covers employees at stations, Environmental data also includes our produced in accordance with the Global which are operated on a franchise basis distributors, who transport our products Reporting Initiative’s standards (GRI) at under our brand. Our distributors, who to customers and stations. Our reporting, Core` level. The report has been reviewed transport our products to customers and on the other hand, does not include by an external auditor who has expressed stations, are also taken into account in stations operated on a franchise basis. the opinion that the report conforms to this report. Petrolia is not included in our The environmental data also includes the identified GRI areas. To determine reporting as they report incidents in their our energy use and greenhouse gas the scope of the report, the starting point own system. emissions (CO2e), which have a major was in our value chain, and included impact on the environment. Energy use is the areas which we consider relevant to Social and financial data first of all based on data from our energy us. Accordingly, we have carried out an Reported data relating to social and suppliers. evaluation of the particular GRI topics financial matters cover all OKQ8 which we wish to highlight in the report. Scandinavia’s own activities and For CO2e reporting, we use a Web-based A thorough materiality analysis was also employees. Some financial data for system, CEMAsys, which is based on the carried out, in which both internal experts 2015/2016 and 2014/2015 has been Greenhouse Gas Protocol standard. The and selected stakeholders were given the updated, so it no longer conforms to system uses conversion factors, which are opportunity to express their views with previously reported data. The changes recognised in both Denmark and Sweden. the aim of ensuring that our approach are because we from 2016/17 are This means that we can guarantee a high to sustainability is both relevant and following the GRI reporting requirements standard of credibility for our data, since effective. All reported data comes from for economics. OKQ8 Detaljhandel AB is the conversion factors are automatically various internal and external systems. not included in the financial data. updated by the system owner. All data from the operating period 2014/15 is entered in the system. 37 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on OKQ8 Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. To OKQ8 Scandinavia Introduction We have been engaged by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of OK-Q8 AB to undertake a limited assurance engagement of OKQ8 Scandinavia (as the organization is defined on page 32) Sustainability Report for the year 2017/2018. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer for OKQ8 Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are responsible for the preparation of the OKQ8 Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report in accordance with the applicable criteria, as explained on page 37 in the Sustainability Report, that are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (published by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)) that are applicable to OKQ8 Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the Company has developed. This responsibility also includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Responsibilities of the auditor Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on OKQ8 Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of financial information, issued by IFAC. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of OKQ8 Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in scope than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards. The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Consequently, the procedures performed do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer as described above. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the OKQ8 Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. Conclusion Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that OKQ8 Scandinavia’s Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer. Stockholm, 26 April 2018 KPMG Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab KPMG AB Tomas Gerhardsson Jon Beck Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Sustainability Report 2017/18 38 Auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders in OK-Q8 AB, corporate identity number 556027-3244 Engagement and responsibility It is the board of directors who is responsible for the sustainability report (OKQ8 Scandinavia Sustainability report) for the year 2017/2018 and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the examination Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR:s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, 26 April 2018 KPMG AB Tomas Gerhardsson Authorized Public Accountant Sustainability Report 2017/18 39 Goals and results The Sustainability Council evaluates our goals and our progress at least once a year. When necessary, the goals are adjusted and renewed. All goals are linked to the highest priority aspects identified in the materiality analysis, and comply with our sustainability strategy. The table below shows our current goals and goal fulfillment. Goal Year Base line Progress A survey shows that we We will be in Top 50 on the Universum Overall goal 2025 Not relevant are placed between “Most Attractive Employer ranking” 110-150 Late February, we had LinkedIn We will have 14,000 followers at LinkedIn 2018/19 Not relevant 10,149 followers During 2017/18, we Short way– We will employ 10 interns 2017/18 Not relevant employed 5 interns During 2017/18, we Social initiativ Youths On Their Way – We will employ 60 2017/18 Not relevant employed 51 interns interns Break Youth Unemployment Now! – We will 2017/18 Not relevant Under 2017/18, we complete 5 Boot Camps completed 4 Boot Camps Employee satisfaction In october 2017, we We will increase NMI-index to 3,2 2020 Not relevant (NMI) achieved an index of 3,15 Under 2017/18, we had Health & Safety We have a vision of zero job related Ongoing Not relevant 14 incidents with sick incidents with sick leave leave Goal Year Base line Progress We will be in Top 50 on the A detailed report shows Overall goal 2025 Not relevant ”Sustainable Brand Index” where we can improve In 2017, we have build In Sweden we will build one new station each, Ongoing Not relevant a sustainable station in Sustainable stations year according to our criteria for sustainability Nykvarn In Denmark our reconstructed stations must In 2017, we did not Ongoing Not relevant must live up to our criteria for sustainability reconstruct any stations We will assess our fuel suppliers using All our fuel suppliers have 2017/18 Not relevant established sustainability criteria been assessed Fuel One of our high risk High risk suppliers must be audited by third 2018/19 Not relevant suppliers has been audited party in 2017/18 We will install 30 quick chargers; 25 in During 2017/18, we have Electric chargers 2018/19 2016/17 Sweden and 5 in Denmark installed 17 quick chargers We will support the Solvatten project with In 2017/18, we donated Partnership around 1 SEK per car wash in Denmark and 2018/19 Not relevant 2,399 MSEK to Solvatten Sweden 40 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Goal Year Base line Progress We will reduce our CO2e by CO2e emission was Overall goal 2030 2014/15 20% per m3 sold product reduced by 31 % Total We will reduce energy use from own Energy use was reduced 2030 2014/15 energy use operation by 20% per m3 sold product by 21% We will reduce CO2e from distribution by CO2e emission was 2030 2014/15 20% per driven km reduced by 8,3% Logistic We will reduce CO2e from depots by CO2e emission was 2030 2014/15 20% per m3 driven product reduced by 58% We will reduce energy use from depots by Energy use was 2030 2014/15 20% per m3 dispatched product reduced by 20% We will reduce CO2e from Petrolia by CO2e emission was Lubricating oil 2030 2014/15 30% per m3 product produced increased by 3% UN Global Compact Principle Page Human rights Princip 1 Support and respect the protection of international human rights within its sphere of influence. 4-6, 18, 33, 36 Princip 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 4-6, 18, 33, 36 Labour rights Princip 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 18, 36, 43 Princip 4 Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 18, 36, 43 Princip 4 Abolition of child labour. 18, 36, 43 Environment Princip 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 18-19, 25-27, 42 Princip 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 18-19, 25, 29, 42 Princip 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 25-29 Corruption Princip 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 18, 36 Sustainability Report 2017/18 41 GRI content index GRI Standard Disclosure Comment / omission Page GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization OK-Q8 AB and Q8 Danmark A/S and subsidiaries. Activities, brands, products, and 102-2 31, 32 services Arne Jacobsens Allé, 2300 Copenhagen S 102-3 Location of headquarters and Sveavägen 155, 104 35 Stockholm. 102-4 Location of operations Denmark and Sweden. 102-5 Ownership and legal form 31, 32 102-6 Markets served 31 102-7 Scale of the organization 9, 31-32, 34-35 Information on employees and The majority of our activities are performed 102-8 9, 37, 42-44 other workers by our own employees. 102-9 Supply chain 17-19 Significant changes to the There have been no significant 102-10 organisation and its supply changes in the organisation, in chain ownership or in the supply chain. The precautionary principle is incorporated into Swedish legislation in Miljöbalken, the Swedish Precautionary Principle or Environmental Code. In Denmark there are 102-11 approach similar requirements in the Danish Environmental Protection Act. We consider the precautionary principle when purchasing goods and materials. 102-12 External initiatives 33 Swedish Petroleum and Biofuels Institute (SPBI), On the Road to Climate Neutral Freight Transportation Membership of associations 102-13 (KNEG), Danish Oil Industry Association (EOF), Danish Central Stockholding Entity, Danish Industry (DI), Employer Association KFO. 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2 Key impacts, risks, and 102-15 opportunitieS 4-6 Values, principles, standards, and 102-16 18, 31, 33, 36 norms of behavior Mechanisms for advice and concerns 102-17 18, 36 about ethics 102-18 Governance structure 6, 32 42 Sustainability Report 2017/18 GRI Standard Disclosure Comment / omission Page 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 5 All Swedish employees and Danish hourly paid employees are covered by a collective 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements bargaining agreement, which corresponds to 92 % of all employees in the organisation. Identifying and selecting 102-42 4-5 stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 4-6 engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised https://www.q8.dk/om-q8/csr-i-q8/csr/ 4-6 Entities included in the consoliOK-Q8 AB, Q8 Danmark A/S and 102-45 32 dated financial statements subsidiaries. Defining report content and topic 102-46 4-6 boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 5-6 No significant changes compared to 102-48 Restatements of information last year. No significant changes compared to 102-49 Changes in reporting last year. 102-50 Reporting period Financial year March 2017 February 2018. 102-51 Date of most recent report May 2017. 102-52 Reporting cycle Yearly. Alexandra William-Olsson, Head of Communication Contact point for questions (alexandra.william-olsson@okq8.se) or 102-53 regarding the report Annette Hansen, Head of SSHE and Sustainability (annette.hansen@q8.dk). Claims of reporting in accordance 102-54 1 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 42-45 102-56 External assurance 38-39 Sustainability Report 2017/18 43 Material topics Väsentliga ämnen Economic performance Disclosure Comment / omission Page GRI 103: Management For financial results see approach 2016 OK-Q8 Group Annual Report. Explanation of the material topic and 103-1 1, 32, 34, 37 its boundary 103-2 Management of economi 32, 34 103-3 Evaluation of management 34, 35 GRI 103: Economic performance 2016 Direct economic value generated 201-1 34-35 and distributed Energy Disclosure Comment / omission Page GRI 103: Management approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic 103-1 25, 27, 37 and its boundary 103-2 Management of energy 2, 4-6, 20-21, 24, 25-26, 41 103-3 Evaluation of management 25-26, 41 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy use 25, 27, 37 302-3 Energy intensity 25, 27 302-4 Reduction of energy use 25, 27, 41 Biodiversity Disclosure Comment / omission Page GRI 103: Management approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic Goals and metrics in this area 103-1 5-6, 18, 22, 44 and its boundary will be published during the year. 103-2 Management of biodiversity 18, 22, 44 103-3 Evaluation of management 22, 44 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 Biodiversity and land use is one of our most important areas. Potentially, many of our renewable fuels can Significant impacts of activities, come from agricultural products, such as palm oil, 304-2 products, and services 18, 22 where there is a risk of biodiversity degradation. on biodiversity However, we have a policy that we do not use these types of products. 44 Sustainability Report 2017/18 Emissions Disclosure Comment / omission Page GRI 103: Management approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic 103-1 25, 27, 37 and its boundary 103-2 Management of emissions 2, 4-6, 20-21, 24, 25-26, 41 103-3 Evaluation of management 25-26, 41 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 27, 37 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 27, 37 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 27, 37 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 25, 27, 41 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 25, 27, 41 Supplier environmental and social assessment Disclosure Comment / omission Page GRI 103: Management approach 2016 Explanation of the material 103-1 5-6, 17 topic and its boundary 103-2 Management of suppliers 17-18 103-3 Evaluation of management 18-19 GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 2016 Negative environmental impacts in the 308-2 17-19, 40 supply chain and actions taken GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 2016 Negative environmental impacts in the 414-2 17-19 supply chain and actions taken Sustainability Report 2017/18 45 Occupational health and safety Disclosure Comment / omission Page GRI 103: Management approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic 103-1 4-6, 8 and its boundary 103-2 Management of health and safety 8 103-3 Evaluation of management 8-9 GRI 403: Health and safety 2016 Workers representation in formal joint manage403-1 8 ment–worker health and safety committees Types of injury and rates of injury, We do not report by gender, as the 403-2 occupational diseases, lost days, and 8-9, 37 information is not available. absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Training and Education Disclosure Comment / omission Page GRI 103: Management approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic 103-1 7, 8 and its boundary 103-2 Management of training and education 7, 8 103-3 Evaluation of management 7, 8 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 Average hours of training per year We do not report by gender, as 404-1 8 per employee the information is not available. Programs for upgrading employee skills 404-2 8 and transition assistance programs 46 Sustainability Report 2017/18
