COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) TABLE OF CONTENTS Description Pages Statement of continued support 3 Description of Actions Human Rights 4 Labour 6 Environment 9 Anti-Corruption 12 Measurement of Outcomes 18 About Us 21 7th July, 2018. To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Premium Times Services Limited online publishers of Premium Times, reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dapo Olorunyomi Musikilu Mojeed Publisher Editor-in-Chief HUMAN RIGHTS We promote a right to life, liberty and personal security. To ensure continued safety of staff, we are in the process of implementing new security measures. There is safety in numbers, in this concern, staff members are encouraged to move in groups during off-office hours. Cleaning services were employed to provide, suitable and sanitary work facilities/environment. To prevent disease outbreak, our workplace is constantly sanitized. During the Ebola scare in 2014, hand sanitizers were introduced at the office entrance point and anyone with similar symptoms was sent for medical check. In our bid to protect staff from workplace harassment, our staff members are continuously encouraged to report workplace harassment. Whether it is physical, verbal, sexual or psychological, abuse or threats, the reported if found guilty, would be handled with stiff internal disciplinary actions which here refers to suspension and or dismissal from employment. The staff member relaying the complaint, is given the assurance of no victimization and fair judgment. Also the security operatives would be contacted in such cases, to file an official complaint. We are primarily online, therefore the need to dispose products during manufacturing has not been applicable to our organization. This was the aim of adopting our business model which is constantly improved to meet current global standards and innovations. The absence of physical manufacturing plants indicates there are little or no waste products to dispose, which as we know could affect human life and health. We also do not utilize life threating toxic components. With great concern for the wellbeing of our staff, Premium Times encouraged its staff members to enroll in the health care program/insurance, the company had implemented. During our interpersonal counselling processes, staff members are also encouraged to attend regular health checkups. We also protect personal data to ensure safety working with Premium Times. We ensure that personal information on clients, partners, sources and staff is stored and handled in a safe manner so that the risk of information abuse is reduced to the barest minimal levels. LABOUR We ensure that labour is not forced, it is completely voluntary, and there is no child labour or bonded labour of any form. We ensure a right to equality and freedom from discrimination. When employees apply we analyze their skill set, level of experience, age (adult) etc. viz-aviz the required job description before employment. Staff welfare is a major concern of our organization, during sustained employment staff members may request for soft loans. When such is granted the staff determines the commencement and rate of repayment. He/she is often advised to spread the payment with the greatest comfort they can afford, sometimes these loans are written off, based on health grounds or uncertainties. We also encourage staff to take advantage of greener pastures if their skill set is required elsewhere. By this, we promote freedom from slavery and freedom from torture and degrading treatment. Our monthly salary/wage payment exceeds the current minimum wage of Nigeria. Staff members are encouraged to go for training, apply for fellowships, conferences, masters programs and development workshops, to increase their productivity and in turn increase their personal income. We currently have five staff members, in tertiary institutions, three enrolled for BSc/equivalent and two in a master’s program. In our effort to increase value and per capita income, we adopted the freelance system, where ad-hoc staff get paid for the reports that meet the editorial standard of the publication. We also have a staff who was home schooled, never attended any formal educational institution, we tend to be more embracing of talent and skills with socio-economic positive results. Discrimination is not encouraged in our organization. Employees are absorbed based on skill set, willingness to learn and qualification. We have also recently adopted the method of creating an equilibrium in the sex ratio, currently preference of female applicants who have met the employment requirement, is considered priority. With this model we have been able to empower more women in the work force and have created room for a climb up the corporate ladder. It is a work in progress as we are still fashioning methods towards an increase of women in the work place. A major challenge being the migration of the small pool of company trained females to other fields of personal interest. Here, we find that our organization keeps having to retrain to fill the drain. But we are working towards bridging this gap not just for employment, but economically and socio-strata growth of our staff. We are one of the youngest newsrooms in Nigeria, with a highly motivated workforce, in a friendly and relaxed working environment. Here we create an enabling human development environment, so our team of staff and executives can explore the potentials to be their very best. ENVIRONMENT Our production processes does not involve use of machinery in the raw sense, because there is no print format deployed in our publication, we are basically an online news platform. Which means there is no emission of gaseous substance, fumes or air pollutants. This makes us more environment friendly and air pollution is at its best control. We have a no smoking environment and are gradually incorporating green indoors/in-office. There is also a sizable representation of green in the environs. We avoid environmental damage via a regular environmental protection system, provided by the Environmental Protection Board of which we are subscribed to for refuse/solid and liquid waste disposal. The water treatment system is also catered for by the Water Board, here we are also billed. We ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health, we have fire safety measures in place, an escape door for every floor, fire extinguishers and first aid supplies. We are also reviewing our emergency processes. One of the initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility is the gradual replacement of paper documents with soft copies (pdf). Unless were physical evidence is required, we ensure the use of recycled chamex paper with clefor certification, regulated by Inmetro, derived from planted /renewable forests (www.institutoip.com.br), the use of recycled bottles for water is also encouraged. We hope to put in more precautionary approaches to environmental challenges as we proceed in the year. One of the ways we employ more environmentally friendly technologies, is by conserving energy. We make use of energy saving bulbs and rather than burn fossil fuel we use inverters for cleaner air and to reduce noise pollution. We reduce energy utilization by turning off appliances not in use. We do not store chemicals, apart from fire extinguishers and first aid medical supplies. When necessary, light fumigation is done during the weekends, when staff would not be in office. This helps to reduce the impact of malaria transmitting mosquitoes and pests, which could affect employee health and general productivity. Ergonomics is a method we constantly deploy to create a better work climate for our staff. Premium Times also supports health reports that enlighten the populace on healthy measures, practices and where to get help in such situations. We achieve these with the aim of creating sustainable and inclusive value to a Nigerian economy that delivers lasting benefits to people, communities and markets. ANTI – CORRUPTION Premium Times has been known for having no political sympathy, always in pursuit of the truth, taking no sides in stories to produce, fair, critical and unbiased reports. We have one of the highest collection of passionate, professional and investigative reporters who are a truly multimedia team. Our value system is a principle based approach to undertaking business, clearly captured in our vision; is to actively contribute to the emergence of a truly democratic society imbued with the values of accountability, justice, integrity, and respect for human rights. Because we are part of the fore frontiers in the fight against corruption in Nigeria, we instill these values in our employees in our daily work processes. These CITA codes form the foundation on which the ethical values of our processes are built. These, not exhaustively are; ´ Credibility ´ Integrity ´ Transparency ´ Accountability Bribery is defined as a payment intended to get someone to do something dishonest, illegal or in breach of his duties with the purpose of obtaining an undue advantage. We do not accept corruption in any form. It is not acceptable to receive gifts that openly seeks to influence a decision. Given the economic situation in the country, we have put in place measures to help manage our employees in this area. One of which is a reward system from the company to an employee who refers a business endeavor to us. It is dealt with strictly by the business team and has no editorial relationship. Also, it is clearly relayed to all clients, the importance of our editorial values, which cannot be influenced by a client, intentionally or not. Any employee found wanting in this area knows he/she would be dismissed. In our anti-corruption work across board, we have produced reports that has helped bring about a call to action by the three arms of government and security agencies to help curb the spread of corrupt practices. You find that our work also extends to election monitoring, to show the level of participation of the citizenry and the Electoral Commissions efforts in the electoral process towards forging ahead a better democratic environment. As the watch dogs of government and agencies, we have been able to achieve results, a few listed in the following areas; 1.) The fuel subsidy scam report, exposed the rut in the system for payments from government to marketers, who were scamming the country of billions of funds. https://www.premiumtimesng.com/.../96716-exclusivenigerias-biggest-oilfraudsters-the-worst-subsidy-scamever.html 2.) The Malabu oil Investigation which resulted in the court hearings of the buyers of the oil well, some of which at the time were the Minister of Petroleum, Minister of Justice and the Attorney General of the Federation. https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/219 088-malabu-1-1-billion-scandal-ex-nigerian-oil-minister12-others-set-trial-italy.html 3.) The Paradise Papers and Panama Papers reports on tax havens, exposed business men and government officials who were implicated and the effect was the asset declaration measure, VAIDS put in place by the government as part of methods to handle tax evasion. i. Paradise Papers: https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/249 547-paradise-papers-inside-complex-offshore-worldarik-air-founder-arumemi-ikhide.html ii. Panama Papers: https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/2 02917-adenuga-niger-governor-late-ooni-ife-andyuba-106-others-named-panamapapers.html https://www.premiumtimesng.com/panamapapers/201222-panamapapers-hidden-family-assetsnigerias-senate-president-saraki-uncovered-taxhavens.html 4.) Our reports on security contracting in Nigeria brought to the fore, the level of corruption in military spending. Several groups called for a probe into the matter. https://www.premiumtimesng.com/investigationspec ial-reports/268123-when-generals-turn-bandits-insidecorruption-nigeria-security-contracting.html 5.) The Dangote Cement factory report, were soldiers guarding the premised shot community residents, got the founder to pay compensation to community members and a visit to the state governor on the way forward. https://www.premiumtimesng.com/.../164067investigation-massacre-ingboko-soldiers-atdangotes-factory-kill-7-company-govt-abandon-... 6.) The forged certificate scandal of the Minister of Finance, has brought about a call for her resignation and other questions been raised about her capabilities. https://www.premiumtimesng.com/.../275568-breakingnysc-disowns-kemiadeosuns-exemptioncertificate.html We are aware of the long way ahead in arriving at the required enlightenment disposition of the populace, which would produce an effective result in the sociopolitical and economic environs. Which is why we also educate the citizenry on the need to come forward with their findings and complains, in achieving a collective impact of the government being held to a higher level of accountability. Understanding the scenario of a personal sense of security, when these issues are brought to public light, we work tirelessly to protect whistle blowers and sources. Which is also part of protecting their human rights. While inculcating these values we also, hold our company leaders accountable, especially in decision making. Leadership is not dictatorial and employees, are all involved in making the decisions that affect our work space and productivity. We practice what we preach. In other to ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment we also cater for staff logistic needs on the job, financially and encourage employees to seek financial help from the company, rather than fall prey to enticement from corrupt agents. The channels for business has to go through basic checks before engagement. If found to be made under false notions, business relations are terminated and where a transaction has occurred a refund is made to the faulty party. Where a business is found to be under investigation, we do not engage or disengage if it arose in the course of business partnership. We also mention on our agreements and contracts, the importance of business parties to respect the ethics/policies and the editorial independence of Premium Times. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Demographics of management and employees broken down by diversity factors GENDER ETHNICITY AGE RANGE ABOUT US Premium Times Services Limited, publishers of Premium Times, is a Nigerian media organization with its head office in Abuja. We have a mission to help strengthen Nigeria's democracy, advance the competitive edge of our economy, the well‐being and the rights of the people, promote and enrich their cultural practices and advocate for best practices, good governance, transparency and human rights, in line with the values expected of a modern democratic state. Proprietors of the organisation believe that of all the institutions of a modern democracy, the role of the media is a pre‐eminent one that is best understood in promoting accountability and transparency in government. We believe that the media can help forge new communities, pursue political and social agenda in support of a better society, and help build visions of hope and resistance. Sadly the media can also lead in negative directions: dividing people and truncating hope and vision. In our country, the media has played both roles at different times in our history. Premium Times believes that the time has come for Nigeria to embrace the challenge of progress and development in a substantial, concrete sense. As a result of this, we have brought a huge commitment to offer our country the type of media that will advocate for the people, and nudge our nation towards the path of development and social re‐engineering. We are of the view that, in terms of its formal processes and philosophy of its content, the new media that will help spur the challenge of educational revolution, cultural rebirth, and economic development in Nigeria, must be reflective, thoughtful, analytical and empathetic, without a sense of entitlement and insularity. We have come to fill that lacuna and raise the bar of journalism in our country. We plan to publish across all formats, beginning with this online platform, where we hope to appeal to the swelling ranks of our young and middle class elites, with a vision of the future and belief in social change. No other online media in Nigeria equals our footprint in the African region particularly in West Africa and South Africa. We have proudly earned our bragging rights as the leading online platform in breaking news, analytical delivery, social responsibility, and informed commentaries. Above all we have come to be seen as the reference point on investigative reporting, and multimedia news delivery, with a robust feedback mechanism, and the most engaging reach to the Nigerian youth. Currently as an online platform, Premuimtimesng.com sharply contrasts from its peers which are mere news aggregators, by operating a truly professional news operation based on sound ethics. All our content is verified and published on the best judgment of our editors.
