un global 20 compAct 17 [ COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ] CONTENTS OVERVIEW Action Plan Chairman’s Message HUMAN RIGHTS Gender Equality Actions in Disaster Stricken Countries CSR Activities LABOUR LTG Social Ethics Committee VIE Programme Training Initiatives ENVIRONMENT Planète Urgence Environmental Impact of Business Bilan Carbone© ANTI CORRUPTION Supply Chain Management Communication on Progress Page 1 10 priciples of the GLOBAL compact Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not Environment complicit in human rights abuses. Businesses should support Labour a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the undertake initiatives to effective recognition of the right promote greater environmental to collective bargaining; responsibility; and the elimination of all forms of encourage the development forced and compulsory labour; and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination Anti Corruption in respect of employment and Businesses should occupation. work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Communication on Progress Page 2 OVERVIEW ACTION PLAN UN PRINCIPLES MOBILITAS ACTIONS STAGE ACTIONS FOR 2017 ACTIONS FOR 2018 GENDER EQUALITY 2nd year: Action Endorsement of the Women’s Empowerment Principles Continued commitment to the promotion of gender equality ACTION IN HUMANHUMAN RIGHTS RIGHTS DISASTER STRICKEN Crisis management in affected countries Local assistance following the hurricanes in the Caribbean Remain closely involved with local communities to ensure fast response to crises COUNTRIES CSR ACTIVITIES > 5 years Communicate Communicate on selected initiatives worldwide Continued involvement in local communities and charitable initiatives 4th year: Training, improved learning and development initiatives linked to staffing LTG SOCIAL ETHICS Implementation of succession planning and management systems Implementation of and equitable ethical recruitment; focus on Occupational Health and Safety COMMITTEE policies LABOUR LABOUR VIE PROGRAMME > 5 years Continued active participation in the VIE programme Continued active participation in the VIE programme TRAINING INITIATIVES > 5 years Training and skills development programme Provision of training plans and resources to staff across all branches PLANÈTE URGENCE >5 years Commitment to continued working with Planète Urgence Commitment to continued working with Planète Urgence ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 6th year: Action to reduce Environment OF BUSINESS environmental impact Encourage smaller scale environmental initiatives at local branches Continued encouragement of environmental initiatives at local branches Environment BILAN CARBONE > 5 years Bilan Carbone© AGS Paris Bilan Carbone© Demepool / AGS Paris Supply Chain Management: Improving Anti-corruption policies and Continued improvement of Supply Chain Management processes Anti ANTICorruption CORRUPTION SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 6th year: Implement and communicate processes throughout the Group throughout the Group Communication on Progress Page 3 Communication on Progress Page 4 CHAIRMAN’s MESSAGE MOBILITAS is delighted to once again reprise our role in promoting and enshrining the universal principles defined in the United Nations Global Compact. 2017 has been a pivotal year for the MOBILITAS Group, one in which despite very real global challenges, we have been able to set concrete plans for future continued development guided by the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. More than ever, MOBILITAS employees have engaged with our Supply Chain Management company’s values of Quality, Performance, Innovation, Respect, and Solidarity, to make a difference in the communities we operate in. Supply Chain Management is a vital aspect of our business and we This report highlights some of the initiatives taken by our subsidiaries do the utmost to ensure that our high standards of service and and staff in various countries. quality go beyond the direct contact we have with our customers. Comprehensive anti-bribery and corruption policies, privacy policies and compliance surveys ensure that all suppliers fully comply with UN CRISIS RESPONSE Global Compact Principles and adhere to internationally recognised environmental, social and corporate governance standards. The global response to the devastating Atlantic hurricane season last year has raised awareness of the vital necessity for businesses to be As chairman of the MOBILITAS Group I am pleased to reaffirm our involved in their communities in order to provide quick response to commitment to the ten principles outlined in the UN Global Compact, potential crises. The MOBILITAS Group has demonstrated year after which we continue to uphold in all of our activities and operations. year its dedication to act on this key principle of solidarity and, in 2017, contributed to local efforts to alleviate the impact of natural disasters taking place in the Caribbean. Training and Skills Development As the MOBILITAS Group expands and develops new activities, the progression of our staff is a key concern for our company. Focused training and skills development will seek to share knowledge and capitalise on staff strengths, while taking into account our environment, our international presence and the difficulties that sometimes present themselves. Alain Taïeb Chairman of the Supervisory Board QUALITY At MOBILITAS we are devoted to finding a better way. We believe that quality begins by focusing on our clients’ needs and all else will follow. Excellence is at the heart of MOBILITAS. We aim to exceed expectations and demonstrate to our peRFORMANCE clients that our standards are world class. Innovation is the keystone of our success and sustainability. We set trends in technology and Innovation methodology, measuring them by customer feedback. In this way, we aim to create ideas with the potential to change our industries and improve how our customers are served. We value others’ viewpoints and diversity of thought. We respect honesty and believe in the RESPECT highest ethical standards, earning trust through commitment, consistency and principled actions. Solidarity We commit ourselves to working with our neighbours and communities of the world, recognising that although we may not be the same, we live on common ground. In standing together we believe we are always stronger and wiser. Communication on Progress Page 5 HUMAN RIGHTS Endorsement of the Women’s Empowerment Principles We like to foster a spirit of equality within our organisation and gender equality is very much included in this ethos. We value our female staff and are committed to their development and well-being within our organisation. A target for 2017 of an improvement by 5% in female representation was set. However, we only managed to show a 2% 2% improvement, which is most notable in our subsidiaries in IMPROVEMENT Europe (including France) and to a lesser extent in Asia. IN FEMALE REPRESENTATION We remain committed to reaching our initial target of a 5% in 2017 improvement in 2018 and have decided to try and help the Group’s subsidiaries to work together towards this goal. We aim to improve on results through educating employees and promoting a corporate culture that respects women and target of 3% has their best interests in mind. Challenging the status quo as an international company in many different countries, all improvement with unique cultural idiosyncrasies can sometimes be difficult, in female but we have an unwavering commitment to ensure equal REPRESENTATION in representation and fair treatment of women and so undertake this challenge. 2018 Last year we made a commitment to the seven UN Women’s 5. We ensure that the women in our organisation have Empowerment Principles offering guidance on how to empower access to training and that they hold the skills necessary to complete their jobs. When selecting suppliers, female women in the workplace, marketplace and community, and owned companies are given fair opportunity and nonthis year we affirm that commitment through the following: discriminatory selection criteria are used. Marketing materials will always respect the dignity of women. 1. We offer high-level corporate leadership for gender equality through our Human Resources manager‘s team, guided by 6. Community initiatives we are involved in include those Christophe Mordelet. He and his team guide the people of that promote equality and when selecting any kind of our organisation and will focus on changing attitudes looking charity or sponsorship opportunity non-discriminatory forward to ensure women are seen and treated as equals in selection processes are used. the workplace. 7. Each manager completes an HR Metrics report annually 2. To ensure women within our organisation are treated fairly and this year we will be adding some gender metrics to at all times we have comprehensive grievance procedures in that report. This will encourage actions towards attaining place and managers are encouraged to have an open door our goal and ensure awareness of the need to promote policy. gender equality. Managers will have to delve deep into their internal promotions and new hires figures and report 3. Our Health and Safety results are a good reflection of how on how many were female. Going forward this will ensure seriously we take a safe working environment, this includes awareness around gender inequalities in the industries the men and women. Group operates in and the need for equal representation throughout the organisation. We hope to encourage the 4. Going forward this year, we will strive to reach our main hire of females and their internal promotion through these goal through the promotion of new female hires and the changes. retention of female staff. This will ensure we are promoting professional development for women within our organisation. Communication on Progress Page 6 HUMAN RIGHTS THE CARIBBEAN HURRICANES In September 2017, Hurricanes Irma and Maria tore across the northern Caribbean causing devastation in 12 out of 32 countries, killing hundreds of people. RESPONDING TO THE CRISIS The Island of Saint Martin, which is split into two sides overseen • Assisted the French Government and Military by relocating by French and Dutch control, was hit by both hurricanes, Irma 75% of the ‘gendarmes’. and Maria. A third of the buildings on the Dutch side of the • Helped to distribute water and supplies for the Dutch marines. Hurricane Irma first made landfall on the northeast Caribbean islands on 6 September, closely followed on 16 September by Hurricane island were destroyed, and 90 percent were damaged. • Organised a container full of books and school materials Maria. These Category 5 storms caused severe damage in a number of countries and territories, including Anguilla, Barbuda, the British from the Netherlands, for three Dutch primary schools, in Virgin Islands, Dominica, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, Puerto Rico, Saint Martin, and the US Virgin Islands. Our AGS Meyer branch in Saint Martin (a subsidiary of the partnership with the association SXM Strong. MOBILITAS Group) was just one of the many buildings that • Supported all local operations for K1 Britannia, an organisation The extent of destruction across these countries and territories varied, with many areas becoming flooded and inaccessible. Significant suffered extensive damage, as both the office and warehouse focused on maritime and other charitable projects in Saint damage from the hurricanes has caused problems with water supplies, sanitation, food supply, electricity, transportation, shelter, were completely destroyed. Within three days of the disaster, Martin, addressing the social issues faced by troubled youth communications, security, medical care, and mosquito control. Branch Manager Yann Corvellec began mobilising staff to on the island and the surrounding areas. get operations back up and running as soon as possible. The • Worked in partnership with the Red Cross to distribute food team were put to work, clearing the warehouse of debris, and for breakfast and lunch to 18 schools on the Dutch side of the HURRICANE INFO: cleaning and repairing equipment and trucks. The fact that island for a period of two weeks. there was no electricity or water for over three weeks did not • Relocated many families from their houses that had been IRMA MARIA help matters. destroyed, to others that were in better shape. The team were however, fully motivated and with some Six months on, as the island continues to recover, AGS Meyer much needed support from another of our branches, AGS is still assisting families as they relocate to Curacao, Aruba, Guadeloupe, who were kind enough to send relief supplies for Bonaire, The Netherlands, France and the United States. All the team including food, water and batteries, the branch was hotels that were damaged in the storm have begun a reconstruction phase and have asked AGS Meyer to provide TOTAL operational within two weeks, ready to assist in any way. logistics support as they begin to rebuild. At present, the FATALITIES: “AGS was the first removal company to branch is operating 24/7, as it deals with a heavily congested 134 TOTAL be present and active 2 weeks after the port and a severe shortage of equipment and means, however they continue to answer all requests for service and remain FATALITIES: disaster, ready to help people in need.” dedicated to providing local assistance as needed. HIGHEST WIND Yann Corvellec SPEED: 298 km/h 547 AGS Meyer provided support for a number of relief operations HIGHEST WIND around Saint Martin: Damage: SPEED: 282 km/h • Handled most of the movements for the Dutch Military and set up a direct line for all their needs in regards to relief 64.2 billion shipments and port clearance for all imports including Date: USD (Fifth-costliest machinery, vehicles and military personnel. 30 August 2017 – 16 tropical cyclone September 2017 on record) Damage: 91.6 billion USD (Maria is the third-costliest Atlantic hurricane) Date: 16 September 2017 – 3 October 2017 Communication on Progress Page 8 HUMAN RIGHTS CSR ACTIVITIES MOBILITAS is committed to engaging and supporting the local communities in which its subsidiaries operate. In 2017, MOBILITAS staff around the world got involved in projects and fundraisers aiming to improve the lives and conditions of vulnerable people everywhere. NIGERIA FRANCE GERMANY AGS Nigeria participated in a number of social responsibility programmes in 2017 that focused on health, nutrition, Pietsch in Germany participated in the “Schichtwechsel Berlin” campaign, an event held to education and employment to benefit the disadvantaged in society. The branch offered its support to a charity Following the devastation of Hurricane Irma to the Caribbean island of Saint change the perspective for around 320 people with and without disabilities in Berlin. 17 fundraising event ‘Small World 2018’ run by an international women’s charity organisation to raise funds for the Martin, AGS France worked with the ‘SOS Irma Collective’ to bring some much workshops and more than 80 companies, authorities and foundations participated and underprivileged around Nigeria from improving impoverished schools and helping local clinics in providing needed relief to the disaster hit area. The branch organised the transportation exchanged their jobs for one day. Pietsch staff welcomed the opportunity to meet health services to valuable job skills training and improving shelter for the homeless. The funds raised will go of a container carrying 8-10 tonnes of aid items, including essential disabled employees from workshops, gain insights into the diversity of products and a long way in supporting various charities supporting women and children. AGS Nigeria also assisted a local non-perishable food items and clothes, free of charge to the island. services they provide, and participate in their multifaceted work processes. At the charity called ‘Elekahia Progressive Youth’ by providing them with funds to embark on a community development same time, disabled workshop employees got a taste of professional fields of the project to train youth in office and skill acquisition. This fund will improve the education of the less fortunate in society. general job market and got to experience everyday life in the company. Through the unifying theme of work, the campaign creates space for new perspectives, raises awareness of the subject of inclusion, promotes mutual awareness and consideration and helps to reduce prejudices. As part of the event, approximately 120 job offers were made to LESOTHO disabled employees for work corresponding with their wishes and abilities. Stuttaford Van Lines’ Lesotho branch imported containers of books free of charge for the African Library Project, which seeks to change lives book by book by starting libraries in rural Africa. The project utilises a grassroots approach to mobilise volunteers, young and old, to organise book drives ROMANIA and ship books to start or further develop a library in Africa to improve literacy, education, and selfAGS Bucharest supported the annual IWA Charity Christmas Bazaar on Sunday, December 10th, empowerment. To date, 2,228 libraries have been completed across Africa. 2017. United in the spirit of generosity, IWA raises funds to help the disadvantaged. Founded in 1978, the International Women’s Association of Bucharest (IWA) is an independent, voluntary, charitable, non-profit and non-political organisation. IWA promotes friendship amongst women of all nationalities living in Romania, introduces their members to the culture of Romania and SOUTH AFRICA supports local charitable organisations. The AGS Bucharest branch also participated in an event In 2017 The Laser Transport Group and our various branches supported a number of social outreach programmes held at the British School of Bucharest. Underprivileged children from the Asociatia Casa Plina, in to make a difference in the communities we live and work in. Pickfords Johannesburg supported Jacobs Well, a Negreni de Sus, Teleorman, a charity run by Priest Bogdan Cristian Danu, visited the school and were Johannesburg-based NGO that works with community centres, old age and children homes across the country by provided with a lunch and received gifts from a number of sponsors including AGS. providing services and office furniture donations to which are utilised in Education and Community Development. The Pickfords brand’s support of the Mother of Peace’s Organic Garden and Food Forest in Illovo, Kwazulu Natal MALAYSIA grew stronger in 2017. The Mother of Peace, a non-profit organisation that cares for children who have been abandoned, AGS Malaysia has been sponsoring the Kuala Lumpur’s Tigers Rugby Club since its inception in 2014, and orphaned or abused, has based the garden on the principles of permaculture. Derived from the words ‘permanent’ and became its main sponsor last year. As part of its commitment to the club, which benefits 450 children and ‘agriculture’, the concept of permaculture involves the development of agricultural ecosystems intended to be sustainable 50 adults, AGS stores the club’s equipment in its warehouse and delivers the kit every Saturday to the and self-sufficient. Volunteers, including the Pickfords team, have planted a variety of produce donated to the organisation. training fields. The branch also assisted at the ‘Pink October’ charity lunch, a breast cancer awareness The organisation lies in a valley with an unemployment rate of over 70% in the area, and the NGO aims to offer workshops event for over 150 ladies, hosted by the Association of British Women in Malaysia (ABWM). In addition to to the local residents on food security and sustainability. selling raffle tickets, the AGS team also offered a donation on behalf of the Group, and assisted in raising Stuttaford Van Lines Johannesburg offered its support to a project run by a well-known Gauteng lifestyle residential development, a total of MYR 44,507 (USD 10,855) which was shared amongst 3 charities: The National Cancer Society Steyn City. Called ‘Delivering Happiness to Diepsloot’, the project brought much needed educational gifts to the township’s Malaysia, Pink Ribbon Wellness Foundation, Breast Cancer Welfare Association (BCWA Malaysia). children ahead of the festive season. Now in its fourth consecutive year, it has become bigger and better than ever – in 2017 reaching over 12 000 primary school learners. Backpacks filled with all kinds of wonderful goodies including stationery for school, sweets and toys were delivered to the children, many of whom previously relied on plastic bags to carry their books to school. BANGKOK 2017 will be remembered in South Africa as the year of devastating fires and once again The Laser Transport Group and its AGS Thailand partnered with Second Chance Bangkok, a local initiative operated by subsidiaries donated and assisted the Rotary with deliveries and collection of boxes with clothes, food and water towards residents of Bangkok’s largest slum community in Klong Toey. The organisation relies the residents of Knysna and surrounding areas. on donations of quality household items and preloved clothing and sells them in second hand shops to residents of Klong Toey community at affordable prices. The programme operates under the belief that everyone has value; and that through MADAGASCAR HYDERABAD fair and sustainable employment, the communities will feel valued and full of worth. The branch continues to support this initiative by collecting all unwanted goods from AGS Madagascar, in a joint operation with AGS Paris, engaged in a solidarity Our AGS branch in Hyderabad assisted clients, that they wish to donate. operation with ADIFLOR, an association that disseminates French books Invesco by delivering winter clothes to and magazines internationally. Created in 1985, this association, which an underprivileged community within the aims to promote reading and cultural diversity across the world, donated 11,000 new books to the library of Madagascar and the 29 French Alliances Hyderabad area, free of charge. VIETNAM of the island. The books will hopefully fuel a thirst for knowledge and AGS Vietnam’s General Manager, Kevin Hamilton, joined the “2017 Saigon Children promote French education and the development of schooling. NEW DELHI, INDIA Charity Cycle” this year. This three-day cycle with a small group rode 100km per day and a total of 300km through the mountainous terrain of Vietnam central highlands In New Delhi, Payal Singh, Manager of AGS India, chose to sponsor the Delhi Youth League, to raise funds for the education of disadvantaged Vietnamese children. This year US an organisation that aims to develop soccer among young people aged 6 to 19, from all $70,000 was raised which was an incredible achievement for the team. The funds social, cultural and religious origins. With the motto “the best teaching is the game itself”, raised will contribute to the charity’s school building, vocational training, scholarships the Delhi Youth League brings together children from underprivileged backgrounds and empowerment of local organisations. Founded in 1992, the Saigon Children supported by NGOs who play for free, as well as students from international, public and Charity supports over 2,000 disadvantaged children with scholarships every year. private schools who pay to play. Thanks to soccer and the values associated with sport, the league offers young people from very different backgrounds, opportunities to express themselves, to better understand each other and to become agents of social change. Page 9 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress Page 10 LABOUR LASER TRANSPORT GROUP – SOCIAL ETHICS THE LASER TRANSPORT GROUP (PTY) LTD (LASER), THE SOUTH AFRICAN SUBSIDIARY OF THE MOBILITAS GROUP, FOCUSED AND EMBARKED ON OVERALL DISCIPLINE TO BUSINESS ETHICS. Building an Ethical Company Culture Occupational Health and Safety Policy Staff awareness and consciousness through training and As part of their 2-year management systems development coaching was the main focus in 2017 and will be on-going. plan, LASER will place a renewed strategic focus on ensuring Emphasis was put on building vigilance about Anti-Corruption Occupational Health and Safety compliance remain the top and Anti-Trust measures based on the Group’s Ethical Employee priority within all operational areas. “Safety First” is the key Conduct Pledge made in 2014. The Group’s ‘Zero Tolerance priority. The Group will continue to meet national and industrial Policy’ to Anti – Competitive Behaviour, Anti-Corruption and standards and set an example at all levels. Unethical Business Practice was made aware to staff during a series of road shows. LASER will continue with this awareness Succession Planning and Management Systems drive in 2018. As part of LASER’s Human Resource Development of its staff, Professional Drivers Learnership 2017 saw the implementation of succession planning and management systems to ensure an integrated, systematic 2017 ended with the final chapter in the initiative to create approach to identifying, developing and retaining employees a pool of dedicated professional drivers within the transport in line with current and projected business objectives. The industry by training and developing staff from previously implementation of further training, improved learning and disadvantaged groups. Thirty-one (31) employees enrolled in development initiatives linked to staffing and equitable ethical the professional driver’s learnership which is a partnership recruitment remain a key priority. During 2018, the Group between TETA (Transport and Education Training Authority) will continue to focus on being ‘Unashamedly Ethical’ where and LASER to up-skill current employees to become code emphasis will be placed on valuing Honesty, Employees, Clients 14 truck drivers. The project was a major investment in and the Environment. education and focused on elevating low literacy levels to uplift the social environment of our employees in Africa, where low skills levels and poor literacy remain a key challenge. Page 11 Communication on Progress LABOUR VIE PROGRAMME Volunteer for International Experience MOBILITAS knows that to develop its business, the company needs to find new talented employees that are committed to its growth and success. This is why the Group continues its commitment to the Volunteer for International Experience (VIE) programme which helps young graduates to train, develop new skills and gain business experience in an international context. x1 VIE COUNT 1 in Asia VIE COUNT 6 in Europe x6 VIE COUNT 10 in Africa x10 MOBILITAS PARTICIPATES IN THE TRAINING OF NEW PROFESSIONALS THROUGH THE VIE PROGRAMME. • This programme offers a structured entry level programme for young French graduates showing an interest for positions broad from 6 to 24 months. • This helps to develop the talent pipeline by offering a well-designed and implemented entry level programme. • Candidates are recruited and managed through Business France (previously UBIFRANCE), the French Agency for International Business Development,which falls under France’s Ministry for the Economy, Industry & Employment. • MOBILITAS sees value in energetic and dynamic additions to the team and also doing its part to nurture talent and offer opportunities. • The Group has hired 271 participants since the programme was introduced, and over 367 VIE or CNSE (which was the previous version of VIE) altogether. • 58 VIEs have gone on to be employed at management level. Communication on Progress Page 12 INTERVIEW WITH KATIA GUEDES, 29 YEARS OLD, VIE AT AGS ANGOLA What is your role at AGS Angola? What did you learn as a VIE? I am the financial and administrative manager. I manage the What I learned with my experience in Angola is that I have financial services of AGS Angola, which includes handling the the ability to manage problems and take on new challenges, invoicing, the accounting follow-up, and managing the team. as there is always something new happening here. I find that Another part of my work is to be in charge of the Human very instructive, because I’ve now developed an ability to Resources, to oversee the expenses, wages, contracts and immediately think of 2 or 3 solutions as soon as we are facing all other aspects concerning the employees working for the a problem. That’s what motivates me the most. I was also company. very fortunate to have a Branch Manager that always listens to me, who believes in me and allows me to work very freely. The AGS Angola experience is very enriching because it is like How was your integration into the country? working in a start-up; everything needs to be done from A to The integration was very easy for me as I have dual nationality, Z. From the revisions of the systems in place, the analysis and Angolan and French. I already know the country very well, so implementation of optimal procedures for all departments, that was not a big change for me. to the identification of corruption and the implementation of measures to deal with it. What, for you, is important to know in order to start a VIE under the best conditions? How does AGS Angola commit to respect the principles of the It is very important to be open-minded and curious. That will United Nations Global Compact in the areas of environment, help you to understand your environment and the people that labour, anti-corruption and human rights? are working with you. Don’t hesitate to ask for information We are currently working with the Ministry of Environment to from people you meet or to ask questions, at work or even in identify possibilities to recycle our wastes (paper, cardboard your daily life. etc.). We really want to improve our impact on the environment. AGS Angola is also very committed to the fight against any kind of corruption, called “gasosa” here. All invoices are analysed, What types of challenges will you have to face in the future? and if there is no back-up we don’t pay. Additionally, we don’t In the immediate future, I will have to decide if I will accept pay “gasosa” to the inspectors to avoid the fines when an the proposal made by the Group to go to Haiti to finish my VIE. irregularity is found, we prefer to pay the fine and then correct If I accept, my missions will be the same but in a totally new the mistake. country. Communication on Progress Page 13 LABOUR TRAINING & SKILLS DEVELOPMENT With the flexibility and skills growth of all MOBILITAS staff in mind, Alexandre Lebegue, the Group’s Training and Skills Development Director, put together training modules and established a team of trainers to disseminate and share knowledge amongst staff. This training was based on the needs, priorities and expectations of the Group’s General Management, Operational Directorate and its subsidiaries. 1 809 The training plans were rolled out to staff via courses given on 3 continents different channels – internet, internal business (18% desktop training) – A total universities, selected internal trainers and external of 17 221 hours trained training providers while taking into account our environment, our international presence and the difficulties that sometimes present themselves. 1 171 people trained (4% management, 96% admin & technical) 580 473€ invested at Group level for management, admin, tech training & sales coaching 30 trainers (98% internal) A key element of the programme was the development of a We believe these goals will allow the Group to improve number of new training modules which were posted on our opportunities for training and skills development to all staff staff intranet in early 2017. These videos address several topics, worldwide, and should in time lead to happier staff, facilitating including the correct packing, loading, handling, unpacking and flexibility and internal promotions. re-assembly techniques. The focus in 2018 will be on maintaining the development of training and its provision, with a quality management approach, with the sole objective being the skills growth of all MOBILITAS staff. Key focus areas will include: • Continuing to roll out training programmes adapted to The AGS Group was awarded the FIDI Platinum Award in 2017, different target groups, whatever their ranking in the in recognition of driving and promoting industry knowledge company. amongst its employees to offer the best quality service to • Sharing expertise and promoting our internal experts customers. Only 11 FIDI accredited companies earned the in priority. Platinum Award, and we are extremely proud to be one of • Increasing the number of internal referent trainers in the them! IT, accounting and administrative fields to all our industries, worldwide. • Organising a voluntary buddy system consisting of our 12 best managers accompanying our young recruits. • Sharing good managerial practices within our company with our partners. Communication on Progress Page 14 environment PLANÈTE URGENCE MOBILITAS Commitment Preserving and caring for the environment is, for the MOBILITAS Group, both a moral imperative and part and parcel of sound business practices. As part of committing to and embedding the principles of the UN Global Compact, we have developed and rolled out initiatives which minimiSe the environmental impact of our HAITI SINCE 2015 2017 business and promote environmental awareness. Planète Urgence worked in Haiti following the devastating earthquake in 2010, leading a reforestation project in the south and south-east of the country in partnership with OPERATION “1 MOVE = 1 TREE” the Haitian Movement for Rural Development. The project aimed to rebuild the forest areas and to provide sustainable resources for farming and wood. Since 2009, MOBILITAS has been partnering with NGO Planète Urgence in support of their Environment & Development programme. The programme works towards ensuring a sustainable future for communities in Mali, Madagascar, Indonesia and Haiti. In an effort to offset the environmental impact inherent to their activities, subsidiaries of the Group have committed to contributing to the reforestation of those regions, planting one tree for every international move carried out by the company, and for every 15 archive 2015 2016 TOTAL boxes stored within our warehouses. 6,000 6,000 12,000 15 boxes stored with PRO ARCHIVES SYSTEMES = 1 TREE INDONESIA SINCE 2010 Together with Planète Urgence, MOBILITAS has planted 196,000 trees since the beginning of our partnership eight years ago. Following a vast reforestation project on the island of Sumatra through which over 3.3 million trees were planted, Planète Urgence now concentrates its efforts on the Contributions by MOBILITAS to Planète Urgence's Environment & Development programme: conservation and restoration of the mangrove forests of the Mahakam Delta. The region is home to hundreds of species of fish and birds and its inhabitants rely on aquaculture and fishing. The project supports local families by providing them with the skills and financial resources to develop a sustainable aquaculture industry. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 TOTAL 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 TOTAL 5,000 7,000 10,400 4,900 8,500 6,000 6,000 12,000 47,800 2,500 12,500 18,000 32,500 31,981 26,519 24,000 24,000 24,000 196,000 Our partner Planète Urgence works with local organisations in countries that are particularly vulnerable to climate disturbances. Through various projects spread throughtout the globe, Planète Urgence provides communities with the skills and resources they need to develop their local economy, in a manner which is both environmentally and economically sustainable. MADAGASCAR SINCE 2012 The Mali project was concluded at the end of 2016 due to the volatile security situation in the country. Nevertheless the project that Planète Urgence is leading a project for the restoration of the tapia forests of started in 2009 provided for 8 full years support to local familes. Planète Urgence wants to see new future collaborations emerge Madagascar, home to an ecosystem vital to the development of the region. The when the context allows it again. The Haiti project was also finalised at the end of 2017 for safety reasons. However, the end of the reforestation project supports the development of the wood, fruit, silk and honey 2 projects did not mean Mobilitas would participate less, it was an opportunity to plant more trees in Indonesia and Madagascar. industries, while it contributes to raising awareness to environmental and economic Since the inception of the programme, the association has planted over 6 million trees in affected regions, benefitting thousands of issues. families. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 TOTAL 7,950 18,431 9,519 6,000 6,000 12,000 47.900 MALI SINCE 2009-2016 Planète Urgence contributed to the fight against desertification in the Mopti and Ségou regions of Mali. Up to its completion in December 2016, the project provided support Future projects to local families working towards income and food security, by providing sustainable resources for fruit and wood production. Planète Urgence is looking at starting 2 new projects planned for 2018 in Peru and Cameroon. These two countries are politicaly stable, and it is therefore possible for Planète Urgence to initiate projects for the development and protection of the environment in these areas. Mobilitas is looking forward to participating in these projects. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 TOTAL 2,500 7,500 11,000 14,150 8,650 8,500 6,000 6,000 64,300 Communication on Progress Page 15 Communication on Progress Page 16 environment PICKFORDs PARTNERED WITH THE HEART CAPITAL FOUNDATION TO PLANT 1 MILLION TREES Pickfords recognises the need to value and conserve natural resources to create a healthier and more sustainable environment for the future. In an effort to reduce our carbon footprint, we have partnered IN ADDITION TO UPLIFTING LOCAL with the Heart Capital Foundation on their ‘Spekboom Wonder Plant’ project, a campaign aiming to plant 1 million spekboom COMMUNITIES, THE PROJECT IS AIMED trees by the end of the year. AT FIGHTING CLIMATE CHANGE. Why is Spekboom our Wonder Plant? • These succulent trees are native to South Africa • They can reach between 2m and 5m tall and live to be 200 years’ old • They are 10 times more effective at reducing carbon than tropical rainforest trees • They can survive frost, fire, and drought • Planted 50cm apart they form a beautiful, evergreen, natural hedge which enhances safety and security • 1 Spekboom can remove 8.5kg of CO² per year Poverty and global climate change aren't little problems that are going away any time soon. By enabling poor people to propagate and grow these incredible carbon-reducing Spekboom trees, Pickfords is doing its part to tackle these tough issues. The Heart Capital Foundation have established Spekboom tree nurseries in townships around South Africa and are enabling poor people to earn sustainable livelihoods by propagating the trees. They supply local growers with seedlings, which are then raised to maturity. Once the trees have been nurtured to a reasonable size, they are bought back from the entrepreneurs and sold to the public. Communication on Progress Page 17 environment AGS PARIS ASSESSES ITS CARBON FOOTPRINT As part of the company’s commitment to improving its environmental footprint, the branch AGS Paris continues to assess its carbon footprint. As a leader of the international removals industry, MOBILITAS The Carbon Assessment allows us to measure the is committed to sustainable and environmental-friendly environmental impact of moves carried out for our clients and business practices and constant enhancement of our ecological to make them aware of the environmental impact resulting standards. The ‘Bilan Carbone’ carbon footprint assessment from their mobility policy. initiative was launched in all of the Group’s businesses in France in order to control its greenhouse gas emissions and to We can work together to develop and implement solutions fully integrate the environmental factor. to reduce our carbon footprint. Monitoring and quantifying greenhouse gas emissions is the first step in the development AGS Paris completed its first Bilan Carbone® in 2012, and and implementation of innovative solutions to reduce our repeated the assessment in 2015. This carbon footprint ecological footprint. assessment integrates all the move operations, taking into account the modes of transport used for each move. Reduction of OIW Increase in the number of recycled boxes Ordinary Industrial Waste (OIW is waste that is neither Raising awareness among our employees of the importance of dangerous nor inert and can decompose, burn, ferment or recycling has resulted in a 177% increase in recycled cardboard rust). since 2012. oiw (In tonnes) Recycled cardboard (in tonnes) 900 The sorting 900 Raising awareness 836 836 awareness among our employees 800 800 of our employees of the importance of 700 has resulted in a 700 recycling has resulted 600 83% reduction in 600 in a 177% increase in 452 OIW since 2012. 452 recycled cardboard 500 500 442 442 since 2012. 400 400 300 300 170 170 200 144 200 144 62 62 100 100 9 9 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Diesel consumption AGS Paris intends to continue monitoring Our fleet of regularly maintained vehicles, and the introduction these indicators every year. Areas for of eco-driving methods for all drivers, has meant a year on year improvement will be defined, put in place, reduction in diesel consumption. and measured. Diesel consumption 150 000 117 623 107 923 100 906 100 000 50 000 0 2015 2016 2017 Communication on Progress Page 18 ANTI-CORRUPTION Supply Chain Management ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION, AND DATA PROTECTION (PRIVACY) MANAGEMENT Our Supply Chain is vital in ensuring a high quality service is delivered to our clients and that the high standards of ethics that we apply to our own work is carried throughout our reach, not only in our direct dealings. The FAIM accreditation, offered by the removal industry’s In 2017, we continued to follow our comprehensive Anti-Bribery awarding body FIDI, requires a meticulous audit by Ernst and and Corruption Policy, which is always used together with the Young of the branch’s existing supply chain management FIDI ABC Policy (FIDI Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy) to procedures and provides an opportunity to review existing ensure the highest ethical standards throughout our supply strategy and improve on it, with international benchmarks. chain, as well as internally. These policies are communicated Many of our brands underwent the FIDI accreditation renewal to all stakeholders and compliance is mandatory. We take this process and all were successfully re-accredited once again in topic very seriously and enforce these policies firmly. No matter 2017. This means the Group now has 31 accredited branches, the scale, corrective action is taken if there is a breach from any of which 20 are FAIM Plus. FAIM Plus is the double certification supplier. of ISO 9001:2008 and the standard FAIM accreditation. All our suppliers are expected to sign our Supplier Code of In 2017, FIDI implemented a new procedure for obtaining the Conduct and comprehensive SLA’s to ensure contractual FAIM certification. Whereas previously the certification audits obligations exist in the areas of ethics, quality and privacy. took place every 3 years, the association has now established an intermediate documentary audit called IFA (Internal FAIM A great evolution took place in 2017 and we hope to carry all Audit). The 3-year cycle is therefore retained and the additional of this forward into 2018, ensuring the highest standards are steps in years 2 or 3, after the original certification audit, further maintained throughout our Supply chain and reflected in our reinforce the strict criteria defined by this certification. As a service to our clients. Ethical standards are vital to ensure result of this IFA documentary audit, the subsidiaries receive a peaceful communities in which to do business, and so it is every certificate entitled Confirmation of Quality Assurance which business’ responsibility to ensure compliance in every dealing. is valid during the global re-certification of the subsidiary. If the We take this responsibility seriously and commit to upholding subsidiary fails during its intermediate audit, the certification these standards. will be cancelled. Having established a formal Privacy Policy in 2016, this was successfully implemented in 2017 and has served as reassurance to our clients of how seriously we take the safeguarding of their personal information. Furthermore, we are currently preparing to implement the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the new EU Privacy legislation in force from May 2018, and we already have appropriate measures in place to ensure we will be fully compliant by that deadline. Our large European footprint necessitates compliance with the legislation and this also further reflects our commitment to the protection of our client’s information. The MOBILITAS Group condemns all anti-competitive practices and has a zero-tolerance approach towards this behaviour throughout our Supply Chain. The Group seeks to operate only in markets free from practices such as price fixing or abusive intimidation. These practices can be at a local, national and international level and can harm companies and their immediate and broader environments. We comply with all local laws relative to anti-competitive practices and price fixing in the countries where we operate. Communication on Progress Page 19 IN SUPPORT OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT
