UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 Elif at a Glance On its 6th year of United Nations Global Compact participation, Elif continues its commitment to ensure that the Global Compact and its Ten Principles are an integral part of the company strategy, culture and every day operations. Elif targets to meet tomorrow's Elif supplies packaging trust and help people to reach expectations to keep global materials for many multinational products they consume with benchmark company position in brands in food & beverage, safety and health. the flexible packaging industry. baby, adult and fem care, With its global benchmark In every stage of its consumer tissue, household and flexible packaging production development, Elif runs after new fabric care, pet care, and many horizons. This has been other industrial sectors. facilities of Elif in Turkey and achieved with the enthusiasm Egypt, Elif makes over 175 Producing the face of many mUSD. generated by the synergy of our leading brands, Elif serves customers, suppliers, coIn every phase of its millions of people in more than workers and management team. imprescriptible transformation, 50 countries all over the world. Elif continuously improves its Continuously improving our Elif’s packaging materials standarts that leverages its service and quality standards protect, carry, communicate, development. This development parallel with our sustainability nourish and care the products is the driver of Elif’s always notion, we develop better they warp. At Elif, we are aware raising standarts. products driven by innovation that packaging materials we and art-of science, improve the produce not only protect the effiency of our manufacturing product they carry, but also the facilities and provide products reputation of Elif’s customers. tailored to the unique needs of Elif supports its customers to our customers, society and deliver their products with environment. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 4| Our Approach to Reporting Elif prepares and presents its United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Introduction Report in accordance with the UNGC Reporting Elif at a Glance................. 2 Guidelines. Our Approach to Reporting......................... 3 Elif United Nations Global In this report, ‘Elif’ refers to Elif Company Profile Compact Communication on Group of Companies; Elif Progress Report 2017 is issued Holding A.Ş., Elif Plastik Our Packaging annually and provides a Ambalaj Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., Solutions.......................... 4 summary of its progress for 10 Elif Global Ambalaj Pazarlama principles of UNGC in 4 areas; A.Ş: and Elif Global Packaging Vision, Mission and Human Rights, Labour Rights, S.A.E. The report is prepared for Values .............................. 6 Environment, Anti-corruption. 2017. Sustainability Approach...8 Details regarding the information given in the report can be Quality Approach .......... 10 provided online at Elif’s Awards & Recognitions..12 corporate website and at the section dedicated for action pages of the regarding area. Report Profile The online content provides further information about Elif’ as Our Policies and well as additional and update Standards ...................... 14 information about the issues covered in this report. Summary of Elif’s Actions www.elif.com for UNGC Principles...... 20 Human Rights PrinciplesQuestions & Feedback Actions .......................... 24 Labour Rights Principles – We welcome your feedback on our commitments and Actions .......................... 26 performance detailed here in our United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2017. Environmental Principles – Questions and feedback about the report should be directed Actions .......................... 28 to Elif via the ‘Contact us’ enquiry form at Anti‐Corruption Principle – www.elifglobal.com/contact or via e-mail to Actions .......................... 30 marketing@elifglobal.com or via phone numbers given at Elif corporate website. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 |3 Our Packaging Solutions Our packaging reaches millions of people all around the world every day, helping to create a happier and healthier life. We exist for People in every sphere of life. Our business is Packaging for Life. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 4| UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 |5 Vision, Mission & Values We are working relentlessly to be a global benchmark company in the flexible packaging industry by creating long term value for our business partners, Elif members and the society with a sustainability notion integrated with our high quality and service standards. VISION Strategy its customers, business partners and co-workers experience it not To offer responsible and Global geographic prevalence only today but also tomorrow. innovative packaging and primacy in sustainability, innovation, quality and Elif maintains cutting-edge solutions through knowledge combined with universal principles and technology. technical competence and Elif values for the wellCorporate Values expertise. As thinkers with a being of the Society Elif carries its core values from point of view, anticipating market Elif continues to target the first day of its establishment trends and translating them into tomorrow's excellence to keep and improve them in every step opportunities and progress for its global benchmark company it takes. These values reflect the our customers and through position in the flexible packaging behaviors that shape the tone of knowledge-based innovation, industry. This has been how Elif works within its Elif will continue to find the achieved with the enthusiasm ecosystem to create value by better way to produce and generated by the synergy of over fulfilling the needs of deliver products, serve Elif's customers, suppliers, customers in a spirit of customers, protect environment, professional human resources leadership, through diversity and support the packaging and management team with and integrity and with a clear industry in its efforts to produce innovative approach. awareness of responsibility. better packaging. Continuously improving its Responsibility service and quality standards, Leadership Elif has been authenticated as Elif has a full awareness of Elif acts responsibly toward the the market leader for setting being world-class and a clear environment and the society and high standards in the flexible vision of where the Company is aim to make a positive impact packaging industry by its going in every aspect of the through its brands, activities, multinational customers with business. Elif will continue to be resources and assets. Elif’s leading brands. pioneers by empowering sustainability notion combines initiatives and setting worldwide economic success with benchmarks through environmental protection and MISSION determination, courage, social responsibility both in its knowledge and passion to work and marketplace. To be a global benchmark progress. Elif is a top-notch in Therefore, Elif builds stable and packaging company. the way it designs, produces sustainable relationships with its and serves its products, a leader business partners by acting • Pioneer in packaging for responsibly throughout its entire the focused sectors in management performance and committed to deliver business framework. Elif is committed to provide leadership results. Elif exists for the purpose of exceptional service and highest creating value by increasing the quality products tailored to the Elif is passionate about quality to deliver quality exceeding standard of living and quality of unique needs of each customer life of its employees and through collaboration and expectations to organizations, communities and environments otherwise contributing to the innovation driven by the art of economic, environmental, and science. Elif is committed to through scientific and technological developments and social well-being of customers, work relentlessly to deliver value suppliers, and the nations in adding flexible packaging continuous improvement of our resources. Quality is the source which the company transacts solutions for the sustainability business. framework of its partners, of Elif’s reputation for high customers, economy, society standards and the Company will and environment. continuously pursue it to make UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 6| Elif Value Chain Passion to Leadership Responsibility Diversity Integrity Create Value Innovation Environment Cultural Honest and Ethical Consumer & Behaviour Customer Focus Technology Social Responsibility Intellectual Respect Sustainability Talent & Teamwork Quality Safety Geographical Sprit of Law Productivity The objective of Elif's using the colors of diverse As a vital asset of its corporate sustainable development is to ideas, needs, talents, responsibility, Elif operates ensure the continued existence geographies, cultures and within integrity, respect and the of the company as an economic capabilities of its organization, sprit of law. Elif will honor its factor, as an employer in the customers, business partners as commitments by practicing the region, in harmony with the well as communities. Being highest ethical standards for environment and the standards diverse in intelligence with societies, organizations and of society in the long-term. different approaches, thoughts, environments that its business needs and ideas of its cotouches. Sustainable management forms workers, customers and the basis of Elif’s commercial suppliers helps Elif understand Passion to Create Value success. Conscious all aspects and provide valueElif is passionate about consideration of its social and added consultancy to anticipate intelligent packaging solutions societal responsibility, as well as and project for long-term. helping to shape the next conscientious handling of Elif develops its market generation of its customers’ natural resources and the presence by appealing to products. With the essence of environment, are integral parts diverse consumers and teamwork of its talented human of Elif’s self-image. customers with its products and capital, Elif is intensely focused Elif intends to be a worldwide on performing sustainable and services. Being diverse in international trademark by productive solutions for its culture and geography as the expanding its customer and customers to help them achieve markets it serves, enables Elif partner network all around the their business objectives, for enhance the lives of people it world thanks to its diverse communities the Company human resources, cultural serves. touches to add more value for infrastructure and capability of Integrity them and for environment we geographical distribution and belong to improve its positive speed to react. Elif builds trust in its impact. The Company acts as it relationships through honest and is committed to act, Elif creates Diversity ethical behavior . Elif upholds its value. Elif leverages diversity to create corporate values and principles maximum value for our business in every action and decision. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 |7 Elif’s Approach of Sustainability To create long term value for sustainability, Elif tracks its sustainability management performance and plans its enhancements in a framework outlining three main domains of sustainability as indicated. Elif acts responsibly toward the Elif's approach to sustainability Packaging environment and society and is driven by the operating model Sustainability promotes productive and cost defining its approach to saving methods and technology business in three elements and Sustainability of packaging is in its business activities. For Elif, starts with its brand essence: dependent on three core sustainable development means ‘Packaging for Life’ functions of packaging the combination of long term combined intelligently. Elif acts oriented economic success with – Vision & Mission: Elif's responsibly with the awareness environmental protection and strategic framework for of sustainable packaging. social responsibility both in the significant success workplace and marketplace of – Corporate Personality: Protecting: Optimum Elif. It is aimed to integrate a Articulating Elif's unique packaging should extend sustainability notion into Elif's approach to conducting work product shelf life to the required organizational and management every day. level and protect the product system and build stable and – Corporate Values: Reflecting against physical, chemical and sustainable relationships with the behaviors that shape the microbial damage to minimize business partners of Elif by tone of how Elif works with its food spoilage and maximize acting responsibly throughout customers and partners as well community health. Therefore, the entire supply chain. as its internal working principals reducing the amount of packaging also ends up in reducing its sustainability impact due to product waste/spoilage or spread of health issues in the Packaging Sustainability community. Informing: Packaging is not only a communication tool for marketers but also an information platform for consumers. While right dosing and storage instructions can prevent product waste and protect community health, recycling and other green information like carbon footprint and supply chain tracing help to increase the sustainability of the packaging itself. Performing: Packaging also serves many purposes in terms of functionality and contributes to sustainability in the supply chain and the community. Longer shelf life, easy handling, less storage space and other convenience functions contributes to sustainability of both economy and community as well as environment. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 8| Sustainability Framework Environmental Economic Social Sustainability: Sustainability: Sustainability Environmental Sustainability is Elif plans its actions to achieve Social Sustainability is the core the ability to maintain the and maintain an adaptive, element of Sustainability which qualities that are valued in the resilient, vital economy providing aims to create and maintain physical environment of Elif. opportunities and stability for its quality of life for people. Elif’s programs for stakeholders, employees, Economic and Environmental Environmental Sustainability business partners, customers, factors are important, but they include actions to prevent the society and the environment. are both means to the end, threats and impacts from Initiatives of Elif for Economic rather than ends in themselves. arising, protect the environment Sustainability includes raising Therefore, by working towards from threats and damage, the level of accountability / Economic and Environmental reduce the use of physical transparency as well as Sustainability, Elif is already resources and use renewable corporate governance, working towards Social rather than depletable increasing shareholder value, Sustainability. Elif’s actions for resources, to redesign enhancing economic Social Sustainability includes production processes and performance and productivity, ensuring fair trade and fair products to eliminate the and reaching financial objectives competition, local economic production of environmentally in and for its sustainability development, continuously unfriendly materials, and to help framework. enhancing working conditions protection and restoration of and workplace safety, protecting natural habitats and human rights and health, environments valued for their providing a proper base for livability or beauty. diversity, caring for personal security and privacy as well as supporting and leading social philanthropy programs. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 |9 Quality Approach Elif continues to target tomorrow’s excellence by strengthening synergy and dynamism generated by the unity of its customers, suppliers with professional human resources and its innovative management approach. Elif is committed to provide exceptional service and high quality products tailored to the unique needs of each customer through collaboration and innovation driven by the art of science. Elif continues to target tomorrow’s excellence by strengthening synergy and dynamism generated by the unity of its customers, suppliers with professional human resources and its innovative management approach. Therefore, Elif not only advocates good corporate governance but also promotes long-lasting cooperation as well as open communication with customers and suppliers to uphold the principles of mutual trust and fundamental human values as a part of our social responsibility program. Quality, Innovative and Responsible Packaging for Life Elif continuously pursue excellence to make its customers experience the Excellence not only today but also tomorrow in all geographies and under all conditions. 360˚ Tangible Excellence is one of Elif’s core values reflecting the behaviors that shape the tone of how Elif works with its customers and partners as well as its internal working principals. Sustainable Practice and Continuous Innovation are the other two core values of Elif. Elif’s understanding of Quality is continuously training the employees under the roof of Elif with the latest technology it possesses, continuously UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 10 | Quality Certificates Elif has successfully adopted the concept of Total Quality Approach over all of production and service processes and been awarded by ISO 9001 Quality Management System, ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System, OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health & Safety Management, ISO 27001 Information Management Security System certificates and BRC/IoP Global Standard for Food Packaging and Other Packaging Materials. Re-certifications In 2017, Elif achieved recertifications after related audits. Confirming that Elif continues to target tomorrow’s production and service excellence. Elif is committed to supplying sustainable, more efficient, safer, cleaner and customer focused production and service processes to professionally fulfill or exceed customers requirements. This recertification is an evident of Elif’s strong commitment to increase customer satisfaction by consistently providing products that meet global standards and regulatory requirements UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 | 11 Awards & Recognitions We're honored when organizations recognize us for our innovation, business practices and people. Here is a sample of the awards and recognition we've recently received... Elif is honored by the awards and recognitions we've received. These awards represent some of the business, industry and community accolades the teams have earned. We pride ourselves on our annual growth and ability to make our company a great partner to our customers and a second home to our employees. Below are some of our awards and recognitions We look forward to continuing to build on this list as we develop new ways to make our customers and employees more. Well-known Brand announced to be a well-known Packaging' category of brand among others such as WorldStar 2017, one of the most Elif is one of the first flexible BMW, Coca Cola, Jaguar, packaging companies, which is prestigious competitions in the Gucci, Nescafe, Nivea, packaging industry. awarded the ‘Well Known Brand’ Microsoft, Milka, Shell, in Turkey. Superman, Pfizer, Philips, Elif was given the status of Pirelli, Swatch and Toblerone. Well-Known Brand by the Turkish Patent and Trademark ElifHybr: World Star Office after the evaluation of Award 2017 many parameters such as Elif, the global supplier of the recognition by its target market flexible packaging industry, was without assistance, the awarded 'Packaging Excellence' establishment of a certain in the WorldStar 2017 quality standard, and a general competition with its hybrid recognition throughout the printing technology 'ElfHybr', the country. The trademark of Welllast chain of innovations that has Known Brand granted by the been implemented to provide Turkish Patent and Trademark solutions and advanced Office which provides exclusive products for changing and protection, is given only to the developing packaging needs. brands that bear original trademark characteristics, carry ElifHybr, one of the champion certain quality standard in its finalists in the Crescent and products and services, and are Stars of Packaging well-known by their target organized by the Packaging market. After a 12 month Industry Association (ASD) this evaluation and research period year, was entitled to 'Packaging by Turkish Patent and Excellence' award in the 'Food Trademark Office, Elif was UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 12 | Top 500 Companies which is qualified as a powerful mirror reflecting the Turkey's Elif, which has demonstrated the economy is determined by biggest raise in its sector in the referring to the comments of recent years in the Turkey's First expert academicians and by 500 Top Industrial Organizations making various evaluations on (ISO Top 500 Companies) financial ratios, resource announced by the ISO Istanbul structure, profitability ratios, Chamber of Industry, continues economic profitability, asset to reach the summit by climbing turnover rates, factor income 22 steps at once also in 2016! (functional) distribution of its net Its leadership in the flexible added value, non-production packaging market is awarded incomes, employment and gross and recognized many times by added value distribution and the multinational leading brands labour productivity. and entities to which Elif offers services, and it ranked the 262nd, climbing 22 steps at once, in the Turkey's Top 500 Great Industrial Entity 2016 report which is the research that has been performed by the Istanbul Chamber of Industry (ISO) for 49 years, which is hotly-anticipated each year, involving the most important industrial organizations of Turkey. As a result of its developing more efficient, more creative and more innovative solutions in line with its sustainable growth targets, strategically configuration of new investments in this context, the state-of-the-art technology and technique and the innovations made, Elif’s name is frequently mentioned because of rising each year in this giants’ list and it is continuing to climb to the top with self-confident steps. Launched as Top 100 Industrial Enterprises in 1968, and sustained and improved every year, the Turkey's Top 500 Industrial Organizations list UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 | 13 Our Policies and Standards Board of Elif supports the highest standards of corporate governance and best practice and are committed to the principles of transparency, integrity and accountability. Good corporate governance and 4. Documents that would 10. If ill-intentioned people try to transparency are fundamental to disclose company’s private collect the information achieving Elif's vision of information should not be taken considered as “company secret” becoming a Global Benchmark out of the company after normal that should not be revealed to Company in the Packaging work hours for work purposes. If third parties or if such an Sector by providing high quality intention is sensed, the the work needs to be completed and service standard. Elif strives company should be immediately on that day, it would be for excellence in products informed of this situation. appropriate to stay late in the offered and in the way it does building provided that the 11. Company staff working in business throughout all its permission of the related production departments of new customers, suppliers and manager is taken. products, projects, inventions, partners in a safe and brand etc. should not accept environmentally responsible 5. Company staff should refrain anybody to their departments as manner. This precision applies from giving information about equally to transparency in financial issues such as guests no matter how close the reporting and meeting the regarding wages, additional person is (friend, relative or expectations of regulators, rights and fringe benefits to other company staff who do not shareholders and the public. people from inside and outside have permission to enter that the company. department) and should not give Elif Corporate information about the subject. 6. Company staff should not Confidentiality Policy discuss outside the company 12. If company phones are used 1. Company staff are personally personal problems, complaints by company staff and if responsible for protecting at all as well as conflicts inside the confidential matters are being times the confidentiality of any company. discussed, utmost attention written and/or verbal information must be paid to confidentiality 7. Company staff should not or documents given to him/her and security issues. Confidential give any information to anybody directly or indirectly as per matters should not be discussed about company objectives, his/her position. in crowded places or in know-how and projects. company of third parties. 2. Telephone numbers 8. Company staff should refrain registered in the company’s 13. Company staff should from accepting gifts or materials telephone guide and other accept visitors in the waiting hall from other companies, contact information should not allocated by the company, not in institutions and third parties; be shared with people from their offices. If visitors need to they should also refrain from outside the company. be accepted in the office promises, wishes or offers for environment, then important and 3. Company staff should not promotional purposes. confidential documentation have any discussions or 9. Company staff should be inside the room should be taken interviews with people outside careful about consuming alcohol away. the company that would be in social meetings such as harmful for the company’s 14. Security manager and/or receptions, dinners or balls security and confidentiality and company manager must be organized by the company. should not disclose any informed of suspicious behavior information or documents. observed in social activities organized together with third parties. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 14 | 15. Company staff should inform Elif Environment, • ensures the selection of their managers of any Occupational Health materials responsive to suspicious situations that they environment concerns, and witness and that they think that it And Safety Policy suitable for occupational health would put the company into a Elif adopts and implements a and safety in terms of selection difficult situation. management approach to of equipment and vehicles, protect the environment, • prevents waste in raw material 16. At the end of work hours, prioritize occupational health use, important documents should not and safety, guarantee be left uncovered, documents • achieves savings in power compliance with the terms and done with must be filed and consumption, and reduces requests of the customer, in others must be placed in a pollution, addition to the privilege of drawer or a cabinet with a lock. technological and high-quality • provides ergonomic and 17. Documents and papers of work. healthy work environments to confidential nature should not be minimize the risk of occupational With this purpose, in compliance thrown into the bin; but, must be accidents, with the laws, regulations, and destroyed using a shredder. If by-laws as well as EU directives • offers trainings to improve there is no shredder available, regarding environment and environment and worker health then such documents should be occupational safety, and occupational safety awareness cut to very small pieces and customer requirements, it will in employees. then must be mixed up with develop worker health and other litter. occupational safety It is Elif’s duty to inform all of its management systems compliant employees, visitors and 18. Company staff should close suppliers about environment and windows and curtains at the end with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards, and reinforce occupational safety, to deliver of the work day, office safely the inheritance received equipment, especially them through continuous improvements. to future generations. computers, must be turned off and all documents, USBs, CDs It will also make sub-contractors and floppy discs must be to observe the provisions, preserved in locked places and methods, and principles of laws doors must be locked up. and ISO 14001 and OHSAS 19. Workplaces should be 18001 standards, with the same opened by company staff at the discipline and attitude. beginning of the work day using In this respect, Elif; the same method and if there is • thinks of the environment in something inappropriate, then terms of the use of natural the security unit and manager resources, should be informed. • closely monitors environment 20. Company staff should pay related publications, attention to network safety and confidentiality rules when • prevents and reduces waste, company computers are used. and carries out all activities required for recycling, UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 | 15 Our Policies and Standards (cntd.) Elif policies integrates Elif’s corporate values of leadership, responsibility, diversity, integrity and passion to create value into the Company’s human resources and information management systems. Elif Ethical Code Of Elif Employees; from the firm's operations for themselves, members of their Conduct The firm's personnel is required family, or any relatives. They do Elif Ethical Code, to abide by the Principles of not use or lend the property, Work Ethics when performing knowledge, and titles of the firm is drawn up in order to allow Elif their duties. The Work ethics for personal interests. In order to and its employees to achieve principles, based on the values protect the intellectual property shared success, and to develop of the firm, were formulated with of ELİF and its customers, the and maintain mutual an awareness that business employees are responsible with relationships in line with procedures, standards, and laws protecting the information universal common values, with and regulations may not always protected and used in programs the customers and suppliers, provide sufficient guidance with such as İsoft, SAP etc., and and is approved also by the respect to all our behaviors and acting in line with Information Board of Directors. attitudes. The Work Ethics Code Security policies and Principled behavior is the adopted by the Board of procedures. major policy guiding the Directors includes basic and Globally accepted principles Elif employees shall give and activities of Elif The firm regarding Honesty, Reliability, receive gifts from persons, considers the application of Confidence, Protection of Trade agencies and organizations they same standards and same level Secrets, and Conflicts of come into contact with due to of closeness with all its Interest. their work, only within the customers, suppliers, and framework of established rules employees as an indispensable The employees of Elif do not of the firm. obligation, as well as the main plan for or derive personal driver of its existence and benefits for himself/herself, The employees should use the growth. his/her relatives or social circle, firm's assets only for work making use of his/her position in related purposes, protect them, For the firm, the timely and full the firm. They also strive to and ensure their most effective performance of obligations protect the interests of the firm use. In cases where the specified in laws and contracts, in all business contacts with employee determines cases as well as acting on the basis of third parties. The employees otherwise, all Elif employees are fairness has priority over all shall not engage in close tasked with protecting and commercial concerns. Current relations with persons or guarding the firm's assets before reliability and respectability of organizations that may benefit employees or 3rd Parties, and Elif stems from this attitude. from their work related decisions with ensuring use in line with the Elif Ethical Code of or the confidential information at interests of the firm. Conduct their command, and shall avoid No employee outside the such acts or behaviors. assigned departments shall covers the basic principles and attitudes of the Firm. The Conflicts of interest will come to make verbal or written remarks policies of Elif form an integral occur in case the private representing or binding Elif monolithic structure with the interests of the employee are before 3rd Parties. firm's values and principles. The actually or potentially in conflict The employees of Elif are under application, monitoring, and with the interests of Elif. In case obligation to abide by all laws, ensuring the maintenance of the existing positions of the rules, and regulations within these principles are among the employees lead to such Turkey, as well as the rules and responsibilities of all Elif inappropriate personal interests, laws of the countries they visit employees, and all employees no employee will derive benefits during travels abroad. are required to observe these. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 16 | ELİF Work Principles, ensure product safety and • Not to employ uninsured quality, and to maintain the personnel; ELİF aims to provide its development of the firm with the • To make continuous employees a healthy, safe, and support of continuous and improvements in all matters by efficient work environment. effective trainings. taking all necessary measures With this purpose: required for the health and Elif Quality Policy safety of all employees without • Aggressive attitudes, acts Fundamental quality policy of any discrimination. detrimental to the effectiveness Elif is to make Elif, a brand and security of work already synonymous with Elif Information Security environment, threatening words quality, unrivalled in terms of Policy and behaviors, harassment and production to meet maximum mobbing, promotion of As Elif, it is our main policy to expectations within the ensure the security of all commercial, political, or religious framework of customer interests shall not be accepted. administrative, financial and requirements by making the commercial data which are • Alteration of official documents most efficient use of the shared in the information by employees during the advanced technology at its systems by use of the advanced performance of their duties is command, through continuous technologies utilized by the unacceptable. During the training of its employees, to company, act in accordance with preparation of official documents increase its market share the laws, provide highest level of the employees are under through contributions of all Elif security for customer obligation to abide by time employees within a dynamic information by adhering to the related and other restrictions institutional structure following customer contracts, protect the stipulated by the relevant scientific and technological confidentiality of our employees’ authority. developments closely, and to personal information, act in ensure continuity in the accordance with intellectual Each new employee of Elif shall development of the firm by property rights, take necessary be told of the work ethics during aiming for ever growing targets measures for ensuring continuity the orientation, and shall be at the time of achievement. in business and minimize the required to sign undertakings that they understand such rules Elif Social Responsibility risks associated with security constitute integral parts of the violations, protect our Policy investments and reputation, and employment contract. The basic social responsibility apply the minimum standards Elif Product Safety policy of ELİF is to fulfill all required for providing, Policy national and legal requirements maintaining and improving with an awareness of social information security. The fundamental product safety responsibility in the making of a policy of ELİF is to ensure healthy and conscious society, compliance of products with and national and international • Not to employ any personnel standards, laws, and under 18 years of age; regulations, as well as • Not to pay wages less than the expectations in the whole minimum wage; process from the procurement of • Pay normal wages and raw materials to the delivery to overtime in full and on time; the customer, as well as to UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 | 17 Our Policies and Standards (cntd.) Elif’s vision for Human Resources is to be a model company that adapts a «world class» HR management method, which everyone wants to be or already is happy to be a part of. Elif Human Resources with the misson: Policy «to be an objective, «In the light of open and scrupulous common values of Elif, company which is investment contactable in every made to the human condition and identifies is the investment and solves problems made to the future» with its determined and shared system. Elif takes human factor as one of the key elements in its Our Principles: activities. The main aim of Human Resources Policy of Elif • To take possession of the is to use the human resource in change and direct it. an efficient and effective way, • To recruit people who are and assembling the happiness highly educated, open to of employees with the company innovation and change and goals in common values. easily adapt to the group values. With this policy; Elif aims to be • To create a corporate structure one of the most preferred which is controlled by those who companies ensuring employee enjoy their responsibilities, use satisfaction by every opportunity to improve • improving employees’ quality their jobs and who are of life, productive. • providing understandable, • To provide opportunities for accessible, quick and honest employees to make them reach communication, the highest efficiency level in • and acting with the “Right shortest time. person, right job” philosophy. • By using both selfimprovement and job-focused Elif’’s vision in Human training programs prepared with Resources is: unique contents for each level, increasing our employees’ added value provided to the «to be a model company company. that adapts a world class Human Resources management method, which everyone wants to be or already is happy to be – a part of» UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 18 | UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 | 19 UNGC Principles: Approach, Implementation, Actions & Results UNGC Principles Approach Human 1. Businesses should support and Elif seeks to uphold universal human Rights respect the protection of rights, including accessibility, internationally proclaimed human discrimination and labour rights. Elif rights; and Code of Conduct requires the fair and 2. Make sure that they are not equitable treatment of all Elif employees, complicit in human rights abuses. suppliers and customers. Diversity & Equal Employment Opportunity is a sustained competitive advantage for the continued growth of Elif. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the Labor rights and safety is a critical topic Rights freedom of association and the for Elif. Elif is committed to deliver any effective recognition of the right to legal, organizational or functional collective bargaining; requirement related with labour rights 4. The elimination of all forms of and safety. Elif’ aims to develop an equal forced and compulsory labour; opportunity diverse workforce, engaged 5. The effective abolition of child to work in a safe workplace with highest labour; and standards and no injuries. 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a Elif works relentlessly to reduce the use precautionary approach to of natural resources in its products, environmental challenges; operations and services. One of Elif’s 8. Undertake initiatives to promote core values is sustainable development greater environmental and Elif values its reputation as an responsibility; and environmentally engaged supplier . 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti10. Businesses should work Elif works against all forms of corruption, Corruption against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Elif including extortion and bribery. supports the Global Compact’s principles on anti-corruption, complies with law, and condemns any form of bribery or corrupt activity parallel to its Code of Conduct. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 20 | Implementation Actions & Results • Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy • No prosecutions relating to human rights issues • Disclosure Policy have been recorded for the period covered by • Occupational Health & Safety Policy this report. • Social Responsibility Policy • Details of the actions can be found on pg.24-25. • Product Safety Policy • ‘Packaging for Life’ approach • Quality Policy • World Women’s Day & Women Empowerment • SEDEX Program • Save Food Initiative • UNICEF Platinum Wings • 4th year of Save Food • Renewal of Human Resources Policy • No prosecutions relating to equal opportunity or • http://elifplastik.com.tr/dynamics/documents/elifins other labour rights issues have been recorded ankaynaklaripolitikasieng.pdf for the period covered by this report. • Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy • Details of the actions can be found on pg.26-27. • Occupational Health & Safety Policy • 7th year of SEDEX membership • SEDEX • %27.8 better performance on the number of • OHSAS 18001 cases per worked hour (Case Frequency Rate). • Career & Co-worker Development • 50.13% lower Case Weigth Ratio. • Diversity & Equal Employment • 11.7 hours of education per co-worker achieved • Occupational Health & Safety for safer working conditions. • Sustainability Achievements & Projects: • Details of the actions can be found on pg.28-29. • NOsume Energy Project • Elif recognized by Coca-Cola Green Supplier • New Re-water Project Award, nominated by Ontex as «Supplier of the • New Tri-gen Project Year» in sustainability category and awarded by • Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy ÇEVKO • Sustainability Framework • 1 new patented bio-degradable packaging • Packaging Sustainability solution • ISO 14001 • Reduced water abstraction by 10,5% per ton of • Getting prepared for ISO 50001 production compared with 2012 • Renewal of Information Management • Elif has not be involved in any corrupt activities Security System & SAP Implementation (or potential corruption) , nor has Elif been • Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy involved in corrupt activities during or before our • SEDEX membership to the Global Compact. • Legal Governance • Details of the actions can be found on pg.30-31. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 | 21 Human Rights Actions Elif’s packaging reaches millions of people all around the world every day, helping to create a happier and healthier life. The Company exists for People in every sphere of life. Elif’s business is “Packaging for Life”. Packaging for Life employees,therir families, their Empowerment Principles – immediate surroundings and the WEPs platform, which was Producing Packaging for Life , society's awareness of ‘gender established in partnership with Elif works constantly to create equality‘.Elif enriched its the United Nations Global value, in the spirit of leadership, activities for Women’s Day with Compact and United Nations with the knowledge that diversity new projects and donated the Gender Equality and Women's is the source of a rich culture, Turkish Education Foundation Empowerment Unit (UN and with honesty and on behalf of its employees to Women) in 2010, actively responsibility being its raise strong women for the continues its efforts to indispensable values. future. strengthen women's Packaging is an essential part of empowerment, which is one of Elif questioned the meaning and our daily lives. Elif works the most important global purpose of gender equality passionately to deliver «always» initiatives in the private sector. during the events with a short better products for the society, survey among its employees. for the environment, for the Elif also shared mini videos of future. At Elif, «We are short anecdotes that share Packaging for Life». these views from their social International Women’s media accounts. Day & Women Being conscious about the fact Empowerment that achieving higher level of development requires women’s Elif puts its signature under new increased participation in the projects that add value to the life economy, a bigger share to in a regular basis, being aware them from development and of the fact that improvement of growth and improvement of their the position of women in the UNICEF Platinum Wing position in the family, Elif community and their continues to launch important Elif has been the first supporter participation in the business life, social responsibility projects as of UNİCEF’s “Platinum Wing” more than being a demand, is well. In this frame, Elif has program in Turkey. The among the highest needs of our offered job opportunities to company is the first Turkish society. Elif continued its housewives in tying operations institution conferred with the Women's Day activities this of hundreds of thousands of ‘UNICEF Platinum Wing’, thanks year, which became an Elif bags produced by the company to the regular funds granted by tradition. in 2016, which in turn has the company to the UNICEF After the 'March 8th Women's created total women projects that aim to ensure Day Lunch’ attended by all employment of 235 working access by the most employees, as a symbol of this days. Elif raised this number to disadvantageous children in day Elif presents gifts Women’s 1,370 working days and Turkey and around the world to Day flowers with special provided employment for the living, improvement, health messages emphasizing the women in 2017. and educations services and meaning and importance of this offer them the same rights with Elif, one of the first initiators and their peers. day to ensure that all Elif supporters of the Women's UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 24| SAVE FOOD Initiative Elif is proud to be the 4th year Millions  of being a supporter of of people in the Save Food initiative. contact with Elif The aim of Save Food is to Elif, as the first holder of the develop new concepts which every day ‘Platinum Wing’ of the UNICEF’s contribute to the more efficient Turkish National Committee, use of food resources amongst makes contribution to longindustry experts, researchers, termed projects that will create sustainable changes in the way politics and consumers. 1,370  to ensure access of vulnerable Elif’s most important leverage children will to fundamental for the global society is the working days rights and needs, with regular quality of packaging materials monthly funds. With the said that helps societies to access employment for funds, several projects are better quality products. conducted in the national and women As part of “Save Food international levels to ensure Initiative”, Elif is particularly that the most disadvantageous keen to promote information children of our society will be able to satisfy their fundamental interchange and cooperation between all parties and partners 3 needs and reach better living involved in the value chain. Elif standards now and in the future. will continue to its innovations Concsecutive With the support given to that extend shelf life, reduce «Human Respect» UNICEF, Elif makes contribution waste and deliver ultimate to ensure that hundreds of product and brand protection. awards thousands of children employed Elif helps to as agricultural workers in Turkey are returned to their schools, protect the accommodation and education needs of refugee children are Planet with its 1300 Co-workers 4th  met, an unobstructed world is year of Elif turned its lights off on created for disabled children and Saturday March 24 between girls who are forced to marry Save Food 8:30 – 9:30 pm in local time for very young and moved away Earth Hour, an annual event from schools complete their initiative. aimed at raising awareness education. about energy consumption and climate change. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 | 25 Labour Rights Actions Elif is aware that its co-workers and the synergy generated by them are key values for the company. Therefore, Elif is committed to continuously enhance the workplace conditions for better working environment and provide a safer and healthier environment for its co-workers, contractors and visitors. 7 Year of SEDEX Getting closer to «No Elif Case Frequency Rate is Membership Injuries» measured by calculating the number of injuries or workElif is a member of SEDEX Elif’s approach to occupational related illnesses per total hours (Supplier Ethical Data and workplace health and safety worked and multiplied by Exchange) which has more than is driven by Elif Environment, 1.000.000. 50,000 members globally. As a Occupational Health and Safety member of SEDEX, Elif is being Policy, shared on p.15 of this Elif Case Weight Ratio is audited periodically according to report. Elif prepares and measured by calculating the SMETA (SEDEX Members develops an annual action plan number of lost days due to the Ethical Trade Audit) and to reach its long terms targets injuries or work-related illnesses assuring self improvements of on occupational health and per total hours worked and its sustainability and ethical safety. As well as Elif multiplied by million. In year policies for all of its Environment, Occupational 2017, Case Number and Case manufacturing sites. Health and Safety department Frequency Rate remained the responsible from the same as in 2016, Case Weight Every year Elif goes through Ratio decreased by 4,88% and management of the environment SEDEX audit and also supports Lost Days decreased by 4,96% and labour safety, every Elif numerous audits from our in 2017. employee can come with customers against the SEDEX proposal for development of Elif Case Weight Ratio is responses. safety. Employees are welcome measured by calculating the SEDEX provides an online with their proposals and ideas number of lost days due to the platform for reporting labour and are also encouraged with an injuries or work-related illnesses standards, health and safety, award system. per total hours worked and business integrity and multiplied by million. Supporting Elif’s Environment, environmental performance Occupational Health and Safety In the past years, it was information. The questionnaire Policy and strategy, each Elif determined that the majority of includes questions about labour manufacturing site prepares an the accidents that occurred in conditions, human resources annual program including action the Elif production line were policy and human rights. plan for environment and caused by the cuts of falcatas, Questions are centered around: workplace safety. so special equipment was • Child and young employees • Freely chosen employment The goal of Elif's occupational purchased and all of the • Freedom of association and health and safety programs is to employees were trained in collective bargaining foster a safer and healthier work cutting. In addition, a team of • Wages environment for its co-workers experts on cutting was • Working hours as well as to protect the welfare established. In this way,, cutting • Non-discrimination of people engaged in work or work accidents have declined by • Regular employment employment and surroundings. . 100%. • Use of small holders Elif is aware that its co-workers • Discipline and grievance and the synergy generated by • Use of home workers them are key values for the company. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 26 | Elif continuously and periodically By means of the 5S project to educates, trains and conducts which the entire Elif family yearly health risk-control participated with high motivation, programs for its co-workers. Elif Elif is aiming to raise its is certificated with OHSAS organisation to the top level in case 18001 Occupational Health & simplicity, efficiency and quality Safety Management System fields by applying Sort-Set In Certificate and implemented a Order-Shine-Standardizefrequency rate variety of programs and Sustain systematic in all work processes to achieve greater areas. “Road to success, self27.8% protection and to prevent control with 5S” project, which is occupational injury and illness of initiated in parallel with Egypt employees, contractors and and Turkey operations, will visitors. spread within the organization in the presence of consultants for 1 case weight The results clearly demonstrates year and will be supported with ratio that Elif’s health and safety trainings, activities and programs are performing and campaigns. the Company is getting closer to its «No Injuries» target parallel Being aware that 5S project 50.1% to its Environment, Occupational does not only consist of a Health and Safety Policy. cleaning activity, Elif aims to prevent losses caused by Road to success, selfworkplace disorders such as hours of control with 5S! lack of taking control at the In 2017, By means of “Road to operations easily, employees education success, self-control with 5S” wasting time with searching project which is a workplace organization that consists of five materials and tools, giving too much or too little raw material 11.7  stages and is named after the orders, occupational accidents initials of five Japanese words, and lack of using the factory Elif aims to implement, manage space effectively. and ensure the sustainability of Co-worker Awareness industrial order, neatness, and cleanness into the organization and Educations in a systematic manner. Elif has Total time of education covered announced the launch of this by Elif for orientation, important project in September, information and awarenessby means of the launch meeting raising purposes has reached conducted with the participation 11.7 hours per co-worker. of 700 employees. Educations for occupational health and safety are specifically designed according to the technical requirements of each department.. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 | 27 Environment Actions Developing its business activities in order to promote productive, sustainable and cost saving methods and technologies, Elif stands out with the value it creates for the environment and society and its commitment in sustainable development. Packaging for Earth product differentiation and New Year, New Hope; financial feasibility advantages ‘Packaging for ‘ElifHyPEr’ as well as its contribution to environmental friendliness and Environment’ Elif creates difference with its approach of “Packaging for Life” sustainability. Since its establishment, Elif has and innovative packaging ElifHyPEr offers improved become a symbol that makes a solutions. Working ceaselessly barrier properties, enhanced difference in the sector with its with the purpose of creating tensile strength toughness and environmental awareness and useful solutions for “humans” stiffness, better shrink environmental activities in the and “environment”, the reasons properties, and increased gloss context of climate change. Elif of being, Elif presents a new and transparency. ElifHyPEr has added a new one to its more alternative with films have better gloss, clarity projects in the environment and “ElifHyPEr”, the high and haze. ElifHyPEr is stiffer, donated seedlings to TEMA performance PE packaging have much higher tensile Foundation on behalf of its solution, which has been strength, is much tougher, offer customers and suppliers. developed as a result of Elif’s two times improved barrier In this year, Elif continued to intensive R&D studies for its properties and its shrink raise awareness by drawing customers. properties can be controlled attention to the fight against over a wide range. These environmental problems. Elif A high-performance PE film for properties of ElifHyPEr offer donated hundreds of seedlings product differentiation, product differentiation, to the TEMA Foundation on sustainability and cost sustainability and cost behalf of its customers and advantage. ElifHyPEr is a advantage for brand owners and suppliers with the New Year's modified and improved PE film consumers. societies, contributing to the to save resources, improve film greening of the North Cyprus properties, and optimise films for Targeting to achieve maximum performance with minimum cantonal area. specific uses. ElifHyPEr offers better optical properties like resource usage, ElifHyPEr can higher gloss, clarity and lower be used in various flexible haze, better mechanical and packaging applications like barrier properties, advancement stand-up pouches, in-mold in film performance and reduced labels, shrink sleeves, draw natural resource usage. string tapes, cereal and cracker packaging, sealant wraps, twist ElifHyPEr also eliminates the wraps, tapes, frozen food need for lamination with other packaging, barrier packaging, substrates allowing recyclability liners, heavy duty bags and of the packaging. The highlamination replacement. performance PE film solution of With its improved properties Elif is at the forefront of the fastElifHyPEr can be used as an moving consumer sector in its alternative for BOPP or PET increasingly competitive films enabling recyclability of the environment, thanks to its packaging, which leads to recyclable pouches and bags. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 28 | ‘Packaging for Elif, which has donated tons of Friendship’ food to Yedikule Animal Shelter in the previous years, calls on all Shelter animals are institutions and organizations to provide support to street animals protected from cold by Elif! in need of assistance and 1 protection. Serving on the basis Elif signed a new effort to of volunteerism and offering a new product protect shelter animals from cold house to thousands of cats and weather, making an addition to the social responsibility projects dogs with love, Yedikule Animal innovation for Shelter fulfils all needs of health it carries out for street animals in and nutrition with the donations sustainability need of assistance and of volunteers. The Yedikule protection. Animal Shelter, which provides Elif, which has acted with the a chance to adopt a dog or a cat meticulously with the awareness of social responsibility and produced proprietorship or patronage 2 'Packaging for Life' since its system, also aims to instill foundation, continues to grow animal love with future green projects in the traditional social generations through student visits. responsibility projects supported by the company every year for a 2017 Elif helps to protect the sustainable future. By taking the need for assistance and Planet with its 1200 Coprotection of street animals as a workers part of its responsibility of 'Corporate Citizenship', Elif has Elif turned its lights off on Saturday March 24 between 2 produced a flexible film with a 8:30 – 9:30 pm in local time for special formula to cover the Earth Hour, an annual event Awareness cages in which animals are aimed at raising awareness housed, in order to protect about energy consumption and campaign for shelter animals from cold climate change. weather during the hard winter conditions currently environment experienced. With these flexible films produced at maximum thickness and density, Elif prevented cold air in the cages, helping shelter animals to spend the winter safer. UNGCCommunication on Progress Report 2017 | 29 Anti-corruption Actions Elif works together with its customers, suppliers and co-workers parallel to its Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy, in order to improve products in marketplace and develop new solutions that will add value to the economy, environment and culture of the marketplaces and geographies it reaches. Marketplace Approach Responsible and Ethical New Information Sourcing and Management Security Elif intends to be a worldwide Procurement System international trademark by providing products and services Elif is a member of Sedex Elif was one of the first of high quality and value, (Supplier Ethical Data packaging companies, which helping customers and societies, Exchange) since 2010. Sedex is were awarded the 2017 version articulate their goals, charting a a not-for-profit membership of ISO/IEC 27001 Information course which navigates them organization that Safety Management System from where they are today to enables the sharing of ethical Standard in Turkey. where they want to be tomorrow performance information ISO/IEC 27001 is the only and beyond. Elif upholds the between companies and their controllable international values and principles of cultures suppliers. Sedex membership standard that defines the it operates and serves, as well means that Elif provides access requirements of Information as its customers, in every action to its ethical performance Safety Management System and decision by treating their information to its customers and (ISMS). Being designed to assets as its own and behaving can request the same from its ensure adequate and with their long-term suppliers. More than proportionate safety controls, development in mind. 400 global brands, 17,000 ISO/IEC 27001 certification suppliers and more than 21,000 helps protect and manage the Code of Conduct and sites in 160 countries currently valuable information assets. At Ethics Policy participate in Sedex. the same time, ISO/IEC 27001 Implementation for New adopts the process approach to As a member of Sedex, Elif is create, implement, operate, Marketplaces being audited periodically monitor, inspect, maintain and Elif’s new manufacturing plant according to SMETA (Sedex develop the Information Safety will start operating in Q4 2014. Members Ethical Trade Audit) Management System. The new plant in Cairo, Egypt and completed SSAQ (Sedex Self-Assessment Questionnaire) Following the inspections will be the hub of Middle East for improvements of its carried out in June, Elif has and Africa operations of the sustainability and ethical been granted the ISO 27001 company. policies. The increased demand Information Safety Certificate, for sustainability information which sets the standards to Elif is not only an investor who about Elif’s operations from prepare risk management and provides new job opportunities customers is met by the risk handling plans, duties and and creates added value for the registered information in the responsibilities, business African Economy, but also, by Sedex database and, during continuity plans, emergency using the latest technology and 2017, more than 12 customers incident management bringing its know-how to the requested access to Sedex procedures of the institutions in region, Eliff’s Code of Conduct information relating Elif sites. terms of information safety and and Ethics Policy will be implemented as well in its new facility and organization. UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 30 | to keep the records during the practice. Elif has achieved that success by publishing an information safety policy in which all activities are contained and creating awareness by the NO corrupt staff about the threats towards the information safety. activities (or Independent Audits In today's global economic potential conditions, both international and national environment in corruption) which the business world, Elif is emphasizing the concept of the during or before continuity and transparency. But transparency can only be our membership obtained with financial reporting and independent audits provided in the international standards. to the Global Elif goes through tax audit and Compact. auditing of accounts on an annual base. As a global company operating in foreign trade, Elif also gets external auditing service for its foreign trade operations. In this sense, the accuracy of the declarations in conformity with the regulations and the calculated duties & taxes are audited and the outcome is reported UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2017 | 31 Elif Holding A.Ş. Orhangazi Mahallesi 1652 Sokak No:2 Esenyurt 34538 Istanbul, Turkey T: +90 212 622 06 22 F: +90 212 622 06 77 elif.com / Elif Global
