ANNUAL REPORT 2O17 CONTENTS 1. 2017 in brief Revenue rose 1 per cent to SEK 6,000 M (5,937). EBIT increased to SEK 522 M (481) and the EBIT margin increased to 9 per cent (8). 4. 2. This is Mekonomen Group We are the car owner’s first choice and strive for a simpler and more affordable car life. 4. CEO’s comments When the surrounding world changes at a rapid pace and with it the conditions of doing business, we have to be able to listen and act quickly to keep our leading position. 6. Our business model Our business model comprises the whole chain from purchasing and Pehr Oscarson, President and CEO, Mekonomen Group. REPORTS stock-keeping of spare parts and accessories to B2B and B2C sales. 8. Goals and strategies Administration Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 Mekonomen Group’s overall goal is to develop with high profita• Proposed appropriation of profit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 bility and thereby generate value growth for the shareholders. • Corporate Governance Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 • Board of Directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 11. Market and trends • Group Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 The development of the Nordic aftermarket for car parts and work­ Financial statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 shop services is growing at a stable rate of 1-2 per cent per year. • Consolidated income statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 • Consolidated statement 14. Risks and uncertainties of comprehensive income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 Continuously identifying and evaluating risks is an integrated part • Consolidated balance sheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51 of Mekonomen Group’s operations. • Consolidated statement of changes in equity . . . . . . 52 • Consolidated cash-flow statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53 16. Our brands • Income statement for the Parent Company . . . . . . . . 54 We are convinced that the combination of differentiated con• Statement of comprehensive income cepts and brands towards selected target groups and a strong for the Parent Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54 common purchasing fucntion generates growth. • Balance sheet for the Parent Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 • Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity 20. Sustainability for the Parent Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 We have to take responsibility and be in the forefront with • Cash flow statement for the Parent Company . . . . 57 regard to sustainability in our industry. Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 Signatures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82 32. The share and shareholder information Auditor’s Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83 Mekonomen’s share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, in the Five-year summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86 Mid Cap segment and is traded under the MEKO ticker. Quarterly overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88 Glossary, definitions and alternative performance measures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89 Addresses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90 18. Mekonomen Group’s formal Annual Report comprises pages 35–85. Only the original version of the formal Annual Report has been reviewed by the company’s auditors. Regarding the sustainability report, the auditors made a statement that the report had been prepared correctly, see page 29. The Annual Report is published in Swedish and English. The Swedish version represents the original version, and has been translated into English. Please visit our website at www.mekonomen.com. THE WHOLESALE BUSINESS BILEKO WAS ESTABLISHED IN 1973 BY MEKONOMEN’S FOUNDERS. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 2017 IN BRIEF 2017 IN BRIEF SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING Revenue rose 1 per cent to SEK 6,000 M (5,937). Adjusted for currency THE YEAR effects and counted on a comparable number of weekdays, revenue rose Jan: Milestone – more than 1 million loyalty 1 per cent. Sales in comparable units rose by 1 per cent in local currency. customers. EBITA increased to SEK 649 M (594) and the EBITA margin increased to Mar: Pehr Oscarson appointed President and 11 per cent (10). CEO of Mekonomen Group. EBIT increased to SEK 522 M (481) and the EBIT margin increased to Apr: Services to our own workshop customers 9 per cent (8). EBIT was positively impacted by items affecting comparability were expanded with recruitment support to of net SEK 0 M net (negative: 58). contribute to covering the direct need for 100 new automotive technicians within the Group. Gross margin increased to 54.6 per cent (53.6). May: A flexible new payment solution for Earnings per share before and after dilution increased to SEK 10.05 (9.32). Mekonomen’s customers – text message with information, invoicing and more when Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 496 M (544). the car is ready. Net debt amounted to SEK 1,444 M (1,437). Jun: Central warehouse – the foundation for the new building was poured. The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 7.00 (7.00). Aug: Åsa Källenius new CFO for Mekonomen Group. Sep: Mekonomen – for the fourth consecutive FINANCIAL SUMMARY year named Sweden’s strongest brand in the Car parts and workshops category, according to Evimetrix. Key figures1) 2017 2016 2015 Revenue, SEK M 6,000 5,937 5,761 Oct: Speedy Bilservice Vällingby was named EBITA, SEK M 649 594 726 Sweden’s best workshop by Lasingoo’s EBIT, SEK M 522 481 616 customers for the second consecutive year. Profit for the year, SEK M 368 342 430 Earnings per share, SEK 10.05 9.32 11.77 Oct: Central warehouse – the shell of the new EBITA margin, % 11 10 13 building was completed. EBIT margin, % 9 8 11 Cash flow per share, SEK2) 13.8 15.1 12.2 Nov: New Group Management appointed for Dividend per share, SEK3) 7.00 7.00 7.00 Mekonomen Group. The change applies as Return on shareholders’ equity, % 16 15 20 of 1 January 2018. Equity/assets ratio, % 43 43 40 Net debt/EBITDA, multiple 2.03 2.19 2.07 Nov: Central warehouse – deployment of the new Warehouse Management System (WMS). 1) All amounts and key figures refer to the continuing operations except cash flow, equity/assets ratio and net debt/EBITDA. 2) From operating activities. 3) The Board’s proposal for 2017. Revenue and operating profit1) Working capital1) SEK M SEK M SEK M % 6,000 800 1,400 25 5,000 700 1,200 20 600 1,000 4,000 500 15 800 3,000 400 600 300 10 2,000 400 200 5 1,000 200 100 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Revenue EBIT Working capital % of net sales 1) For all years presented, discontinued store operations in Denmark have been excluded. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 1 THIS IS MEKONOMEN GROUP THIS IS MEKONOMEN GROUP Mekonomen Group consists of the leading car service chains in the Nordic region with a proprietary wholesale operation, more than 330 stores and over 2,000 affiliated workshops operating under the Group’s brands. We have one thing in common: we make car life simpler and more affordable for our customers. We do so through a broad and accessible range of affordable and innovative solutions and products for consumers and companies. VISION BUSINESS CONCEPT MEKONOMEN AS AN INVESTMENT Our vision is to be the car Mekonomen Group’s business • Market leader in our main markets of Sweden and Norway. owner’s first choice and strive concept is to offer consumers • Entrepreneurship and high level of expertise among our for a simpler and more affordaand companies solutions for a employees. ble car life. simpler and more affordable • Strong brands and well-known concepts. car life by using clear and inno• Broad customer offering to consumers and companies. vative concepts, high quality and • Size advantage/purchasing power. an efficient logistics chain. • High direct return. • ProMeister and the ProMeister Academy. • Ambition to lead the development of the industry. OUR CUSTOMER GROUPS Net sales divided by segment Net sales by customer groups Affiliated workshops: Other B2B customers: Consumers: Partner stores: 37% 38% 19% 6% Revenue 2017, SEK M Number of affiliated Number of stores workshops 6,000 2,045 336 MECA – 36% Mekonomen Sweden – 31% Number of employees in the Market share 1) Market share 1) Group, 31 December 2017 Sweden Norway Mekonomen Norway – 15% 2,286 15% 25% Sørensen og Balchen – 13% Other segments – 5% 1) Proportion of spare part sales to workshops. 2 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 THIS IS MEKONOMEN GROUP Finland Norway Number of stores 7 Number of stores 134 Number of affiliated workshops 23 Number of affiliated workshops 987 Number of employees 20 Number of employees 854 Sweden Number of stores 195 Number of affiliated workshops 1,035 Number of employees 1,412 We make car life easier We stock spare parts for more than 15,000 car models. Read more about our whole­ sale operations on page 6. OUR TEN STRATEGIC BRANDS SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS All new supplier agreements for spare parts include a clause on compliance to the UN Global Compact’s principles. Today, suppliers that account for more than 92 per cent of our purchases have signed our clause or presented their own corresponding policy. Read more about our sustainability work on pages 20-31. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 3 CEO’S COMMENTS MAKING CAR LIFE EASIER When the surrounding world changes at a rapid pace and with it the conditions of doing business, we have ”TO CONTINUE CREATING to be able to listen and act quickly to keep our leading WORLD-CLASS CUSTOMER position. This is why we created an organisation during VALUE AND LIVING UP TO the year with more efficient decision making. OUR MOTTO MAKING CAR LIFE EASIER IT IS IMPORTANT THAT WE ARE IN THE FOREFRONT.” I formally became the President and CEO of Prior experience: A year of transformation in Mekonomen Sweden Mekonomen Group in the first quarter of 2017. One Senior positions in MECA since with a stable closing of the things I have worked on from day one is creating 2001 and before that the In Mekonomen Sweden, 2017 was a year of transan organisation and Group Management that is adapted President of Swecar AB formation where focus was on reintroducing a more to the changing world we live in. The result is that today Number of shares: 18,500. decentralised organisation and creating calm to work we have a new, broader Group Management team that for the employees. In the second quarter, we saw signs includes the managers of all of our market companies. of a stabilisation in the organisation and that we had They are the ones who really have their ears to the formed the right conditions to turn the weak developground and understand the customers’ needs and how ment. I am proud that we were able to see a stabilisacustomer behaviour can be developed. The new organtion in the fourth quarter in sales and profitability as isation provides conditions for more decisions to be well. The work of winning back market shares remains made closer to the customers and our business. a challenge, but I am certain that we have the right To continue creating customer value and living up to people and tools to succeed. our motto, “making car life easier”, it is important that we as industry leaders are in the forefront with innovaInnovation in products, services and working methods tion and development. To constantly be able to offer the best customer value, innovative strength needs to exist throughout the A changing market Group. It is a matter of developing new services that The market we act in is undergoing several major we can offer our affiliated workshops and end cuschanges. The way we use, own and view our car and tomers, but also smart ways of improving our internal our car ownership is different today than just a few systems and approaches with new technology. In 2017, years ago. The technology in the cars is undergoing we acquired 20 per cent of the technology company major changes, where online functions in the car and Swedspot that develops the digital driver experience various types of electric motors are a few examples in new and older cars. As a market leader, we see the of this. acquisition as a strategically important piece of the In 2017, the market was neither strong nor weak. Sales puzzle to develop the modern workshop with valuable varied between the quarters, where the first and third services for car owners. quarters were somewhat worse while the second and One of the largest changes in our market is of course fourth quarters were stronger. Sales being somewhat the transition towards a fossil-free vehicle fleet that entails lower at the beginning of the year is due in part to the growing numbers of electric powered and rechargeable mild winter. vehicles on our roads. In extension, this entails a change The trend in Norway was somewhat more challengin what kind of service our workshops will carry out and ing than in Sweden with higher competition and weaker how often. As early as 2016, we opened the first pure consumer business. electric car workshop in Norway and in 2017, several workshops in Sweden and Norway were adapted to 4 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 CEO’S COMMENTS Pehr Oscarson took office be able to service electric and hybrid cars. Our indusing in the workshops and I am convinced that this is as the President and CEO try-leading workshop chains should be the obvious absolutely crucial for them to learn the latest technolon 1 March 2017 after choice for owners of electric and hybrid cars as well. ogy and be ready for a real job after graduation. having been the acting Our successful work with ProMeister continued It feels really good that we, as a leading actor, can President and CEO since in the past year. The rate at which we launch new contribute to the positive development of our entire October 2016. categories has been somewhat lower, however, which industry. And there is plenty of work for skilled autois because the categories we are developing now that motive technicians, as we know that there is a great we plan to launch in the future are more complex. The need for new employees in our own chains. It is also more complex they are, the more time is needed for a profession that has undergone major changes and testing and quality assurance. With the market’s longest is today characterised by high-tech rather than dirty warranty periods, ProMeister has established itself as workshop floors. a high-quality brand and we make no compromises on quality when new categories are to be launched. Backed by hard work – every day At the end of 2017, Mekonomen Norway began the Although 2017 was a year of major changes both in implementation of our new digital spare parts cataand around Mekonomen Group, our employees have logue, which has been a long and important project. worked extremely hard every day. I would like to take The roll-out is continuing in 2018 to our companies in this opportunity to thank everyone for 2017 and I am Sweden and other companies in Norway. In parallel looking forward to continuing to work with you with with this, the work on our new central warehouse in great commitment. Strängnäs was intensive. Both of these projects are For the upcoming year, our most important priorities good examples of how we constantly develop our will be to create growth by developing the customer processes and our working methods, which in turn offering, increasing the number of affiliated workshops, increases the value of our offering. continuing to streamline our processes and systems and actively seeking acquisition opportunities. More automotive technicians are needed This is a challenging to-do list, but given our position There is a major shortage of automotive technicians in the market, our strong brands, clear concepts and through­out the Nordic region. This is because the our skilled employees, I am very much looking forward interest in the profession is low among young people, to making our plans a reality. but also because the quality of the vehicle mechanic upper-secondary programme is not good enough. Of those who attend the programme, the percentage of those who are employable is too low. To resolve this, Mekonomen Group began upper-secondary programmes in Lund and Stockholm in 2017. Already from the beginning, the students are out and practisPehr Oscarson, President and CEO Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 5 OUR BUSINESS MODEL 1. 2. OUR BUSINESS MODEL Mekonomen Group works in the aftermarket for cars and light trucks. Our business model comprises the whole chain from purchasing and stock-keeping of spare parts and accessories to B2B and B2C sales. We create value for our customers and owners by offering affordable services and products with high quality. Our competitiveness is based on that we buy quality spare parts and accessories in large volumes, combined with an efficient wholesale operation. We also offer a wide network of workshops and stores with well-trained employees. 1. Suppliers In the central warehouses, 60,000The majority of Mekonomen’s stores in Purchases of spare parts take place from 70,000 articles for more than 15,000 car Sweden, Norway and Finland are wholly the same suppliers that supply the car models are kept in stock. Wholesale sales owned by Mekonomen. Stores in the chain manufacturers. About 80 per cent of the of spare parts and accessories are made to are also operated by business partners product supply is obtained through purthe Group’s stores and departments. through partnership models or franchise chases from 160 suppliers. The ongoing central warehouse project agreements together with Mekonomen. The All new suppliers sign an agreement where MECA and Mekonomen in Sweden stores sell spare parts, tools and consumables clause on the UN Global Compact. Today, are getting a joint central warehouse in to affiliated Mekonomen Service Centres, 92 per cent of all suppliers have signed our Strängnäs, outside of Stockholm, aims to MekoPartner workshops, Speedy workshops, agreement clause or presented their own streamline and optimise the product flow other workshops and other B2B customcorresponding policy. in the Group. Among other things through ers. Through the stores and e-commerce, We conduct internal audits based on quala new automated warehouse solution. The Mekonomen also sells spare parts and accesity, the environment and social requirements transition to a common central warehouse sories to consumers. Mekonomen’s stores in on all suppliers of our own brand ProMeister. will take place continuously until 2020. Sweden are ISO-certified according to ISO The product range is quality audited 1400, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 9001 (environthrough independent actors and in our test 3. Stores/departments ment, work environment and quality). laboratory Intermeko in Poland (jointly owned MECA owns a broad network of departBilXtra operates wholly owned, partly with the Polish car part company Inter Cars). ments in Sweden and Norway. The departowned and franchise stores in Norway. Sales ments provide sales of spare parts, tools of spare parts, tools and a range of consuma2. Wholesale business and consumables to affiliated MECA Car bles are made to affiliated BilXtra workshops Purchases for our three central warehouses Service workshops, other workshops and and other workshops. Through stores and and two regional warehouses in the Nordic other B2B customers. e-commerce, BilXtra also sells spare parts region take place through a common purAll facilities in MECA are environmentally and accessories to consumers. chasing function in the Group. certified according to ISO 1400. 6 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 OUR BUSINESS MODEL 3. 4. 5. Generated value from customers 1) Distribution of financial value 2) 4. Workshops Our affiliated workshops and other workshop customers offer workshop services, such as service and repairs of cars and light trucks, to consumers and companies. The workshops service and repair most car brands and models in the Nordic market. The automotive technicians are offered 6,000 SEK M 5,812 SEK M continuous skills development through the Group’s own training centre ProMeister Academy, to get knowledge of new technology in pace with the car manufacturers’ development. Affiliated workshops 37% Suppliers, spare parts & accessories 46% Other B2B customers 38% Suppliers, other products & services 21% Consumers 19% Employees 19% 5. Car owners Partner stores 6% Society 7% Shareholders 4% With our three store concepts and five Lenders, financial partners 1% workshop concepts, we target all car Kept in the operations 2% owners in the Nordic market. The car Revenues generated value Distribution of financial value owners are offered workshop services, from customers to our stakeholders such as service and repair, and products for Mekonomen Group’s revenues mainly With our business, Mekonomen Group the car, such as spare parts and accessocome from the sale of spare parts, tools creates financial value that is distributed out ries. In order to simplify the car life for our and consumables to our affiliated chain to our stakeholders. Suppliers get value in customers we offer car wash, car glass workshops and sales to other B2B custhe form of payment of goods and services services, vehicle inspections and other tomers. The third largest source of income that we purchase. Our employees get back services related to the car life, in many of is the sale of spare parts, accessories and value in the form of wages, pensions and our facilities. We do this under our own services directly to the consumer. other benefits. The Board’s intention is that management or through partners. corresponding to not less than 50 per cent We shall deliver a clear customer value of Mekonomen Group’s profit after tax will to our customers. They should perceive us be distributed to the shareowners in form as affordable an innovative with a high qualof a paid dividend. Our lenders get financial ity and high degree of customer service. 1) The percentages are based on net sales of SEK 5,850 M, value mainly in the form of interest. We i.e. revenue less other operating income of SEK 150 M. 2) Revenue less depreciation, amortisation and impairment, generate value to society by paying taxes totalling SEK 5,812 M. and social security contributions. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 7 GOALS AND STRATEGIES GOALS AND GOAL FULFILLMENT Mekonomen Group’s overall goal is to develop with high profitability and thereby generate value growth for the shareholders. Sales growth EBIT margin Equity/assets ratio >5% >10% >40% The target is to The target is to The target achieve an annual annually achieve is that the sales growth an EBIT margin equity/assets of at least in excess of 10 ratio shall not 5 per cent, as a per cent. in the long combination of organic and term be less than 40 per cent. acquired growth. Outcome The EBIT margin increased to 9 per Outcome Outcome cent (8) for 2017. The margin was The equity/assets ratio amounted to In 2017, the Group’s sales increased positively impacted by higher prof43 per cent at 31 December 2017 1 per cent (3). Growth was negatively itability in Mekonomen Sweden and compared with 43 per cent at 31 affected by the weak sales trend in the full effect from the implemented December 2016. Mekonomen Sweden during the year. cost savings programme, as well as MECA, Mekonomen Norway and the positive effect from items affecting Sørensen og Balchen had a good sales comparability compared with 2016. growth. At the same time, the margin was negatively impacted by higher sales of accessories in Norway, and increased costs in Mekonomen Norway. Sales growth1) EBIT margin1 Equity/assets ratio % % % 20 12 50 10 40 15 8 30 10 6 20 4 5 10 2 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Goal Outcome Goal Outcome Goal Outcome 1) Adjusted goal as of 2016. 8 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 GOALS AND STRATEGIES Net debt/EBITDA Dividend ratio Responsible purchasing <2.0 >50% >95% The target is The Board’s The goal is that that net debt/ intention is that main suppliers EBITDA shall Mekonomen of products that not in the long Group will pay account for 95 term exceed 2.0. dividends correper cent of the sponding to not less than 50 per cent Group’s purchasing volumes have of profit after tax. When determining signed the agreement clause on comOutcome future dividends, consideration is pliance with the UN Global Compact Net debt/EBITDA was 2.03 (2.19) primarily given to investment needs, but by 2020. for 2017. The decrease is due to an other factors deemed significant by the improved EBITDA result at the same Board are also considered. time as the net debt was in line with Outcome 2016. EBITDA was affected positively Main suppliers of products that mainly by the stabilised development Outcome account for more than 92 (91) per in Mekonomen Sweden and the The Board proposes a dividend of SEK cent of our purchases have signed our implemented cost savings programme. 7.00 (7.00) per share for 2017. The agreement clause or presented their proposal corresponds to 70 per cent own corresponding. of the profit for the year. Net debt/EBITDA1) Dividend ratio Responsible purchasing 2) % % 3.5 250 100 3.0 200 80 2.5 150 60 2.0 1.5 100 40 1.0 50 20 0.5 0.0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Goal Outcome Goal Outcome Goal Outcome 1) New goal as of 2016. 2) This goal was introduced in 2015. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 9 GOALS AND STRATEGIES PROFITABLE GROWTH Mekonomen Group’s strategy is to grow with good profitability. We generate this by having a strong customer focus, utilising our economies of scale and continuously developing our business to offer both consumers and companies solutions for a simpler and more affordable car life. VISION Our vision is to be the car owner’s first choice and strive for a simpler and more aﬀordable car life. BUSINESS CONCEPT Mekonomen Group’s business concept is to oﬀer consumers and companies solutions for a simpler and more aﬀordable car life by using clear and innovative concepts, high quality and an eﬃcient logistics chain. CUSTOMER ECONOMIES OF SCALE BUSINESS GROWTH IN FOCUS AND EFFICIENCY DEVELOPMENT COMMITTED MANAGERS STRONG AND EMPLOYEES BRANDS VALUES ▪ Responsibility ▪ Competency ▪ Customer orientation ▪ Flexibility ▪ Business orientation It is basically our core values ResponCustomer focus advantages that enable competitive offers, sibility, Competency, Customer orientaThe customer in focus is about us creating give us the possibility to invest in the tion, Flexibility and Professionalism that value for our customers and partners and customer offers of the future, logistics and permeate our actions and reflect what thereby becoming successful ourselves. support systems. In 2017, we worked intenMekonomen Group stands for. Our foreWith our various concepts, we want to sively on the construction and preparations most assets are our committed managers attract car owners to our stores and of a future Group-wide central warehouse and employees and our strong and differenworkshops, both proprietary and affiliated. in Sweden and developing a new and comtiated brands. The strategy is an action plan Listening to our customers and being a mon e-commerce platform for the whole that will lead us to our long-term goals and good partner to our affiliated workshops Group. create value growth for our shareholders. is crucial to Mekonomen Group’s success. One of our most important focus areas is Business development Growth therefore to support our affiliated workBusiness development and innovation The largest focus for Mekonomen Group shops to jointly offer our existing and new symbolises the entrepreneurship that is to generate sales growth in all of our customers added value, availability, affordahas historically been one of Mekonomen Group companies. By using our differenbility and provide solutions for the needs of Group’s main characteristics. In the world tiated brands in the various companies, the car owners. changing at an even faster pace that we are we have a greater opportunity to meet active in, it is important that we continue the customers’ various needs. To create Economies of scale and efficiency to constantly develop our business to be growth, it is important that we assure We are streamlining the operations by successful in the future as well. Innovation quality the customer experience, both at utilising our economies of scale and creating permeates everything we do, not just our stores and affiliated workshops, and a common platform in the areas where innovation close to the market, but also lead the industry’s development of future we see that we can obtain synergy effects. innovation in business structures and busiproduct and service offerings. Through our size, we gain purchasing ness flows, for example. 10 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 MARKET AND TRENDS MARKET AND TRENDS The aftermarket for car parts and workshop services in the Nordic region is a mature market with a growth of 1–2 per cent per year. The main drivers are the number of cars on our roads and how far these cars are driven. In recent years, both the growth of the car fleet and In 2017, the Godkänd The market for car accessories is generally more sensihow far the cars are driven have had a good developBilverkstad (Approved tive to economic fluctuations than the market for spare ment in our main markets of Sweden and Norway. A Workshop) was developed car parts and the trend largely follows household constrong driver behind the growing car fleet is strongly as a common Swedish sumption. In 2017, household consumption increased increased new car sales. Since 2014, the number quality standard for by 2.4 per cent in both Sweden and Norway according of newly registered cars has increased and in 2017, all of the workshops to to SCB and SSB.. 392,728 new cars were registered in Sweden and relate to. 158,650 cars in Norway, according to SCB and OFV. Consolidation in Europe is continuing The aftermarket for car parts and workshop services In Europe, a consolidation of the market for spare car is not affected directly by more new cars sold. The parts is taking place where the actors are becoming cars have a larger effect on the aftermarket only after fewer but larger. Through acquisitions, positions in new four to five years when the car parts begin to wear and existing markets are being strengthened and synout and need to be repaired or replaced. In 2017, we ergy effects are being created through larger purchasing did not see any notable effect of the recent years’ new volumes and more efficient logistics solutions. registrations, but as these cars age, we see a potential The market for workshops is also undergoing change, for a growing aftermarket for car parts and workshop where the larger workshops and chain workshops are services. This presupposes that scrapping or export of growing in number. Small and medium-sized indecars does not increase from today’s level. pendent workshops are having a harder time to assert themselves in the competition as the technology in the cars is becoming more advanced. Major chains can offer adapted concepts, customised professional development, smart logistics solutions with an adapted product range and technical support, and it is therefore increasingly attractive for workshops to belong to a chain. The car owner is benefited since this contributes to more adapted and affordable services and products. Decreasing difference between brand dependent and independent actors The difference between brand dependent and independent actors is decreasing over time. We are active in the same market, but with different offerings and prices. The customer chooses the spare part distributor or workshop that they have confidence in and feel is most affordable. Quality assured workshops In 2017, the Godkänd Bil­verkstad (Approved Workshop) was developed as a common Swedish quality standard for all of the workshops in the country to relate to. The quality standard not only ensures that an Godkänd Bilverkstad does the work professionally, but also that the workshop follows laws, rules and industry recommendations and has the right expertise and technology to do the work. In 2018, the implementation of the Godkänd Bilverkstad will begin in the Group’s workshops in Sweden. In Norway, there were already Data on markets and the competition situation is Mekonomen Group’s own assessments unless a specific source is indicated. These assessments are based on the best and most recent factual documentation from published sources of requirements on certification and audit to be able to macrostatistics and sources in our industry. start a workshop. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 11 MARKET AND TRENDS TRENDS IN THE MARKET Increase in Nordic market for car parts and workshop services, annually 1–2% Even if the market for car parts and car services is mature and relatively stable, it is affected by strong trends in society. A new generation of car owners is emerging with demands for digitalisation, environmental awareness and availability, among other things. It is important to have a well-supported understanding of how the market and our customers’ needs are changing and Increase in number how we are affected by it. By making use of these driving forces, we can create long-term and of cars in traffic in sustainable growth. Sweden 20171) 1.6% Trend 1. TALK WITH YOUR CAR EVERY DAY Increase in number Interior and engine heaters that are started with a The connected car simplifies matters for those who of cars in traffic in Norway 20172) mobile phone or getting a call from the workshop want to use a car, but not own it by the mobile phone upon an engine fault before you are stuck on the becoming a digital car key to a network of cars. Digi2.1% roadside are examples of functions that are possible in talisation also supports the development of self-driving connected cars. The entrance of digitalisation in the car cars. Mekonomen Group sees new business opportunisimplifies daily life for car owners and increases safety ties with digitalisation and wants to be on the forefront on the road. New cars are equipped with the technolof future development. In October 2017, we bought ogy and an adapter is installed on older cars to be able 20 per cent of the shares in the technology company to read off the information. By 2020, one quarter of a Swedspot, an award-winning Swedish company that billion cars around the world are estimated to be condevelops both new technology in new cars and the nected according to the analyst firm Gartner and the possibility for connecting older cars. 1) Source: Trafikanalys. market for digital services in cars is growing strongly. 2) Source: SSB. 12 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 MARKET AND TRENDS Trend 2. BUYING SPARE PARTS AND BOOKING SERVICE ONLINE The digital development is fast and affect how workPercentage of customers shops and car owners buy car parts and order workwho buy online >80% shop services. The demand for simplicity, transparency and availability has led to more purchases taking place online. The main part of Mekonomen Group’s business customers already buy online since our spare parts catalogue out to the workshops is Internet based. Today, the online trade of accessories and spare parts to do-it-yourselfers and consumers constitutes a small part of our total sales, but is in an increasing trend. At the end of 2017, small scale tests of our new spare parts catalogue were begun. It builds on the next generation e-commerce platform and will offer new opportunities of greater customer loyalty and other value in both B2B and B2C. The new solution will thereafter also replace our current e-commerce solutions to consumers. Trend 3. PERCENTAGE OF ELECTRIC CARS IS GROWING, BUT FROM LOW LEVELS would decrease as these cars do not have a fuel system Percentage of or gear box. This is weighed up to some extent by a rechargeable cars of new car sales in higher demand for new components such as batteries and Norway, the world’s battery packs. At the same time, we see that an electric fastest growing market car demands about as much service and repairs as a car for rechargeable cars with a combustion engine. Electric hybrid cars, which are more common in Sweden than purely electric cars and are also increasing in popularity in Norway, consist of the same components as a car with a combustion engine as 52% well as the components that an electric car requires. Mekonomen Group wants to be involved in influencing the environment in a positive direction and sees major In 2017, the strong growth of chargeable cars in the potential in being a leading actor in the aftermarket for Nordic region continued. In Sweden, the increase was green cars. Since the end of 2016, we have run our first over 40 per cent and in the world-leading Norwepurely electric car workshop outside Oslo where the gian market, more than one out of two new cars is electric car density is high. Through our own training cenrechargeable. In the short-term, we see no significant tre ProMeister Academy, we train automotive technicians impact on the aftermarket of spare parts and workto handle electric cars and in 2017, 150 automotive technishop services as the growth of electric cars is taking cians from our affiliated workshops attended the training. place from a low level, but if the share of electric cars Besides rechargeable cars, cars run on ethanol, biogas or continues to increase, it will gradually impact the marother renewable fuels and fuel-efficient petrol and diesel ket. A large share of purely electric cars would mean cars are also classed as green cars. Mekonomen Group that the need for certain components and services already has capacity to service and repair these cars. Trend 4. NEED FOR MORE TALENTS The cars on our roads are increasing in number and the in the industry is 5,800 vehicle technicians. To support Industry’s total need for new vehicle technology content in them is becoming more advanced, the affiliated workshops, we offer help from a central technicians in the which has resulted in a shortage of automotive technilevel to recruit new vehicle technicians, and continuing next few years cians with relevant training. The shortage of automotive training and development of those who are already 5,800 technicians, or vehicle technicians as we call them, with employees. We want to be proactive and create the the right expertise is one of the greatest threats to the vehicle technicians of the future. In 2017, we therefore industry’s growth. Most of the existing upper-secondary began the automotive programme ProMeister Education automotive programmes do not provide the knowledge together with Realgymnasiet in Stockholm and Lund, the students need when they come out to the workwhere the students are trained with adequate knowlshops. In a near future, Mekonomen Group will need edge in modern vehicle technology. 500 new employees for our workshops. The total need Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 13 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Mekonomen Group’s operations are, like all business operations, associated with risks that can negatively affect the Group and our stakeholders to varying degrees. Properly managed risks can instead add value and business benefit. Mekonomen Group continuously maps the Group’s risks where the Board of Directors bears the utmost responsibility for the Group’s risk management. For a description of the Board’s risk assessment, refer to the section Board’s report on internal control for the financial reporting in the Corporate Governance Report. Continuously identifying and evaluating risks is a natural and integrated part of the operations to thereby be able to control, limit and handle prioritised risks in a proactive manner. Market and competitors Reduced overall market Description: The market that Mekonomen Group is active in, the aftermarket for cars Handling: Mekonomen Group works continuously to ensure the strength of the and light trucks, is primarily dependent on the number of cars in the fleet and the mileconcepts and maintain a high rate of innovation to keep or increase our sales even age on the cars. In recent years, we have had a stable increase of both the number of in a declining market. cars and the mileages in our main markets of Sweden and Norway and we are counting on a market growth of 1-2 per cent in the next few years. A negative trend in the number of cars and mileage could negatively impact the Mekonomen Group’s operations. The fact that the spare parts’ quality and useful life increase over time is compensated by the parts becoming more expensive and the useful life of the cars increasing. Larger percentage of electric cars Description: Electric cars have no combustion engine and a large percentage of electric Handling: In 2016, we opened our first workshop solely focused on rechargeable cars in the market would lead to reduced demand in the industry’s existing assortment cars. To future-proof all of our affiliated workshops so that they can service and repair and service. With a car fleet of more than 8 million cars in Sweden and Norway, a rechargeable cars, we offer training in electric and hybrid vehicles through our own significant increase in the number of electric cars from today’s level requires to have a training centre ProMeister Academy. We are also increasing our assortment with spare substantial effect in the market in the next few years. parts and accessories for electric vehicles in pace with the growing demand. Competition Description: The competition regarding car part sales to workshops is extensive. The Handling: Mekonomen Group focuses on the customer and continuously reviews and five largest players in the brand-independent trade, including MECA, Mekonomen ensures that our customer offer is competitive both in terms of workshop customers and BilXtra, have an assortment that cover most car makes. In addition, a number of and car owners. As over 80 per cent of Mekonomen Group’s sales take place digitally, smaller actors, including digital actors and the brand-dependent actors, compete in the investments in our e-commerce offer are of major importance. To future-proof our aftermarket for car parts. In terms of accessories, Mekonomen Group competes with a digital customer offering, a strategic project is under way to modernise the digital spare large number of players from various industries, including: petrol stations, the conveniparts catalogue. In 2017, a pilot of the new Group-wide catalogue was launched in ence-goods trade, electronic chains and stores for children’s accessories. A significantly Mekonomen Norway. The catalogue will be offered to both companies and consumers increased competition from one or more actors in the market may entail a risk of in all of the Group’s business area.. reduced market shares for Mekonomen Group. Shortage of automotive technicians Description: There is a shortage of automotive technicians in the market, which affects Handling: With strong brands and concepts, our training centre ProMeister Academy Mekonomen Group’s affiliated and proprietary workshops. A shortage of automotive and our own upper-secondary school programme ProMeister Education, we are technicians with relevant training and experience can in the shortterm reduce the working continuously to attract people to the automotive technician profession. At possibilities of continued growth in the workshop business. the same time, we contribute to increasing the level of expertise among existing and new automotive technicians. To future-proof our affiliated and proprietary workshops, we expanded our customer offering to the workshops with staffing and recruitment services in 2017. 14 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Operational risks Employees Description: Our success builds on attracting, keeping and developing committed Handling: We believe that committed employees and managers create efficiency and inmanagers and employees. We work for diversity and equal treatment of all employees. creased sales. An important prerequisite for commitment is a clear direction for the Group With different competencies and experiences among the employees, we will reflect the and clear assignments for our managers and employees. In 2017, we introduced a number diversity of our customer groups and thereby develop our customer offering. A good of activities and improvements to clarify the Group’s direction. The work of identifying, anawork environment and good social conditions are fundamental for the employees. If lysing and minimising work environment risks in the operations is done at every level of the Mekonomen Group does not attract relevant expertise or if there are bad conditions at Group. Our work environment policy, together with employee talks, employee surveys and the workplace, it can affect the Group’s operations and earnings negatively. continuous dialogue, identifies irregularities, improprieties and other risk areas. Mekonomen Group has signed the UN Global Compact’s principles in the areas of human rights, working conditions, the environment and anti-corruption. In 2017, Mekonomen Group had no reported cases of corruption, bad social conditions or human rights violations. IT Description: The company is highly aware that a coordinated IT structure provides Handling: An outage in the systems for order and stock management would negatively the Group major benefits. This also entails major risks in the form of operational stops impact the deliveries to our customers. To ensure operations and prevent outages in data in common functions pertaining to the Group’s systems for order and inventory mancommunication, doubled connections, among other measures, are used. To minimise the risk agement. There is also a risk of an external attack on the IT structure through viruses, of external attacks on the IT structure, Mekonomen Group is protected by fire walls and hacking, digital trespassing and information theft. works continuously to update antivirus protection and analyse threats and risks. In 2017, an action plan was begun to minimise the risk further. Mekonomen Group is connected to the credit management institutes’s rules regarding Payment card industry data system security. Fire Description: A possible fire at any of the Group’s central warehouses would entail Handling: Fire safety is a prioritised area at all of our facilities, including our central significant negative consequences for the company’s sales and delivery possibilities to our warehouse, and extensive emphasis is assigned to prevention efforts. The Group has customers. consequential-loss insurance if a fire were to occur. Losses and value handling risks Description: The Group’s operations include sales and storage of a large number of Handling: At Mekonomen Group, work is continuously in progress around losses to products. Since a large portion of these products are theft-prone, there is always a risk define scrapping, internal consumption and actual theft. The work to combat shrinkage is of shrinkage. The Group’s operations also include cash management, which entails a risk based on the idea that it is important to focus on all types of shrinkage, for example, by of theft, with respect to stores and transportation of cash to the bank. reviewing order procedures, delivery checks and unpacking of goods. This will improve knowledge of procedures to manage shrinkage, while providing a basis for which goods are particularly theft-prone. In terms of value handling risks, Mekonomen Group strives to provide the same level of solutions for security services, security systems and cash management for all companies within the Group. Merger of central warehouses Description: We see major strategic gains in merging our two central warehouses Handling: We evaluate the risks continuously throughout the course of the project. To in Sweden. The project of expanding the central warehouse in Strängnäs with a fully minimise risks and delays in construction, we have established a project organisation automated section, and thereafter also including MECA’s central warehouse in the and governance that enables rapid actions upon possible problems. Through expanded same building progressed according to plan in 2017. The project is business critical and work on master data and product harmonisation, we ensure that we have the right associated with risks. For example, problems that arise during on-going construction and assortment in the new warehouse. Risks upon implementation are minimised through an implementation that lead to operating outages or that the project does not result in the action plan for various scenarios that may arise upon unforeseen events. expected positive effects. Environmental risks within our own operations. Description: Mekonomen Group’s environmental impact in the Nordic region, through Handling: Our proprietary operations in MECA Sweden, MECA Norway and Mestores and workshops, mainly takes place in the areas of energy, transportation and the konomen Sweden have come the furthest in the environmental efforts. Among other handling of chemicals. If our stakeholders do not have confidence in our environmental things, all of these facilities are ISO certified according to ISO 14001. Certifications of efforts, our operations can be negatively impacted. Possible violations of rules would the operations have entailed better control with clear processes to discover and manage have a legal impact and harm our brands. deviations. Mekonomen Group’s environmental efforts also include environmental policies, environmental handbooks, environmental management systems, training and product controls and we are signatories to the UN Global Compact since 2013. A more detailed description of our environmental efforts is in the chapter Environmental impact and energy consumption on page 27. Sustainability risks among suppliers Description: A large number of products and suppliers at a company is usually associatHandling: To simplify control of the supplier level and the supply chain, all major purchasing ed with a higher sustainability risk. Mekonomen Group holds more than 600,000 articles agreements are controlled by Mekonomen Group’s joint purchasing organisation. Purchasin our assortment that are purchased from a larger number of suppliers. This makes ing takes place mainly from European suppliers, which also deliver to the car makers. By becontrol and follow-up of quality of spare parts and product content as well as checks of ing a customer of major and recognised suppliers, we benefit from the strict environmental suppliers in relation to corruption or human rights violations an extensive effort for us. requirements, health and safety requirements and anti-corruption work. Suppliers that account for more than 92 per cent of our purchases have signed our clause on compliance to the UN Global Compact or presented their own corresponding policy. Our employees sign and must follow the Group’s Code of Conduct where information on corruption is included. They are encouraged to report improprieties, where our whistle-blower function is an important tool. In 2017, Mekonomen Group had no reported cases of corruption or human rights violations. A more detailed description of our environmental efforts on the supplier level is in the chapter Supplier level, quality and the environment on page 26. Financial risks Description: Mekonomen Groups financial risks mainly comprise of currency, credit, interest-rate and liquidity risks. See Note 37 for a description of the financial risks. In the Corporate Governance Report on pages 41-49, there is a description of the internal control and risk assessment that aim to prevent misstatements in the financial statements. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 15 OUR BRANDS OUR BRANDS We are convinced that the combination of differentiated concepts and brands towards selected target groups and a strong common purchasing function generates growth. Our core business is selling car-related services and products to workshops and consumers. Within Mekonomen Group, there are three workshop and store chains: MECA, Mekonomen and BilXtra (which operates under the wholesale company Sørensen og Balchen ), and two workshop chains: MekoPartner and Speedy. The chains are largely active in the same geographic markets, but with different concepts, offers and solutions to meet the needs of car owners in the Nordic market. In addition to the workshop concept, we have brands for proprietary products, services and stores that strengthen the Group’s core business. Bileko Car Parts – purchasing and supply chain Bileko Car Parts is the brand name for our upcoming common central warehouse and purchasing and supply chain organisation in the Group. The Bileko brand name was the name of the wholesale operation that later became Mekonomen and hence the foundation of the Group as it looks today. Read more about Bileko on page 18. ProMeister and Carwise – own product range and workshop services ”FIVE WORKSHOP Under our own brand, ProMeister, we offer more than 10,000 spare parts, consumables CHAINS WITH and tools. The spare parts match original part quality at a better price and come with the DIFFERENTIATED industry’s longest product guarantee – 5 years. Under the brand ProMeister Solutions, we CONCEPTS AND offer workshop services to affiliated, proprietary and other workshops, such as technical BRANDS” support, skills development, recruitment of automotive technicians, and business systems and profitability development. particular focus on comparative tests made to effectively benefit from innovation In Asia, we established a purchasing office between products in our own brands and and business development that compleProMeister Global with the aim of developing other ranges in the market. ments our core business. a close cooperation with suppliers and to more easily be able to do internal audits. Lasingoo and Swedspot – investing in Preqas and JB Maskinteknik – equipment Carwise is the Group’s own affordable operations that strengthen the core and tools for professional workshops range of car accessories. business In the subsidiaries Preqas and JB We are part owners in Lasingoo (16.7 per Maskinteknik, we offer workshop equipIntermeko – quality laboratory cent ownership), a digital search engine ment, tools and services to Mekonomen Together with the Polish car part company for comparing workshop services, and Group’s concept workshops, as well as other Inter Cars, we own a test laboratory in Swedspot (20 per cent ownership), which workshops in the industry. The operations Poland. Here, function and quality tests are develops digital technology in new and supplement the Group’s core business and done on the Group’s product range with older cars. The investments have been entails a complete offering to our affiliated concept workshops. 16 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 OUR BRANDS We service more than 2 million cars in the Group’s workshops every year. MECA as a brand is strong among B2B customers, MECA including professional MECA’s vision is to be the most sought-after and workshops. successful partner to professional workshops. Sales are primarily made to B2B customers. This includes the own workshop concept MECA Car Service, the cooperating workshop chain Bosch Car Service, and the store and petrol chain OKQ8. MECA also sells directly to companies and organisations, so-called fleet customers. The company is successful when it comes to taking market shares in the public sector. MEKONOMEN Mekonomen has the strongest brand in the Mekonomen’s vision is to be the car owner’s first industry among car choice and strive for a simpler and more affordable car owners. life. The business model comprises sales to both B2B and B2C. Sales taken place through physical stores and online. The large customer groups include the proprietary workshop concepts Mekonomen, MekoPartner and Speedy. The company also has large corporate customers in the fleet business and sales to other B2B customers. In 2017, for the fourth consecutive year, Mekonomen won the award for the strongest brand in the industry “Car parts and workshops” (Swedish Brand Award). BilXtra is a well-known brand in Norway, mainly BILXTRA as a leading actor for car BilXtra’s vision is to supply spare parts, car accessories accessories. and knowledge to car owners and professional workshops in all of Norway, with efficiency and profitability. The store and workshop chain BilXtra is operated under the wholesale company Sørensen og Balchen. Sales are made to B2B and B2C through stores and online. BilXtra is especially successful and a leading actor when it comes to the accessory range. Within the Mekonomen Group, BilXtra is the company with the highest sales of the proprietary accessory range Carwise. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 17 OUR BRANDS BILEKO – HISTORIC BRAND The Group’s new central warehouse will be operated under the brand Bileko Car Parts. Bileko, the name of the company that founded Mekonomen Group, is now becoming the brand of one of Europe’s leading and most cost-effective product flows in the industry. Central warehouse project The wholesale business front ends, wheel bearings and other spare parts. The new modern central warehouse, together with the Bileko was established The founders decided in the mid-1980s to expand and purchasing and supply chain organisation in the Group, in 1973 by Mekonomen’s therefore bought the store chain Mekonomen in 1987 will be operated under the brand Bileko Car Parts. founders. then with 17 stores. Through this acquisition, access The central warehouse project was initiated in 2016 to was obtained to the flow between manufacturers and streamline the wholesale structure through the merging retailers and the possibility of cultivating the market all of MECA’s and Mekonomen’s existing central warethe way to the end customers. houses in Sweden. The project is calculated to provide In 1996, the name of the wholesale operation was savings of SEK 50 M per year beginning in 2020 when changed from Bileko to Mekonomen Grossist. Soon the new structure is fully implemented. thereafter, the business had outgrown the old warehouse and operations were then moved to a 20,000 Bileko – the company that founded square metre facility in Strängnäs. Mekonomen Group On 29 May 2000, Mekonomen was listed on the The wholesale operations Bileko was founded in 1973 Stockholm Stock Exchange’s O list. In connection with by the two entrepreneurs Ingemar Fraim and Leif Möller. the listing, the well-known spare parts catalogue was At the beginning, focus was on selling exhaust systems digitalised, which means that car owners today easily since they wore out the fastest in the cars. With a small can enter their registration number and directly find out facility as a base, they drove around in Stockholm in an what spare parts are available for their particular car. old Mercedes and could deliver spare parts within two By 2020, nearly 50 financial years since the comhours from the repair stations calling and ordering. The pany was founded, Bileko will be the name of one of concept of fast deliveries proved to be very successful Europe’s leading and most cost-efficient product flows and soon, the product range was expanded with brakes, in the industry. 18 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 OUR BRANDS MECA Scandinavia – key figures 2017 and 2016 MECA Scandinavia is a Share of the Group’s net sales market leader in spare 2017 2016 car parts in Sweden and Net sales (external), SEK M 2,108 2,039 Norway. EBITA, SEK M1) 257 217 36% EBIT, SEK M1) 242 205 EBITA margin, %1) 12 10 Operating margin (EBIT margin), %1) 11 10 Number of stores/of which proprietary 86/76 85/75 Number of MECA Car Service workshops 722 711 Average number of employees 725 751 1) Including negative non-recurring items of SEK 0 M (25). Mekonomen Sweden – key figures 2017 and 2016 Mekonomen is the leading Share of the Group’s net sales car service chain in the 2017 2016 Nordic region, with Net sales (external), SEK M 1,816 1,891 operations in Sweden, EBITA, SEK M 209 190 Norway and Finland. EBIT, SEK M 196 187 EBITA margin, % EBIT margin, % Number of stores/of which proprietary 11 10 133/113 10 10 132/112 31% Number of Mekonomen Service Centres 411 427 Number of MekoPartner Workshops 141 127 Average number of employees 680 706 Mekonomen Norway – key figures 2017 and 2016 Mekonomen is the leading Share of the Group’s net sales car service chain in the 2017 2016 Nordic region, with Net sales (external), SEK M 867 836 operations in Sweden, EBITA, SEK M 117 132 Norway and Finland. EBIT, SEK M 117 132 EBITA margin, % EBIT margin, % Number of stores/of which proprietary 13 13 42/32 15 15 45/32 15% Number of Mekonomen Service Centres 335 339 Number of MekoPartner Workshops 95 93 Average number of employees 275 263 Sørensen og Balchen – key figures 2017 and 2016 Sørensen og Balchen conShare of the Group’s net sales ducts wholesale, store and 2017 2016 workshop operations. Net sales (external), SEK M 778 725 EBITA, SEK M 120 117 EBIT, SEK M 120 117 EBITA margin, % EBIT margin, % Number of stores/of which proprietary 15 15 68/39 16 16 72/37 13% Number of BilXtra workshops 258 255 Average number of employees 253 257 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 19 SUSTAINABILITY OUR WORK ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT As an industry leader, our decisions and priorities have a direct impact on our employees and customers, the industry as a whole and our surrounding world. Consequently, we have to take responsibility and be on the forefront with regard to sustainability in our industry. Sustainability should be an integrated part of the business operations where the work to achieve set targets contributes to creating value for the company and our stakeholders. The Sustainability Report is prepared based on the Consumption. An important customer group comMekonomen Group has significant areas prioritised based on internal and exterprises our affiliated workshops, which means that the been a signatory to the nal stakeholders’ view of which sustainability issues area of Training is also a focus area from an external UN Global Compact since are the most important for Mekonomen Group. The perspective. All areas concern our internal stakeholders 2013. work of analysing significant areas began in 2014 and and have an impact and are managed in the Group. was then supplemented with an analysis of the Group’s work in relation to the UN Global Compact to which Our sustainability efforts should contribute to Mekonomen Group has been a signatory since 2013. business value: In 2017, an analysis was done of the Group’s work in • Higher sales and growth. relation to the Annual Accounts Act and new require• Reduced business risks. ments under GRI standards. • Greater expertise and quality in our workshops. The materiality analysis was also put into a broader • Securing the future supply of automotive technicians. perspective with consideration of Mekonomen Group’s • Strong, well-developed leadership and committed business strategy and competitiveness, as well as employees who are our ambassadors. national and international trends, standards, expectations, guidelines and laws that are relevant to a responVision until 2020: sible and sustainable business. • Enable recruitment of 500 automotive technicians. Mekonomen Group commits, in all levels of its business, • Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI): 95. to comply with the UN Global Compact’s principles • 35 per cent women in senior positions. on human rights, working conditions, the environment • 95 per cent of the Group’s automotive technicians and anti-corruption. A clause regarding fulfilment of the annually participate in ProMeister Academy courses. UN Global Compact is included in all new and renewed • All employees have undergone training in the supplier agreements. The principles are also a apart of the Group’s Code of Conduct, the whistle-blowing funcGroup’s Code of Conduct. The 2017 Sustainability Report tion and corruption policy. also constitutes our Communication on Progress Report • Main suppliers of products that account for 95 per to the UN Global Compact. cent of the Group’s purchasing volumes have signed the UN Global Compact. Significant areas Our most important sustainability issues have been priOrganisation and governance oritised into seven focus areas: Customer Satisfaction, The sustainability work within Mekonomen Group is Product and Workshop Quality, Training, Managers an integrated part of the operations as a part of the and Employees, Diversity, Responsible Purchasing, on-going business activities. The responsibility for the and Transports and Energy Consumption. The areas strategic sustainability work, as well as targets and that primarily concern our external stakeholders are follow-up rests with Group Management. The Board Customer Satisfaction, Product and Workshop Quality, of Directors follows up the work in the Group Responsible Purchasing and Transports and Energy Management’s reporting. The operational work is 20 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 SUSTAINABILITY driven by the manager or president of the respective business areas in collaboration with the managers for Significant sustainability areas, governance and follow-up 2017. the environment and quality in the respective Group Customer satisfaction companies. The work on our focus areas takes place at Customer satisfaction different levels and scopes in the Group’s companies. Description: Governance: Follow-up: We began work to coordinate the sustainability work Creating value for our B2B and B2C customers is Code of Conduct. Stakeholder dialogue. important for the Group’s profitability and growth. in the Group with strategies and targets for a common We need to develop our offering in pace with society’s minimum level until 2020. development and customer demand to create recurring and loyal customers. Sustainability deviations between our geographic Product and workshop quality markets Description: Governance: Follow-up: The countries in the Nordic market where the Many of our products and services are directly linked to Setting requirements Own and independcompanies of Mekonomen Group are active (Sweden, the car’s safety. It is therefore critical that we offer a high in accordance with ent quality tests. quality and continuously quality assure products and the carmakers’ Norway and Finland) have similar legislation in terms of workshop services. instructions. our kinds of products and services. For some prodSupplier agreements. ucts, including chemical products, the legislation differs between the countries. If a product is not permitted in Education Description: Governance: Follow-up: a country, the article is blocked for sale in that country’s The technical development of the vehicle manufacturers Proprietary training Educational statistics. product catalogue. A characteristic for permitted prodis taking place at a rapid pace. Our workshops need centre for workSetting requirements ucts is that they always have a data safety sheet and continuous skills development to take care of the cusshops – ProMeister according to the tomers’ car in a secure and professional manner. Academy. upcoming quality product note in that country’s language. standard Godkänd The services that we offer are not prohibited in any Bilverkstad (Apof our markets. However, the markets have to some proved Workshop). extent different rules to be able to operate an auto Managers and employees workshop. The regulations on what type of services Description: Governance: Follow-up: that a single actor may offer are also different. In NorCommitted managers and employees are key to Work environEmployee survey. way, special authority requirements are set in order for the Group’s success and growth. Satisfaction at the ment policy. Work Employee talks. workplace, a good work environment and possibility for environment training a business to be able to operate a workshop. In Finland, development are prioritised issues. for managers. Skills there are no such authority requirements beyond development. the rules that apply for all companies regardless of operations. In Sweden, the industry agreed in 2017 on Diversity Description: Governance: Follow-up: the certification as an Godkänd Bilverkstad (Approved Our workplaces should reflect the diversity among our Equality and Diversity Employee statistics. Workshop). The Swedish certification is currently customer groups and society at large. By having employees Plan. not compulsory to be able to operate an workshop. and managers with varying experience and expertise, we improve the possibility of meeting the customers’ needs. However, the implementation will make it clearer to car owners if a workshop has undergone independent Responsible purchasing inspections or not. All workshops within Mekonomen Description: Governance: Follow-up: Group in Sweden will implement the new industry We have a responsibility for ensuring compliance to Code of Conduct. Internal audits. product quality and significant sustainability aspects in Supplier agreements. certification. accordance with the UN Global Compact’s principles on In addition to this, as a single actor in Sweden and human rights, the work environment, environment and Finland it is prohibited to offer workshop services, such anti-corruption, in the entire purchasing level. as service and repair, combined with vehicle inspection Transports services. A Norwegian actor may, however, offer both Description: Governance: Follow-up: types of services after a special certification. Purchases from suppliers and deliveries to our stores Environmental policy. Transport statistics. and workshops entail a large number of transports daily. Efficiency and planning of transports contributes both to improved environment and reduced transport costs. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 21 SUSTAINABILITY Stakeholder dialogue Repairs). They are our key stakeholders above the benchmark for similar comMekonomen Group conducts continuous who directly or to a large extent are panies. In connection with the employee dialogues with customers, employees, affected by the decisions and prioritisations survey, an extensive follow-up effort was owners and investors, suppliers and society. we make as a company. initiated based on the respective departDialogues and collaboration with sociments’ strengths and challenges. etal actors take place with, for example, In-depth dialogue Our managers attended a workshop authorities (Public Employment Service and with employees in 2017 together with their teams, which resulted the Swedish National Agency for EducaDuring autumn 2017, we carried out an in documented activities and a timetable tion), organisations that work for diversity employee survey with the aim of finding for implementation. Commitment and and integration (Mitt Liv, Stiftelsen En Frisk out how the employee sees the company’s ambassadorship are a special focus area for Generation and Telge Tillväxt) and trade development, managers in the Group and the Group and the departments that have associations (SFVF Swedish Association commitment and ambassadorship. The challenges in these areas have been given of Auto Repair Shops and MRF Swedish result in relation to earlier studies shows a special support in the follow-up work. Association for Motor Retail Trades and general improvement and is in line with or Stakeholders Dialogue format Important issues Customers • Continuous dialogue, customer service. • Customer service. • Consumer surveys. • Workshop quality. • Customer satisfaction surveys (NPS). • Affordability. • Newsletters, information on websites. • Availability. • Social media. Employees • Annual employee talks with continuous • Work environment, health and safety. follow-up during the year. • Commitment and ambassadorship. • Employee survey every two years. • Leadership and development. • Skills development. • Terms of employment. • Conferences. • Possibility to influence the local workplace. Owners and analysts • Annual Report. • Supplier inspections. • Interim reports. • Transparency. • Capital market days. • Governance. • Roadshows and individual meetings. Suppliers • Continuous meetings during the purcha• Signatures and compliance with the sing process. UN Global Compact’s principles. • Internal audits in factories that supply pro• Product quality and safety. ducts in OBP – ProMeister spare parts. • Centrally procured purchasing agreements with a requirement of signatures and compliance with the UN Global Compact’s principles. Society • Presentations at seminars and other • Diversity. meetings. • Skills and training. • Collaboration with NGOs and • Greater knowledge about our authorities. operations. • Accountability. 22 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTED EMPLOYEES FOCUSED ON THE CUSTOMER Mekonomen Group works to offer a workplace with the possibility of skills development and career paths to attract and retain skilled managers and employees. In the Group, there is a distinct business culture where commitment and responsibility in our duties and the interaction with our customers form the basis of a successful development. Committed managers and employees are a prerequisite Committed employees are and administration. The system will also be a tool for successful growth and development of our operathe key to satisfied custofor ensuring compliance with the EU’s General Data tions. We believe that a clear direction for the Group mers and a successful Protection Regulation (GDPR) regarding the processand clear missions for our managers and employees are business. ing of personal data. important conditions for this commitment. In 2017, we • A project group was appointed prior to the introduced and improved a number of activities, mainly implementation of the EU’s new GDPR in 2017. An in Sweden, to increase knowledge about the Group and e-learning course on GDPR was developed and will clarify the direction. In 2018, managers in the Group be taken by all managers, employees and affiliated will be a special focus based on initiated activities as we workshops in 2018. believe that it is a key to reaching employees in the next step as well. Activities 2017 • In-depth stakeholder dialogue with employees through the employee survey. • A two-day introduction education for new employees of Mekonomen and Mekonomen Group were initiated. The implementation of the introductory training in other companies in the Group is under development. • Teacher-led training for managers in Sweden in work environment and psychosocial health. A supplemental e-learning course was developed to provide managers access to the course continuously and so that new managers will be able to rapidly acquire the knowledge. • The Group’s diversity and gender equality plan at the end of 2017 is updated based on new legal requirements and conditions in the Group. The plan includes a salary map to ensure equal and fair salaries for equal work. • Uniform management profiles have been defined for the Group based on the motto “how we work as managers in Mekonomen Group”. • The work of developing a management training course was begun during the year; the course will be implemented in 2018. • A procurement of a Group-wide master data system was begun with the aim of reducing manual handling Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 23 SUSTAINABILITY Automotive technicians of the Year Within the Group, we annually name the Automotive Technicians of the Year among all workshops. This year’s winner, Bilal Mouhib, came to Sweden only two years ago from Italy. Through his perseverance and hard work, he has left a big imression in a short time. He especially distinguishes himself through his pronounced focus on the end customer. This is what Bilal has to say after winning: “I am very happy, it really feels great. For me, the most important is that the customers are happy and satisfied.” Diversity contributes to greater business value Mekonomen Group works to offer a workplace with the possibility of skills development and career paths to attract and retain skilled managers and employees. In the Group, there is a distinct business culture where commitment and responsibility in our duties and the interaction with our customers form the basis of a successful development. Automotive engineers – a profession of the future 5,800 automotive out to all employees by e-mail and posted on intranet technicians are Besides our employees, our long-term core business is platforms and on the external website mekonomen. needed immediately dependent on us supporting our affiliated workshops in the industry. com. The Code of Conduct also provides informain the recruitment of more automotive technicians tion on the Group’s whistle-blower function that was with a high level of technical expertise. Modern car introduced in 2011. To further root business ethics and workshops need more automotive technicians who are the company’s operations, the Code of Conduct is a more likely to be called automotive engineers rather part of our introductory training for new employees than traditional automotive technicians. The workshops in Sweden. The introductory training has as yet been expanding their operations with more automotive techheld for employees in Mekonomen and Mekonomen nicians is also important for the workshop’s profitability Group in Sweden. The implementation of the introducin an industry with small margins. tory training in other companies and countries is under To improve the recruitment process, we developed development. a validation test that can quickly assess the existing In 2017, work began on a Group-wide e-learning expertise of a automotive technician. The tests were course in the Group’s Code of Conduct, including also used by our partner workshop managers to ensure anti-corruption. Implementation of the course will take that the right expertise already exists or identify needs place in 2018. for skills development. For existing automotive technicians, we offer through Anti-corruption ProMeister Academy skills development in, among othAlthough the risk is considered higher in certain marers, technology, customer service and new areas such kets and certain industries, corruption is not geographias electric and hybrid cars. cally limited. Mekonomen Group applies zero tolerance In Swedish upper-secondary schools, too few to corruption. Today, we make purchases from some automotive technicians are graduating with enough markets where corruption is a well-known problem, expertise in relation to the actual needs among modern which requires that we actively distance ourselves from workshops. This is mainly due to a lack of interest in these practices. Through a common purchasing organthe profession combined with the fact that traditional isation that secures all major purchasing agreements automotive programmes do not maintain an adequate for our Group companies, we have better control level of quality in the training. over suppliers and the flow of products. Our supplier In August 2017, ProMeister Education began – our agreements contain clauses that include anti-corruption own upper-secondary school programme to train more by referring to the United Nations Global Compact. skilled automotive technicians. The initiative began with Through the introductory package, all new employtwo classes in Lund and Stockholm, with a total of 30 ees in Mekonomen Sweden must review and sign students. The programme is being conducted in coopthe understanding for the Code of Conduct, among eration with the school actor Lärande i Sverige. other things, where information on anti-corruption is included. The Group’s anti-corruption policy is available Core values to all employees on the Group’s intranet. ImplementaInternally, Mekonomen reports on the view of tion of a compulsory e-learning course will be done in business ethics in employment contracts and in the 2018. Group’s Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct was In 2017, Mekonomen Group had no reported cases approved by the Board and has been translated to of corruption. every Nordic language as well as English. The Code of Conduct is reviewed annually. Upon updates, it is sent 24 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 SUSTAINABILITY KPIS, EMPLOYEES AND CUSTOMERS Employee statistics, absenteeism due to sickness Employee KPIs and accidents 2017 Sweden Norway Finland Group The majority or the work in Mekonomen Group is done by Number of employees employees who are employed in the Group. In our wholesaler (heads)2) operations, staff is hired in based on continuous needs from the Men 1,324 929 20 2,273 staffing company. Other exceptions from employment mainly conWomen 344 216 2 562 cern project managers or IT personnel in the event of temporary Total 1,668 1,145 22 2,835 needs during a project or business development. The number of Of which employees in the Group is even over the year. During the summer Permanent / Temporary months, a higher share of temporary workers is hired as substitutes employees during our ordinary employee’s holiday leaves. Men 1,224 / 100 772 / 156 20 / 0 2,016 / 256 The presentation of employee statistics is gathered from the Women 299 / 45 186 / 30 2/0 487 / 75 respective company’s own system over employee management. Total 1,523 / 145 958 / 186 22 / 0 2,503 / 331 The information and method are ensured by the coordinating HR function. To streamline the handling of employee information, the Full-time / Part-time Men 1,186 / 138 643 / 285 20 / 0 1,849 / 423 procurement of a Group-wide master data system is under way. Women 284 / 60 153 / 63 2/0 439 / 123 Total 1,470 / 198 796 / 348 22 / 0 2,288 / 546 Gender distribution Age distribution employees Sweden Norway Finland Total Sickness absence Men 2.93% 4.19% 0.00% 3.36% Women 3.42% 7.48% 0.00% 4.66% Total 3.03% 4.74% 0.00% 3.59% Work-related injuries Total 40 3 0 43 Insourced personnel 182 102 2 286 Men (13.75%) (13.21%) (10%) (14.19%) 63 32 1 96 Men 80% 45% less than 35 years Women (18.31%) (17.20%) (50%) (19.71%) Women 20% 32% between 35–50 years 23% over 50 years 245 134 3 382 Total (14.69%) (13.98%) (13.64%) (15.26%) Employee turnover % Customer rating, Net Promoter Score Men 14.87% 11.92% 10.00% 14.19% The figures provide an average of the Net Promoter Score Women 20.74% 11.83% 50.00% 17.45% (NPS)1) that car owners submitted after visits to a workshop Total 16.09% 11.90% 13.64% 15.26% chain MECA Car Service and Mekonomen Workshops in Sweden and Norway 2017. FTE Total 1,411 800 20 2,231 56.12 61.08 1)  PS, Net Promoter Score, is a measure of customer loyalty and consists of the question; How likely N is it that you would recommend this company to a friend or colleague on a scale from 0 to 10? To obtain the NPS score, the percentage of the ones rating 0-6 is deducted from the percentage of the ones rating 9-10. NPS rating scale goes from -100 to +100. 2) Number of employees (heads) is the total number of employees who were employed during the Mekonomen Bilverkstad MECA Car Service calendar year in 2017; it is not an average value for the year. (2016: 54.47) (2016: 57.00) Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 25 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLIER LEVEL, QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENT Mekonomen Group mainly purchases spare parts and accessories from the large European suppliers in the automotive industry. By being a customer of major and recognised suppliers, we benefit from the strict environmental, health and safety and quality requirements already exercised by these players. The Group purchases around 80 per cent of the products from 160 suppliers. Suppliers Mekonomen MECA SØrensen & Balchen Strängnäs Eskilstuna Central warehouse Oslo (Helsinki) (Gjövik) (Regional warehouses) BilXtra Mekonomen MECA Stores & departments Mekonomen bilverkstad BilXtra Speedy bilservice MECA Other B2B customers MekoPartner Other B2B customers Workshops Other B2B customers End customer car owner Overview of the supplier level. 1) Direct imports from Asia mean that a delivery is made directly from Asia to the Suppliers Group’s wholesale warehouse, without the products Purchases of spare parts mainly take place from the Spare parts constitute the majority of the Group’s being kept in stock by a same suppliers that supply the car makers. Nearly all purchases and sales and account for a large part of supplier in Europe. Direct import comprises both pursuppliers have their base in Europe, while the prothe Group’s sales. The products are made by machine, chases directly from Asian duction of products takes place in both Europe and which means that the manufacturing in our industry suppliers and purchases from European suppliers as Asia. Around 20 per cent of our articles are purchased does not require staffing to the same extent as in handthey are not always stocked through direct imports1) from Asia. made products. in Europe before delivery. 26 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 SUSTAINABILITY By being a customer of major and recognised suppliCommon purchase flows Stores/departments ers, we benefit from the strict environmental requirein the Group generate The Group has three store chains, MECA in Sweden ments, health and safety requirements and anti-corlarge purchase volumes and Norway, Mekonomen in Sweden, Norway and ruption work. Suppliers for our own brand products that enable better prices. Finland, and BilXtra in Norway, which is run by the car (OBP), ProMeister and Carwise, are the largest quality part wholesaler Sørensen og Balchen. The stores buy and sustainability risk, in our assessment. The Group products from the Group’s wholesale companies and conducts internal audits of all new ProMeister suppliers. sell them on to companies and consumers. MECA’s The audits take place through factory visits and tests departments sell mainly to corporate customers, of products based on checklists that encompass the including the proprietary workshop chain MECA Car review of product quality, environmental requirements Service and other workshop customers. and social requirements. Documentation of suppliers Mekonomen’s stores sell both to businesses and and audits takes place in the Group’s product and consumers, including the proprietary workshop chains purchasing system. All new supplier agreements include Mekonomen Bilverkstad, MekoPartner, Speedy and a clause on compliance to the UN Global Compact’s other workshops. BilXtra sells to both businesses and principles. Today, main suppliers of products that consumers, including the proprietary workshop chain account for more than 92 per cent of our purchases BilXtra and other workshops. have signed our clause or presented their own corresponding policy. Workshops Our three workshop chains: MECA in Sweden and Central warehouse and regional warehouses Norway, Mekonomen in Sweden, Norway and Finland, Purchases for the Group’s central warehouse take BilXtra in Norway, MekoPartner in Sweden and Norway, place through the Group’s central purchasing function. and Speedy in Sweden, consist of partner workshops A common purchase flow streamlines quality and susand workshops owned by the Group. The workshops’ tainability checks and generates large purchase volumes customers are businesses and consumers. Corporate custhat enable better purchase prices. tomers are so-called fleet customers – company cars that In Sweden, the Group’s wholesale structure is have agreements with the workshop or workshop chain. undergoing a centralisation, which means that the two warehouses in Strängnäs and Eskilstuna will be merged Environmental impact and energy consumption with a placement in Strängnäs. An extension of the The Group’s environmental impact in the Nordic existing warehouse is under way and will be completed region, through stores and affiliated workshops, mainly in 2020. Read more on page 18. takes place in the areas of energy, transportation and To maintain an effective logistics and rapid deliveries of the handling of chemicals. Our proprietary operations all of the Group’s companies, regional warehouses have in MECA Sweden, MECA Norway and Mekonomen been placed in Helsinki (Finland) and Gjövik (Norway). Sweden have come the farthest in the environmental The regional supply chain takes place mainly through efforts. Among other things, all of these facilities are deliveries from the Group’s central warehouse. In ISO 14001 certified. In Mekonomen Sweden, all stores Gjövik, some of the purchases take place directly from and a large number of workshops are also certified the suppliers, which provides a more efficient import for occupational health and safety (OHSAS 18001) process due to applicable customs rules between Sweand quality management (ISO 9001). Certifications of den and Norway. the operations have entailed better control with clear processes to discover and manage deviations. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 27 SUSTAINABILITY Since 2016, Mekonomen Group’s Swedish compaEnergy auditing was nies are covered by the Act on Energy Audits in Large done in Sweden with the Companies. The purpose of the mapping is to identify aim of reducing energy measures to reduce energy consumption in the Group. consumption in the The regulation is based on an EU directive for the MemGroup. ber States and means that an audit is to be conducted at least once every four years. In 2016, Mekonomen Sweden initiated work to lower the energy consumption in proprietary operations through the introduction of eco-labelled electricity, measurement and follow-up. These measures resulted in energy consumption per store decreasing. MECA Sweden has used eco-labelled electricity since 2015, which reduced the carbon dioxide emissions. The development of products and services shall within the Group take place in observation of the precautionary approach in terms of safeguarding the environment. A sustainable alternative that entails similar quality shall be benefits over less environmentally friendly alternatives. Sustainable alternatives are also most often more cost-effective. Shipping of products from Asia is an example where the Group contributes to lower environmental impact by choosing shipping instead of air cargo. Another example is the commenced centralisation of the warehouse structure, which will entail more efficient logistics for deliveries of spare parts and accessories throughout the Nordic region. The Group’s environmental efforts comprise the mapping of the operations’ most significant environmental impact and include: • Environmental policies. • Certified environmental management systems. • Environmental manuals that describe procedures, follow-up and responsibilities. • Environmental management systems undergo external audits every year, and environmental goals and monitoring procedures are determined for each financial year. • Courses in the environmental area, such as the handling and transportation of hazardous goods (ADR) and national legislation related to chemicals and CE marking. • Products are checked at several stages regarding, for example, their compliance with national requirements and registration. • Specification of contents, labelling and safety data sheets. • Supplier agreements comprise documents that concern environmental rules, such as compliance to the REACH chemical rules (in the EU). Follow-up and reporting of deficiencies For the 2015 financial year, the Group reported quality deficiencies in the lamp category. The range was replaced in 2016 and follow-up independent testing in 2017 resulted in the range receiving high marks. The Group’s acquisition of the subsidiary Opus Equipment (which changed name in 2017 to Preqas) in 2015 was accompanied by a factory building. Deficiencies in the work environment and working conditions were resolved in 2016. In 2017, the factory operations were sold as a result of part of Preqas’ operations being discontinued. Mekonomen Group thereby owns no factory operations. 28 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 SUSTAINABILITY GRI INDEX Since 2010, Mekonomen Group has reported the sustainability work and corporate social responsibility as a part of the annual report. This year’s Sustainability Report was prepared in observance of the requirements in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and refers to the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Standards Core. The Sustainability Report is presented as a part of Mekonomen Group’s Annual Report 2017 and covers all of Mekonomen Group’s proprietary operations in the Nordic region. In the cases that any part of the report only covers part of the Group, this is continuously indicated in the report. Affiliated workshops are not owned by the Group and are not covered in the report’s information or presented key figures. Our GRI index presents the indicators chosen based on our significant issues that we provide information on for 2017. We have also included a cross reference to the principles in the UN Global Compact (UNGC). The GRI index refers to the Sustainability Report and information in the annual report for 2017. The company’s auditors have reviewed and certified that a Sustainability Report has been prepared by Mekonomen Group as per the regulations of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The content of the Sustainability Report has not been audited by a third party. The most recent Sustainability Report was published on 28 March 2017. AUDITOR’S STATEMENT REGARDING THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To the General Meeting of Mekonomen AB, corp. ID no. 556392-1971 Mission and activities It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the Sustainability Report for 2017 on pages 20-31 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Review focus and scope Our review has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s statement RevU 12 Auditor’s statement on the sustainability report. This means that our statutory examination of the sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We consider that this review provides us adequate grounds for our opinions. Opinions A sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, 27 March 2018 Lennart Danielsson, Authorised Public Accountant Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 29 SUSTAINABILITY GENERAL DISCLOSURES UNGC GRI Type Description Page Comment/Reservation principle Organisation profile GRI 102 General disclosures 102-1 Name of the organisation Mekonomen AB (publ). GRI 102 General disclosures 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 16-19, 21 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-3 Location of headquarters 90 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-4 Location of operations 3 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-5 Ownership and legal form 41-49 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-6 Markets served 2-3 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-7 Scale of the organization 1-3 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 2, 25, 64-65, 48-49 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-9 Supply chain 26-27 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply 35-40 chain GRI 102 General disclosures 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 28 7 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-12 External initiatives 20 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-13 Membership of associations The Group is part-owner and has Board members in Telge Tillväxt. The Group also has a Board position in the foundation En Frisk Generation, and is a member of the trade association SFVF. Strategy GRI 102 General disclosures 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5 GRI 103 General disclosures 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 14-15, 21 Ethics and Integrity GRI 102 General disclosures 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 20-23 10 Governance GRI 102 General disclosures 102-18 Governance structure 20, 41-49 Stakeholder engagement GRI 102 General disclosures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 22 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Over 97% of all group companies are affiliated 3 with collective agreements. GRI 102 General disclosures 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 22 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 22 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 20-21 Reporting practice GRI 102 General disclosures 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 35-40 statements GRI 102 General disclosures 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 20-21 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-47 List of material topics 20-21 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-48 Restatements of information Changes to information have been made based on new guidelines in GRI Standards and the Swedish law (Swedish Annual Accounts Act). GRI 102 General disclosures 102-49 Changes in reporting Changes in reporting have occurred in order to minimize information that is not reported quantitatively. GRI 102 General disclosures 102-50 Reporting period 29 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-51 Date of most recent report 29 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-52 Reporting cycle 29 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report gabriella.granholm@mekonomengroup.com GRI 102 General disclosures 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 29 Standards GRI 102 General disclosures 102-55 GRI content index 30-31 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-56 External assurance 29 30 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH UNGC GRI Type Description Page Comment/Reservation principle Management Approach GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 20-21 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 10 GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 20-21 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 10 GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 20-21 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 10 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES UNGC GRI Type Description Page Comment/Reservation principle Economic impact GRI 205 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 24 10 policies and procedures GRI 205 Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 24 10 taken Environmental impact GRI 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 27-28 The information is unavailable (U). 7, 8 GRI 307 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Significant fines and sanctions resulting from The Group has not been subjected to significant 8 violations of environmental legislation fines or sanctions in 2017. GRI 308 Supplier Environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 26-27 8 Assessment environmental criteria Social impact GRI 401 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 25 6 GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 25 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 404 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee The information is unavailable (U). 6 GRI 405 Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 25, 6 Opportunity 48-49 GRI 406 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions No cases of discrimination have been reported in 6 taken 2017. GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 26-27 2, 4, 5, 6 criteria GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of The information is unavailable (U). product and service categories Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 31 THE SHARE AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION THE SHARE Mekonomen’s share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, in the Mid Cap segment and is traded under the MEKO ticker. The Mekonomen share Dividends Holding per ownership category At 31 December 2017, the total market The Board of Directors proposes a value of the company was SEK 5.4 billion. dividend of SEK 7.00 per share, which The share’s highest price in 2017 was corresponds to around 70 per cent of the quoted at SEK 191.00 on 24 January. The period’s profit after tax. The Group’s policy lowest price was quoted on 21 November is that dividends shall correspond to at least and 24 November at SEK 139.80. At 31 50 per cent of the year’s profit after tax. December 2017, there were 10,707 shareBased on the price of Mekonomen’s share holders (9,484). As per 31 December 2017, at year-end, the dividend corresponds to a Mekonomen’s share capital amounted to direct return for 2017 of 4.7 per cent. SEK 90 M (90) and comprised 35,901,487 shares (35,901,487) at a quotient value Communication to the capital market of SEK 2.50 per share (2.50). Each share during the year carries one vote at the Annual General Mekonomen’s communication to the capital Meeting and all shares carry equal entitlemarket aims to provide the market reliable, Swedish owners of which: Swedish fund managers 14.1% ment to a share in the company’s profits accurate and current information regarding Swedish private individuals 21.8% and assets. the company’s position, operations and Swedish pension and insurance companies 12.4% Other Swedish owners 6.9% Each shareholder is entitled to vote for development. The information should Foreign owners, 44.7% all their shares with no restrictions and increase the knowledge about and interest the shares are not included in any transfer in the company. We continuously conduct Source: Modular Finance restrictions. a dialogue with existing and potential investors and with the analysts who follow us. In 2017, we had individual meetings with some 60 managers and analysts, both Swedish and international. Share history Nominal value, Share capital, Year Transaction SEK Shares, total total, SEK 1990 Formation of company 100.00 1,000 100,000.00 1998 Bonus issue 100.00 400,000 40,000,000.00 1998 Split 1:10 10.00 4,000,000 40,000,000.00 1999 New share issue 10.00 5,434,444 54,344,440.00 2000 New share issue 10.00 7,252,626 72,526,260.00 2001 Redemption of convertible 10.00 7,286,626 72,866,260.00 bonds 2002 Redemption of convertible 10.00 7,385,226 73,852,260.00 bonds 2003 Redemption of convertible 10.00 7,397,326 73,973,260.00 bonds 2003 Split 2:1 5.00 14,794,652 73,973,260.00 2003 Redemption of convertible 5.00 14,869,150 74,345,750.00 bonds 2004 Redemption of convertible 5.00 15,304,618 76,523,090.00 bonds 2004 New share issue 5.00 15,434,411 77,172,055.00 2005 Split 2:1 2.50 30,868,822 77,172,055.00 2011 New share issue 2.50 32,814,605 82,036,512.50 2012 New share issue 2.50 35,901,487 89,753,717.50 Source: Modular Finance 32 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 THE SHARE AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The 15 largest shareholders, 31/12/2017 Number Votes and Name of shares capital, % LKQ Corporation 9,518,875 26.5 Fjärde AP-fonden 2,875,929 8.0 Eva Fraim Påhlman 2,009,176 5.6 Didner & Gerge Fonder 1,638,000 4.6 Swedbank Robur Fonder 1,589,481 4.4 Burgundy Asset Management 1,567,719 4.4 Svolder 1,029,301 2.9 Ing-Marie Fraim 1,000,000 2.8 Catella Fonder 819,644 2.3 Kempen Capital Management 653,312 1.8 Vanguard 590,325 1.6 Försäkringsbolaget PRI 579,503 1.6 AFA Försäkring 534,150 1.5 Dimensional Fund Advisors 486,977 1.4 Leif Möller 319,700 0.9 Total 15 largest shareholders 24,892,392 69.4 Other 11,009,095 30.6 Source: Modular Finance Holding per size class, 31/12/2017 Number of known shareNumber Votes and Size class holders Owner (%) of shares capital, % 1 – 100 5,583 52.1 201,917 0.6 101 – 200 1,346 12.6 231,470 0.6 201 – 300 1,837 17.2 695,599 1.9 301 – 400 916 8.6 766,687 2.1 401 – 500 511 4.8 816,394 2.3 501 – 1,000 305 2.8 1,001,305 2.8 1,001 – 2,000 94 0.9 680,857 1.9 2,001 – 5,000 41 0.4 617,144 1.7 5,001 – 10,000 32 0.3 1,059,581 3.0 10,001 – 20,000 14 0.1 996,449 2.8 20,001 – 50,000 9 0.1 1,323,110 3.7 50,001 – 100,000 6 0.1 1,838,901 5.1 100,001 – 10,000,000 13 0.1 24,405,415 68.0 Anonymous ownership 1,266,658 3.5 Total 10,707 100.0 35,901,487 100.0 Source: Modular Finance Data per share Amounts in SEK per share unless otherwise stated 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Earnings, continuing operations 10.05 9.32 11.77 12.80 9.81 Earnings, discontinued operations 0.00 0.00 0.00 -9.46 -1.25 Earnings 10.05 9.32 11.77 3.34 8.56 Cash flow 13.8 15.1 12.2 11.5 15.5 Shareholders’ equity 65.8 64.4 59.7 57.5 62.1 Dividend1) 7.00 7.00 7.00 7.00 7.00 Share of profit paid, % 70 75 59 210 82 Share price at year-end 149.3 171.5 173.0 204.0 198.0 Share price, highest for the year 191.0 207.0 234.5 207.0 233.0 Share price, lowest for the year 139.8 150.5 170.0 139.0 189.0 Direct yield, % 4.7 4.1 4.0 3.4 3.5 P/E ratio at year-end, multiple 14.9 18.4 14.7 61.1 23.1 Average number of shares after dilution effects2) 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 Number of shares at end of period 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 Number of shareholders at year-end 10,707 9,484 9,373 9,664 8,355 1) The Board’s proposal for 2017. 2) No dilution is applicable. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 33 THE SHARE AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INFORMATION TO SHAREHOLDERS Annual General Meeting Printed Annual Report The shareholders of Mekonomen Aktiebolag (publ), corporate idenPrinted Annual Reports will be distributed only to shareholders tity number 556392-1971, are hereby invited to attend the Annual requesting them approximately one week before the Annual General Meeting at 3:00 p.m. on Wednesday, 9 May 2018 at Nalen, General Meeting. Regeringsgatan 74, Stockholm, Sweden. Registration for the Annual General Meeting will open at 2:00 p.m. Registration Financial calendar 2017-2018 Shareholders wishing to participate the Annual General Meeting must: • be registered in the shareholders’ register maintained by Euroclear Information Period Date Sweden AB not later than Thursday 3 May 2018, and Interim report January–March 2018 09/05/2018 • notify the company of their intention to attend the meeting no later Interim report January–June 2018 27/07/2018 Interim report January–September 2018 08/11/2018 than Thursday, 3 May 2018. Year-end report January–December 2018 14/02/2019 Notification may be given via the company’s website, www.mekonomen.com. Notification may also be made in writing to Årsstämma i Mekonomen Aktiebolag, c/o Euroclear Sweden AB, PO Box 7842, SE-103 98 Stockholm, Sweden or by phone + 46 8 402 90 47 between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on weekdays. Investor relations contacts Notification must include the shareholder’s name and personal identity number or company name and corporate identity number, address, Pehr Oscarsson telephone number and the number of any assistants accompanying the President and CEO shareholder to the Meeting (maximum of two). Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 E-mail: pehr.oscarson@mekonomengroup.com Nominee-registered shares Åsa Källenius In addition to notifying their attendance, shareholders who have CFO nominee-registered shares through a bank or other nominee must Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 temporarily re-register the shares in their own name in the shareE-mail: asa.kallenius@mekonomengroup.com holders’ register by Thursday 3 May 2018 in order to be entitled Helena Effert to participate in the Annual General Meeting. Shareholders should Head of Investor Relations notify their nominees of this well in advance of this date. Mobile: +46 (0) 72 234 29 58 E-mail: helena.effert@mekonomengroup.com Proxies Shareholders who are represented by proxy must issue a written and dated power of attorney for their proxy. If the power of attorney is Analysts issued by a legal entity, copies of authorization documents (certificate The analysts below continuously monitor Mekonomen. Please note that of registration or similar) must be enclosed. To facilitate registration these analysts’ estimates, forecasts or other opinions do not represent Mekonomen or its company management. at the Annual General Meeting, the power of attorney, in original, and any authorization documents should be sent by post well in advance Company Name of the Annual General Meeting to the following address: Årsstämma ABG Sundal Collier Andreas Lundberg i Mekonomen Aktiebolag, c/o Euroclear Sweden AB, PO Box 7842, Carnegie Mikael Löfdahl SE-103 98 Stockholm, Sweden. Proxy forms are available for downHandelsbanken Mika Karppinen load from company’s website: www.mekonomen.com. Nordea Stellan Hellström SEB Nicklas Fhärm Swedbank Mats Liss Dividends The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 7.00 (7.00) per share to the Annual General Meeting. The Board proposes Monday, 14 May 2018, as the record day for the dividend. If the Annual General Meeting adopts the proposal, the dividend is expected to be paid on Thursday, 17 May 2018. The final day for trading the company’s shares including the right to dividends is Wednesday, 9 May 2018. 34 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 ADMINISTRATION REPORT ADMINISTRATION REPORT The Board of Directors and CEO of Mekonomen AB (publ.) corporate identity number 556392-1971, hereby submit the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements for the 2017 financial year. General between the quarters, where the first and third quarters were someMekonomen Group consists of the leading car service chains in the what worse while the second and fourth quarters were stronger. Nordic region with a proprietary wholesale operation, more than In 2017, Mekonomen Group’s revenue increased by 1 per cent to SEK 330 stores and over 2,000 affiliated workshops operating under the 6,000 M (5,937) and operating profit (EBIT) increased to SEK 522 M (481). Group’s brands. We offer a broad and accessible range of affordable The sales increase in the Group as a whole is mainly attributable to and innovative solutions and products for consumers and companies. higher sales to affiliated workshops. A temporarily increased sale of The retail operations in Mekonomen Group are operated through DAB products as a result of Norway’s on-going transition to a digital the four Group companies MECA, Mekonomen Sweden, Mekonomen radio network affected net sales positively in the Group’s Norwegian Norway and Sørensen og Balchen. The Group companies largely work operations, although with a negative effect on the gross margin. in the same geographic markets (Sweden, Norway and Finland), but have The Group-wide proprietary brand ProMeister showed contina clear differentiation with various concepts, offers and target groups. ued stable sales during the year and sales of ProMeister spare parts Our growth potential lies in a combination of strong common purchasamounted to nearly SEK 600 M in 2017. Sales to affiliated workshops ing functions and differentiated concepts and brands in the eyes of our demonstrated good growth during the year. customers. Our Group companies have their own business model with An increased share of sales to large customers, higher sales of DAB unique concepts and solutions to meet their customers’ needs. At the products and more price pressure in Norway negatively impacted the same time, we make use of our size advantage through consolidated gross margin. At the same time, the gross margin was positively impacted organisations in such areas as purchasing, logistics, IT and supply chain. by an improved gross margin in Mekonomen Sweden compared with The Group’s three store chains are operated under the brands the previous year and that the export operations to Denmark in the MECA, Mekonomen and BilXtra. The store chains largely consist of previous year negatively impacted the gross margin. For full-year 2017, proprietary stores, a smaller number are operated through partthe gross margin for the Group amounted to 54.6 per cent (53.6). nerships or franchise cooperation. Our five workshop chains are In 2017, we worked to regain sales growth and increased profitability operated under the brands BilXtra, MECA Car Service, Mekonomen in Mekonomen Sweden. In the fourth quarter, we saw indications that Bilverkstad, MekoPartner and Speedy. The majority of the workshops our work began to have an effect. A great deal of work has yet to be are operated through franchise cooperation. Mekonomen Group itself done, but we see that we have the conditions required to gradually owns a small number of workshops under our brands and a small improve sales and profitability. number of workshops are operated through partnerships. In the last quarter, steps were begun to reduce the costs in MECA has a B2B focus and caters mainly to the workshops as a Mekonomen Norway and resulted in an overhaul of the store network business partner. In addition to its relationship with affiliated concept where the steps initially entailed higher costs. workshops, Mekonomen has a clear positioning towards the conThe central warehouse project in Strängnäs proceeded according to sumer market – with a focus on complete solutions for all kinds of car plan with previously communicated full EBIT effect in cost savings of owners. Sørensen og Balchen, which operates the BilXtra spare-parts SEK 50 M beginning in 2020. The shell for the new building was comchain, has a strong focus on, and leading position in, car accessories. pleted in the autumn together with new picking and unpacking stations The target group includes young drivers who want to personalise the and the work on installing the automation solution began. System tests appearance of their cars. of the automation solution are planned for the second quarter of 2018. The Parent Company has its registered office in Stockholm. The The work with our new digital spare parts catalogue continued accordaddress of the head office is Box 19542, SE-104 32 Stockholm, Sweing to plan and, at the end of 2017, tests began in Mekonomen Norway. den. Visiting address: Solnavägen 4, 10th floor. The Parent Company’s In August 2017, we began our long-term initiative on our own share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm Mid Cap segment. The three upper-secondary school programme, ProMeister Education, to train largest owners in the Parent Company as per 31 December 2017 are more skilled automotive technicians. The initiative began with two LKQ Corporation, with 26.5 per cent, Fjärde AP-Fonden, with 8.0 per classes in Lund and Stockholm, with a total of 30 students. Services to cent and Eva Fraim Påhlman, with 5.6 per cent. our own workshop customers were expanded with recruitment support to contribute to covering the direct need for 100 new automotive Financial year technicians within the Group. When we sum up 2017, we look back on a challenging year for For the fourth consecutive year, Mekonomen has been named the Mekonomen Group where we devoted a great deal of time to strongest brand in the industry for “Car parts and auto workshops”. regaining momentum in all of our Group companies and preparing for The award was based on a survey among Swedish consumers regarding future growth. The market was neither strong nor weak. Sales varied customer satisfaction and brand awareness. At the same time, Speedy Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 35 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Bilservice Vällingby was named Sweden’s Best Workshop by Lasingoo’s (changed name from Opus Equipments on 1 July 2017) are also opercustomer for the second consecutive year. ated, which work for the whole Mekonomen Group. A flexible new payment solution was launched for Mekonomen’s Net sales (external) increased to SEK 2,108 M (2,039). The currency customers where the car owner receives a text message by mobile effect in net sales against the NOK was a positive SEK 13 M. The underphone with information, invoicing documentation and more directly lying net sales increased 4 per cent. when the car is ready at the workshop. Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible During the autumn, 20 per cent of the shares in the technology fixed assets (EBITA) increased to SEK 257 M (217) and the EBITA marcompany Swedspot were acquired. Swedspot is focused on the develgin increased to 12 per cent (10). MECA’s operating profit, increased to opment of the digitalisation of cars. SEK 242 M (205) and the EBIT margin increased to 11 per cent (10). The total number of stores in the chains at the end of the year was The sales increase in MECA was mainly attributable to higher sales 336 (342), of which 263 (261) were proprietary stores. There were to MECA Car Service workshops, higher sales of DAB products in the a total of 2,045 affiliated workshops (2,021), of which 45 (33) were Norwegian market and good sales growth in Preqas. own work shops. In the comparison year 2016, EBIT was negatively impacted by items affecting comparability of SEK 25 M regarding the divestment of the Revenue Danish operations. Of which the gross profit was negatively impacted by Revenue rose 1 per cent to SEK 6,000 M (5,937). Adjusted for positive SEK 28 M, other costs positively by SEK 5 M and impairment losses on currency effects of SEK 35 M, revenue was largely unchanged. There tangible fixed assets negatively by SEK 2 M. EBIT in the comparison year were two fewer weekdays than the previous year in Sweden, Norway was also negatively impacted by operating losses of SEK 27 M for the full and Finland. Calculated on comparable workdays and adjusted for curyear for MECA’s export business to Denmark up to the divestment. rency effects, revenue increased 1 per cent. Sales in comparable units The number of stores amounted to 86 (85), of which 76 (75) were rose 1 per cent. Other operating revenue mainly comprises rental proprietary. income, marketing subsidies and exchange-rate gains. Mekonomen Sweden Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible The Mekonomen Sweden segment primarily includes wholesale, store assets, EBITA and fleet operations in Sweden. EBITA increased to SEK 649 M (594) and the EBITA margin increased Net sales (external) amounted to SEK 1,816 M (1,891). The underlyto 11 per cent (10). Profit was positively impacted by items affecting ing net sales decreased 3 per cent. comparability of SEK 9 M (negatively: 58). In the comparison year of Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible 2016, the earnings were negatively impacted by the actual operating fixed assets (EBITA) increased to SEK 209 M (190) and the EBITA marloss in MECA’s export business to Denmark by SEK 27 M in addition gin increased to 11 per cent (10). Operating profit (EBIT) increased to to the items affecting comparability. Currency effects on the balance SEK 196 M (187) and the EBIT margin amounted to 10 per cent (10). sheet negatively impacted EBITA by SEK 1 M (positive: 3). Operating profit was negatively impacted by items affecting comparability of SEK 4 M (negatively: 19). The items affecting comparability Operating profit, EBIT mainly relate to SEK 9 M in negative effects from the impairment of EBIT increased to SEK 522 M (481) and the EBIT margin increased goodwill attributable to Marinshopen and SEK 5 M of positive effects to 9 per cent (8). Profit was positively impacted by items affecting from costs lower than reserved for recalls of Volvo cars where defeccomparability of SEK 0 M net (negatively: 58). In the comparison year tive drive belts were installed. of 2016, the earnings were negatively impacted by the actual operating Considerable focus within Mekonomen Sweden during the year was loss in MECA’s export business to Denmark by SEK 27 M in addition on regaining growth and higher profitability. During the first quarter, to the items affecting comparability. Currency effects on the balance the work of reintroducing a more decentralised sales organisation was sheet negatively impacted EBIT by SEK 1 M (positive: 3). completed. The cost and efficiency programme implemented during the year proceeded according to plan and contributed positively to profitaProfit after financial items bility. Even if a great deal of work remains to gradually improve sales and Profit after financial items increased to SEK 475 M (446). Net interest profitability, we saw indications in the fourth quarter that our work in expense amounted to SEK 25 M (23) and other financial items to Mekonomen Sweden began to have an effect with sales on a par with SEK -23 M (-12). Other financial items were negatively impacted by the fourth quarter of 2016 together with higher profitability. effects affecting comparability of SEK 4 M (negative: 1). The number of stores amounted to 133 (132), of which 113 (112) were proprietary. Profit for the year Profit after tax increased to SEK 368 M (342). Corporate tax in NorMekonomen Norway way was lowered from 25 per cent to 24 per cent as of 2017, which The Mekonomen Norway segment primarily includes store and fleet had a positive impact on the tax expense of SEK 3 M. Tax deductions operations in Norway. regarding Denmark are estimated at a total of SEK 93 M (76), of which Net sales (external) increased to SEK 867 M (836). The underlying net SEK 17 M (positive 10) positively affected the year’s tax expense. Earnsales increased 3 per cent. The currency effect in net sales against the ings per share before and after dilution increased to SEK 10.05 (9.32). NOK was a positive SEK 12 M. Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible Seasonal effects assets (EBITA) amounted to SEK 117 M (132) and the EBITA margin Mekonomen Group has no actual seasonal effects in its operations. amounted to 13 per cent (15). Operating profit (EBIT) amounted to However, the number of workdays affects both sales and profit. SEK 117 M (132) and the EBIT margin amounted to 13 per cent (15). EBIT was positively impacted by items affecting comparability of MECA SEK 1 M (negatively: 1) for the full year. The positive effects relate to The MECA segment mainly includes wholesale and store operations in lower costs than reserved for recalls of Volvo cars where defective drive Sweden and Norway, and fleet operations in Sweden. Under MECA, belts were installed. the business areas of heavy vehicles, ProMeister Solutions and Preqas 36 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 ADMINISTRATION REPORT In Mekonomen Norway, the largest growth driver was sales in considerations were also paid in an amount of SEK 4 M (0). Acquired DAB products, together with higher sales to affiliated workshops. An assets totalled SEK 25 M (5) and assumed liabilities SEK 10 M (0). In increased share of sales to large customers, higher sales of DAB prodaddition to goodwill, which amounted to SEK 22 M (5), surplus values ucts and more price pressure negatively impacted the gross margin. In on intangible fixed assets of SEK 34 M (21) were identified with regard the last quarter, steps were begun to reduce the costs in the segment to customer relations. Deferred tax liabilities attributable to acquired and resulted in an overhaul of the store network where the steps intangible fixed assets amounted to SEK 3 M (0). Acquired non-coninitially entailed higher costs. trolling interests amounted to SEK 8 M (14). Divested non-controlling The number of stores amounted to 42 (45), of which 32 (32) were interests amounted to SEK 0 M (0). Divested operations amounted to proprietary. SEK 10 M (29). Divestments mainly related to Preqas’ development and production part of proprietary articles. Sørensen og Balchen The Sørensen og Balchen segment primarily includes wholesale and Financial position and cash flow store operations in Norway. Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 496 M (544). Net sales (external) increased to SEK 778 M (725). The underlying Tax paid amounted to SEK 66 M (153). Inventories have increased net sales increased 7 per cent. The currency effect in net sales against since 2016, mainly due to DAB products. Cash and cash equivalents the NOK was a positive SEK 10 M. amounted to SEK 254 M (291). The equity/assets ratio was 43 per Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible cent (43). Long-term interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 1,453 fixed assets (EBITA) increased to SEK 120 M (117) and the EBITA marM (1,338). Current interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 255 M gin amounted to 15 per cent (16). Operating profit (EBIT) increased to (404). The loan facility was increased by SEK 258 M since year-end. SEK 120 M (117) and the EBIT margin amounted to 15 per cent (16). Net debt amounted to SEK 1,444 M (1,437), which is an increase of SEK Net sales in Sørensen og Balchen were positively impacted during the 8 M since year-end. What affected an increase in the net debt is mainly year by higher sales of DAB products, which however in combination a dividend of SEK 258 M, of which a dividend to the shareholders of the with higher competition had a negative effect on the gross margin. Net Parent Company of SEK 251 M was paid out in the second quarter, as sales have been negatively impacted by a somewhat sluggish demand for well as loan repayments, investments and acquisitions. It is primarily a car service and accessories in the consumer market during the second positive cash flow from operating activities that reduced net debt during half-year. Sørensen og Balchen has maintained good cost control. the year. SEK 138 M in loans were repaid during the year. The loans were The number of stores amounted to 68 (72), of which 39 (37) were renegotiated in the second quarter with a loan of SEK 600 M with a duraproprietary. tion of 4.4 years and a loan of SEK 1,050 M with a duration of five years. Acquisitions and start-ups Employees MECA acquired three stores during the year in Sweden, one each The number of employees at the end of the year was 2,286 (2,290) and in Västervik, Visby and Trelleborg, and four workshops in Norway, the average number of employees during the year was 2,231 (2,287). one each in Lillehammer, Brumunddal, Gjøvik and Hamar. MECA Mekonomen Group has well-developed HRM (Human Resource also acquired operations for heavy workshop equipment in eastern Management) work that includes equal opportunities plans, action proNorway. ProMeister Solutions acquired 20 per cent of the shares in grammes against discrimination in the workplace, clear goals and goal Swedspot AB, an associated company that is a leader in connected follow-ups, reporting and explicit segregation of responsibilities. cars and digitalisation. Mekonomen Sweden acquired non-controlling interests in four Managers and employees stores, all for a minor value. Mekonomen Sweden also acquired a store Committed managers and employees are a prerequisite for successin Kungshamn, established a store in Karlstad, and transferred three ful growth and development of our operations. We believe that a stores in Gothenburg to a partly owned company in the Group. clear direction for the Group and clear missions for our managers Mekonomen Norway acquired non-controlling interests in one and employees are important conditions for this commitment. In stores and one workshop in Norway, both for a minor value. 2017, we introduced and improved a number of activities, mainly Mekonomen Norway also acquired two partner stores in Mosjön and in Sweden, to increase knowledge about the Group and clarify the Mo i Rana and one workshop in Halden, Norway. direction. In 2018, managers in the Group will be a special focus Sørensen og Balchen acquired non-controlling interests in one based on initiated activities as we believe that it is a key to reaching workshop in Norway at minor value. Sørensen og Balchen also estabemployees in the next step as well. lished two stores in Norway, one in Bø and one in Råholt. Meko Service Nordic also acquired non-controlling interests in one Diversity and gender equality workshop in for a minor value. Meko Service Nordic also acquired six Mekonomen Group has participated in several external projects workshops in Sweden, two in Malmö, one in Älmhult, Växjö, Ljungby relating to issues in such areas as diversity and the labour market for and Västerås. a number of years. The intention is for Mekonomen Group’s workIn Mekonomen Iceland, non-controlling interests were also acquired places to reflect the diversity of our customer groups and society in for a minor value through dilution in a new share issue. general. By having employees and managers with varying experience and expertise, we improve the possibility of meeting the customers’ Investments needs. The Group’s diversity and gender equality plan at the end of Investments in fixed assets for the year amounted to SEK 164 M (111). 2017 is updated based on new legal requirements and conditions in Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets amounted to the Group. The plan includes a salary map to ensure equal and fair SEK 60 M (62). Investment in construction in progress for the central salaries for equal work. warehouse in Strängnäs was made in an amount of SEK 77 M (11). Company and business combinations amounted to SEK 68 M Employee surveys (31), of which SEK 13 M (14) relates to the estimated supplementary The Group’s employee surveys include questions about job satisfaction purchase considerations. During the year, supplementary purchase and working conditions, and whether individual employees are able Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 37 ADMINISTRATION REPORT to influence their work situation. Since the employee survey captures prises basic salary. The period of notice for the President is 12 months if the views of all employees, the results can be used at several levels to employment is terminated by the company, and six months if terminated introduce operational improvements, from an overall level down to by the President. The period of notice for other members of Group individual group/unit level. Management is a maximum of 12 months if employment is terminated by the company, and six months if terminated by the employee. In addition, Training – ProMeister Academy severance pay of a maximum of 12 months salary may be paid in the Mekonomen Group’s skills and development initiatives are intended not event of termination of employment by the company. only to meet today’s needs but also to anticipate the future challenges In addition to this, there is a long-term variable remuneration proof tomorrow’s society: a fossil-free car fleet, a service society, urbangramme approved by the AGM and directed at Group Management and a isation and a shared economy. This way, Mekonomen Group can number of selected business-critical senior executives. The long-term varensure future competitiveness for the Group and the skills of individual iable remuneration is to be calculated on the Group’s profit for the 2016employees in proprietary and affiliated workshops. A fundamental 2018 financial years. The criteria for determining the variable remuneration approach at Mekonomen Group is to capitalise on the skills available in portion for each individual is decided by the Board’s Remuneration Comthe Group and develop them through further training and opportunimittee, and for the President by the Board in its entirety. The company’s ties for new challenges within the Group. Internal recruitment within total cost for the long-term programme may amount to a maximum of and between Group companies is highly successful. SEK 32 M for the entire period. Furthermore, an additional requirement to ProMeister Academy is the Group’s own training centre that secures the above is that the average price paid for the Mekonomen share on Nasthe quality and skills of our automotive technicians in all of the Group’s daq Stockholm on the last trading day in December 2018 is to exceed the workshop chains. Skills development is offered in new technologies, Nasdaq Stockholm PI index for the programme period. The bonus may be customer service and professionalism. realised in whole, in part or not at all depending on the consolidated profit during the duration of the long-term remuneration programme. Remuneration of senior executives The right to variable remuneration presupposes that the executive is Remuneration of senior executives is presented in Note 5. The Board still employed at the 2019 Annual General Meeting. of Directors will propose the following guidelines for remuneration of senior executives to the 2018 Annual General Meeting. Sensitivity analysis The Board considers it very important to ensure that there is a clear Mekonomen Group’s earnings are affected by a number of factors, such link between remuneration and the Group’s values and financial goals in as sales volume, currency fluctuations on imported goods and sales to both the short and the long term. The Board’s proposals for guidelines foreign subsidiaries, margins on purchased products, salary changes, etc. for remuneration entail that the company is to offer market-based Imports mainly take place from Europe where the currencies are generremuneration that allows the Group to recruit and retain the right execally EUR, SEK and NOK. Purchases in EUR comprised approximately 46 utives, and entail that the criteria for determining remuneration is to be per cent of the purchased volumes. The table below shows the currency based on the significance of work duties and employees’ competencies, effects on the net flow for each currency. NOK impacted internal sales experience and performance. Remuneration is to comprise: from Mekonomen Grossist AB and from MECA Car Parts AB to each • fixed basic salary country and profit for the year in Norway. Refer to Note 37 for more • variable remuneration detailed information on how the Group manages currency risk. • pension benefits • other benefits and severance pay. Impact of factors on profit before tax Change, Impact, SEK The guidelines encompass Group Management, which currently com% M1) prises 12 individuals including the President. Sales volumes +1 32 (31) Remuneration is determined by the Board’s Remuneration ComExchange-rate fluctuations mittee. However, remuneration of the President is determined by the NOK +10 80 (90) Board in its entirety. EUR +10 -118 (-96) The company is to offer an attractive basic salary in the market, in the plus a percentage Gross margin point 58 (58) form of a fixed cash monthly salary. This comprises remuneration for dedPersonnel costs +1 -15 (-15) icated work performance at a high professional level that creates added Interest rate2) +1 -10 (-10) value for Mekonomen Group’s customers, owners and employees. In addition to basic salary, short-term and long-term variable cash 1) All things being equal, profit before tax for the 2017 financial year. Amounts in parentheses refer to the remuneration is to be offered, both of which are based on fulfilment comparison year 2016. of Mekonomen Group’s goals for: 2) The effect is based on the Group’s net debt of SEK 1,444 M as per 31 December 2017 adjusted for the interest-rate swap of SEK 450 M. • the Group’s earnings, and • individual qualitative parameters. The Group’s currency exposure in the translation of assets and liabilities The distribution between basic salary and variable remuneration is to be in foreign currencies was mainly against NOK and EUR as of the closing proportionate to the senior executive’s responsibilities and authorities. date. The effects on earnings in the translation of financial assets and The short-term variable remuneration is maximised to a certain perliabilities that existed at 31 December 2017 are presented below: centage of fixed annual salary. The percentage is linked to the position • If EUR had strengthened by 10 per cent in relation to SEK, keeping all of each individual and varies between 33 and 60 percentage points for other variables constant, profit before tax would have been negatively members of Group Management. impacted by SEK 8 M (negative: 15), largely as a result of losses in the Other benefits refer primarily to company cars. Pension premiums translation of accounts payable. are paid in an amount that is based on the ITP plan or a corresponding • If NOK had strengthened by 10 per cent in relation to SEK, keeping all system for employees outside Sweden. For the President, pension proother variables constant, profit before tax would have been positively visions according to the employment agreement are paid in an amount impacted by SEK 7 M (positive: 4), largely as a result of gains in the corresponding to 30 per cent of basic salary. Pensionable salary comtranslation of accounts receivable. 38 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 ADMINISTRATION REPORT The above estimated effect as of 31 December 2017 vary from month Environment to month, depending on the size of the balance-sheet items at the The Group does not conduct any operations that require permits closing date. according to the Swedish Environmental Code. The Group’s environmental impact in the Nordic region, through stores and affiliated workRisks and uncertainties shops, mainly takes place in the areas of energy, transportation and the Mekonomen Group’s operations are, like all business operations, handling of chemicals. Our proprietary operations in MECA Sweden, associated with risks that can negatively affect the Group and our MECA Norway and Mekonomen Sweden have come the farthest in the stakeholders to varying degrees. Properly managed risks can instead environmental efforts. contribute value and business benefit. Mekonomen Group continuously Among other things, all of these facilities are ISO 14001 certified. In maps the Group’s risks where the Board of Directors bears the utmost Mekonomen Sweden, all stores and a large number of workshops are also responsibility for the Group’s risk management. Continuously identifycertified for occupational health and safety (OHSAS 18001) and quality ing and evaluating risks is a natural and integrated part of the operations management (ISO 9001). Certifications of the operations have entailed to thereby be able to control, limit and handle prioritised risks in a better control with clear processes to discover and manage deviations. proactive manner. Environmental work comprises surveys of the most significant For a more detailed description of the Group’s prioritised risks and environmental impact of the operations, and includes environmental risk management, see page 14-15 and Note 37 Financial risks in the policies, certified environmental management systems and environ2017 Annual Report. mental manuals describing procedures, monitoring and responsibilities. Environmental management systems undergo external audits every year, Parent Company and “Other” and environmental goals and monitoring procedures are determined for The Parent Company’s operations comprise mainly Group Manageeach financial year. For further information on the Group’s environmenment and finance management. The Parent Company’s loss after net tal efforts, refer to pages 26-28. financial items amounted SEK 49 M (loss: 57), excluding impairment of participations in subsidiaries of SEK 0 M (28) and excluding dividends Events after the end of the year of SEK 315 M (47) from subsidiaries. The average number of employMekonomen Group’s management structure was changed as of ees was 5 (7). Mekonomen AB sold products and services to Group 1 January 2018 to be better adapted to the business. companies totalling SEK 34 M (35). As of 1 January 2018, Group management comprises the following “Other segments” include business activities and operating segindividuals: ments for which information is not provided separately. This includes – Pehr Oscarson, president and CEO Mekonomen’s wholesale and store operations in Finland, Mekonomen’s – Åsa Källenius, CFO and IT director store operations in Iceland (dormant since the third quarter of 2017), – Morten Birkeland, managing director of Sørensen og Balchen Meko Service Nordic with the service centre operations BilLivet and – Katarina Zetterqvist, HR director Speedy, the Car Share operations (which were discontinued in the – Carl-Johan Åström, managing director of MECA Sweden fourth quarter of 2017), Mekonomen car leasing, the joint venture – Torhild Barlaup, managing director of MECA Norway in Poland (InterMeko Europa), Lasingoo Norge and Group-wide – Stig Tornell, managing director of Mekonomen Sweden functions also including Mekonomen AB (publ). As of 1 January 2017, – Frank Bekken, managing director of Mekonomen Norway Marinshopen is included in the segment Mekonomen Sweden instead – Tobias Narvinger, Purchasing & Supply of “Other segments”, the comparative figures are not restated. The – Gabriella Granholm, Communications & Marketing associated company Automotive Web Solutions AB was divested during – Robert Hård, Legal & Sustainability the second quarter. The units reported in “Other segments” do not – Magnus Rylander, head of the business area Ventures achieve quantitative limits to be reported separately and the benefit is deemed to be limited for the users of the financial statements for them The organisational change also affects the segment reporting. As to be reported as independent segments. EBIT for “Other segments” of the first quarter of 2018, Mekonomen Group will be presented amounted to a loss of SEK 76 M (loss: 84). EBIT was positively impacted with three segments, Mekonomen, MECA and Sørensen og Balchen. by items affecting comparability of SEK 3 M (negative 13) regarding The Mekonomen segment will consist of Mekonomen Sweden and lower personnel-related costs than allocated for persons who were preMekonomen Norway. The MECA segment will consist of MECA viously members of Group Management, mainly the former CEO. Sweden and MECA Norway. Sørensen og Balchen is unchanged. The “Other items” include acquisition-related items attributable to other operations that were previously a part of MECA will be included Mekonomen AB’s direct acquisitions. Current acquisition-related items in Other segments, like Marinshopen, which was previously part of are amortisation of acquired intangible assets related to the acquisitions Mekonomen Sweden. The comparative figures will be restated. of MECA and Sørensen og Balchen in an amount of SEK -77 M (-77). No other significant events occurred after the end of the financial year. Sustainability Report Future development The Group’s 2017 Sustainability Report was prepared in observance Figures for 2017 show that the registration of new cars continued to of the requirements in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and refers to increase in our main markets of Sweden and Norway, where the share the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Standards core. The Sustainability of newly registered electric cars continued to grow. The increase in the Report was prepared based on the significant areas prioritised based percentage of electric cars is from a low level and we see no significant on internal and external stakeholders’ view of which sustainability issues impact on us in the next few years. It is important that we monitor how are the most important to Mekonomen Group. the aftermarket changes, and the increase in the share of electric cars The 2017 Sustainability Report also constitutes our Communication together with the higher degree of digitalisation in the industry are two on Progress Report to the UN Global Compact. areas we are monitoring extra carefully. Mekonomen Group’s Sustainability Report is available on pages 20-31 Due to the growing car fleet in recent years, we see potential for a and more on the sustainability work is available at mekonomen.com. growing overall market in the future, given that the scrapping of cars does not increase from current levels. However, we expect no major Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 39 ADMINISTRATION REPORT change in the market in the near future as the growing car fleet reaches reporting and investments. Other issues discussed in the Board during the aftermarket only when the cars get older. the year were strategies, market development, Mekonomen’s Swedish The work with our two major strategic projects – a Group-wide operations, risk analysis, formal work plans, policies, new financing and central warehouse in Strängnäs and our new digital spare parts catathe recruitment of a new President and CFO, respectively. In addition, logue – are proceeding according to plan. selected Board meetings discussed issues relating to annual accounts, Focus in 2018 is still on driving profitable sales growth in all of our interim reports and budget. Group companies. This is to take place by further strengthening and The Board has established a Remuneration Committee and an Audit adapting our customer offering, but also by actively seeking acquisition Committee. The Committees’ work mainly comprises preparing issues and opportunities in our core business and within nearby areas. providing consultation, although the Board can delegate authority to make decisions in specific cases. The members and Chairmen of the CommitThe share tees are appointed at the statutory Board meeting held directly after the Share capital and ownership structure election of Board members. For more information, refer to page 43. As per 31 December 2017, the share capital of Mekonomen AB (publ) amounted to SEK 90 M (90) and comprised 35,901,487 shares Auditors (35,901,487) at a quotient value of SEK 2.50 per share (2.50). Each The auditors of the company are elected annually at the Annual General share carries one vote at the Annual General Meeting and all shares Meeting. According to a resolution of the Annual General Meeting, audicarry equal entitlement to a share in the company’s profits and assets. tors’ fees are paid according to approved invoices. The Group’s auditors Each shareholder is entitled to vote for all their shares with no restricreport to the Board as required, but at least once a year. The Group’s tions and the shares are not included in any transfer restrictions. external auditors also participate at the meetings of the Audit Committee. LKQ Corporation represents 26.5 per cent of the number of votes. At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, PricewaterhouseCoopers AB For information about the 15 largest shareholders as per 31 December (PwC), with Authorised Public Accountant Lennart Danielsson as Audi2017, refer to the table on page 33. tor in Charge, was appointed as the auditing firm until the 2018 Annual General Meeting. Authorisation The Annual General Meeting resolved in April 2017 to authorise the Proposed appropriation of profit Board, for the period until the next Annual General Meeting, on one Parent Company or more occasions, with or without preferential rights for shareholdThe following profit is at the disposal of the Annual ers, to make decisions on new share issues of not more than 3,590,149 General Meeting, SEK 000s: shares. At the end of the financial year, no new shares were issued Profit brought forward 2,297,268 under this authorisation. Profit for the year 426,800 TOTAL 2,724,068 Dividend policy It is the Board’s intention that Mekonomen Group will pay dividends The Board of Directors and President propose that corresponding to not less than 50 per cent of profit after tax. When profits be appropriated as follows, SEK 000s: determining future dividends, consideration is primarily given to investDividend to shareholders (SEK 7.00 per share) 251,310 ment needs, but other factors deemed significant by the Board are also To be carried forward 2,472,758 considered. TOTAL 2,724,068 Shareholder agreements The Board’s statement concerning the As far as the Board of Mekonomen AB (publ) is aware, no shareproposed dividend holder agreements exist or other agreements between Mekonomen’s Following the proposed dividend, the Parent Company’s equity/assets shareholders for joint influence over the company. As far as the Board ratio will amount to 59 per cent and the Group’s equity/assets ratio to of Mekonomen AB (publ) is aware, there are no agreements or similar 40 per cent calculated on the balance-sheet date of 31 December 2017. that may result in a change in the control of the company. The equity/assets ratio is satisfactory considering that the company’s and the Group’s operations are continuing to operate profitably, which means Share dividends that the equity/assets ratio following dividend payment in May 2018 will The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 7.00 (7.00). The Board proposes exceed the above-stated levels. It is estimated that cash and cash equiva14 May 2018 as the record day for the dividend. If the Annual General lents in the company and the Group will remain at a satisfactory level. Meeting resolves to approve the proposal, the dividend will be paid on The Board is of the opinion that the proposed dividends do not 17 May 2018. The final day for trading the company’s shares including prohibit the Parent Company or other Group companies from fulfilling the right to dividends is 09 May 2018. their obligations in the short or long term. Neither do the dividends influence the Group’s ability to implement required investments. Taking Board of Directors’ work 2017 into account the above and other circumstances known to the Board, the The Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2017 resolved that the Board Board believes that a comprehensive assessment of the company’s and was to comprise seven ordinary members with no deputy members. Group’s financial position entails that this dividend is justified taking into In accordance with the Nomination Committee’s proposal, the Annual consideration the demands imposed by the nature, scope and risks of General Meeting resolved to re-elect John S. Quinn (also elected as the the operations on the amount of equity in the company and the Group, new Chairman), Kenny Bräck, Joseph M. Holsten, Malin Persson, Helena and the other consolidation requirements, liquidity and position of the Skåntorp and Christer Åberg (Executive Vice Chairman) to the Board company and the Group operations. and to elect Magnus Håkansson as a new Board member. For further information regarding the company’s and the Group’s During 2017, the Board held 14 (15) meetings, of which one was a earnings and financial position, refer to the following income statement, statutory meeting. The Board meetings during the year addressed the balance sheet, cash-flow statements and accompanying notes. fixed items of each meeting agenda, such as business situation, financial 40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Mekonomen Group comprises approximately 170 companies that conduct business operations primarily in Sweden, Norway and Finland. The Parent Company of the Group is the Swedish public limited liability company Mekonomen AB, whose shares are listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm. Both internal and external regulations are used as a foundation for the Principles for corporate governance governance of Mekonomen Group. Mekonomen Group’s corporate governance concerns how the operations are governed, managed and controlled in order to create External regulations Internal regulations value for the company’s shareholders and other stakeholders. The Swedish Companies Act Articles of Association aim of corporate governance is to create the conditions for active Annual Accounts Act Board’s and committees’ rules of procedure and responsible company bodies, to clarify roles and segregation of Other relevant laws Board’s instruction for the President Nasdaq Stockholm AB’s Rule book for Policies, guidelines and instructions responsibilities and to ensure true and fair reporting and information. issuers Swedish Corporate Governance Code Code of Conduct and Core Values (the Code) EU Market Abuse Regulation (MAR) Overall Corporate Governance Model Shareholders and Annual General Meeting Nomination Committee External auditor Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Audit Committee President & Group Management Internal audit MECA Mekonomen Sweden Mekonomen Norway Sørensen og Balchen Other segments Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Application of the Swedish Corporate Governance Code Directors and auditors, and approves fees, addresses other statutory Mekonomen Group applied the Swedish Corporate Governance matters as well as making decisions pertaining to proposals from the Code (“the Code”) with the following deviation in 2017: Board and shareholders. The company announces the date and location of the Annual General Meeting as soon as the Board has made its decision, but not later than in connection with the third-quarter Deviation from the Code (rule 2:4): report. Information pertaining to the location and time is available on According to the Code, a Board member shall not be the Nomination Committhe company’s website. Shareholders that are registered in Euroclear’s tee’s chairman. shareholders register on the record date and have registered particiExplanation: pation in adequate time are entitled to participate in the Annual GenChairman of the Board John S. Quinn is also the chairman of the Nomination Committee as it is a natural choice considering the ownership structure of eral Meeting and vote according to their shareholdings. All information Mekonomen. concerning the company’s meetings, such as registration, entitlement for items to be entered in the agenda in the notification, minutes, etc., is available on the company’s website. With regard to participation in Sustainability governance in Mekonomen Group the Annual General Meeting, the Board has deemed it is currently not The sustainability work within Mekonomen Group is an integrated financially justifiable to allow shareholders to participate in the Annual part of the operations as a part of the on-going business activities. General Meeting through any means other than physical presence. The basis of the work is comprised of the company’s core values and It is the company’s aim that the General Meeting be a consummate code of conduct together with a running stakeholder dialogue and body for shareholders, in accordance with the intentions of the materiality analysis. Swedish Companies Act, which is why the objective is that the Board The responsibility for the strategic sustainability work, as well as in its entirety, the representative of the Nomination Committee, the targets and follow-up rests with the Director of Sustainability who is President, auditors and other members of Group Management must a member of Group Management. The Board of Directors follows up always be present at the Meeting. the work in the Group Management’s reporting. The head or president of the respective company is responsible for operational work. Information from the Extraordinary General Meeting on 10 January Mekonomen Group has signed the UN Global Compact’s princi2017 ples in the areas of human rights, workings conditions, the environThe Extraordinary General Meeting was held on 10 January 2017 and ment and anti-corruption. This means that the Group commits to the the Meeting resolved in brief: UN Global Compact’s ten principles. A clause regarding fulfilment of • In accordance with a proposal by LKQ Corporation, Joseph M. the UN Global Compact is included in all new and renewed supplier Holsten and John S. Quinn were elected as Board members for the agreements. The principles are also a apart of the Group’s Code of period until the next Annual General Meeting. Conduct. • The Board fees approved by the 2016 Annual General Meeting shall Mekonomen Group’s Sustainability Report is available on pages be distributed between the withdrawing Board members and the 20-31 in the 2017 Annual Report and more on the sustainability work new Board members pro rata for their respective periods of service is available at mekonomen.com. for the time from the 2016 AGM until the end of the 2017 AGM. Shareholders Annual General Meeting 2017 The Mekonomen share has been listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm, The Annual General Meeting was held in Stockholm on 25 April 2017. Mid Cap segment since 29 May 2000. Share capital amounted to SEK The complete minutes of the Annual General Meeting are available 89,753,718 on 31 December 2017, represented by 35,901,487 shares. on the Mekonomen website at mekonomen.com. In brief, the Annual The total market value for the company on 31 December 2017 General Meeting resolved: amounted to SEK 5.4 billion, based on the closing price of SEK 149.25. • to adopt the income statement and balance sheet, the consolidated All shares provide the same voting rights and equal rights to the comincome statement and the consolidated balance sheet pany’s profit and capital. The company’s Articles of Association do not • to pay a dividend of SEK 7.0 per share to shareholders include any restrictions on how many votes each shareholder can cast • to discharge the members of the Board and the presidents from at a General Meeting. liability The number of shareholders on 31 December 2017 was 10,707 • that the number of members of the Board elected by the Annual (9,484). On the same date, the ten largest shareholders controlled 63.2 General Meeting be seven with no deputy members per cent (63.9) of the capital and voting rights and the participation of • to pay total Board fees of SEK 2,210,000, of which SEK 550,000 foreign owners accounted for 44.7 per cent (43.1) of the capital and relates to fees to the Chairman of the Board and SEK 310,000 voting rights. relates to the Executive Vice Chairman, and also SEK 270,000 Shareholders which directly or indirectly represent at least onerelates to fees to each of the other Board members elected by the tenth of the voting rights for all shares in Mekonomen are LKQ Annual General Meeting who are not employed by the Group. Corporation and subsidiaries, whose shareholding on 31 December Furthermore, fees for Committee work are to be paid as follows: 2017 amounted to 26.5 per cent (26.5). For further information on SEK 60,000 to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, SEK 35,000 Mekonomen’s share and shareholders, see pages 32–33. to each of the other members of the Audit Committee, SEK 35,000 to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and SEK 25,000 General Meeting to each of the other members of the Remuneration Committee The General Meeting is Mekonomen Group’s highest governing body, • to elect John S. Quinn as the new Chairman of the Board at which every shareholder is entitled to participate. The Annual • to re-elect Board members John S. Quinn, Kenny Bräck, Joseph M. General Meeting is to be held within six months of the close of the Holsten, Malin Persson, Helena Skåntorp and Christer Åberg and to financial year. The Annual General Meeting approves the income elect Magnus Håkansson as a new Board member statement and balance sheet, the appropriation of the compa• to re-elect the auditing firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers AB as the ny’s profit, decides on discharge from liability, elects the Board of company’s auditor for the period until the close of the 2018 Annual 42 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE General Meeting • to adopt proposals for guidelines regarding the composition of the Annual General Meeting 2018 Nomination Committee The Annual General Meeting will be held on 9 April 2018 at 3:00 p.m. at Nalen, Regeringsgatan 74, SE-111 39 Stockholm, Sweden. • to adopt the Board’s proposals for guidelines regarding remuneration of senior executives • to adopt the Board’s proposals concerning employees’ acquisition of shares in subsidiaries Specific information about the Board’s work • to adopt authorisation for the Board, for the period until the next Size and composition Annual General Meeting, on one or more occasions, with or withAccording to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors is to out preferential rights for shareholders, to make decisions on new comprise three to seven members and not more than three deputy share issues of not more than 3,590,149 shares members. The company’s Articles of Association have no specific provisions relating to the appointment and discharge of Board memNomination Committee bers or amendments to the Articles of Association. The Board of In accordance with the guidelines established at the Annual General Directors is to be elected annually at the Annual General Meeting. Meeting on 25 April 2017, Mekonomen Group has established a The Board of Directors shall consist of a well overall mix of the Nomination Committee. The company is to have a Nomination competencies that are important to govern Mekonomen’s strateCommittee comprising four members. The largest shareholders of gic work in a responsible and successful manner. Examples of such the company were contacted by the company’s Board based on the competencies include knowledge of retailing, the automotive industry, list of registered shareholders on 31 August 2017 as provided by corporate governance, compliance to rules and regulations, financing Euroclear Sweden AB. and financial analysis as well as remuneration issues. Earlier Board The Nomination Committee for the 2018 Annual General Meeting experience is another important competency. is comprised of John S. Quinn, LKQ Corporation, Evert Carlsson, The Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2017 resolved that the Swedbank Robur Fonder, Arne Lööw, Fourth Swedish National PenBoard was to comprise seven ordinary members with no deputy sion Fund and Carl Gustafsson, Didner & Gerge Småbolagsfond. In members. In accordance with the Nomination Committee’s proposal, accordance with the guidelines, John S. Quinn has been appointed the the Annual General Meeting resolved to re-elect John S. Quinn (also Chairman of the Nomination Committee. Mekonomen’s Board memelected as the new Chairman), Kenny Bräck, Joseph M. Holsten, ber, Helena Skåntorp, was co-opted to the Nomination Committee. Malin Persson, Helena Skåntorp and Christer Åberg (Executive Vice Fees are not paid to members of the Nomination Committee. Chairman) to the Board and to elect Magnus Håkansson as a new In accordance with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, the Board member. Nomination Committee is to have at least three members, one of All ordinary members are independent in relation to the company whom is to be appointed Chairman. The majority of these members and its management in accordance with the definition in the Swedish are to be independent in relation to the company and company manCorporate Governance Code. Five of the Board members are indeagement and at least one of the Nomination Committee members is pendent also in relation to major shareholders. The President is not to be independent in relation to the company’s largest shareholders a member of the Board and neither is any other member of Group in terms of the number of votes. Mekonomen Group’s Nomination Management. A more detailed presentation of the Board members is Committee comprises four members, all of whom are deemed to be provided on page 48. independent in relation to the company and company management. Mekonomen Group’s Nomination Committee also meets other Board members independence requirements. In the opinion of the Nomination Committee, the Board has a suitable composition considering the company’s operations, financial The Nomination Committee’s task is to present proposes to the position, stage of development and circumstances otherwise. An Annual General Meeting concerning: important starting point for the proposal of Board members was that • election of Chairman of the Meeting the Board’s composition should reflect and provide space for the dif• number of Board members and deputy Board members, ferent knowledge and experience that the company’s strategic devel• the election of the Chairman of the Board and other members of opment and governance may demand. The Nomination Committee the company’s Board of Directors, has particularly observed the requirement of diversity and breadth in • Board fees and any remuneration for committee work, the Board and the requirement of striving for an even gender distribu• the election and remuneration of auditors, and tion. According to the Nomination Committee, the composition is • guidelines on the composition of the Nomination Committee, etc. suitable to be able to meet such needs in the company’s operations. The Nomination Committee has chosen to use the Code’s rule 4.1 as In conjunction with its task, the Nominating Committee is to perform the diversity policy. the duties incumbent on nomination committees in accordance with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, and at the request of the Chairman Nomination Committee, the company is to provide human resources, The Chairman of the Board, John S. Quinn, is not employed by the such as a secretary function for the Committee, to facilitate its work. company and does not have any assignments with the company If necessary, the company is also to pay reasonable costs for external beyond his chairmanship. It is the opinion of the Board that John S. consultants deemed necessary by the Nomination Committee for it Quinn ensures that the Board conducts its assignments efficiently and to perform its duties. also fulfils its duties in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Mekonomen Group has not established any specific age limit for Board members or time limits pertaining to the length of time Board The Board’s working procedures members may sit on the Board. Auditors are elected annually when The Board is responsible for the company’s organisation and managethe matter is submitted to the Annual General Meeting. ment and is to also make decisions pertaining to strategic issues. DurMekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ing 2017, the Board held 14 meetings, of which one was a statutory Code’s requirements regarding assignment of the Board. meeting. The minutes of the meetings were recorded by the Board’s The Annual General Meeting resolved, in accordance with the secretary, who is the Group’s CFO. proposal from the Nomination Committee, to allocate Board fees Relevant meeting documentation was sent to all members prior to amounting to SEK 2,210,000, of which SEK 550,000 to the Chairman each meeting, which were then held in accordance with the approved of the Board and SEK 310,000 to the Executive Vice Chairman, and agenda. On occasions, other senior executives participated in Board SEK 270,000 to each of the other Board members. Furthermore, fees Meetings in a reporting capacity, as necessary. No dissenting opinions for Committee work are to be paid as follows: SEK 60,000 to the to be recorded in the minutes were expressed at any of the meetings Chairman of the Audit Committee, SEK 35,000 to each of the other during the year. The Board meetings during the year addressed the members of the Audit Committee, SEK 35,000 to the Chairman of fixed items of each meeting agenda, such as business situation, financial the Remuneration Committee and SEK 25,000 to each of the other reporting and investments. Other issues discussed in the Board during members of the Remuneration Committee. the year were strategies, market development, Mekonomen’s Swedish operations, risk analysis, formal work plans, policies, new financing and Board Committees the recruitment of a new President and CFO, respectively. In addition, The Board has established a Remuneration Committee and an Audit selected Board meetings discussed issues relating to annual accounts, Committee. The Committees’ work mainly comprises preparing interim reports and budget. issues and providing consultation, although the Board can delegate authority to make decisions in specific cases. The members and Assignments Chairmen of the Committees are appointed at the statutory Board In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Board’s aim meeting held directly after the election of Board members. was to devote particular attention to establishing overall goals for the operations and decide on strategies by which to achieve these goals Audit Committee and to continuously evaluate the operating management, with the aim The Audit Committee’s duties comprise: of ensuring the company’s governance, management and control. The • monitoring the company’s financial statements and making recomBoard is responsible for ensuring that suitable systems are in place mendations and proposals to ensure reporting reliability and to for the monitoring and control of the company’s operations and the be responsible for the preparation of the Board’s work on quality risks to the company associated with its operations, that control is assuring the company’s financial statements, including making implemented of compliance with laws, internal guidelines and other proposal on the “Board’s report on internal control” regarding the regulations and that the provision of external information is open, financial reporting for the respective financial year objective and relevant. The tasks of the Board also include establishing • with regard to the financial reporting, monitoring the efficiency of necessary guidelines for the company’s conduct in society with the the company’s internal control, internal audit and risk management aim of securing its long-term value-creating ability. • staying informed of the audit of the annual accounts and the There are written instructions that regulate the internal rules of consolidated accounts and the result of the Swedish Inspectorate of procedure in the Board and the distribution of assignments between Auditors’ quality control the Board and the President, and for the reporting process. The • informing the Board of the results of the audit and the manner in instructions are reviewed annually and are primarily: the rules of which the audit contributed to the reliability of the financial reportprocedure for the Board’s work, instructions for the President and ing and what role the Audit Committee had in the process authorisation regulations. • performing annual risk analyses together with the President and The Board evaluates its work every year and it is the duty of the Group CFO to govern the resources of the internal audit towards Chairman of the Board to ensure that evaluation is performed. In key risk areas 2017, the Chairman organised a written questionnaire for all Board • establishing an audit plan for internal audits and preparing an audit members. The collective opinion based on the 2017 evaluation is plan for the Board for external audits and ensuring coordination that the Board’s work functioned well and that the Board fulfilled the between them Overview of all points on the Board’s agenda in 2017 • Q4, year-end report. • Approval of the annual report. Statutory Board meeting: • Strategy • External auditors’ report. • Proposals to the Annual General • Board’s rules of procedure and meeting. • Dividends. Meeting. instructions for the President. • Evaluation/appointment of new • Committees’ rules of procedure. CEO. • Election of Vice Chairman. • Election of committee members. • Q1, interim report. • Company signatories. • Risk analysis. Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Ordinary Board meetings 2017 At each ordinary Board meeting, the Group’s position and performance and the outlook for the upcoming quarter were discussed. 44 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • meeting the auditors on a running basis to keep informed about Until the end of the 2017 Annual General Meeting, the Remuthe audit’s emphasis and scope as well as discussing the coordinaneration Committee consisted of Kenneth Bengtsson, Chair, Malin tion between the external and internal audits and the view of the Persson and, from 10 January 2017, Joseph M. Holsten, who replaced Company's risks Mia Brunell Livfors who withdrew as a member of the Remuneration • inspecting and monitoring the auditor’s impartiality and independCommittee on that date. ence and preparing guidelines for the other non-audit services that As of 9 May 2017, the Remuneration Committee consists of Board the company may procure from the company’s auditors and, where members Malin Persson (Chair), John S. Quinn, Joseph M. Holsten and necessary, grant pre-approval when the company’s auditors are Christer Åberg. engaged for assignments other than audit assignments The Remuneration Committee held six meetings in 2017, of which • annually following up audit costs against budget and the share of two were before 25 April and four after 25 April. The respective costs that pertain to the audit and assignments other than auditing member’s participation is presented in the table on page 48. The services company’s president, Pehr Oscarson, was also present at five of these • evaluating the audit effort and informing the company’s Nomination meetings. The Group’s CFO was the Committee’s secretary. Committee of the results of the evaluation • studying the audit report to the Audit Committee as per Article 11 Group Management of the Audit Regulation and taking any requisite action due to it President • assisting the company’s Nomination Committee in the preparation The President is appointed and may be discharged by the Board and of proposals on auditors and remuneration of the audit effort, his work is regularly evaluated by the Board, which occurs without the whereby the Audit Committee shall ensure that the auditor’s manpresence of Group Management. date period does not exceed applicable rules, procuring the audit Pehr Oscarson has been the President and CEO of Mekonomen and providing a recommended motivation in accordance with what Group since 1 March 2017. Prior to that, he served as the acting is stated in Article 16 of the Audit Regulation President and CEO of Mekonomen Group since 6 October 2016. In • annually evaluating the Audit Committee’s formal work plan addition to his assignment for Mekonomen Group, Pehr is the Vice • preparing other matters the Board assigns the Audit Committee to Chairman of SBF (Sveriges Bilgrossisters Förening Swedish Autohandle motive Wholesalers’ Association), and a Board member of Fresks Holding AB and Oscarson Invest Aktiebolag. Pehr Oscarson has no As of 9 May 2017, the Audit Committee consists of Board members shareholdings or partial ownership in companies that the Mekonomen Helena Skåntorp (Chair), John S. Quinn, Magnus Håkansson and Group has significant business ties with. Christer Åberg. In 2017, the Audit Committee held five meetings. The respective member’s participation is presented in the table on page Group Management 48. The Group’s external auditors, the Group’s CFO and Head of At 31 December 2017, Group Management consisted of the PresiAccounting also participated at the meetings. dent and CEO, the CFO, the President of Sørensen og Balchen and the Corporate HR Director. Remuneration Committee Group Management was supplemented by another eight functions The task of the Remuneration Committee is to discuss, decide on and as of 1 January 2018: the President of MECA Sweden, the Presipresent recommendations on the salaries, other employment terms dent of MECA Norway, the President of Mekonomen Sweden, the and incentive programmes for company management. However, President of Mekonomen Norway and the Corporate Directors for the Board in its entirety determines the remuneration and other Purchasing & Product Supply, Marketing & Communication, Legal employment terms for the President. The work of the Remuneration Affairs & Sustainability and the Head of business area Ventures. Committee is based on resolutions by the Annual General Meeting A more detailed presentation of current Group Management is pertaining to guidelines for remuneration of senior executives. found on page 49. • Q2, interim report. • Q3, interim report. • Budget. • Updating policies. • Evaluation of the Board’s work. Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration of senior executives that the executive is still employed at the 2019 Annual General MeetIt is considered very important to ensure that there is a clear link ing. No bonus was reserved as per 31 December 2017 pertaining to between remuneration and the Group’s distinct values and financial this bonus programme. goals in both the short and the long term. The guidelines for remuneration of senior executives approved by the 2017 Annual General Auditors Meeting entail that the company is to offer market-based remuneraThe auditors are appointed at the Annual General Meeting and are tion that allows the Group to recruit and retain the right executives, charged with reviewing the company’s financial reporting and the and entail that the criteria for determining remuneration is to be based Board’s and President’s management of the company. At the 2017 on the significance of work duties and employees’ competencies, expeAnnual General Meeting, PricewaterhouseCoopers AB (PwC), with rience and performance. Authorised Public Accountant Lennart Danielsson as Auditor in Charge, was appointed as the auditing firm until the 2018 Annual Remuneration is to comprise: General Meeting. PwC has an organisation comprising broad and • fixed basic salary specialised competency that is well-suited to Mekonomen Group’s • variable remuneration operations and has been the company’s auditing firm since 2014. • pension benefits • other benefits and Fees to auditors, SEK M • severance pay. 2017 2016 The guidelines encompass Group Management, including the PresPwC Fees for audit assignments 6 7 ident. Remuneration is determined by the Board’s Remuneration Audit-related services other than the audit assignment 0 0 Committee. However, remuneration of the President is determined Tax consultancy 0 0 by the Board in its entirety. Other services 0 0 The President Pehr Oscarson has a fixed cash basic salary per Total fees to PwC 7 7 month and a short-term cash variable salary portion, which is based on the company’s earnings and individual qualitative parameters and that can amount to a maximum of 60 per cent of the basic annual PwC submits an auditor’s report for Mekonomen AB (publ.) and for salary. The President receives a pension benefit amounting to a the company’s subsidiaries. The auditors also perform a review of the maximum of 30 percentage points of the base salary. Other benefits third-quarter interim report. The audit is conducted in accordance consist of a company car. The period of notice for the President is 12 with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted months if employment is terminated by the company, and six months auditing standards in Sweden. The audit of annual report documents if terminated by the President. for legal entities outside Sweden is conducted in accordance with The distribution between basic salary and variable remuneration statutory requirements and other applicable rules in each country. is to be proportionate to the senior executive’s responsibilities and authorities. The short-term variable remuneration for other senior The Board report on internal control regarding financial executives is based on the Group’s earnings and on individual qualitareporting tive parameters and can amount to a maximum of a certain percentUnder the Swedish Companies Act, the Board shall ensure that the age of the fixed annual salary. The percentage is linked to the position company’s organisation is structured so that accounting, financial of each individual and varies between 33 and 60 percentage points for management and the company's financial affairs otherwise can be members of Group Management. Other benefits refer primarily to adequately controlled. The Swedish Corporate Governance Code company cars. Pension premiums are paid in an amount that is based (“the Code”) clarifies this and prescribes that the Board is responsible on the ITP plan or a corresponding system for employees outside for internal control. This report is prepared in accordance the Annual Sweden. Pensionable salary comprises basic salary. Accounts Act and the Code. The reporting is limited to addressing The company applies a period of notice of no more than 12 internal control concerning financial reporting in accordance with the months. In addition, severance pay of a maximum of 12 months salary Code, item 7.4. may be paid in the event of termination of employment by the comThe Board supervises the quality of the financial reporting through pany. Upon resignation, a six-month period of notice applies. instructions to the President. It is the President’s duty, jointly with At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, it was also resolved that the Group’s CFO, to review and quality-assure all external financial Group Management and a number of selected, business-critical senior reporting including financial statements, interim reports, annual executives may receive long-term variable remuneration from the reports and press releases with financial content, as well as presentacompany. tion material in connection with meetings with the media, shareholdThe criteria for determining the variable remuneration portion for ers and financial institutions. each individual is decided by the Board’s Remuneration Committee, The rules of procedure decided annually by the Board include and for the President by the Board in its entirety. The long-term varidetailed instructions on, for example, the financial reports and the able remuneration is to be profit-based and calculated on the Group’s type of financial information to be submitted to the Board. In addition earnings for the 2016-2018 financial years. The entire bonus proto financial statements, interim reports and annual reports, the Board gramme, as an expense for the company, is to amount to a maximum examines and evaluates comprehensive financial information that of SEK 32 M for the period. Furthermore, an additional requirement pertains to the Group as a whole and to the various units included in to the above is that the average price paid for the Mekonomen share the Group. on Nasdaq Stockholm on the last trading day in December 2018 is to The Board also examines, primarily through the Board’s Audit exceed the Nasdaq Stockholm PI index for the programme period. Committee, the most significant accounting policies applied to the The bonus may be realised in whole, in part or not at all depending financial reporting by the Group, and significant changes to policies in on the consolidated profit during the duration of the long-term remuthe reporting. The Audit Committee’s duties also include examining neration programme. The right to variable remuneration presupposes internal and external audit reports regarding internal control and the 46 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE processes for financial reporting. Control activities The Group’s external auditors report to the Board as required, but Risks of errors in the financial reporting are reduced through a high at least once a year. At least one of these meetings, the President and level of internal control over the financial reporting, with specific focus CFO leave after presenting their formal reports to enable Board memon significant areas defined by the Board. Within Mekonomen Group, bers to conduct discussions with auditors without the participation of the control structures comprise an organisation with clear roles that senior executives. The Group’s external auditors also participate at the enables effective and, from an internal control perspective, suitable meetings of the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee reports back division of responsibilities, specific control activities that aim to identify to the Board after every meeting. All Audit Committee meetings are and prevent risks of misstatements in the reporting in time. minuted and the minutes are available for all Board members and the Examples of control activities include clear decision-making proauditors. cesses and decision orders for significant decisions, results analyses and other control activities within significant processes. Control Control environment activities within these processes include analytical follow-up, spot The control environment represents the basis for the internal control checks, account reconciliation, inventory checks in stock and stores over financial reporting. An important part of the control environand engagement reviews. ment is that decision paths, authorities and responsibilities must be clearly defined and communicated between various levels in the Internal audit organisation and that the control documents are available in the form In 2017, Mekonomen Group hired the auditing firm Deloitte to of internal policies, handbooks, guidelines and manuals. Thus, a key conduct the internal audit in the Group. The internal audit functions part of the Board’s work is to prepare and approve a number of as an independent and objective assurance and advisory function, fundamental policies, guidelines and frameworks. These include the which creates value and increases certainty in internal control. This is Board’s rules of procedure, Instructions for the President, Investment done by evaluating and proposing improvement in such areas as risk policies, Financial policies and the Insider policy. The aim of these management, compliance with policies and efficiency in the internal policies is to create a basis for sound internal control. control over the financial reporting. The function works throughout Furthermore, the Board focuses on ensuring that the organisathe Group. Reporting is done to the Audit Committee, the President tional structure provides distinct roles, responsibilities and processes and the CFO and information is provided to management in each that benefit the effective management of the operation’s risks and business area and other units on the results of the audits performed. facilitate goal fulfilment. Part of the responsibility structure includes an obligation for the Board to evaluate the operation’s performance Information and communications and results on a regular basis, through appropriate report packages Policies and guidelines are particularly important for accurate accountcontaining income statements, balance sheets, analyses of important ing, reporting and dissemination of information. Policies and guidelines key figures and comments pertaining to the business status of each on the financial process are updated at Mekonomen Group. Such operation. The Board has established an Audit Committee to assist updates mainly take place in each Group function for the various the Board specifically in the financial reporting. To help strengthen operations through e-mails, but also at regular CFO meetings in which the internal control, Mekonomen Group has prepared a financial representatives from the Group finance function participate. For handbook that provides an overall view of existing policies, rules and communication with internal and external parties, a communications regulations and procedures within the financial area. This is a living policy is in place that states guidelines for conducting communication. document, which is updated regularly and adapted to internal and The aim of the policy is to ensure that all information obligations are external changes. In addition to the financial handbook, there are complied with in a correct and complete manner. instructions that provide guidance on daily work in stores and the rest of the organisation, for example, pertaining to stock taking and Follow-up cash-register reconciliation, etc. The Board evaluates the information submitted by Group Management and auditors. In conjunction with this, the Audit Committee was Risk assessment responsible for the preparation of the Board’s work to quality assure Mekonomen Group conducts surveys of the Group’s risks. In these the Group’s financial reporting. The CEO and CFO hold monthly surveys, a number of items are identified in the financial statements reviews of financial position with each Head of Operations. Group and administrative flows and processes where there is an elevated risk finance function also cooperates closely with the Group company of error. The company works to reduce these risks by strengthening finance managers and controllers of Group companies on matters controls. Furthermore, risks are addressed in a special forum, including pertaining to accounting and reporting. The follow-up and feedback questions related to start-ups and acquisitions. For a more detailed concerning possible deviations arising in the internal controls are a key description of risks, refer to Risks and uncertainties in the Administrapart of the internal control work, since this is an efficient manner for tion Report and in Note 37 Financial risks in the 2017 Annual Report. the company to ensure that errors are corrected and that the control is further strengthened. More information is available on mekonomen.com • Articles of association • Code of Conduct • Information from previous General Meetings, from 2006 • Information about the Nomination Committee • Information about principles of remuneration of senior executives • The Board’s evaluation of guidelines for remuneration of programmes for variable remuneration • Corporate Governance Reports from 2006 • Information about the 2018 Annual General Meeting Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MEKONOMEN ANNUAL REPORT 2017 – MEMBERS OF THE BOARD John S. Quinn Christer Åberg Kenny Bräck Joseph M. Holsten Magnus Håkansson Malin Persson Helena Skåntorp Board position Chairman of the Board. Executive Vice Board member. Board member Board member. Board member. Board member. Member of MeChairman. Member Member of Member of MeChairman of Chairman of konomen’s Audit of Mekonomen’s Mekonomen’s Remukonomen’s Audit Mekonomen’s RemuMekonomen’s Audit Committee. Audit Committee. neration Committee. Committee. neration Committee. Committee. Member of Member of Mekonomen’s RemuMekonomen’s Remuneration Committee. neration Committee. Education M.B.A, Bachelor of IHM Business School Upper secondary M.B.A, Bachelor of Graduate in Business MSc in Engineering, Graduate in Business Business Administration Stockholm and training school education. Arts and certified Administration, Chalmers University Administration, and certified public courses at Unilever. public accountant. Stockholm School of of Technology. Stockholm University. accountant. Economics, and holds a Master of Science in Management, MIT Sloan School. Elected in 2017 2014 2007 2017 2017 2015 2004 Born 1958 1966 1966 1952 1963 1968 1960 Position and Board assignments CEO and Managing DiCEO, Food Folk AS/ Self-employed. Chairman of the CEO of RNB Retail Member of the Self-employed. rector of LKQ Europe. McDonalds Nordic Minority owner and Board of LKQ and Brands AB (publ), Boards of Getinge Board member Member of the Board Board member of Corporation. Member Chairman of the Boards AB (publ), HEXPOL of ByggPartner i of Axfood AB (publ), Motorsport Auctions of the Board of of Tenant & Partner AB (publ), Peab AB Dalarna Holding AB Chairman of the Ltd. Test and DevelCovanta Holding Group AB and GS1 and Konecranes Plc. (publ). Chairman of the Board of Apoex AB. opment Driver for Corporation. Sweden AB, Chairman Board and President McLaren Automotive. of the Board of RNB of Skåntorp & Co Retail and Brands AB AB. Board member (publ) 2010-2011. of Storyfire AB. Work experience Executive Vice President CEO, Hilding Anders Former professional President and CEO CEO of Expert Sverige President of Volvo President of Lernia AB. and CFO of LKQ Group. President of racing driver. of LKQ Corporation AB, CFO of KF Group Technology AB and the President and CEO Corporation for six Orkla Confectionary for 13 years. Active and Consultant at Chalmers University of SBC Sveriges years. Senior Vice & Snacks, President for 17 years in the McKinsey & Co. of Technology BostadsrättsCentrum President, CFO and of Arla Foods AB, U.S. and international Foundation. Many AB. President and Treasurer of Casella President of Atria operations of Waste years of experience CEO of Jarowskij, CFO Waste Systems, Inc., Scandinavia AB, senior Management, Inc., most from large Swedish of Arla, Authorised Senior Vice President positions at Unilever. recently as Executive industrial companies, Public Accountant of Finance at Allied Vice President and including SKF, ASG at Öhrlings/PwC. Waste Industries, Inc. COO. Prior to that and the Volvo Group. and held several financial auditor at a public and operating roles at accounting firm. Waste Management, Inc. Total remuneration, SEK 610,000 370,000 270,000 295,000 305,000 305,000 330,000 Attendance at Board meetings 14/14 14/14 12/14 14/14 9/9 14/14 14/14 Attendance at Audit Committee meetings 4/4 5/5 – – 77 – 5/5 Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings 4/4 4/4 – 6/6 – 6/6 – Own shareholdings and shareholdings of related parties None. 2,500 1,000 None. None. 1,000 2,000 Independent of the company/company management Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Independent of major shareholders No, dependent in Yes. Yes. No, dependent in Yes. Yes. Yes. relation to major relation to major shareholders of shareholders of the company. the company. Changes in the Board Changes in Group Management At the Extraordinary General Meeting on 10 January 2017, Jospeh M. Holsten and John S. Quinn were elected At 31 December 2017, Group Management consisted of the President and CEO, the CFO, the President of as new Board members. At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, Magnus Håkansson was elected as a new Board Sørensen og Balchen and the Corporate HR Director. Group Management was supplemented by another eight member. functions as of 1 January 2018: the President of MECA Sweden, the President of MECA Norway, the President of Mekonomen Sweden, the President of Mekonomen Norway and the Corporate Directors for Purchasing Kenneth Bengtsson withdrew from the Board in connection with the 2017 AGM. Kenneth Bengtsson partic& Product Supply, Marketing & Communication, Legal Affairs & Sustainability and the Head of business area ipated in five out of five Board meetings before the 2017 AGM. He was also a member of the Remuneration Ventures. Committee until the 2017 AGM and participated in two of two meetings. He was a member of the Remuneration Committee and participated in one of one meetings until the 2017 AGM. On 14 June 2017, Per Hedblom left the post of CFO at his own request for a new assignment. Marcus Larsson left the post of Executive Vice President at his own request in the third quarter of 2017. Örjan Grandin left the Remuneration and compensation set by the AGM are expensed every calendar year. Remuneration for Board post of Corporate Supply Chain Director at his own request in the fourth quarter of 2017. and committee work during 2017 to Kenneth Bengtsson was therefore reported under 2016. 48 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GROUP MANAGEMENT FROM 1 JANUARY 2018 Pehr Oscarsson Torhild Barlaup Frank Bekken Morten Birkeland Gabriella Granholm Robert Hård Role President and CEO. President, MECA Norway. President, Mekonomen President, Sørensen Director of Marketing Director of Legal Affairs Norway. og Balchen. & Communication. & Sustainability. Born 1963 1968 1959 1964 1982 1966 Education Technical upper secondary Graduate in Business Graduate in Business Degree in Economics, Jurisprudence civil Master of Laws, school, supplemented Administration, Norwegian Administration, Oslo Oslo Business School. law, Luleå University Lund University. with short economics and School of Economics Business School. of Technology, PR and management courses. (NHH), Master of Communication, Berghs Management programme, School of Communication. BI Norwegian Business School, further studies in board work (BI). Employed 2001 2012 2000 2008 2010 2003 Work experience President of MECA CEO of Snap Drive AS, IT Consultant Data Design Head of Marketing Director of Clerk of Helsingborg Scandinavia and before Bertel O Steen (BOS), AS, President Christoffersen Nordic at Stabburet, Communications, District Court. Attorney-atthat held senior positions Purchasing Manager and & Bekken AS, President Marketing Director and Mekonomen Group, law, Advokatfirman Vinge. in MECA since 2001, Marketing Manager BOS Mekonomen Norway. Operations Director at Information Manager, Director of Legal Affairs, President of Swecar AB. Deler og Logistikk, Logistics Intersport, Sales Director IMA Sport. HR and Environment, Manager Mercedes-Benz, at Tine, Division Director at MECA Group. Researcher – Institute of NetCom Commercial and Transport Economics. Private markets. Board appointments Deputy Chairman of Board member of Chairman of the Board of – – – Association of Swedish Dekk1 AS. Figo AS, Member of the Wholesalers of Automotive Board of Svelviken AS. Parts and Accessories (SBF). Member of the Board of Fresks Holding AB and Oscarson Invest Aktiebolag. Own shareholdings and shareholdings of related parties 18,500 None. None. None. None. None. Åsa Källenius Tobias Narvinger Magnus Rylander Stig Tornell Katarina Zetterqvist Carl-Johan Åström Role CFO. Director for Purchasing Head of business President, Mekonomen HR Director. President, MECA Sweden. & Product Supply. area Ventures. Sweden. Born 1967 1974 1964 1967 1964 1980 Education Graduate in Business Master of Science in Graduate in Business Graduate in Business Bachelor of Science, MBA, Master of Business Administration, Engineering Physics, Chalmers Administration, Administration, Organization Sociology, Administration. School of Stockholm University. University of Technology. Stockholm University. Karlstad University. Stockholm University. Economics and Management, MBA Master’s Course Lund University. in International Business Administration, Chalmers University of Technology Employed 2017 2011-2016, 20172014 2017 2015 2017 Work experience CFO of Tele2 Sweden, Various positions in CFO of the MECA Group, President, Kronans Apotek, HR Director Imtech Nordic, President of Villeroy & Boch CFO Inflight Service, development, sales and CFO of Indiska Magasinet, Assortment & Marketing HR Manager Coop Sverige, Nordic Tableware, Sales Financial Manager purchasing Scania CV CFO Adidas Nordics, Director Kronans Apotek, HR Manager Strängbetong. and Marketing Director Spendrups Bryggerier. AB in Södertälje. Financial Director Scribona Purchasing Director Reitan Roles in HR, DHK, FRA Odd Molly USA. Manager Denmark and multiple roles Servicehandel, Cluster and Spånga Tensta City International Sales BRIO AB. in finance in Alfa Laval. Manager Convenience District Administration. Retail UK, Irl & Nordics Shell International. Board appointments Green Landscaping, – – Board member – – Källenius Invest AB, Apoteksgruppen. KAAX Investment AB, KAAX Fastigheter AB. Own shareholdings and shareholdings of related parties 5,000 1,000 150 None. None. 80 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 49 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated income statement SEK M Note 2017 2016 Net sales 3 5,850 5,786 Other operating revenue 150 151 Total revenue 6,000 5,937 Operating expenses Goods for resale 17 -2,654 -2,686 Other external costs 4 -1,249 -1,229 Personnel costs 5 -1,386 -1,366 Operating profit before depreciation/amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible fixed assets (EBITDA) 710 656 Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets 6 -60 -62 Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets (EBITA) 649 594 Amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets 6 -127 -113 Operating profit (EBIT) 9 522 481 Financial income and expenses Interest income 4 5 Interest expenses -29 -28 Other financial items 9 -23 -12 Profit after financial items 475 446 Tax on profit for the year 10 -107 -105 Profit for the year 368 342 Profit for the year attributable to: Parent Company’s shareholders 361 335 Non-controlling interests 7 7 Total profit for the year 368 342 Earnings per share attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders Earnings per share, SEK1) 10.05 9.32 Average number of shares1) 35,901,487 35,901,487 1) No dilution is applicable. For further information on data per share, refer to pages 32-33. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK M Note 2017 2016 Profit for the year 368 342 Other comprehensive income: Components that will not be reclassified to profit for the year: Actuarial gains and losses 0 -1 Components that may later be reclassified to profit for the year: Exchange-rate differences on translation of foreign subsidiaries -51 105 Cash-flow hedging1) 3 -4 Total other comprehensive income, net after tax2) -48 100 Comprehensive income for the year 320 442 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 313 434 Non-controlling interests 7 8 Comprehensive income for the year 320 442 1) Holding of financial interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes, valued according to level 2 defined in IFRS 13. 2) For information about tax recognised directly against items in other comprehensive income, refer to Note 15. 50 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated balance sheet SEK M Note 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Assets Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 12 Goodwill 1,872 1,883 Brands 324 327 Franchise contracts 14 19 Customer relations 360 415 Capitalised expenditure for IT systems 116 113 Total intangible fixed assets 2,686 2,757 Tangible fixed assets Improvement costs, third-party property 13 23 27 Equipment and transport 14 231 154 Total tangible fixed assets 254 181 Financial fixed assets Investments accounted for using the equity method 27 22 2 Other financial fixed assets 11, 16 39 44 Total financial fixed assets 62 46 Deferred tax assets 15 93 77 Total fixed assets 3,095 3,061 Current assets Goods for resale 17 1,382 1,279 Current receivables 11, 18, 19 823 821 Cash and cash equivalents 11, 20 254 291 Total current assets 2,459 2,391 Total assets 5,554 5,452 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Shareholders’ equity 28 Share capital 90 90 Other capital contributions 1,456 1,456 Reserves -182 -134 Profit brought forward including profit for the year 1,000 900 Total shareholders’ equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 2,363 2,311 Non-controlling interests 16 14 Total shareholders’ equity 2,379 2,324 Long-term liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions, interest-bearing 11, 21 1,451 1,334 Deferred tax liabilities 15 168 163 Provisions 22 21 27 Total long-term liabilities 1,640 1,524 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions, interest-bearing 11, 21 255 404 Tax liabilities 84 94 Other current liabilities, non-interest-bearing 11, 23, 24 1,182 1,105 Provisions 22 14 0 Total current liabilities 1,535 1,603 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 5,554 5,452 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 51 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other Total attribucapital Profit table to Parent NonTotal shareShare contribubrought Company controlling holders’ SEK M capital tions Reserves forward shareholders interests Capital Opening balance on 1 January 2016 90 1,456 -234 831 2,143 12 2,155 Profit for the year 335 335 7 342 Other comprehensive income: 100 -1 99 1 100 Comprehensive income for the year – – 100 334 434 8 442 Transactions with shareholders Dividends -251 -251 -8 -259 Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling interests -14 -14 1 -14 Total transactions with shareholders: – – – -265 -265 -7 -273 Closing balance on 31 December 2016 90 1,456 -134 900 2,311 14 2,324 Opening balance on 1 January 2017 90 1,456 -134 900 2,311 14 2,324 Profit for the year 361 361 7 368 Other comprehensive income: -48 0 -48 0 -48 Comprehensive income for the year – – -48 361 313 7 320 Transactions with shareholders Dividends -251 -251 -7 -258 Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling interests -9 -9 2 -7 Total transactions with shareholders: – – – -261 -261 -5 -265 Closing balance on 31 December 2017 90 1,456 -182 1,000 2,363 16 2,379 52 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated cash-flow statement SEK M Note 2017 2016 Operating activities Profit after financial items 475 446 Adjustments for items not affecting liquidity 30 200 196 675 642 Tax paid -66 -153 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 609 489 Cash flow from changes in working capital Decrease (+) / increase (-) in inventories -127 -40 Decrease (+) / increase (-) in receivables -74 33 Decrease (-) / increase (+) in liabilities 88 61 Increase (-) / decrease (+) in working capital -113 54 Cash flow from operating activities 496 544 Investments Acquisition of subsidiaries and operations 31 -59 -17 Divestment of subsidiaries and operations 9 29 Acquisition of tangible fixed assets 13.14 -130 -58 Divestment of tangible fixed assets 2 0 Acquisition of intangible fixed assets 12 -34 -53 Acquisition/sale of participations in associated companies and joint ventures 27 -20 0 Purchase of financial fixed assets -1 -3 Increase (-) / decrease (+) of long-term receivables 4 8 Cash flow from investing activities -229 -94 Financing activities 30 Acquisition of non-controlling interests 31 -8 -14 Divestment of non-controlling interests 31 0 0 Change in overdraft facilities -148 -58 Loans raised 21 258 – Amortisation of loans -139 -136 Dividends paid -258 -259 Cash flow from financing activities -295 -466 Cash flow for the year -27 -16 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 291 295 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents -9 12 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 20 254 291 In the comparison period, cash flow from discontinued operations is included regarding the Danish store operations in an amount of SEK -12 M, of which SEK -17 M was from operating activities and SEK 5 M was from investing activities. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, refer to Note 34. Interest received amounted to SEK 4 M (5) and interest paid amounted to SEK 29 M (28). Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 53 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income statement for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2017 2016 Net sales 3, 32 34 34 Other operating revenue 47 50 Total revenue 81 84 Operating expenses Goods for resale -1 -4 Other external costs 4 -86 -73 Personnel costs 5 -25 -44 Depreciation/amortisation of tangible and intangible fixed assets 6 0 0 EBIT -31 -38 Financial income and expenses Result from participations in Group companies 7 315 19 Interest income 26 24 Interest expenses -31 -27 Other financial items 9 -13 -17 Profit after financial items 267 -38 Appropriations 8 171 156 Profit before tax 438 118 Tax on profit for the year 10 -11 0 Profit for the year 427 118 Statement of comprehensive income for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2017 2016 Profit for the year 427 118 Other comprehensive income, net after tax – – Comprehensive income for the year 427 118 54 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance sheet for the Parent Company SEK M Note 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Assets Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets Improvement costs, third-party property 13 0 0 Equipment and transport 0 0 Total tangible fixed assets 0 0 Financial fixed assets Participations in Group companies 26 3,030 3,012 Receivables from Group companies 121 99 Deferred tax assets 15 96 79 Total financial fixed assets 3,248 3,190 Total fixed assets 3,248 3,190 Current assets Current receivables Accounts receivable 9 8 Receivables from Group companies 1,502 1,242 Tax assets – 56 Other receivables 11 7 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 19 9 7 Total current receivables 1,531 1,319 Cash and cash equivalents 20 152 163 Total current assets 1,683 1,482 Total assets 4,931 4,673 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Shareholders’ equity 28 Restricted shareholders’ equity Share capital 90 90 Statutory reserve 3 3 Total restricted shareholders’ equity 93 93 Non-restricted shareholders’ equity Profit brought forward 2,297 2,431 Profit for the year 427 118 Total non-restricted shareholders’ equity 2,724 2,549 Total shareholders’ equity 2,817 2,642 Untaxed reserves 252 210 Provisions 22 3 2 Long-term liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 21 1,446 1,324 Total long-term liabilities 1,446 1,324 Current liabilities Overdraft facilities 21 117 265 Other liabilities to credit institutions 21 136 136 Accounts payable 1 2 Liabilities to Group companies 145 69 Current tax liabilities 4 – Other liabilities 1 1 Accrued expenses and deferred income 24 11 22 Total current liabilities 414 495 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 4,931 4,673 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 55 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the Parent Company Non-restricRestricted shareholders’ ted shareholequity ders’ equity Profit Total shareStatutory brought holders’ SEK M Share capital reserve forward equity Opening balance on 1 January 2016 90 3 2,682 2,775 Profit for the year 118 118 Other comprehensive income – Comprehensive income for the year 118 118 Transactions with shareholders Dividends -251 -251 Total transactions with shareholders -251 -251 Closing balance on 31 December 2016 90 3 2,549 2,642 Opening balance on 1 January 2017 90 3 2,549 2,642 Profit for the year 427 427 Other comprehensive income – – Comprehensive income for the year 427 427 Transactions with shareholders Dividends -251 -251 Total transactions with shareholders -251 -251 Closing balance on 31 December 2017 90 3 2,724 2,817 The number of shares as at 31 December 2017 amounted to 35,901,487 (35,901,487) with a quotient value of SEK 2.50 (2.50) per share. 56 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cash-flow statement for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2017 2016 Operating activities Profit after financial items 267 -38 Adjustments for items not affecting liquidity 30 -6 21 261 -17 Tax paid 31 -42 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 292 -59 Cash flow from changes in working capital Decrease (+) / increase (-) in receivables 18 599 Decrease (-) / increase (+) in liabilities -9 -99 Increase (-) / decrease (+) in working capital 9 500 Cash flow from operating activities 301 441 Investments Divestment of subsidiaries and operations 2 – Capital contributions paid 26 -20 -35 Acquisition of tangible fixed assets 13 – 0 Increase (-) / decrease (+) in long-term receivables -16 -8 Cash flow from investing activities -34 -43 Financing activities Change in overdraft facilities -148 -58 Loans raised 21 258 0 Amortisation of loans -136 -136 Dividends paid -251 -251 Cash flow from financing activities -278 -445 Cash flow for the year -11 -47 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 163 210 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 20 152 163 Profit after financial items includes dividends received from subsidiaries of SEK 315 M (47). Interest received amounted to SEK 26 M (24) and interest paid amounted to SEK 31 M (27). Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 57 NOTES NOTES ACCOUNTING POLICIES IFRS 16 Leases NOTE 1 In January 2016, IASB published a new leasing standard that will replace IAS 17 Leases and associated interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SIC-27. The standard was adopted Accounting and measurement policies by the EU in November 2017. IFRS 16 requires assets and liabilities attributable to all The most important accounting policies that were applied to the preparation of these leases to be recognised in the balance sheet with some exceptions, such as the leasing consolidated financial statements are stated below. These policies were consistently period being 12 months or shorter or the underlying asset having a low value. This applied for all years presented, unless otherwise stated. recognition is based on the view that the lessee has a right to use an asset during a The consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with the Annual specific time period and at the same time an obligation to pay for this right. The recogAccounts Act, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as approved by the nition for the lessor will essentially remain unchanged. The standard is to be applied to EU and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee that apply for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Early adoption is permitted. financial years beginning on 01 January 2017. Furthermore, the Swedish Financial The Group has not yet completed the evaluation of the effects of IFRS 16, but Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Regulations for assesses that it will have a material impact on total assets, increased fixed assets and Groups was applied. liabilities, and on EBITDA and interest expenses in the income statement. The functional currency of the Parent Company is Swedish kronor (SEK), which is also the Group’s presentation currency. All amounts are stated in SEK M, unless Other new standards, amendments or interpretations of existing standards that have otherwise stated. not come into effect are not relevant to the Group at present or are deemed not to The items in the Annual Report are measured at cost, with the exception of certain have any material effect on the Group’s earnings or financial position. financial instruments, which are measured at fair value. The Parent Company’s financial statements were prepared in accordance with the Consolidated financial statements Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities. Subsidiaries Preparing financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of certain The consolidated financial statements include the Parent Company and all companies key estimates for accounting purposes. Furthermore, management is required to make (including structured companies) over which the Parent Company has a controlling certain assessments in the application of the consolidated accounting policies. The areinfluence. The Group controls a company when the Group is exposed to, or has rights as that include a high degree of complicated assessments or areas where assumptions to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect and estimates are of material significance to the consolidated financial statements are those returns through its power over a company. Subsidiaries are included in the stated in Note 2. consolidated financial statements from the point in time at which controlling influence is achieved and excluded from the consolidated financial statements from the point in Amended and new accounting policies for 2017 time at which the controlling influence ceases. The Group applies a number of new standards and interpretations as of 01 January The purchase method was used for recognising the Group’s business combinations. 2017. None of the new standards and interpretations applied by Mekonomen Group The purchase consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary is measured at fair as of 01 January 2017 has had any significant impact on the consolidated financial value on transferred assets, liabilities arising in the Group from previous owners of statements. the acquired company and the shares issued by the Group. The purchase consideration also includes the fair value of all assets or liabilities resulting from an agreement Amended accounting policies 2018 and later on contingent consideration. Identifiable acquired assets and assumed liabilities in a A number of new standards and amendments of interpretations and existing standbusiness combination are initially measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. For ards come into effect for financial years beginning on 1 January 2017 and were not apeach acquisition meaning, acquisition by acquisition the Group decides whether the plied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. The most important non-controlling interests in the acquired company are measured at fair value or proamendments for Mekonomen Group are: portionate to the holding’s share of the carrying amount of the acquired company’s identifiable net assets. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as they arise. IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” regulates how revenue is to be If the business combination is a step acquisition, the earlier equity shares in the recognised. The principles on which IFRS 15 is based are to provide users of financial acquired company are re-measured to its fair value on the date of acquisition. Any statements with more informative, relevant disclosures of the company’s revenue. gains or losses arising are recognised in profit or loss. The expanded disclosure requirements entail that information is to be provided about Each contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is measured at fair the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from value on the date of acquisition. The subsequent changes in fair value of contingent a contract with a customer. Under IFRS 15, revenue is to be recognised when the consideration are recognised in profit or loss. Contingent consideration classified as customer controls the sold good or service and can use and obtain the benefits from shareholders’ equity is not re-measured and the subsequent adjustment is recognised the good or service. in shareholders’ equity. IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts, and associGoodwill is initially measured at the amount by which the total purchase considerated SICs and IFRICs. IFRS 15 will come into effect on 1 January 2018. As a transition ation and fair value for the non-controlling interests exceeds the fair value of identifiamethod, companies can choose between “full retroactivity” or prospective application ble acquired assets and assumed liabilities. If the purchase consideration is lower than with additional disclosures. the fair value of the acquired company’s net assets, the difference is recognised directly Mapping of the Group’s revenue flows and evaluation of the effects of implemenin profit or loss. tation were done in 2017. IFRS 15 will not have a significant impact on Mekonomen Where necessary, subsidiaries’ accounting is adjusted to comply with the same polGroup’s financial statements besides expanded disclosure requirements. IFRS 15 icies applied by the other Group companies. All internal transactions between Group essentially does not affect revenue recognition in the income statement for the Group. companies and Group intermediaries are eliminated when preparing the consolidated In the balance sheet, total assets will in the future increase by around SEK 5-8 M due financial statements. to gross recognition of provisions for product returns. The Group’s inventory of Transactions with non-controlling interests that will not result in a loss of control goods for resale and provisions will increase by these amounts. The Group has chosen are recognised as shareholders’ equity transactions – meaning, transactions with to use the modified retrospective approach which is why the comparative figures will shareholders in their roles as owners. In acquisitions from non-controlling interests, not be restated. the difference between the fair value of purchase consideration paid and the actual acquired portion of the carrying amount of the subsidiary’s net assets is recognised in IFRS 9 Financial Instruments shareholders’ equity. Profits or losses from divestments to non-controlling interests The standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial are also recognised in shareholders’ equity. assets and financial liabilities. It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that addressed the classiWhen the Group no longer has controlling influence, each remaining holding is fication and measurement of financial instruments and introduces a new impairment measured at fair value on the date controlling influence ceases. The change in the model. The new standard requires more disclosures on expected credit losses from carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss. The fair value is used as the initial financial instruments and risk management in hedge accounting. The standard is to be carrying amount and is the basis for continued recognition of the remaining holding in applied to financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2018. associated companies, joint ventures or financial assets. All amounts pertaining to the Evaluation of the effects of the implementation on IFRS 9 was done in 2017. divested unit previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised as The standard will not have a significant impact on Mekonomen Group’s financial if the Group had directly divested the assets or liabilities in question. This may result statements besides expanded disclosure requirements. The introduction of IFRS 9 will in the amount previously recognised in other comprehensive income being reclassified not affect the income statement or total assets for the Group in material amounts. to profit or loss. The way of calculating impairment losses on accounts receivable and loan receivables will change and take place according to the simplified model in IFRS 9. The Group has Associated companies chosen to used the modified retrospective approach which is why the comparative Associated companies are all companies over which the Group has significant influence figures will not be restated. but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting rights. Investments in associated companies are recognised 58 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 NOTES using the equity method. Mekonomen Group has only one associated company with a Remuneration of employees marginal impact on the Group. The Group has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension plans. A defined-benefit pension plan is a pension plan whereby the Group guarantees an Joint arrangements amount, which the employee receives as pension benefits upon retirement, normally Under IFRS 11, holdings in a joint arrangement are to be classified as either a joint based on several different factors, for example, salary and period of service. A deoperation or a joint venture depending on each investor’s contractual rights and oblifined-contribution pension plan is a pension plan in which the Group, after having paid gations. Mekonomen Group has only one joint arrangement with a marginal impact on its pension premium to a separate legal entity, has fulfilled its commitments towards the Group and has determined that it is a joint venture. Joint ventures are recognised the employee. in accordance with the equity method. Defined-contribution plans are recognised as an expense in the period to which the premiums paid are attributable. Translation of transactions in foreign currencies Pension expenses for defined-benefit plans are calculated using the Projected Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Swedish Kronor (SEK) based on Unit Credit Method whereby expenses are distributed over the employee’s period the exchange rate on the date of the transaction. Monetary items (assets and liabilities) of employment. These commitments, meaning the liabilities that are recognised, are in foreign currencies are translated into SEK according to the exchange rate on the measured at the present value of expected future payments, taking estimated future balance-sheet date. Exchange-rate gains and losses that arise in connection with such salary increases into account, applying a discount rate corresponding to the interest translations are recognised in profit or loss as Other operating revenue and/or Other on first-class corporate bonds issued in the same currency as the pension is to be paid operating expenses. Exchange-rate differences that arise in foreign long-term loans in, with a remaining duration that is comparable to the current commitment and with and liabilities, and in the translation of bank accounts in currencies other than the deductions for the fair value of plan assets. In countries where there are no functionaccounting currency, are recognised in financial income and expenses. ing markets for corporate bonds, a discount rate corresponding to the interest rate on mortgage bonds is used. Consequently, a discount rate established by referring to Translation of foreign subsidiaries the interest rate on mortgage bonds is used for the Group’s defined-benefit pension When the consolidated financial statements were prepared, the Group’s foreign opplans in Norway. The most important actuarial assumptions are stated in Note 22. If a erations’ balance sheets were translated from their functional currencies to SEK based net asset arises, it is be recognised only to the extent that it represents future financial on the exchange rates on the balance-sheet date. The income statements and other benefits, for example, in the form of repayments or reduced future premiums. comprehensive income were translated at the average exchange rate for the period. One of the Group’s defined-benefit pension plans comprises a so-called mulTranslation differences that arose were recognised in other comprehensive income ti-employer defined-benefit pension plan (ITP plan in Alecta). In accordance with against the translation reserve in shareholders’ equity. The accumulated translation Mekonomen Group’s accounting policies, a multi-employer defined-benefit plan is differences were transferred and recognised as part of capital gains or capital losses in recognised based on the rules of the plans and recognises its proportional share of the cases where foreign operations were divested. Goodwill and adjustments to fair values defined-benefit pension obligations and of plan assets and expenses related to the plan attributable to acquisitions of operations using functional currencies other than SEK in the same manner as for any other similar defined-benefit pension plan. However, are treated as assets and liabilities in the acquired operations’ currencies and translated Alecta has not been able to present sufficient information to facilitate reporting as a at the exchange rates on the balance-sheet date. defined-benefit plan, which is why the ITP plan is recognised as a defined-contribution plan in accordance with IAS 19.34. Segment reporting In addition to the defined-benefit pension plans via Alecta described above, the Operating segments are reported to correspond with the internal reporting provided Group has defined-benefit pension plans for employees in Norway. Actuarial gains and to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker is the losses on the defined-benefit pension plans for employees in Norway are recognised function responsible for the allocation of resources and assessing the earnings of the in their entirety over comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. operating segments. In the Group, this function has been identified as the company’s Remuneration in connection with termination of employment can be paid when an President and CEO. employee has been served notice of termination prior to the expiration of the normal date of retirement or when an employee accepts voluntary retirement. The Group Revenue recognition recognises liabilities and expenses in connection with a termination of employment, Revenue from external customers derives primarily from the sale of goods, reprewhen Mekonomen Group is unquestionably obligated to either terminate employment senting approximately 96 per cent (96) of net sales. The remaining net sales derive prior to the normal termination date or to voluntarily pay remuneration to encourage from workshop services, as well as annual and license fees to affiliated stores and early retirement. workshops. Mekonomen Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses when there Sales of goods are recognised at delivery/handover of products to the customer, are legal or informal obligations, based on earlier practice, to pay bonuses to employin accordance with conditions of sale. Sales are recognised net after deduction of ees. discounts, returns and value-added tax. Revenue from the sale of workshop services is recognised in the period in which the Tax service took place. Revenue is recognised based on the degree of completion on the The Group’s total tax expense comprises current tax and deferred tax. Current tax balance-sheet date (percentage of completion). is tax that is to be paid or received pertaining to the current year and adjustments of Revenue from licensing agreements is allocated over the term of the agreement. prior years’ current tax. Deferred tax is calculated based on the difference between Other operating revenue mainly comprises of rental income, marketing subsidies the carrying amounts and the values for tax purposes of company assets and liabilities. and exchange-rate gains. Deferred tax is recognised according to the balance-sheet method. Deferred tax liaInterest income is recognised over the term by applying the effective interest bilities are recognised in principle on all taxable temporary differences, while deferred method. tax assets are recognised to the extent that is probable that the amount can be utilised against future taxable surplus. Leasing The carrying amount on deferred tax assets is assessed at each accounting year-end A financial lease agreement is an agreement according to which the financial risks and and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable surplus will benefits associated with ownership of an object are essentially transferred from the be available to be utilised either in its entirety or partially against the deferred tax asset. lessor to the lessee. Leasing objects mainly comprise company vehicles and distribution Deferred tax is calculated based on the tax rates that are expected to apply for the vehicles. period when the asset is recovered or the debt settled. Deferred tax is recognised as Operating leases primarily comprise leased premises. revenue or expenses in profit or loss, except in cases when it pertains to transactions or events that are recognised against other comprehensive income or directly against Group as lessee shareholders’ equity. The deferred tax is then also recognised against other compreAssets held under financial lease agreements are measured as fixed assets in the hensive income or directly against shareholders’ equity. Deferred tax assets and tax consolidated balance sheets at fair value at the beginning of the leasing period or at the liabilities are offset when they are attributable to income tax that is charged by the present value of minimum leasing fees if this is lower. The liability that the lessee has to same authority and when the Group intends to pay the tax with a net amount. the lessor is recognised in the balance sheet under the heading “Lease agreement” divided into long-term and short-term liabilities. Leasing payments are divided between Goodwill interest and amortisation of liabilities. Interest is divided over the leasing period so that Goodwill is initially measured at the amount by which the total purchase consideration each reporting period is charged with an amount corresponding to a fixed interest and fair value for the non-controlling interests exceeds the fair value of identifiable rate of the liability recognised during each period. Interest expenses are recognised acquired assets and assumed liabilities. If the purchase consideration is lower than the directly in profit or loss. Lease fees that are paid during operating lease agreements fair value of the acquired company’s net assets, the difference is recognised directly in are systematically expensed over the leasing period. profit or loss. Goodwill has an indefinite useful life and is recognised at cost less any accumulated impairment. In the divestment of an operation, the portion of goodwill attributable to this operation is recognised in the calculation of gain or loss on the divestment. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 59 NOTES Other intangible assets Inventories Expenditure for the development and implementation of IT systems can be capitalised Inventories are recognised at the lower of the cost and net realisable value. The cost is if it is probable that future financial benefits will accrue to the company and the cost established by using the first in/first out principle (FIFO). for the asset can be calculated in a reliable manner. A provision for estimated obsolescence in inventories is established when there Brands, customer relations and franchise contracts acquired through business is an objective basis to assume that the Group will be unable to receive the carrying combinations are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. amount when inventories are sold in the future. The size of the provision amounts to Acquired brands attributable to the acquisitions of Sørensen og Balchen and MECA the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the value of expected future have been deemed to have an indefinite useful life and are recognised at cost less any cash flows. The reserved amount is recognised in profit or loss. The inventory value accumulated impairment losses. Customer relations, other brands, franchise contracts was reduced by the value included in the inter-company profit from goods sold from and strategic IT investments have definite useful lives and are recognised at cost less the Group’s central warehouse to the company’s own stores on the goods that are accumulated amortisation. Amortisation is applied according to the straight-line still in stock. Furthermore, the inventory value was also reduced by the value of the method over the assets’ estimated useful life. Customer relations, other brands and remaining portion of the supplier bonus on goods that are still in stock. franchise contracts are deemed to have a useful life of five to ten years. IT investments are deemed to have a useful life of three to ten years from the start Financial instruments of operation. Financial assets recognised as assets in the balance sheet include loan receivables, accounts receivable and cash and cash equivalents. Liabilities in the balance sheet Tangible fixed assets include long-term and short-term loans and accounts payable. A currency derivative is Tangible fixed assets are recognised as assets in the balance sheet if it is probable that recognised either as an asset or liability, depending on changes in the exchange rate. A future financial benefits will be accrued to the company and the cost of the asset can financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when the company be calculated in a reliable manner. Tangible fixed assets, primarily comprising equipbecomes party to the contractual conditions. Accounts receivable are recognised ment, computers, transport and construction in progress, are recognised at cost less when an invoice is sent and accounts payable are recognised when an invoice has accumulated depreciation and any impairment. Depreciation of tangible fixed assets been received. With the exception of cash and cash equivalents, only an insignificant is recognised as an expense so that the asset’s value is depreciated according to the portion of the financial assets is interest-bearing, which is why interest exposure is straight-line method over its estimated useful life. not recognised. The maximum credit risk corresponds to the carrying amount of the financial assets. The terms for long-term and short-term loans are stated in separate The following percentages were applied for depreciation: note disclosures; other financial liabilities are non-interest-bearing. A financial asset, or portion thereof, is eliminated when the rights contained in the contract are realised or mature. A financial liability, or portion thereof, is eliminated as it is regulated when the Fixed assets % commitment in the agreement has been fulfilled or has been terminated in another Improvement costs, third-party property1) 10 manner. Equipment 10–20 Vehicles 20 Calculation of fair value, financial instruments Servers 20 When establishing the fair value of derivatives, official market listings at year-end are used. If no such information is available, a measurement is conducted applying estabWorkplace computers 33 lished methods, such as discounting future cash flows to the quoted market rate for 1) Depreciation takes place over the shorter period corresponding to 10 per cent per year and the each term. Translation to SEK is based on the quoted exchange rate at year-end. remaining duration of the contract. The fair value of the agreement on conditional supplementary purchase considerations is estimated by the application of the income approach. The residual value of assets and useful life are tested at the end of each reporting period and adjusted when necessary. Long-term receivables An asset’s carrying amount is immediately depreciated to its recoverable amount if Long-term receivables comprise primarily deposits and lease-purchase agreements. the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its assessed recoverable amount. These are recognised at the amortised cost. A provision for probable losses on Gains and losses from divestments are determined by comparing the proceeds and accounts receivable is made when there are objective indications to assume that the the carrying amount and recognised net in profit or loss. Group will not receive all the amounts that are due for payment in accordance with the receivables’ original conditions. The size of the provision amounts to the difference Impairment between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of expected future cash Assets with an indefinite useful life, for example, goodwill and intangible assets that are flows. The reserved amount is recognised in profit or loss. not ready for use are not impaired but tested annually for any impairment requirements. The brands that were added through the acquisitions of Sørensen og Balchen Accounts receivable and MECA have been deemed to have indefinite useful lives, which is why these are Accounts receivable are recognised net after provisions for probable bad debts. The also tested at least annually for any impairment requirements. expected term of accounts receivable is short, which is why the amount is recognised Assets impaired are measured in terms of value decline whenever events or changes at nominal value without discounting in accordance with the method for amortised in conditions indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If this occurs, cost. A provision for probable bad debts on accounts receivable is made when there a calculation of the asset’s recoverable amount is performed. are objective indications to assume that the Group will not be able to receive all The recoverable amount comprises the highest of the value in use of the asset in the amounts that are due for payment in accordance with the receivables’ original the operation and the value that would be received if the asset was divested to an conditions. The size of the provision amounts to the difference between the asset’s independent party, net realisable value. The value in use comprises the present value carrying amount and the value of expected future cash flows. The reserved amount is of all in and out payments attributable to the asset during the period it is anticipated to recognised in profit or loss. be used in the operation, plus the present value of the net realisable value at the end of the useful life. If the estimated recoverable amount falls below the carrying amount, Cash and cash equivalents the asset is impaired to the recoverable amount. The impairment is recognised in Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash funds held at financial institutions and profit or loss in the period it is determined. current liquid investments with a term from the date of acquisition of less than three Refer also to Note 12 for information on how impairment testing is performed. months, which are exposed to only an insignificant risk of fluctuations in value. Cash Previously recognised impairment is reversed only if there has been a change to the and cash equivalents are recognised at nominal amounts. assumptions that served as the basis for determining the recoverable amount in connection with the impairment. If this is the case, a reversal will be conducted to increase Derivative instruments the carrying amount of the impaired asset to its recoverable amount. A reversal of Mekonomen Group applies hedge accounting to receivables in foreign currencies. an earlier impairment takes place in an amount that does not allow the new carrying Hedging is conducted using currency derivatives with a maximum term of three amount to exceed what would have been the carrying amount (after impairment) if months. Hedged receivables in foreign currencies are recognised at the closing day rate the impairment had not taken place. Impairment of goodwill is never reversed. and hedging instruments are recognised separately at fair value in the balance sheet and the change in value is recognised in profit or loss. 60 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 NOTES The Group signed derivative instruments aimed at hedging interest payments Amended accounting policies 2017 attributable to loans at floating interest rates (cash-flow hedges). The Group applies In January 2017, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board issued a new version of the hedge accounting to these derivative agreements. The derivatives are measured at RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. Implemented amendments to RFR 2 did not have fair value in the balance sheet. Value changes are recognised in Other comprehensive any material impact on the Parent Company’s financial statements. income to the extent they are effective and accumulated as a separate component in shareholders’ equity until the hedged item impacts earnings. The portion of unrealised Classification and presentation format value changes that is ineffective is recognised in profit or loss. The income statement and balance sheet comply with the presentation format specified in the Annual Accounts Act. This means they are slightly different to the Accounts payable consolidated financial statements, for example, balance-sheet items are more specified The expected term for accounts payable is short, which is why the debt is recognised and subitems are given different designations in shareholders’ equity at nominal amount without discounting according to the method for amortised cost. Shares and participations in subsidiaries Loans Participations in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company according to the Liabilities to credit institutions, overdraft facilities and other liabilities (loans) are initially cost method. Acquisition-related costs for subsidiaries, expensed in the consolidated measured at fair value net after transaction costs. Thereafter, loans are recognised at financial statements, are included as part of the cost for participations in subsidiaries. amortised cost. Any transaction costs are distributed over the loan period applying the Contingent considerations are measured based on the probability that the purchase effective interest method. Long-term liabilities have an estimated term longer than one consideration will be paid. Any changes in the provision/receivable will be added/ year while short-term liabilities have a term of less than one year. deducted from the cost. In the consolidated financial statements, contingent consideration is measured at fair value with changes in value in profit or loss. The carrying Share capital amount for participations in subsidiaries is tested pertaining to any impairment Ordinary shares are classified as share capital. Transaction costs in connection with a requirements when there are indications of impairment needs. new rights issue are recognised as a deduction, net after tax, from proceeds from the rights issue. Tax The amounts reserved as untaxed reserves consist of taxable temporary differences. Provisions Due to the link between accounting and taxation, the deferred tax liabilities that are Provisions differ from other liabilities since there is uncertainty regarding the date attributable to the untaxed reserves are not recognised separately in a legal entity. of payment or the amount for settling the provision. Provisions are recognised in The changes in untaxed reserves are recognised in accordance with Swedish practice the statement of financial position when Mekonomen Group has a legal or informal in profit or loss for individual companies under the heading “Appropriations.” The obligation as a result of an event that has occurred and it is probable that an outflow accumulated value of provisions are recognised in the balance sheet under the heading of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the “Untaxed reserves,” of which 22 per cent is regarded as deferred tax liabilities and 78 amounts can be made. Provisions are recognised in an amount corresponding to the per cent as restricted shareholders’ equity. most reliable estimate of the payment required to settle the commitment. When an outflow of resources is expected to be required far later in the future, the expected Group contributions and shareholders’ contributions future cash flow and provision are recognised at present value. Shareholders’ contributions paid are recognised as an increase in the value of shares and participations. An assessment is then conducted as to whether impairment Cash-flow statement requirements exist for the value of the shares and participations in question. The cash-flow statement was prepared in accordance with the indirect method. The Group contributions are recognised according to the alternative rule, entailing that recognised cash flow comprises only transactions that result in inward and outward all Group contributions, both paid and received, are recognised as appropriations. payments. Pensions Parent Company accounting policies Defined-benefit and defined-contribution pension plans are recognised in accordance The Parent Company complies with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the with the current Swedish accounting standard, which is based on the regulations in the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Entities. Application of RFR 2 means that, in the annual accounts for a legal entity, the Parent Company is to apply all of the IFRS and statements that have been approved by Leasing the EU where this is possible within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts All lease agreements, regardless of whether they are finance or operating leases, Act and the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and taking into account the link between are recognised as operating leases (rental agreements), which means that the leasing accounting and taxation. The recommendation specifies the exceptions and additions charges are distributed according to the straight-line method across the leasing period. that are to be made from IFRS. The differences between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s accounting policies are stated below. Other information Financial instruments exist to a limited extent and are recognised in the Parent The financial statements are in SEK M, unless otherwise stated . Rounding off may Company based on cost in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. result in some tables not tallying. The policies have been applied consistently for all years presented, unless otherwise stipulated. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 61 NOTES NOTE 2 SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES AND NOTE 3 SEGMENT INFORMATION ASSESSMENTS Operating segments are reported to correspond with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker is the The preparation of the annual accounts and application of various accounting standfunction responsible for the allocation of resources and assessing the earnings of the ards are based to a certain extent on management’s assessments or assumptions and operating segments. In Mekonomen Group, this function has been identified as the estimates that are considered reasonable under the circumstances. These assumptions company’s President and CEO. and estimates are frequently based on historic experience, as well as other factors, The Group is governed and reported in four segments: MECA, Mekonomen including expectations of future events. The results could differ if other assumptions Sweden, Mekonomen Norway and Sørensen og Balchen. and estimates were used and the actual outcome will, in terms of definition, rarely The MECA segment mainly includes wholesale and store operations in Sweden and agree with the estimated outcome. The assumptions and appreciations made by Norway, and fleet operations in Sweden. Under MECA, the business areas of heavy Mekonomen Group in the 2017 annual accounts, and which had the greatest impact vehicles, ProMeister Solutions and Preqas (changed name from Opus Equipments on on earnings and assets and liabilities, are discussed below. 1 July 2017) are also operated, which work for the whole Mekonomen Group. The Danish export operations, which were divested on 28 December 2016, were also inGoodwill and other acquisition-related intangible fixed assets cluded in the MECA segment until the time of divestment. In the comparison period of When assessing the impairment requirement for goodwill and other intangible assets 2016, MECA’s export business to Denmark negatively impacted EBIT by SEK 52 M of with an indefinite useful life, the carrying amount is compared with the recoverable which SEK 25 M was regarding the divestment and SEK 27 M was regarding operating amount. The recoverable amount is the highest of an asset’s net realisable value and losses until the divestment. the value in use. Since there are normally no listed prices that may be used to assess The Mekonomen Sweden segment primarily includes wholesale, store and fleet the net realisable value of an asset, the value in use will normally be the value that is operations in Sweden. used to compare with the carrying amount. Calculation of the value in use is based The Mekonomen Norway segment primarily includes store and fleet operations in on assumptions and assessments. Key assumptions are the future trends for revenue Norway. and margins, including trends for prices and volumes, utilisation of operating capital The Sørensen og Balchen segment primarily includes wholesale and store operaemployed, as well as yield requirements, which are used to discount future cash flows. tions in Norway. These assumptions are described in more detail in Note 12 Intangible fixed assets. “Other segments” include business activities and operating segments for which On the whole, this means that the measurement of goodwill and intangible assets information is not provided separately. This includes Mekonomen’s wholesale and items with an indefinite useful life is subject to significant estimates and assessments. store operations in Finland, Mekonomen’s store operations in Iceland (dormant since the third quarter of 2017), Meko Service Nordic with the service centre operations Company acquisitions BilLivet and Speedy, the Car Share operations (which were discontinued in the fourth In conjunction with acquisitions, analyses are prepared in which all identifiable assets quarter of 2017), Mekonomen car leasing, the joint venture in Poland (InterMeko and liabilities, including intangible assets, are identified and measured at fair value on Europa), Lasingoo Norge and Group-wide functions also including Mekonomen AB the date of acquisition. In accordance with IFRS 3, acquired identifiable intangible (publ). As of 1 January 2017, Marinshopen is included in the segment Mekonomen assets, for example, customers, franchise contracts, brands and customer relations, are Sweden instead of “Other segments”, the comparative figures are not restated. The to be separated from goodwill. This applies if these fulfil the criteria as assets, meaning associated company Automotive Web Solutions AB was divested during the second that it is possible to separate them or they are based on contractual or other formal quarter of 2017. The units reported in “Other segments” do not achieve quantitative rights, and that their fair values can be established in a reliable manner. An examination limits to be reported separately and the benefit is deemed to be limited for the users is conducted at each acquisition. The remaining surplus value is allocated to goodwill. of the financial statements for them to be reported as independent segments. Measuring identifiable assets and liabilities in acquisition assessments is subject to “Other items” include acquisition-related items attributable to Mekonomen AB’s important estimates and assessments. Information about company acquisitions and direct acquisitions and elimination of intra-Group revenue. Current acquisition-relatacquisition analyses is found in Note 31. ed items are amortisation of acquired intangible assets related to the acquisitions of MECA and Sørensen og Balchen. Reserves for inventories, doubtful receivables, The CEO assesses the results of the operating segments at an EBIT level. Financial guarantee commitments and product returns items are not distributed in segments since they are impacted by measures implementThe Group operates in several geographic markets, with sales to consumers and comed by central finance management. The distribution of assets and liabilities at segment panies and with a wide range to many different customer groups. In order to satisfy is not reported regularly. customers’ needs, a sufficiently large inventory of products must be kept and various Segment reporting will change in 2018, see Note 35 “Events after the end of the types of warranties must be provided that the products function as they should and year”. customers must be offered the right to return products ordered by mistake by the customer. With the type of business conducted in the Group, there is a risk of customer losses and that some of the Group’s stocked products cannot be sold at their carrying amounts, and also the risk that the company has guarantee commitments or return claims that extend further than the reserves for these commitments. The right of regress for product sales usually exists towards the supplier, whereby the warranty commitments normally only constitute small amounts for the Group. The Group has established policies for reserves for accounts receivable, obsolescence provisions and provisions for guarantee commitments and product returns. These policies per se are estimates of historic outcome and evaluated continuously to ensure that they correspond to actual outcome in terms of customer losses, obsolescence, guarantee commitments and product returns. For the financial year and the comparison year, no further information on obsolescence and provisions, respectively, is provided for warranty commitments and product returns as materiality does not exist. Further information about reserves for customer losses is found in Note 18. Deferred tax When preparing the financial statements, Mekonomen Group calculates the income tax for each tax jurisdiction in which the Group operates and the deferred taxes attributable to temporary differences. Deferred tax assets that are primarily attributable to loss carryforwards and temporary differences are recognised if tax assets can be expected to be recovered based on future taxable income. Changes in assumptions regarding forecast future taxable earnings, and changes in tax rates, may result in significant differences in the measurement of deferred taxes. At 31 December 2017, Mekonomen Group recognised deferred tax liabilities in excess of deferred tax assets at a net amount of SEK 75 M (86). Further information about deferred taxes is found in Note 15. 62 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 NOTES NOTE 3 CONTINUED Mekonomen Mekonomen Sørensen Other segMECA Sweden Norway og Balchen ments Other items Group SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Revenue External net sales 2,108 2,039 1,816 1,891 867 836 778 725 281 295 5,850 5,786 Internal revenue 82 86 576 580 20 25 47 33 283 274 -1,008 -998 0 0 Other revenue 14 15 60 59 12 12 10 10 54 55 150 151 Total revenue 2,204 2,140 2,452 2,530 899 873 835 768 618 624 -1,008 -998 6,000 5,937 Operating profit/loss before amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets (EBITA) 257 217 209 190 117 132 120 117 -53 -63 649 594 Operating profit/loss (EBIT) 242 205 196 187 117 132 120 117 -76 -84 -77 -77 522 481 Financial items – net -48 -35 Profit before tax 475 446 Investments, tangible assets1) 22 15 94 29 2 3 3 5 10 7 130 58 Investments, IT systems1) 3 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 30 51 34 53 Depreciation and impairment (tangible assets) 15 15 26 28 7 6 3 3 8 9 60 62 Amortisation and impairment (intangible assets)2) 15 12 13 3 0 0 0 0 22 21 77 77 127 113 Average number of employees for the period 725 751 680 706 275 263 253 257 297 310 2,231 2,287 Number of proprietary stores 76 75 113 112 32 32 39 37 3 5 263 261 Number of partner stores 10 10 20 20 10 13 29 35 4 3 73 81 Number of stores in the chain 86 85 133 132 42 45 68 72 7 8 336 342 Key figures EBITA margin, %3) 12 10 11 10 13 15 15 16 11 10 EBIT margin, %3) 11 10 10 10 13 15 15 16 9 8 Change in sales, %3) 3 9 -4 -2 4 3 7 0 1 3 Revenue per employee, SEK 000s 3,040 2,850 3,605 3,584 3,269 3,319 3,300 2,988 2,689 2,596 Operating profit per employee, SEK 000s 334 273 288 265 425 502 474 455 234 210 1) Investments do not include company and business combinations 2) Including amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets. 3) Internal sales were excluded from the calculation of the operating margin and the sales increase for the segments. Sales between segments take place on market-based terms and conditions. Revenue The company has its registered office in Sweden. The distribution of revenue from from external customers that is reported to Group Management is measured in the external customers in Sweden and other geographic markets is presented in the table same manner as in the income statement. below: Net sales from external customers derived primarily from the sale of goods, representing approximately 96 per cent (96) of net sales. The remaining net sales Net sales 2017 2016 derived from workshop services, as well as annual and license fees to affiliated stores and workshops. Sweden 3,136 3,164 Net sales derived from the sale of goods from external customers are distributed Norway 2,652 2,484 according to the following customer groups: Other 62 138 Total 5,850 5,786 Analysis of net sales by customer groups, %: 2017 2016 Affiliated workshops1) 37% 36% The Group has no individual customers that account for 10 per cent or more of the Other B2B-customers 38% 39% Group’s revenue. Consumer 19% 19% All fixed assets, other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets (there are Partner stores 6% 6% no assets in connection with benefits after terminated employment or rights according Total net sales 100% 100% to insurance agreements), located in Sweden amounted to SEK 2,284 M (2,255) and the total of such fixed assets located in other countries amounted to SEK 655 M (684), 1) Sales in proprietary workshops are included in sales to affiliated workshops. of which SEK 653 M (681) in Norway. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 63 NOTES NOTE 4 AUDITING EXPENSES Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 PwC Audit assignment 6 7 1 1 Audit-related services other than the audit assignment 0 0 0 0 Tax consultancy 0 0 0 0 Other services 0 0 0 0 Total 7 7 1 1 NOTE 5 AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, SALARIES, OTHER REMUNERATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY CONTRIBUTIONS 2017 2016 Average number of employees No. of employees Of whom, men % No. of employees Of whom, men % Parent Company Sweden 5 80 7 71 Total in Parent Company 5 80 7 71 Subsidiaries Sweden 1,360 82 1,406 82 Norway 834 83 808 84 Other countries 31 71 66 73 Total in subsidiaries 2,226 82 2,280 83 Group total 2,231 82 2,287 83 Soc. security exSoc. security expenses penses Salaries and other (of which pension Salaries and other (of which pension Salaries, remuneration, etc. SEK 000S remuneration costs) remuneration costs) Parent Company 14,835 9,389 27,640 15,169 (4,147) (5,280) Subsidiaries 1,006,878 329,512 979,730 315,102 (66,788) (61,810) Group total 1,021,713 338,901 1,007,370 330,271 (70,935) (67,090) Board and PresiBoard and PresiSalaries and other remuneration distributed between dent1) dent1) the President and Board members and other employees, (of which bonus, Other (of which bonus, Other SEK 000s and the like) employees and the like) employees Parent Company Mekonomen AB 7,381 7,454 14,343 13,297 (0) (340) (70) (797) Total in Parent Company 7,381 7,454 14,343 13,297 (0) (340) (70) (797) Subsidiaries in Sweden 21,415 568,575 22,715 553,727 (2,305) (3,406) (1,579) (3,569) Subsidiaries abroad Norway 11,239 395,754 9,781 368,841 (1,139) (4,314) (932) (6,444) Other countries 0 9,895 0 24,666 (0) (0) (0) (0) Total in subsidiaries 32,654 974,224 32,496 947,234 (3,444) (7,720) (2,511) (10,013) Group total 40,035 981,678 46,839 960,531 (3,444) (8,060) (2,581) (10,810) 1) Remuneration to the Board and President includes the Parent Company and, where applicable, subsidiaries in each country. 64 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 NOTES Remuneration of senior executives The variable remuneration for senior executives, excluding the President, is based Fees are paid to the Chairman of the Board and Board members in accordance with partly on the Group’s earnings and partly on individual qualitative parameters and the resolution of the Annual General Meeting. The annual Board fee totalling SEK can amount to a maximum of a certain percentage of the fixed annual salary. The 2,210,000 (2,210,000) was determined in accordance with the resolution of the percentage is linked to the position of each individual and varies between 33 and 60 2017 Annual General Meeting. Of this, SEK 550,000 (550,000) represents fees to the percentage points for members of Group Management. Other benefits refer primarily Chairman of the Board, SEK 310,000 (310,000) to the Executive Vice Chairman, and to company cars. Pension premiums are paid in an amount that is based on the ITP SEK 270,000 (270,000) to each of the remaining Board members. For members of the plan or a corresponding system for employees outside Sweden. Pensionable salary Board’s Audit Committee, SEK 60,000 (60,000) is paid to the Chairman of the Audit comprises basic salary. The company applies a period of notice of no more than 12 Committee and SEK 35,000 (35,000) is paid to the other members of the Audit Commonths. In addition, severance pay of a maximum of 12 months salary may be paid mittee. For members of the Board’s Remuneration Committee, SEK 35,000 (35,000) in the event of termination of employment by the company. Upon resignation, a is paid to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and SEK 25,000 (25,000) is six-month period of notice applies. Matters pertaining to remuneration of company paid to the other members of the Remuneration Committee. management are resolved by the Board’s Remuneration Committee. However, remuNo fees are paid to the Boards of other subsidiaries. neration of the President is determined by the Board in its entirety. The President, Pehr Oscarson, has a basic salary of SEK 420,000 per month and a At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, it was also resolved that Group Management variable salary portion, which is based on the company’s earnings and can amount to and a number of selected, business-critical senior executives may receive long-term a maximum of 60 per cent of the basic annual salary. The President receives a pension variable remuneration from the company. The criteria for determining the variable benefit amounting to a maximum of 30 percentage points of the base salary. remuneration portion for each individual is decided by the Board’s Remuneration Other benefits consist of a company car. The period of notice is 12 months if emCommittee, and for the President by the Board in its entirety. The long-term variable ployment is terminated by the company, and six months if terminated by the President. remuneration is to be profit-based and calculated on the Group’s earnings for the For other senior executives, remuneration follows the policies adopted at the 2017 2016-2018 financial years. The entire bonus programme, as an expense for the Annual General Meeting. This means that the company is to strive to offer its senior company, is to amount to a maximum of SEK 32 M for the period. Furthermore, an executives market-based remuneration, that the criteria for this is to be based on the additional requirement to the above is that the average price paid for the Mekonomen significance of work duties, skills requirements, experience and performance and that share on Nasdaq Stockholm on the last trading day in December 2018 is to exceed remuneration is to comprise the following parts: the Nasdaq Stockholm PI index for the programme period. The bonus may be realised – fixed basic salary in whole, in part or not at all depending on the consolidated profit during the duration – variable remuneration of the long-term remuneration programme. The right to variable remuneration pre– pension benefits and supposes that the executive is still employed at the 2019 Annual General Meeting. No – other benefits and severance pay bonus was reserved as per 31 December 2017 pertaining to this bonus programme. Basic salary1) Bonus Board fees2) Other benefits Pension premiums Executives/category, SEK 000s 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 John S. Quinn, Chairman of the Board 610 86 Christer Åberg, Executive Vice Chairman 370 305 Kenny Bräck, Board member 270 270 Joseph M. Holsten, Board member 295 82 Magnus Håkansson, Board member 305 – Malin Persson, Board member 305 295 Helena Skåntorp, Board member 330 330 Former Board members Kenneth Bengtsson – 620 Mia Brunell Livfors – 242 Caroline Berg – 195 President Pehr Oscarson from 6 October 2016 4,896 868 – 70 78 – 449 65 former President, Magnus Johansson 3) – 10,980 – – – 64 – 1,807 former Executive Vice President Marcus Larsson until 6 November 2017 3,118 3,672 – 238 99 112 654 941 Other senior executives, 4 (5) 4) 8,203 11,704 942 1,405 407 534 2,189 2,223 Total 16,217 27,224 942 1,713 2,485 2,425 584 710 3,292 5,035 1) Basic salary in this table includes holiday bonus. 2) Board fees include fees to members of the Board’s Committees. Remuneration and compensation set by the AGM are expensed every calendar year. 3) For 2016, remuneration of former President Magnus Johansson includes reserved costs, excluding social security costs, for salary including pension during the period of notice and for severance pay totalling SEK 8,053,000 4) Group Management’s composition changed during the year. As of 31 December 2017, Group Management consists of the President as well as three other people, of whom 2 (1) are women. The average number of people in Group Management, except the President, amounted to 5 (6) people during 2017. For 2016, remuneration of other senior executives includes reserved costs, excluding social security costs, for salary including pension during the period of notice and for severance pay totalling SEK 2,091,000. 5) Operating profit for the Group in 2017 was positively impacted by items affecting comparability in an amount of SEK 3 M regarding lower personnel-related costs than was allocated in 2016 for people who were previously members of Group Management, mainly the former CEO. The comparative figures have not been adjusted based on actual outcome and have also not affected carrying amounts in 2017 in the table above. One member of Group Management is covered by a defined-benefit pension plan. The net obligation at 31 December 2017 amounted to SEK 0 M (1). A closer presentation of the Board and Group Management and its changes during the year are presented on pages 48-49. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 65 NOTES NOTE 6 DEPRECIATION/AMORTISATION AND NOTE 10 TAX ON PROFIT FOR THE YEAR IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND Group Parent Company INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 2017 2016 2017 2016 Current tax Group Parent Company Sweden -37 -43 -28 -23 2017 2016 2017 2016 Other countries -84 -90 – – Depreciation of tangible fixed assets Total current tax -121 -133 -28 -23 according to plan -60 -60 0 0 Changes in deferred tax, temporary Impairment of tangible fixed assets 0 -2 – – differences 14 28 17 22 Total depreciation and impairment Recognised tax expenses -107 -105 -11 0 of tangible fixed assets -60 -62 0 0 Tax on profit for the year Amortisation, brands 0 0 – – Recognised profit before tax 475 446 438 118 Amortisation, customer relationships -86 -80 – – Tax according to applicable tax rate -111 -110 -96 -26 Amortisation, franchise contracts -4 -4 – – Tax on standard interest on tax allocation reserves 0 0 0 0 Amortisation, capitalised expenditure for IT systems -28 -28 – – Tax effects on expenses that are not tax deductible Impairment, goodwill -9 – – – Other non-deductible expenses -7 -4 -1 -7 Total amortisation and impairment Other non-taxable revenue 0 0 69 10 of intangible fixed assets -127 -113 – – Effects on adjustments from preceTotal -187 -175 0 0 ding year -1 1 – – Effects of non-capitalised loss carryforwards -4 -3 – – Effect of change in the Norwegian NOTE 7 RESULT FROM PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP tax rate Effects of capitalised loss carryfor0 0 – – COMPANIES wards1) 17 10 17 22 Recognised tax expenses -107 -105 -11 0 Parent Company 1) Capitalised loss carryforwards in 2017 and 2016 in the Parent Company pertain in their entirety to 2017 2016 loss carryforwards attributable to the Danish operations and correspond to the portion of loss carryforwards in Denmark that is deemed to be able to be utilised based on future Group deductions in Dividends 315 47 Sweden. Gains from divestment of participations – 0 Impairment – -28 The weighted average tax rate amounted to 23.5 per cent (24.6). The decrease is mainly attributable to a lower tax rate in Norway from 25 per cent in 2016 24 per cent in 2017. Total 315 19 NOTE 8 APPROPRIATIONS NOTE 11 SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES Parent Company FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Disclosures on financial instruments measured at fair value in the balance 2017 2016 sheet Group contributions received 285 247 The financial instruments that were measured at fair value in the balance sheet are Group contributions paid -72 -56 showed below. Measurement is divided into three levels: Level 1: Fair value is determined according to listed prices in an active market for the Changes in tax allocation reserve -42 -34 same instrument. Total 171 156 Level 2: Fair value is determined based on wither direct (prices) or indirect (derived from prices) observable market data not included in Level 1. Level 3: Fair value is determined base on inputs not observable in the market. NOTE 9 EXCHANGE-RATE DIFFERENCES – NET All of Mekonomen’s financial instruments are included in Level 2, except supplementary purchase considerations which are included in Level 3. Exchange-rate differences were recognised in profit or loss as follows: Calculation of fair value The following summarises he main methods and assumptions used to determined the Group Parent Company fair value of the financial instruments shown in the table below. Fair value of listed securities, where appropriate, is determined based on the asset’s 2017 2016 2017 2016 listed average price on the balance-sheet date with no additions for transaction costs Exchange-rate differences in EBIT -1 3 0 0 on the acquisition date. Exchange-rate differences in net For currency contracts, fair value is determined on the basis of listed prices. Fair financial items -13 -8 -3 -13 value for interest-rate swaps is based on discounting estimated future cash flows in accordance with the contract terms and due dates, and on the basis of the market Total -14 -5 -3 -13 interest rate for similar instruments on the balance-sheet date. If discounted cash flows have been used, future cash flows are calculated on company management’s best assessment. The discount rate applied is a market-based interest rate on similar instruments on the balance-sheet date. The fair value of the agreement on conditional supplementary purchase considerations is estimated by the application of the income approach. The supplementary 66 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 NOTES purchase considerations are all non-interest-bearing with relatively short durations and Group’s derivative instruments amount to non-material amounts for the Group, which is why detailed disclosures on measured at fair value in balance sheet 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 measurement are not provided. All valuation techniques applied are accepted on the market and take into account Financial liabilities all parameters which the market would take into consideration when pricing. The Interest-rate swaps 4 7 techniques are reviewed regularly with a view to ensuring their reliability. Assumptions Total 4 7 applied are followed up against actual results so as to identify any need for adjustments to measurements and forecasting tools. Net gains on derivative instruments, held for trading amounted to SEK -1 M (1). For methods of payment, receivables and liabilities with variable interest rates, and current assets and liabilities (such as accounts receivable and accounts payable), fair value is equivalent to the carrying amount. Financial assets and liabilities by Non-financial Total measurement category, 31 Dec. Derivative Loans and Other finanTotal carryassets and Balance 2017 instruments receivables cial liabilities ing amount Fair value liabilities sheet Financial assets Financial fixed assets – 39 – 39 39 22 61 Accounts receivable – 488 – 488 488 – 488 Other current receivables – – – – – 334 334 Cash and cash equivalents – 254 – 254 254 – 254 Total – 782 – 782 782 356 1,138 Financial liabilities Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing 4 – 1,449 1,453 1,453 – 1,453 Long-term liabilities, non-interest-bearing – – 14 14 14 4 18 Current liabilities, interest-bearing – – 255 255 255 – 255 Accounts payable – – 636 636 636 – 636 Other current liabilities – – 8 8 8 636 644 Total 4 – 2,362 2,367 2,367 640 3,006 Financial assets and liabilities by Non-financial Total measurement category, 31 Dec. Derivative Loans and Other finanTotal carryassets and Balance 2016 instruments receivables cial liabilities ing amount Fair value liabilities sheet Financial assets Financial fixed assets – 44 – 44 44 2 46 Accounts receivable – 485 – 485 485 – 485 Other current receivables – – – – – 336 336 Cash and cash equivalents – 291 – 291 291 – 291 Total – 820 – 820 820 338 1,158 Financial liabilities Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing 7 – 1,331 1,338 1,338 – 1,338 Long-term liabilities, non-interest-bearing 13 13 13 10 23 Current liabilities, interest-bearing – – 404 404 404 – 404 Accounts payable – – 612 612 612 – 612 Other current liabilities – – – – – 588 588 Total 7 – 2,359 2,366 2,366 598 2,964 Group’s maturity structure for undiscounted cash flows for financial liabilities and derivatives 31 Dec. 2017 Nominal amount 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Total Liabilities to credit institutions, bank borrowing 157 155 153 139 1,065 1,670 Liabilities to leasing companies 2 1 0 0 0 3 Overdraft facilities 118 0 0 0 0 118 Derivatives 0 4 0 0 0 4 Supplementary purchase considerations 8 13 1 0 0 23 Accounts payable 636 0 0 0 0 636 Total 921 173 154 139 1,065 2,454 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 67 NOTES NOTE 11 CONTINUED Group’s maturity structure for undiscounted cash flows for financial liabilities and derivatives 31 Dec. 2016 Nominal amount 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Total Liabilities to credit institutions, bank borrowing 152 846 458 0 0 1,457 Liabilities to leasing companies 2 1 0 0 0 3 Overdraft facilities 268 0 0 0 0 268 Derivatives 0 0 7 0 0 7 Supplementary purchase considerations 0 5 7 0 0 13 Accounts payable 612 0 0 0 0 612 Total 1,034 852 472 0 0 2,360 Time when hedged cash flows in the hedging reserve are expected to occur and affect profit for the year 2020 and 2018 Q1 2018 Q2 2018 Q3 2018 Q4 2019 later Total Interest-rate swap 1 1 1 1 1 0 4 Total 1 1 1 1 1 0 4 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Derivative contracts are subject to legally binding framework agreements on netting. This information is limited as the amounts are of minor value. NOTE 12 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Franchise Customer Goodwill Brands contracts relations IT investments Total Group 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Opening accumulated cost, 1 January 1,883 1,835 330 325 44 41 776 742 280 229 3,314 3,173 Acquisitions – – – – – – – – 34 53 34 53 Acquisitions in connection with acquired operation 22 5 – – – – 34 22 – – 56 27 Divestments/disposals -2 -2 – – – – – – -55 -2 -57 -4 Translation difference, currency -23 45 -3 5 -2 3 -8 12 0 0 -36 65 Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 1,880 1,883 327 330 42 44 803 776 259 280 3,312 3,314 Opening acc. depreciation and impairment, 1 January – – -3 -2 -25 -20 -362 -276 -167 -141 -558 -440 Divestments/disposals – – – – – – 0 – 52 2 52 2 Depreciation for the year – – 0 0 -4 -4 -86 -80 -28 -28 -118 -113 Impairment for the year1) -9 – – – – – 0 – – – -9 – Translation difference, currency – – 0 0 1 -1 4 -6 0 0 5 -7 Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment, 31 December -9 – -3 -3 -28 -25 -443 -362 -143 -167 -627 -558 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 1,872 1,883 324 327 14 19 360 415 116 113 2,686 2,757 1) Impairment of goodwill of SEK 9 M related to goodwill attributable to Marinshopen within the Mekonomen Sweden segment. 68 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 NOTES The carrying amounts of intangible fixed assets are distributed among operating segments as follows: Franchise conCustomer relaGoodwill Brands tracts tions IT investments Total Group Carrying amount for 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. operating segment at 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 MECA 1,116 1,105 270 270 – – 307 351 6 9 1,699 1,735 Mekonomen Sweden 225 230 – – – – 11 8 1 2 237 240 Mekonomen Norway 56 57 – – – – – – 0 0 56 57 Sørensen og Balchen 402 423 53 56 14 19 39 54 1 1 509 553 Other 74 68 1 1 – – 3 2 108 100 186 171 1,872 1,883 324 327 14 19 360 415 116 113 2,686 2,757 Testing of impairment requirement for goodwill Group intends to retain and further develop. The brands that have been identified and and other intangible assets with indefinite useful period evaluated essentially pertain to the acquisition of MECA in 2012 and the acquisition Goodwill is distributed among the Group’s cash-generating units (CGU) identified of Sørensen og Balchen in 2011, with the associated BilXtra brand. Other brands by operating segments. In addition to goodwill, the Group has acquired brands that are amortised and their carrying amount at year-end was SEK 1 M (1). A summary are deemed to have indefinite useful period. The useful period is deemed indefinite of goodwill and brands with indefinite useful period at operating segment level is when it pertains to well-established brands in their individual markets, which the provided in the table below. Goodwill 2017 Brands (indefinite useful period) 2017 TransTransTest lation lation Operating level 01 Jan. AcquiImpairDivestdifference, 31 Dec. 01 Jan. AcquiImpairdifference, 31 Dec. segments CGU 2017 sitions ment ments currency 2017 2017 sitions ment currency 2017 Operating MECA segments 1,105 10 – – 0 1,116 270 – – – 270 Mekonomen Operating Sweden segments 230 4 -9 – – 225 – – – – – Mekonomen Operating Norway segments 57 2 – – -3 56 – – – – – Sørensen og Operating Balchen segments 423 – – – -20 402 56 – – -3 53 Operating Other segments 68 7 – -2 – 74 – – – – – 1,883 22 -9 -2 -23 1,872 326 – – -3 323 Goodwill 2016 Brands (indefinite useful period) 2016 TransTransTest lation lation Operating level 1 Jan. AcquiImpairDivestdifference, 31 Dec. 1 Jan. AcquiImpairdifference, 31 Dec. segments CGU 2016 sitions ment ments currency 2016 2016 sitions ment currency 2016 Operating MECA segments 1,104 2 – – 0 1,105 270 – – – 270 Mekonomen Operating Sweden segments 230 2 – -2 – 230 – – – – – Mekonomen Operating Norway segments 52 – – – 5 57 – – – – – Sørensen og Operating Balchen segments 383 – – – 40 423 51 – – 5 56 Operating Other segments 66 2 – – – 68 – – – – – 1,835 5 – -2 45 1,883 321 – – 5 326 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 69 NOTES NOTE 12 CONTINUED Testing impairment requirements for goodwill and other intangible assets with The conditions that apply for the various markets in which Mekonomen operates indefinite useful period takes place in the fourth quarter annually or more frequently if do not deviate significantly from each other, which is why the same rate is used for all there are indications of value depreciation. The recoverable amount for a cash-generunits. ating unit is established based on calculations of the value in use. The value in use is the present value of the estimated future cash flows. Growth rate Cash-flow forecasts are based on an assessment of the anticipated growth rate and The growth rate does not exceed the long-term growth rate for the market segments the trend of the EBITDA margin, based on the budget that was adopted in December in which each cash-generating unit operates. for the next year, forecasts for the next three years, managements’ long-term expectations of the operation, and historic trends. The cash-flow forecasts for the second to Total price and volume trend fourth years are based on an annual growth rate of 2 per cent (2). Cash flows beyond In the event of a change, assumptions about future price and volume trends have a this four-year period were extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 2.0 per major impact on the cash flow. In plans that are used as the basis for the cash flows, cent (2.0). management assumes that the average price and volume trend over the period until Calculated value in use is most sensitive to changes in assumptions for growth-rate, 2021 will not exceed 2.0 per cent per year. EBITDA margin and the relevant discount rate (WACC, Weighted Average Cost of Capital), which is used to discount future cash flows. The significant assumptions Margin trend used to calculate the value in use for 2017 and 2016, respectively, are summarised as The gross margin is assumed to be in line with current and historic levels throughout follows: the forecast period. It is assumed that the operations’ other expenses will follow the same rate of growth as revenue. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Sensitivity analysis 2017 2016 An increase in the discount rate by 2 percentage points, a reduction in the assumed Discount rate (WACC) before tax 9.2% 9.2% long-term growth rate by 2 percentage points or a decrease in the EBITDA margin by Discount rate (WACC) after tax 7.6% 7.6% 2 percentage points would not individually result in any impairment requirement. Growth rate beyond the forecast period 2.0% 2.0% Besides the aforementioned impairment of Marinshopen, impairment tests perTotal price and volume trend years 2-4 of forecast period 2.0% 2.0% formed did not reveal any additional impairment requirement for goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives as per 31 December 2017. Discount rate (WACC) The present value of the forecast cash flows was calculated by applying a discount rate of 7.6 per cent (7.6) after tax, corresponding to a discount rate before tax of approximately 9.2 per cent (9.2). NOTE 13 IMPROVEMENT COSTS, THIRD-PARTY PROPERTY Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Opening accumulated cost, 1 January 83 80 0 1 Purchases, rebuilding and extensions 5 3 – – Sales/disposals -2 -1 – -1 Translation difference, currency 0 0 – – Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 86 83 0 0 Opening accumulated depreciation, 1 January -56 -47 0 -1 Sales/disposals 1 1 – 1 Depreciation for the year -8 -10 0 0 Translation difference, currency 0 0 – – Closing accumulated depreciation, 31 December -63 -56 0 0 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 23 27 0 0 70 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 NOTES NOTE 14 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Equipment and transConstruction in proport gress1) Financial leasing Total Group 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Opening accumulated cost, 1 January 519 473 – – 30 24 549 497 Purchasing 42 50 77 – 7 6 126 56 Purchase in connection with acquired operation 9 2 – – – – 9 2 Reclassification -11 – 11 – – – 0 – Sales/disposals -56 -19 – – -7 0 -63 -19 Translation difference, currency -9 13 – – – – -9 13 Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 494 519 89 – 30 30 612 549 Opening acc. depreciation and impairment, 1 January -369 -329 – – -27 -21 -396 -350 Sales/disposals 54 15 – – 7 0 61 15 Depreciation for the year -45 -43 – – -7 -6 -52 -49 Impairment for the year 0 -2 – – – – 0 -2 Translation difference, currency 6 -10 – – – – 6 -10 Closing accumulated depreciation and impairment, 31 December -354 -369 – – -27 -27 -381 -396 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 140 151 89 – 3 3 231 154 1) As a part of streamlining the logistics structure, Mekonomen Group will centralise the central warehouse structure in Sweden. In July 2016, Mekonomen Group signed an agreement with TGW Logistics Group for the expansion of the existing central warehouse in Strängnäs with a new fully automated section. The estimated investment for the central warehouse system is SEK 190 M during the period 2016-2018. Operational lease agreements Operating leases primarily comprise leased premises. Group Parent Company Information about leasing expenses, operating leases 2017 2016 2017 2016 Premises rent 311 314 0 1 Leasing expenses, other 43 41 0 0 Total 354 355 0 1 Group Parent Company Future leasing fees for irrevocable lease agreements 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. falling due for payment: 2017 2016 2017 2016 Within one year 344 337 1 1 Later than one year but within five years 679 712 – 1 After five years 298 300 – – 1,321 1,349 1 2 Of the future lease fees, rent for premises represented SEK 1,251 M (1,265) for the Group and SEK 1 M (2) for the Parent Company. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 71 NOTES NOTE 15 DEFERRED TAX NOTE 16 OTHER FINANCIAL FIXED ASSETS Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when a legal right of offset exists for current tax assets and tax liabilities and when deferred taxes refer to the same tax authority. Below, deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented gross, Group with information on the netting done regarding the company in the same tax law jurisdiction. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2017 2016 Group Parent Company Rental deposits paid 1 1 Deferred tax assets (+)/tax 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Hire-purchase contracts 32 37 liabilities (-) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Other 7 7 Capitalised loss carryforwards1) 94 81 93 76 Total 39 44 Temporary differences on inter-company profits 52 48 – – Group Temporary differences, inventory obsolescence 12 16 – – 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Temporary differences on pension Hire-purchase contracts 2017 2016 commitments 1 1 – – Hire-purchase contracts 38 43 Temporary differences, other 16 18 3 3 Provisions for doubtful hire-purchase contracts -6 -6 Less netting -82 -87 – – Total 32 37 Total deferred tax assets 93 77 96 79 Untaxed reserves -75 -59 – – Group Surplus value in intangible fixed assets (through acquisition) -149 -166 – – Provisions for doubtful hire-purchase contracts 2017 2016 Temporary differences on reversed Provision for bad debts at the beginning of the year -6 -17 net asset goodwill -26 -25 – – Impairment for the year 0 -1 Less netting 82 87 – – Receivables written off during the year as non-collectable 2 8 Total deferred tax liabilities -168 -163 – – Reclassification of renegotiated accounts receivable -2 0 Recovered prior impairment 0 4 Total (net) -75 -86 96 79 Translation difference, currency 0 -1 Group Parent Company Provision for bad debts at the end of the year -6 -6 Gross change in deferred Interest income on hire-purchase contracts during the year was SEK 0 M (0). tax assets/tax liabilities 2017 2016 2017 2016 Opening balance -86 -114 79 57 Translation difference, currency 1 -2 – – Acquisition of subsidiaries Recognition in income statement -3 14 28 – – 17 – 22 NOTE 17 INVENTORIES Tax recognised in comprehensive Group income 0 1 – – At year-end -75 -86 96 79 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2017 2016 1) Capitalised loss carryforwards in the Parent Company pertain in their entirety to loss carryforwards Goods for resale 1,382 1,279 attributable to the Danish operations and correspond to the portion of loss carryforwards in Denmark that is deemed to be able to be utilised based on future Group deductions in Sweden. Total 1,382 1,279 Taxable loss carryforwards The cost of inventories expensed is included in the item goods for resale in the income At the end of the financial year, tax loss carryforwards amounted to SEK 0 M (0) in statement and amounted to SEK 2,654 M (2,686). Provisions for obsolescence are the Parent Company and SEK 649 M (633) in the Group. For deficits amounting to induced in the value of inventories. No material obsolescence change and no material SEK 96 M (79), there is a time limit of up to 10 years. None of these deficits were impairments were made during the current or previous financial year. Only an insignifiassigned a value in the balance sheet. All other deficits run without limit in time. cant part of the inventory is measured at net realisable value. Deferred tax assets pertaining to tax loss carryforwards in the Group amounted to SEK 94 M (81) on the balance-sheet date, of which SEK 93 M (76) was attributable to the Danish operations. Deferred tax assets on the remaining deficit was not assigned a value in the balance sheet. 72 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 NOTES NOTE 18 CURRENT RECEIVABLES NOTE 20 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Group Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Accounts receivable 488 485 Cash and bank balances 254 291 152 163 Tax assets 15 77 Total 254 291 152 163 Other receivables 67 33 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 253 226 Total 823 821 Group NOTE 21 LIABILITIES TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Group Parent Company Accounts receivable 2017 2016 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Accounts receivable 522 539 Long-term 2017 2016 2017 2016 Provisions for bad debts -34 -54 Liabilities to credit institutions, bank Total 488 485 borrowing 1,446 1,327 1,446 1,324 Liabilities to leasing companies 1 1 – – Group Derivatives, interest-rate swaps 4 7 – – Total long-term liabilities, inteProvisions for bad debts 2017 2016 rest-bearing 1,451 1,334 1,446 1,324 Provision for bad debts at the beginning of the year -54 -49 Change in net impairment for the year -6 -15 Group Parent Company Change in provision, net in balance sheet 23 12 Reclassification to long-term receivables 2 0 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Current 2017 2016 2017 2016 Translation difference, currency 1 -2 Liabilities to credit institutions, bank Total -34 -54 borrowing 136 136 136 136 Overdraft facilities 117 265 117 265 Group Liabilities to leasing companies 2 2 – – 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Total current liabilities, interest-beReceivables that are past due but not impaired 2017 2016 aring 255 404 253 401 Accounts receivable Total borrowing 1,706 1,738 1,699 1,725 Receivables due between 0–30 days 62 45 Receivables due between 31-60 days 6 11 Overdraft facility limit 435 609 435 609 Receivables due longer than 60 days 3 2 of which, unutilised portion 318 344 318 344 Total 71 58 All interest rates, excluding interest-rate swaps, are variable or have a maximum fixed Fair value of accounts receivable agrees with the carrying amounts. Credit quality of period of three months. During the financial year, the interest level varied up to just unreserved receivables is assessed to be good. below 2 per cent (2). Interest-rate swaps entered into in 2015 in an amount of SEK Interest income on accounts receivable during the year was SEK 3 M (4). 450 M to hedge the cash flows in the loans Mekonomen AB has falling due in 2019 remain. Long-term interest-bearing liabilities increased during the year, mainly as a result of expanded credit facilities in an amount of SEK 258 M in connection with refinancing. The loans were renegotiated in the second quarter with a loan of SEK 600 M with a NOTE 19 PREPAID EXPENSES duration of 4.4 years and a loan of SEK 1,050 M with a duration of five years. In 2017, AND ACCRUED INCOME loans were repaid in an amount of SEK 138 M (136), of which SEK 136 M (136) in Mekonomen AB. The Group’s maturity structure is specified in Note 11. Mekonomen AB’s borrowing from banks is subject to certain conditions, known Group Parent Company as covenants, all of which Mekonomen AB meets. The conditions include an owner change clause that becomes current upon an owner change in excess of 50 per cent 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. or upon a delisting. The Group’s long-term borrowing occurs mainly under credit 2017 2016 2017 2016 frameworks with long-term lines of credits, but with short-term fixed-interest periods. Prepaid rents 44 41 – – The Group’s interest expenses pertaining to borrowing amounted to SEK 28 M (28). Prepaid lease fees 2 2 – 0 Refer also to the sensitivity analysis pertaining to interest-rate risks in the sensitivity Prepaid insurance 2 3 1 1 analysis section in the Administration Report and in Note 37. Existing overdraft facilities are in SEK, NOK, EUR and DKK. Other loans are in SEK. Accrued supplier bonus 138 130 – – Other interim receivables 67 50 8 6 Total 253 226 9 7 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 73 NOTES NOTE 22 PROVISIONS Group Present value of commitments 2017 2016 Group Parent Company Opening balance 54 46 Gross pension cost for the year 2 3 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2017 2016 2017 2016 Interest expenses 1 0 Pension payment -2 -2 Provision for pensions 3 4 – – Actuarial gains and losses1) -1 2 Provisions for supplementary purchase considerations 23 13 – – Exchange-rate differences -3 5 Other provisions 9 10 3 2 Closing balance 51 54 Total 34 27 3 2 Group SupplemenFair value of plan assets 2017 2016 tary purchaOpening balance 50 42 Other provise consideraExpected return 0 1 sions tions Payments 4 3 Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 10 13 Pension payment -2 -2 New provisions 0 13 Actuarial gains and losses1) -1 1 Reversed provisions -1 0 Exchange-rate differences -3 5 Amounts utilised during the period 0 -4 Closing balance 48 50 Currency effects 0 0 Carrying amount at year-end 9 23 Net pension commitments 3 4 Provisions comprise: 1) Changes in demographic and financial assumptions are not specified on the basis of a materiality assessment. Group Parent Company Group 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2017 2016 2017 2016 Costs recognised in profit or loss 2017 2016 Long-term portion 21 27 3 2 Pension vesting for the year including contributions 2 2 Short-term portion 14 – – – Administration fees 0 0 Interest expenses 1 0 Total 34 27 3 2 3 2 Pensions Alecta Group The ITP 2 scheme’s defined-benefit pension obligations for old-age and family pensions (or family pension) for salaried employees in Sweden are secured through 31 Dec. 31 Dec. insurance with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Composition of plan assets 2017 2016 Board, UFR 10 Recognition of ITP 2 Pension Plans Financed through Insurance with Equities 9% 10% Alecta, this is a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. In the 2017 financial year, the Bonds 72% 71% company did not have access to such information that made it possible to recognise its Property 11% 13% proportional share of the plan’s obligations, plan assets and costs, which means that it Other 8% 6% was not possible to recognise this as a defined-benefit plan. ITP 2 pension plans that are secured through insurance with Alecta are therefore recognised as defined-conTotal 100% 100% tribution plans. The anticipated fees for the next reporting period for ITP 2 policies signed with Alecta amounts to SEK 15 M (14). Group The collective consolidation level comprises the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of insurance commitments calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial 31 Dec. 31 Dec. methods and assumptions, which are not in agreement with IAS 19. Alecta’s surplus, Actuarial assumptions 2017 2016 in the form of the collective consolidation level, amounted to 154 per cent at year-end Discount rate 2.30% 2.10% 2017 (2016: 149 per cent). Future salary increases 2.50% 2.25% Future pension increases 0.40% 0.00% Pension commitments All pension commitments pertain to employees in the subsidiary in Norway. The Assumptions regarding future length of life are based on public statistics and expeGroup is obliged to provide pension provisions according to the Norwegian act on rience from mortality studies in the country concerned, and set in consultation with occupational pensions. The Group has a total of five defined-benefit pension plans actuarial experts. which jointly include 55 (57) gainfully employed individuals and 50 (50) pensioners. Through its post-employment defined-benefit pension plans, the Group is exposed Pension benefits are largely dependent on the number of years of service, salary level to a number of such risks as asset volatility, changes in returns and length of life at retirement and the amount of the benefit. This obligation is covered via insurance commitments. The company actively monitors how terms of and expected returns companies. Employer contributions are included in the net pension obligation. The on investments match expected payments arising from its pension commitments. The amounts recognised in the balance sheet have been calculated as follows: Group has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous periods. The Group does not use derivative instruments to manage its risk. Investments are Group highly diversified. Contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the 2018 financial year are 31 Dec. 31 Dec. expected to amount to SEK 4 M. 2017 2016 A sensitivity analysis and weighted average term for the pension commitments Present value of funded commitments 51 54 and term analysis for undiscounted payments have not been provided since they are Fair value of plan assets -48 -50 deemed to be insignificant. Deficit in funded plans 3 4 Present value in unfunded commitments – – Net debt in the balance sheet 3 4 74 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 NOTES NOTE 23 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES, NOTE 25 PLEDGED ASSETS, CONTINGENT NON-INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS Group Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Accounts payable 636 612 Pledged assets – – – – Other liabilities 177 120 Accrued expenses and deferred income 369 373 Contingent liabilities Guarantee commitments, divested Total 1,182 1,105 properties – 22 – 22 Other guarantee commitments1) 94 171 – – Guarantees on behalf of subsidiaries1) – – 446 519 ACCRUED EXPENSES Other sureties 16 19 – – NOTE 24 Total 110 211 446 541 AND DEFERRED INCOME 1) The decrease during the year mainly originates from a guarantee amount regarding the new central warehouse system decreasing as investments are made; also see information in Note 14. Group Parent Company For information on commitments regarding future lease charges and investment 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. commitments, refer to Note 14. 2017 2016 2017 2016 Accrued personnel-related costs 205 213 8 19 PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES Accrued bonuses/contract fees 82 79 – – Accrued interest expenses 1 1 1 1 NOTE 26 Prepaid rental income 4 6 – – Parent Company Other interim liabilities 77 74 1 2 Total 369 373 11 22 2017 2016 Opening cost 3,586 3,551 Capital contributions paid 20 35 Sale of subsidiaries -2 – Closing accumulated cost 3,604 3,586 Opening impairment -574 -546 Impairment1) – -28 Closing accumulated impairment -574 -574 Closing residual value 3,030 3,012 1) In the comparison period, impairments pertain to Acem A/S in Denmark corresponding to SEK -28 M. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 75 NOTES NOTE 26 CONTINUED Corp. ID Number of Book value Book value Name of company/registered office, Sweden number Share of equity, % stores 31/12/2017 31 Dec. 2016 MECA Scandinavia AB/Malmö 556218-3037 100 2,053 2,033 Mekonomen Group AB/Stockholm 556724-9254 100 35 35 Mekonomen Grossist AB/Stockholm 556062-4875 100 40 40 Mekonomen Detaljist AB/Stockholm 556157-7288 100 31 5 5 Meko Service Nordic AB/Stockholm 556179-9676 100 1 1 Mekonomen Fleet AB/Stockholm 556720-6031 – – 2 Speedy Autoservice AB/Malmö 556575-9858 100 31 31 Mekonomen Nya Affärer AB/Stockholm 556821-5981 100 0 0 Mekonomen Services AB/Huddinge 556840-9428 100 0 0 Name of company/registered office, Finland Mekonomen Oy/Helsinki 2259452-4 100 0 0 Name of company/registered office, Denmark Acem A/S/Copenhagen 30 07 81 28 100 0 0 Name of company/registered office, Norway Mekonomen AS/Oppegård 980 748 669 100 29 24 24 Sørensen og Balchen AS/Oslo 916 591 144 100 – 840 840 Participations in Group companies, total 60 3,030 3,012 During the year, Mekonomen AB transferred the shares in Mekonomen Fleet AB Mekonomen Iceland internally to the subsidiary Mekonomen Detaljist AB and within MECA, the operations Mekonomen ehf./Gardabaer 411214-0520 100 – in Asia have been divested. In Denmark, Mekonomen Grossist Danmark A/S was liquidated during the year. Mekonomen Gardabae ehf./Gardabaer 411214-0790 99.71 – 1 Mekonomen Sweden Share NumIndirect participations in subsidiCorp. ID of equiber of Mekonomen Alingsås AB/Alingsås 556596-3690 95 1 aries Company name/domicile number ty, % stores Mekonomen Arvika AB/Arvika 556528-3750 100 5 MECA Mekonomen B2C AB/Stockholm 556767-7405 100 – MECA Car Parts AB/Malmö 556169-0412 100 – Mekonomen Backaplan AB/Gothenburg 556226-1338 100 – MECA Sweden AB/Malmö 556356-5612 100 52 Mekonomen Bilverkstad AB/Stockholm 556607-1493 100 – MECA Bilservice i Köping AB/Malmö 559012-2478 100 – Mekonomen Blekinge AB/Sölvesborg 556649-9017 100 4 MECA Norway AS/Gjøvik, Norway 935 682 525 100 24 Mekonomen Bollnäs AB/Bollnäs 556827-3675 91 1 Fyksen Servicecenter Brumunddal AS/ Mekonomen Butikerna AB/ Halmstad 556261-4676 100 1 Ringsaker, Norway 913 915 658 100 – Mekonomen Båstad AB/Båstad 556594-1951 100 1 Fyksen Servicecenter Gjøvik AS/Gjøvik, Mekonomen Eklanda AB/Gothenburg 556887-1999 51 1 Norway 913 915 631 100 – Mekonomen Enköping AB/Enköping 556264-2636 91 1 Fyksen Servicecenter Hamar AS/Hamar, Mekonomen Eskilstuna AB/Eskilstuna 556613-5637 100 1 Norway 913 915 615 100 – Mekonomen Falkenberg AB/Falkenberg 556213-1622 91 1 Fyksen Servicecenter Lillehammer AS/ Mekonomen Falköping AB/Falköping 556272-1497 100 – Lillehammer, Norway 913 915 623 100 – Mekonomen Falun AB/Falun 556559-3927 100 2 MECA Tunga Fordon AB/Malmö 559009-7837 100 – Mekonomen FKV AB/Stockholm 556775-9831 100 – Preqas AB/Göteborg 556884-6504 100 – Mekonomen Flen AB/Flen 556769-8542 100 2 Preqas AS/Gjøvik, Norway 816 479 932 100 – Mekonomen Gärdet AB/Stockholm 556821-6104 100 – J&B Maskinteknik AB/Gothenburg 556490-2996 100 – Mekonomen Gärdet Café AB/Stockholm 556840-9436 100 – J&B Maskinteknikk AS/Gjøvik, Norway 915 971 865 100 – Mekonomen Gävle AB/Gävle 556353-6803 100 1 ProMeister Solutions AB/Malmö 559034-6929 100 – Mekonomen Göteborg AB/Gothenburg 556887-2294 51 3 ProMeister Solutions AS/Gjøvik, Norway 917 100 462 100 – Mekonomen Hallsberg AB/Hallsberg 556530-7237 100 – ProMeister Sweden AB/Malmö 556509-7861 100 – Mekonomen Hedemora AB/Hedemora 556308-8011 91 1 76 Mekonomen Härnösand AB/Härnösand 556217-2261 100 1 Mekonomen Finland1) Mekonomen Hässleholm AB/Hässleholm 556678-0622 91 1 Mekonomen Viiki Oy/Helsinki 2359722-5 100 – Mekonomen Järfälla AB/Järfälla 556580-2351 100 – Mekonomen Tammisto Oy/Vantaa 2359731-3 100 1 Mekonomen Jönköping AB/Jönköping 556237-5500 91 1 Mekonomen Renkomäki Oy/Lahti 2429678-2 100 1 Mekonomen Kalmar AB/Kalmar 556236-8349 100 1 Mekonomen Levänen Oy/Kuopio 2462875-9 100 1 Mekonomen Karlskoga AB/Uppsala 556821-6062 100 – Mekonomen Grossist Oy/Vantaa 2445185-0 100 – Mekonomen Karlstad AB/Karlstad 556786-9457 100 – 3 1) All companies in Finland have their registered offices in Helsinki; the place of business is stated above. Mekonomen Kramfors AB/Kramfors 556496-1810 91 1 Mekonomen Kristianstad AB/Kristianstad 556171-9203 100 1 Mekonomen Kungsbacka AB/Kungsbacka 556887-2336 51 1 Mekonomen Kungshamn AB/Sotenäs 559101-6257 80 1 Mekonomen Lidköping AB/Lidköping 556761-3012 75 1 76 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 NOTES Mekonomen Linköping AB/Linköping 556202-9545 100 2 Jahre Motor Hamar AS/Hamar 935 614 031 91 1 Mekonomen Ljusdal AB/Ljusdal 556786-1066 100 2 Rogaland Rekvisita AS/Stavanger 936 043 119 100 2 Mekonomen Ludvika AB/Ludvika 556470-4210 91 1 Rønneberg Auto Industri AS/Ålesund 981 015 150 100 5 Mekonomen Luleå AB/Luleå 556338-4071 100 2 Vest Bilutstyr AS/Bergen 980 281 450 100 2 Mekonomen Lund AB/Lund 556531-0108 91 1 39 Mekonomen Lycksele AB/Lycksele 556687-8095 100 1 Sweden – Meko Service Nordic Mekonomen Mariestad AB/Mariestad 556261-0179 75 1 Mekonomen BilLivet AB/Stockholm 556845-2196 100 – Mekonomen Mjölby AB/Mjölby 556362-0565 95.5 1 Meca Bilverkstad Karlskoga AB/Stockholm 559123-7416 100 – Mekonomen Mora AB/Mora 556363-2487 100 1 Meca Bilverkstad Tunby AB/Stockholm 559101-9681 100 – Mekonomen Motala AB/Motala 556311-8750 95.5 1 Meko Service Auto Mek i Karlskrona AB/ Mekonomen Norrköping AB/Norrköping 556376-2797 100 2 Stockholm 556882-0772 100 – Mekonomen Norrtälje AB/Stockholm 556178-9719 60 1 Meko Service Hemmesta AB/Upplands-Väsby 556428-1102 100 – Mekonomen Nyköping AB/Nyköping 556244-0650 75 1 Meko Service Råå AB/Upplands-Väsby 559086-6744 80 – Mekonomen Nässjö AB/Nässjö 556187-8637 100 1 Meko Service Småland AB/Stockholm 559115-9479 100 – Mekonomen Osby AB/Osby 556408-8044 91 1 Meko Service Susannes Bilverkstad i Härlöv Mekonomen Oskarshamn AB/Oskarshamn 556631-8589 75 1 AB/Upplands-Väsby 556964-0641 60 – Mekonomen Piteå AB/Piteå 556659-8966 100 1 Meko Service Södra AB/Upplands-Väsby 559086-6645 80 – Mekonomen Sala AB/Sala 556882-0905 100 1 Meko Service Tio AB/Stockholm 559116-8694 100 – Mekonomen Sandviken AB/Sandviken 556201-1295 100 1 Meko Service Elva AB/Stockholm 559118-0590 100 – Mekonomen Skellefteå AB/Skellefteå 556389-4095 100 1 Meko Service Tolv AB/Stockholm 559118-0608 100 – Mekonomen Sollefteå AB/Sollefteå 556216-9424 100 1 Meko Service Tretton AB/Stockholm 559118-0616 100 – Mekonomen Strömstad AB/Strömstad 556775-9849 100 1 Meko Service 14 AB/Stockholm 559123-7432 100 – Mekonomen Sundsvall Birsta AB/Sundsvall 556201-1675 100 1 Meko Service 15 AB/Stockholm 559123-7424 100 – Mekonomen Sundsvall Nacksta AB/Sundsvall 556777-4863 100 – Meko Service 17 AB/Stockholm 559123-7705 100 – Mekonomen Södertälje AB/Södertälje 556405-5498 100 1 Meko Service 18 AB/Stockholm 559123-7408 100 – Mekonomen Sölvesborg AB/Sölvesborg 556216-4250 100 – Meko Service 19 AB/Stockholm 559124-5070 100 – Mekonomen Torslanda AB/Gothenburg 556583-3893 100 – Meko Service 20 AB/Stockholm 559123-7382 100 – Mekonomen Tranås AB/Tranås 556770-0041 100 1 Mekonomen BilLivet Backaplan AB/GoMekonomen Trollhättan AB/Trollhättan 556515-0298 100 2 thenburg 556756-1146 91 – Mekonomen Umeå AB/Umeå 556483-3084 81.8 1 Mekonomen BilLivet Bromma AB/Stockholm 556864-3455 100 – Mekonomen Valdemarsvik AB/Valdemarsvik 556963-4966 100 1 Mekonomen Billivet Eklanda AB/UppMekonomen Varberg AB/Varberg 556261-0161 75 1 lands-Väsby 556863-9909 91 – Mekonomen Verkstadscenter Älvsjö AB/ Mekonomen Billivet Fosie AB/Stockholm 559098-0537 100 – Huddinge 556192-0314 91 1 Mekonomen BilLivet Gärdet AB/UppMekonomen Vetlanda AB/Vetlanda 556653-4219 91 1 lands-Väsby 556821-6047 100 – Mekonomen Vimmerby AB/Vimmerby 556232-5877 100 1 Mekonomen BilLivet Gävle AB/Stockholm 556864-3448 100 – Mekonomen Vänersborg AB/Vänersborg 556770-0058 91 1 Mekonomen BilLivet Infra City AB/Stockholm 556864-3471 100 – Mekonomen Värnamo Norra AB/Värnamo 556530-9266 100 – Mekonomen BilLivet Johanneshov AB/ Mekonomen Västerås AB/Västerås 556344-5492 100 2 Stockholm 556882-0780 91 – Mekonomen Växjö AB/Växjö 556192-0439 100 3 Mekonomen BilLivet Katrinelund AB/ Mekonomen Örnsköldsvik AB/Örnsköldsvik 556465-6287 51 1 Stockholm 556882-0954 91 – Mekonomen Östersund AB/Östersund 556296-5243 100 2 Mekonomen BilLivet Krokslätt AB/GothenMekonomen Fleet AB/Stockholm 556720-6031 100 – burg 559055-8549 100 – Marinshopen RM AB/Stockholm 556829-5066 100 1 Mekonomen Billivet Ljungby AB/Stockholm 559118-0582 100 – 82 Mekonomen BilLivet Södertälje AB/Stockholm 556882-0939 100 – Mekonomen Norway Mekonomen BilLivet Täby AB/Stockholm 556882-0962 91 – Mekonomen Bilservice Rasta AS/Kongsvinger 817 970 532 100 – Mekonomen BilLivet Vårby AB/Stockholm 556882-0947 91 – Mekonomen Kongsberg AS/Kongsberg 937 161 786 100 1 Mekonomen Billivet Växjö AB/Stockholm 559118-0574 100 – Mekonomen Services AS/Oppegård 999 323 332 100 – Mekonomen Billivet Älmhult AB/Stockholm 559115-9461 100 – Mekonomen Tønsberg AS/Tønsberg 934 256 867 75 1 Promotor Åkersberga AB/Stockholm 556819-5019 100 – Motor Norge AS/Alta 945 481 668 51 1 Speedy Bilservice Högsbo AB/Malmö 556909-4906 100 – Lasingoo Norge AS/ Oppegård 914 835 585 100 – Speedy Bilservice Mölndal AB/Mölndal 559004-5711 91 – 3 Speedy Bilservice på Limhamn AB/Malmö 559097-7970 100 – Norway – Sørensen og Balchen Speedy Bilservice Östermalm AB/Malmö 556953-2434 91 – Askim Bilrekvisita AS/Askim 885 049 702 100 2 0 Autoproducts AS/Trondheim 995 080 125 50 1 Hong Kong Bilutstyr Arendal AS/Arendal 961 171 067 100 1 ProMeister Global Limited/Hong kong 1988735 100 – Bilvarehusene Nor AS/Oslo 880 553 852 100 9 0 Bilvarehusene Sør AS/Oslo 887 813 752 100 6 Total number of stores 263 BilXtra AS/Oslo 983 032 133 100 8 BilXtra Autogården Kongsberg AS/Kongsberg 914 746 345 91.9 – Including the Parent Company, Mekonomen Group comprises a total of 176 companies, BilXtra Kristiansund AS/Kristiansund 999 255 876 91 1 263 proprietary stores and 45 proprietary workshops. Currently, 51 wholly-owned BilXtra Skøyen AS/Ringebu 916 795 521 100 – companies run 228 stores and 33 partly-owned companies run 35 stores. Furthermore, DINDEL NORWAY AS/Oslo 913 284 607 100 – 25 wholly-owned companies run 31 car workshops and 12 partly-owned companies run 14 workshops. Høistad Bildeler AS/Lillehammer 981 015 142 100 1 The Group has no subsidiary with non-controlling interests that is of individual significance to Mekonomen Group. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 77 NOTES NOTE 27 INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING Translation THE EQUITY METHOD Reserves differences1) Hedges Total Opening balance on 1 January 2016 -232 -2 -234 The amounts recognised in the balance sheet comprise the following: Exchange-rate differences on translaGroup tion of foreign subsidiaries 104 – 104 Cash-flow hedges – -4 -4 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2017 2016 Closing balance on 31 December 2016 -128 -6 -134 Associated companies1) 20 0 Opening balance on 1 January 2017 -128 -6 -134 Joint ventures 2 2 Exchange-rate differences on translaTotal 22 2 tion of foreign subsidiaries -50 – -50 Cash-flow hedges – 3 3 1) In the fourth quarter of 2017, the Group acquired 20 per cent of the shares in Swedspot AB, an associated company that is a leader in connected cars and digitalisation. The associated company Closing balance on 31 December Automotive Web Solutions AB was divested during the second quarter of 2017. 2017 -178 -3 -182 1) At 31 December 2017, the accumulated translation reserve regarding Denmark amounted to SEK -13 The amounts recognised in profit or loss comprise the following: M (-14). The translation reserve for Denmark will be reclassified within shareholders’ equity through Group profit and loss to the amount current at the time when the Danish company is liquidated, which is planned to take place in 2018. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, refer to 2017 2016 Note 34. Associated companies 0 0 Profit brought forward Joint ventures 0 0 The profit brought forward item corresponds to the accumulated profits and losses Total 0 0 generated in total in the Group. Holdings in joint ventures and associated companies are recognised in accordance with the equity method. The Group has one associated company and one joint venture. Profit brought forward This information is limited as the amounts are of minor value. Opening balance on 1 January 2016 831 Comprehensive income for the year: NOTE 28 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Profit for the year Actuarial gains and losses 335 -1 Comprehensive income for the year 334 A specification of changes to shareholders’ equity can be found in the statement of changes in consolidated and Parent Company’s shareholders’ equity (see pages 52 and Dividends -251 56, respectively). Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling interests -14 Closing balance on 31 December 2016 900 Share capital At the end of the financial year, share capital amounted to SEK 89,754 (89,754) Opening balance on 1 January 2017 900 thousand and comprised 35,901,487 shares (35,901,487) at a quotient value of SEK Comprehensive income for the year: 2.50 per share (2.50). There were no outstanding shareholders’ equity instruments Profit for the year 361 that could result in a dilution of the share capital as per 31 December 2017 and 31 Actuarial gains and losses 0 December 2016. Comprehensive income for the year 361 Other capital contributions Dividends -251 Other capital contributions included contributions the company received from shareAcquisition/divestment of non-controlling interests -9 holders and which are not recognised as share capital. Closing balance on 31 December 2017 1,000 Other capital contributions Dividend to Parent Company’s shareholders Opening balance on 1 January 2016 1,456 The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 7.00 per share (7.00), leading to a total dividend of SEK 251,310,409 (251,310,409). Closing balance on 31 December 2016 1,456 Proposed appropriation of profit Parent Company Opening balance on 1 January 2017 1,456 Closing balance on 31 December 2017 1,456 The following profit is at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting, SEK 000s: Reserves Profit brought forward 2,297,268 The item consists of translation differences attributable to the translation of foreign Profit for the year 426,800 subsidiaries in accordance with IAS 21 and cash-flow hedges as shown in the table Total 2,724,068 below: The Board of Directors and President propose that profits be appropriated as follows: Dividend to shareholders (SEK 7.00 per share) 251,310 To be carried forward 2,472,758 Total 2,724,068 78 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 NOTES NOTE 29 CAPITAL Mekonomen Norway acquired non-controlling interests in one store and one workshop in Norway, both for a minor value. Mekonomen Norway also acquired two partner stores in Mosjön and Mo i Rana and one workshop in Halden, Norway. Mekonomen Group manages its capital to ensure that the units in the Group are able Sørensen og Balchen acquired non-controlling interests in one workshop in Norto continue operating, while dividends to shareholders are maximised through a sound way at minor value. Sørensen og Balchen also established two stores in Norway, one balance between liabilities and shareholders’ equity. The Group’s capital comprises in Bø and one in Råholt. shareholders’ equity, as well as short and long-term borrowing. The proportions Meko Service Nordic also acquired non-controlling interests in one workshop for of shareholders’ equity and changes during the year are described in the changes in a minor value. Meko Service Nordic also acquired six workshops in Sweden, two in consolidated shareholders’ equity on page 52 and Note 28 Shareholders’ equity. Malmö, one in Älmhult, Växjö, Ljungby and Västerås, respectively. At least once per year, the Board reviews the capital structure and takes this into Acquisitions of non-controlling interests also occurred through dilution in a new account when making decisions on, for example, dividends or raising new loans. The share issue at a minor value in Mekonomen Iceland. key figure the Group Management and the Board primarily assesses regarding capital The impact of all acquisitions on consolidated sales and earnings was marginal. structure is net debt relative to EBITDA. This key figure is continuously followed up Information on corporate acquisitions is provided in aggregate form since each in the internal reporting to Group Management and the Board. Mekonomen Group’s individual acquisition is not deemed to be of such a size as to warrant separate recogfinancial targets include that net debt/EBITDA shall not exceed 2.0 over the long term. nition. All acquisitions were paid in cash. In addition, the long-term equity/assets ratio shall not be less than 40 per cent. Total acAcquisitions in 2017 quisitions SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES ON THE Value of acquired assets and liabilities NOTE 30 Tangible fixed assets 9 CASH FLOW STATEMENT Inventories Current receivables 11 4 Group Parent Company Current liabilities -10 Acquired net assets 14 Adjustments for non-cash Customer relations 34 items in operating activities 2017 2016 2017 2016 Goodwill 22 Depreciation/Amortisation 178 173 0 0 Deferred tax liabilities -3 Impairment of intangible fixed assets 9 – – – Acquired non-controlling interests, surplus value recognised against Impairment of tangible fixed assets 0 2 – – shareholders’ equity 8 Impairment of financial fixed assets -1 1 – 28 Total identifiable net assets and goodwill 75 Other provisions -1 0 0 0 Total purchase price -75 Capital gain/loss from divestment of fixed assets 1 1 0 – of which, cash portion -63 Capital gain/loss from divestment of of which supplementary purchase considerations entered as liabilities -13 operations 2 23 – – Cash and cash equivalents in the acquired companies 0 Other items not affecting liquidity 11 -4 -6 -6 Plus paid supplementary purchase considerations regarding earlier years -4 200 196 -6 21 Impact on Group’s cash and cash equivalents -66 Three store managers entered as part-owners in five store companies during the year Non-cash items and one workshop manager entered as a partner in a workshop company. Change in liabilities with Opening Closing Acquisi% equity cash flows in balance CurChange balance Acquired subsidiaries/ Countion and % financing activi1 JanuaCash rency in fair 31 Dec operations 2017 try date votes Object ties, Group ry 2017 flows effect value 2017 Assets Liability to credit Stores, Västervik and Visby and institutions, long MECA Sweden Quarter 1 100 liabilities term 1,328 119 0 – 1,447 Assets Liability to credit Workshop equipment, eastern and institutions, short Norway MECA Norway Quarter 1 100 liabilities term 403 -148 – – 255 Assets Derivative intePartner stores, Mosjön, Mo i Rana and rest-rate swap, long Mekonomen Norway Norway Quarter 1 100 liabilities term 7 – – -3 4 Assets Workshop, Halden Mekonomen and Total 1,738 -29 0 -3 1,706 Norway Norway Quarter 1 100 liabilities Workshop, Malmö Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 1 100 Equities Assets NOTE 31 EFFECTS OF ACQUISITIONS IMPLEMENTED Workshop, Malmö Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 1 100 and liabilities Business combinations 2017 Assets MECA acquired three stores during the year in Sweden, one each in Västervik, Visby and Store, Trelleborg MECA Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities and Trelleborg, and four workshops in Norway, one each in Lillehammer, Brumunddal, Gjøvik and Hamar. MECA also acquired operations for heavy workshop equipment in Store, Kungshamn Mekonomen eastern Norway. Sweden Sweden Quarter 3 80 Equities Mekonomen Sweden acquired non-controlling interests in four stores, all for a Workshops, Älmhult, Växjö, Assets minor value. Mekonomen Sweden also acquired a store in Kungshamn, established Ljungby, Västerås Meko Service and a store in Karlstad, and transferred three stores in Gothenburg to partly owned Nordic Sweden Quarter 3 100 liabilities companies in the Group. Workshops, Lillehammer, Brumunddal, Gjøvik, Hamar MECA Norway Quarter 4 100 Equities Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 79 NOTES NOTE 31 CONTINUED NOTE 32 INFORMATION CONCERNING REVENUE AND Business combinations 2016 EXPENSES BETWEEN GROUP COMPANIES MECA acquired one store in Höör, Sweden and two partner stores in Tomelilla and Charlottenberg, Sweden, established Opus Equipment in Norway and acquired a During the year, the Parent Company Mekonomen AB sold products and services to customer portfolio for oil sales to industrial customers in Norway. Group companies totalling SEK 34 M (35). Purchases relating to goods and services Mekonomen Sweden acquired non-controlling interests in 11 stores, all for a minor from Group companies amounted to SEK 72 M (56). value. Mekonomen Sweden also acquired a partner store in Halmstad and established a store in Älmhult. Mekonomen Norway acquired a workshop in Drammen, Norway. Sørensen og Balchen established two stores in Norway, one in Stord and one in Trysil. Meko Service Nordic acquired three workshops in Sweden, one in Mölndal and two NOTE 33 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED-PARTIES in Helsingborg. Meko Service Nordic also acquired non-controlling interests in three workshops in Sweden, all for a minor value. In 2017, Mekonomen Group acquired goods and services at a value of SEK 5 M (5) Relative to the comparative period, Opus Equipment AB, which was acquired on 1 from companies where Mekonomen Group has significant influence or joint conJuly 2015, impacted the Group’s net sales by SEK 54 M, and EBIT negatively by SEK 4 trolling influence. Agreements on goods and services with related parties are made on M. The impact of other acquisitions on consolidated sales and earnings was marginal. market-based terms. There were no receivables from or liabilities to related parties as Information on corporate acquisitions is provided in aggregate form since each at the balance-sheet date. individual acquisition is not deemed to be of such a size as to warrant separate recogMekonomen Group has entered an agreement with a major shareholder in the nition. All acquisitions were paid in cash. company, LKQ Corporation, with the aim of finding joint purchasing agreements with key suppliers. The agreement has been approved by the Board’s independent members. Total acNo other transactions with related parties took place. For information on remunerAcquisitions in 2016 quisitions ation of senior executives, refer to Note 5. Value of acquired assets and liabilities Tangible fixed assets 2 Inventories 3 Current receivables Current liabilities 0 0 NOTE 34 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Acquired net assets 5 A decision on comprehensive structural changes and repositioning of the Group’s Danish operations was made in December 2014. All of the stores, which were also Customer relations 21 local warehouses, and the Danish head office have been closed. The franchise workGoodwill 5 shops were retained and these then received their deliveries of spare parts directly Deferred tax liabilities 0 from the regional and central warehouses, achieving efficient logistics without intermeAcquired non-controlling interests, surplus value recognised against diaries in the distribution chain. In March 2015, the last two stores in Denmark were shareholders’ equity 14 closed, which is why the Danish store operations was discontinued as of this point Total identifiable net assets and goodwill 45 in time. The Danish store operations were previously a part of the MECA segment. For further information, see the Group’s annual reports for 2015 and 2016, Note 34 Total purchase price -45 Discontinued operations. of which, cash portion -31 As of the 2017 financial year, no discontinued operations are reported in the of which supplementary purchase considerations -14 consolidated income statement. Cash and cash equivalents in the acquired companies 0 At 31 December 2017, the accumulated translation reserve regarding Denmark amounted to SEK -13 M (-14). The translation reserve for Denmark will be reclassified Impact on Group’s cash and cash equivalents -31 within shareholders’ equity through profit and loss to the amount current at the time One workshop manager entered as a partner in the workshop company during the when the Danish company is liquidated, which is planned to take place in 2018. year. Acquisi% equity Acquired subsidiaries/ operations 2016 Country tion date and % votes Object NOTE 35 EVENTS AFTER THE END OF THE YEAR Assets Mekonomen Group’s management structure was changed as of 1 January 2018 to be Partner store, Halmstad Mekoand better adapted to the business. nomen Sweden Sweden Quarter 1 100 liabilities As of 1 January 2018, Group management comprises the following individuals: Assets – Pehr Oscarson, president and CE and – Åsa Källenius, CFO and IT director Store, Höör MECA Sweden Quarter 1 100 liabilities – Morten Birkeland, managing director of Sørensen og Balchen Assets – Katarina Zetterqvist, HR director and – Carl-Johan Åström, managing director of MECA Sweden Partner store, Tomelilla MECA Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities – Torhild Barlaup, managing director of MECA Norway Assets – Stig Tornell, managing director of Mekonomen Sweden Partner store, Charlottenberg and – Frank Bekken, managing director of Mekonomen Norway MECA Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities – Tobias Narvinger, Purchasing & Supply Assets – Gabriella Granholm, Communications & Marketing Customer portfolio for oil sales to and – Robert Hård, Legal & Sustainability industrial customers, MECA Norway Quarter 2 100 liabilities – Magnus Rylander, head of the business area Ventures Assets Workshop, Mölndal Meko and The organisational change also affects the segment reporting. As of the first quarter of Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities 2018, Mekonomen Group will be presented with three segments, Mekonomen, MECA Assets and Sørensen og Balchen. The Mekonomen segment will consist of Mekonomen Workshop, Drammen Mekonoand Sweden and Mekonomen Norway. The MECA segment will consist of MECA Sweden men Norway Norway Quarter 3 100 liabilities and MECA Norway. Sørensen og Balchen is unchanged. The other operations that Assets were previously a part of MECA will be included in Other segments, like Marinshopen, Workshop, Helsingborg Meko and which was previously part of Mekonomen Sweden. The comparative figures will be Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 4 100 liabilities restated. Assets No other significant events occurred after the end of the financial year. Workshop, Helsingborg/Råå and Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 4 100 liabilities 80 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 NOTES APPROVAL OF ANNUAL REPORT As per 31 December 2017, Mekonomen’s net debt is SEK 1,444 M (1,437). A NOTE 36 fixed-interest period is available with a term of less than one year. In addition to this, there is an interest-rate swap of SEK 450 M to hedge the cash flows in the loans The Annual Report and consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by Mekonomen AB has falling due in 2019. See also the table in the Sensitivity analysis the Board on 27 March 2018. The consolidated income statement, statement of comsection of the Administration Report. prehensive income and balance sheet and the Parent Company’s income statement, statement of comprehensive income and balance sheet will be subject to approval by Financing and liquidity risks the Annual General Meeting on 09 May 2018. Financing risk is seen as the risk of the cost being higher and financing opportunities limited when loans are renewed and payment obligations cannot be met as a result of insufficient liquidity or difficulties in securing financing. According to the finance policy, refinancing risks are to be managed by signing long-term and flexible credit NOTE 37 FINANCIAL RISKS agreements. As per 31 December 2017, the Group’s total loan financing amounted to SEK 1,699 M (1,728), of which the long-term portion is SEK 1,446 M (1,327). The Group’s borThrough its operations, Mekonomen Group is exposed to currency, credit, interrowing from banks is subject to certain conditions, known as covenants, all of which est-rate, financing and liquidity risks. The management of these risks is regulated in the Mekonomen AB meets. The conditions include an owner change clause that becomes finance policy adopted by the Board. Credit risk relating to customer commitments current upon an owner change in excess of 50 per cent or upon a delisting. is managed, according to central frameworks, decentralised locally. Other risks are mainly managed centrally by the Group’s Treasury unit. See the maturity structure excluding amortisation in the graph below. Currency risk Mekonomen Group’s external loans without backup facilities as per Currency risks occur when currency fluctuations have a negative impact on the 31/12/2017. Group’s earnings and shareholders’ equity. Currency exposure arises in connection with cash flows in foreign currencies (transaction exposure), as well as in translation MSEK of loans/receivables in foreign currencies and in the translation of foreign subsidiaries’ 1,200 balance sheets and income statements into SEK (translation exposure). In 2017, currency fluctuations had a negative impact on the Group’s profit before 1,000 tax totalling SEK -14 M (-5). The most important currency in terms of transaction 800 exposure is EUR, which represents 46 per cent (37) of goods purchases in the Group, as well as NOK pertaining to internal sales from wholesale companies in Mekonomen 600 Sweden and MECA to Norway. NOK is the most important currency with regard to translation exposure. The management of currency risks is regulated in the finance 400 policy with a hedging period of between 0 and 3 months. With regard to foreign shareholders’ equity, the principal rule is that Mekonomen 200 Group does not hedge this exposure. However, if major foreign investments are made that require separate financing, a decision may be made to recognise all or part of 0 the financing in the acquisition currency. For more detailed information on currency 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 exposure, refer also to the sensitivity analysis section in the Administration Report. Total amortisation of the loans is SEK 136 M per year. In addition, the Group has overCredit risk draft facilities totalling SEK 435 M (609). The Group’s cash and cash equivalents are inThe Group’s financial transactions give rise to credit risks in relation to financial counvested short term and any excess liquidity is to primarily be used for amortising loans. terparties. Credit risks or counterparty risks refer to the risk of loss if the counterparAccording to the finance policy, investments may be made in SEK, NOK and EUR. ty does not fulfil its commitments. Mekonomen Group’s credit risks primarily comInvestments may be made with or in securities issued by the Swedish Government prise accounts receivable, which are distributed over a large number of counterparties or Swedish and foreign banks with at least an A rating, according to the definition of and a small portion of long-term hire-purchase contracts. For each new customer, Standard & Poor’s (S&P). or in the event an existing customer wants to increase the credit limit, a credit rating is conducted according to the Group’s established policies. The maximum credit risk Fair value corresponds to the carrying amount of financial assets. Specifications of impairment of No financial assets or liabilities were recognised at a value that significantly deviated accounts receivable for the year and long-term hire-purchase contracts are found in from fair value. Notes 16 and 18. Interest-rate risk Interest-rate risks refer to the risk that changes in market interest rates will have a negative impact on the Group’s net interest expense. The rate at which interest rate changes affect the net interest expense depends on the period of fixed interest for the loan. According to the finance policy, the fixed-interest period is normally to be 12 months, with an exception mandate of +6/-9 months. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 81 SIGNATURES The Board of Directors and CEO hereby certify that the Annual Report, including sustainability report, was prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 and provides a true and fair view of the company’s financial position and earnings and that the Administration Report provides a true and fair view of the performance of the company’s operations, position and earnings and describes significant risks and uncertainty factors faced by the company. The Board of Directors and CEO hereby certify that the consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as approved by the EU, and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and earnings and that the Administration Report for the Group provides a true and fair view of the performance of the Group’s operations, position and earnings and describes significant risks and uncertainty factors faced by the companies included in the Group. Stockholm, 27 March 2018 John S. Quinn Christer Åberg Kenny Bräck Chairman of the Board Executive Vice Chairman Board member Joseph M. Holsten Malin Persson Helena Skåntorp Magnus Håkansson Board member Board member Board member Board member Pehr Oscarsson President and CEO Our Auditor’s Report was submitted on 27 March 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Lennart Danielsson Authorised Public Accountant 82 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 AUDITOR’S REPORT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS OF MEKONOMEN AB (PUBL), ORG.NR 556392-1971 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration of whether Opinions there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Mekonomen AB We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us (publ) for the year 2017 except for the corporate governance statement on pages to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into 41-49. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the pages 35-82 in this document. industry in which the group operates. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the The group audit has included all segments, where Meca and Mekonomen Sweden Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of represent the largest portion of the group’s net sales and results. Mekonomen parent company as of 31 December 2017 and its financial performance and cash flow Sweden’s operations are undertaken through a large number of subsidiaries with a for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolicommon financial management function. In our audit of these entities we executed dated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and uniform audit activities of routines and processes for, amongst other things, revenue present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 Derecognition and inventory accounting. In addition to the audit of the parent company cember 2017 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in and of the consolidation, a large number of Swedish companies are also audited by accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the the group team, with the group’s auditor-in-charge as the signing auditor. For Meca, EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governSørensen og Balchen and Mekonomen Norway group team provide instructions for ance statement on pages 41-49. The statutory administration report is consistent with the audit to the respective entities. Furthermore, reporting has been obtained from the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. our local audit teams concerning, amongst other things, the audit of internal control, a We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the review of the third quarter and an audit of year end. income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. Mekonomen’s interim report for the third quarter has been the subject of a review. Our opinions in this report on the the annual accounts and consolidated accounts This quarterly review helps us to identify and understand the changes in circumstances are consistent with the content of the additional report that has been submitted impacting the financial reporting. to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. Based on the executed audit activities mentioned above, we deem that we have obtained sufficient audit evidence to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole. Basis for Opinions We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing Materiality (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilconsidered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected ities in accordance with these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation statements. (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where applicaBased on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative threshble, its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. olds for materiality, including the overall materiality for the financial statements as a We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, provide a basis for our opinions. helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and Our audit approach in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole. Audit scope We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material Key audit matters misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, we considered Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, where management made subjective judgements; for example, in respect of significant were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Cut-off, completeness and existence of revenues We refer to note 3 and to the accounting principles Mekonomen’s group revenues are comprised of a large number of sales transactions We have mapped the sales processes and, in this manner, obtained an understanding generated in approximately 300 stores and workshops all over Scandinavia, primarof how revenues are generated and how they are reflected in the accounts and in ily in Sweden and Norway. The customers are comprised of both private individuals financial reports. and companies. The majority of the transactions refer to sales against invoices, while Furthermore, the relevant IT systems have been tested as regards, amongst other a small portion is comprised of traditional cash sales. things, change management, crisis management, authorisations and access rights. Rebates, returns and complaints take place frequently and, as a result, have a Within the different sales processes there are controls which are undertaken major impact on reported revenue. by the operations in order to ensure a correct accounting. We have evaluated the The operations are, in their nature, very transaction intensive and this places design and tested the effectivity of those controls significant to the audit. major demands on the reliability of the systems and processes. The revenue process In addition to the evaluation and testing of controls, we have performed substanis, naturally, dependent on effective and appropriate IT solutions. tive procedures on revenues via so-called detailed testing, which implies that we execute a random sample testing of a selection of revenue transactions. We have also studied and evaluated the information provided in Notes 1 and 3 in the annual report. On the basis of our audit, we have made no significant observations regarding revenue recognition. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 83 AUDITOR’S REPORT Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Existence and valuation of inventory We refer to Note 17 and the accounting principles The inventory comprises a significant portion of the group’s assets and consists of We have obtained an understanding of the inventory accounting through mapping finished goods inventory. The inventory is comprised of both Mekonomen’s two the routines for inventory transactions and for the reporting of these transactions. central inventories and of approximately 260 store inventories. The group’s inventoWe have formed an opinion as to the manner in which the financial reporting is ry is, consequently, spread out over a large number of geographical locations in the impacted by the group’s inventory. countries in which Mekonomen has operations. Furthermore, the relevant IT systems have been tested with regard to, amongst In order to ensure the existence of the inventories, Mekonomen executes other things, change management, crisis management, authorisations and access rights. ongoing stock-taking at the various inventory sites during the year. The value of the Within the inventory process, there are controls executed by the operations to inventory is impacted by factors such as purchase prices and obsolescence. ensure correct accounting. We have evaluated the design and tested the effectivity of Purchase prices are, in their turn, impacted by a high degree of contractual those controls significant to the audit. agreements with various suppliers as regards rebates and purchase bonuses which In order to ensure the existence of the inventory and its condition, we also particiare based on achieved purchase volumes. pated in a selection of all of the stock-taking exercises executed by Mekonomen. The existence of obsolescence requires that estimations and judgments are Furthermore, we have assessed the obsolescence provision in accordance with the undertaken in valuing the inventory. obsolescence schedule applied within the Mekonomen group. The operations are, in their nature, very transaction intensive and place major For the group’s two central inventories, an additional activity was executed. A requirements on the reliability of the systems and processes. The inventory process so-called data analysis was made implying that all inventory transactions were sorted is naturally dependent on effective and appropriate IT solutions. and analysed according to pre-determined, established parameters. We have also studied and evaluated the information provided in Notes 1 and 17 of the annual report. On the basis of our audit, we have made no significant observations regarding the accounting of the inventory. Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Auditor’s responsibility This document also contains other information than the annual accounts and conOur objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts solidated accounts and is found on pages 1-34 och 86-90. Other information consist and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether of information of Mekonomen group and information about the board of directors, due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. group management and key ratios definitions. The Board of Directors and the ManagReasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit ing Director are responsible for this other information. conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in SweOur opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not cover this den will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, this other information. they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. our responsibility is to read the information identified above and consider whether A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the annual accounts and the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated consolidated accounts is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website www.revisorsinsaccounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise pektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor´s report. obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that Opinions there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Mekonomen AB (publ) for the year 2017 and the proposed appropriations of the Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director company’s profit or loss. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparaWe recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit be approtion of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair prespriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and entation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidatthat the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged ed accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors from liability for the financial year. and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated Basis for Opinions accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of Directors in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of the company’s and Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no provide a basis for our opinions. realistic alternative but to do so. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the company’s financial reporting process. 84 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 AUDITOR’S REPORT Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance statement company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of on pages 41-49 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the company’s Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted in accordance and the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent compawith FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate ny’s and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization and the statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things continuous accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient company’s organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and basis for our opinions. the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance management of assets in a reassuring manner. with the Annual Accounts Act. Auditor’s responsibility Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, Torsgatan 21, Stockholm was appointed auditor about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable of Mekonomen AB (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on the degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing 25 April 2017 and has been the company’s auditor since the 8 April 2014. Director in any material respect: • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the administration is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor´s report. Stockholm, 27 March 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Lennart Danielsson Authorised Public Accountant Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 85 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY FIVE YEARS IN SUMMARY The tables below present financial information in summary for the financial years 2013-2017. Income statements, SEK M 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Continuing operations: Net sales 5,850 5,786 5,624 5,262 5,129 Other revenue 150 151 137 128 122 Goods for resale -2,654 -2,686 -2,529 -2,337 -2,275 Other operating expenses -2,635 -2,595 -2,449 -2,229 -2,226 EBITDA 710 656 784 824 750 Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets -60 -62 -57 -61 -67 EBITA 649 594 726 763 683 Amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets -127 -113 -110 -124 -156 Operating profit, EBIT 522 481 616 639 527 Net financial items -48 -35 -22 -19 -39 Profit after financial items 475 446 594 620 489 Tax on profit for the year -107 -105 -164 -153 -129 Profit for the year from continuing operations 368 342 430 466 360 Discontinued operations: Profit for the year from discontinued operations1) – 0 0 -340 -44 Profit for the year 368 342 430 127 315 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Balance sheets, SEK M 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Assets Intangible fixed assets 2,686 2,757 2,734 2,813 2,881 Other fixed assets 409 304 288 321 347 Inventories 1,382 1,279 1,226 1,223 1,213 Accounts receivable 488 485 453 450 439 Other current assets 335 336 365 319 285 Cash and cash equivalents 254 291 295 258 279 Total assets 5,554 5,452 5,361 5,384 5,444 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Shareholders’ equity, Parent Company’s shareholders 2,363 2,311 2,143 2,066 2,228 Non-controlling interests 16 14 12 14 12 Long-term liabilities 1,640 1,524 1,645 1,575 1,872 Current liabilities 1,535 1,603 1,560 1,728 1,332 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 5,554 5,452 5,361 5,384 5,444 Condensed cash-flow statement, SEK M 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Cash flow from operating activities 496 544 439 413 557 Cash flow from investing activities -229 -94 -146 -121 -54 Cash flow from financing activities -295 -466 -245 -309 -442 Cash flow for the year -27 -16 48 -17 61 Data per share2), amounts in SEK per share unless otherwise stated 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Earnings, continuing operations 10.05 9.32 11.77 12.80 9.81 Earnings, discontinued operations – 0.00 0.00 -9.46 -1.25 Earnings 10.05 9.32 11.77 3.34 8.56 Cash flow 13.8 15.1 12.2 11.5 15.5 Shareholders’ equity 65.8 64.4 59.7 57.5 62.1 Dividend3) 7.00 7.00 7.00 7.00 7.00 Share of profit paid, % 70 75 59 210 82 Share price at year-end 149.3 171.5 173.0 204.0 198.0 Share price, highest for the year 191.0 207.0 234.5 207.0 233.0 Share price, lowest for the year 139.8 150.5 170.0 139.0 189.0 Direct yield, % 4.7 4.1 4.0 3.4 3.5 P/E ratio at year-end, multiple 14.9 18.4 14.7 61.1 23.1 Average number of shares after dilution effects4) 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 Number of shares at end of period 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 Number of shareholders at year-end 10,707 9,484 9,373 9,664 8,355 1) The discontinued store operations in Denmark are presented as discontinued operations as of 1 January 2015. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, refer to Note 34. 2) For information on financial definitions, refer to page 89. 3) The Board’s proposal for 2017. 4) No dilution is applicable. 86 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY Key figures1)2) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Sales growth, % 1 3 7 3 12 Gross margin, % 55 54 55 56 56 EBITDA margin, % 12 11 14 15 14 EBITA margin, % 11 10 13 14 13 EBIT margin, % 9 8 11 12 10 Capital employed, SEK M 4,087 4,066 4,086 3,980 4,176 Return on capital employed, % 12 12 15 16 13 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 16 15 20 21 16 Return on total capital, % 9 9 12 12 10 Equity/assets ratio, % 43 43 40 39 41 Net debt/equity ratio, multiple 0.6 0.6 0.8 0.8 0.7 Interest-coverage ratio, multiple 17 17 19 16 11 Net debt, SEK M 1,444 1,437 1,626 1,629 1,642 Net debt/EBITDA, multiple3) 2.03 2.19 2.07 3.09 2.32 Average number of employees4) Sweden 1,365 1,413 1,438 1,335 1,342 Norway 834 808 794 772 775 Other countries 31 66 58 24 21 Group 2,231 2,287 2,290 2,131 2,138 Number of stores/of which proprietary4) Mekonomen Sweden5) 133/113 132/112 134/113 137/113 137/109 Mekonomen Norway 42/32 45/32 45/32 46/33 47/32 Sørensen og Balchen – Norway 68/39 72/37 70/35 71/34 74/34 MECA Sweden 62/52 61/51 61/48 63/48 61/44 MECA Norway 24/24 24/24 24/24 24/24 25/24 Total MECA 86/76 85/75 85/72 87/72 86/68 Other5) 7/3 8/5 8/5 10/6 10/6 Group 336/263 342/261 342/257 351/258 354/249 Number of Mekonomen Service Centres Sweden6) 434 447 457 485 489 Norway 335 339 345 378 384 Denmark7) 0 0 102 195 212 Finland 23 23 19 17 12 Group 792 809 923 1,075 1,097 Number of MekoPartner workshops Sweden 141 127 125 129 116 Norway 95 93 97 73 72 Denmark7) 0 0 39 153 190 Group 236 220 261 355 378 Number of BilXtra workshops Norway 258 255 246 232 243 Group 258 255 246 232 243 Number of Speedy workshops Sweden 35 26 20 14 12 Group 35 26 20 14 12 Number of Meca Car Service workshops Sweden 425 425 404 377 344 Norway 299 286 272 251 226 Group 724 711 676 628 570 Total number of affiliated workshops in the Group 2,045 2,021 2,126 2,304 2,300 1) The key figures refer to continuing operations. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, refer to Note 34. 2) For information on financial definitions, refer to page 89. 3) In the calculation of the key figure Net debt/EBITDA, discontinued operations were included for applicable years. 4) The number of employees and numbers of stores are reported, for applicable years, excluding the discontinued store operations in Denmark. 5) As of 1 January 2017, Marinshopen is included in Mekonomen Sweden instead of “Other segments”, the comparative figures are not restated. 6) Includes 23 (20) proprietary workshops in Meko Service Nordic. 7) As of 28 December 2016, the workshops in Denmark are not included in the MECA segment as the Danish export operations were divested as of this date. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 87 QUARTERLY OVERVIEW QUARTERLY OVERVIEW 2017 2016 FullFullSEK M year Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 year Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Net sales1) MECA 2,108 534 481 543 551 2,039 528 477 534 500 Mekonomen Sweden2) 1,816 468 439 475 434 1,891 470 456 503 462 Mekonomen Norway 867 211 210 228 217 836 210 209 223 194 Sørensen og Balchen 778 176 178 211 213 725 182 179 192 172 Other segments3) 281 78 64 71 67 295 76 71 85 63 Group 5,850 1,467 1,372 1,529 1,482 5,786 1,466 1,392 1,537 1,391 EBITA MECA 257 36 55 90 76 217 16 53 85 62 Mekonomen Sweden2) 209 61 57 50 40 190 42 56 40 53 Mekonomen Norway 117 28 23 39 27 132 28 35 42 27 Sørensen og Balchen 120 27 27 39 28 117 29 29 36 24 Other segments3) -53 -17 -4 -16 -17 -63 -11 -20 -15 -17 Group 649 134 560 203 155 594 103 154 189 149 EBIT MECA 242 32 51 87 73 205 13 50 82 60 Mekonomen Sweden2) 196 51 56 50 39 187 40 55 39 52 Mekonomen Norway 117 28 23 39 27 132 28 35 42 27 Sørensen og Balchen 120 27 27 39 28 117 29 29 36 24 Other segments3) -76 -22 -10 -22 -22 -84 -16 -25 -19 -23 Other items4) -77 -19 -19 -19 -19 -77 -19 -19 -19 -19 Group 522 96 127 174 126 481 74 125 161 121 Investments5) MECA 25 8 5 6 6 16 6 3 4 3 Mekonomen Sweden 94 11 69 8 6 30 14 5 5 6 Mekonomen Norway 2 1 0 0 1 3 1 0 1 1 Sørensen og Balchen 3 0 0 1 1 5 2 1 1 1 Other segments3) 39 10 5 13 12 57 21 11 18 8 Group 164 30 79 28 27 111 43 20 28 20 EBITA margin, % MECA 12 7 11 17 14 10 3 11 16 12 Mekonomen Sweden2) 11 13 12 10 9 10 8 12 8 11 Mekonomen Norway 13 13 10 17 12 15 13 16 18 14 Sørensen og Balchen 15 15 15 18 13 16 16 16 18 14 Group 11 9 11 13 10 10 7 11 12 10 EBIT margin, % MECA 11 6 10 16 13 10 2 10 15 12 Mekonomen Sweden2) 10 10 12 10 9 10 8 12 8 11 Mekonomen Norway 13 13 10 17 12 15 13 16 18 14 Sørensen og Balchen 15 15 15 18 13 16 16 16 18 13 Group 9 6 9 11 8 8 5 9 10 9 Quarterly data, Group6) Total revenue 6,000 1,507 1,414 1,560 1,518 5,937 1,508 1,432 1,573 1,424 EBITDA 710 150 172 218 170 656 121 168 203 163 EBITA 649 134 157 203 155 594 103 154 189 149 EBIT 522 96 127 174 126 481 74 125 161 121 Net financial items -47 -9 -8 -18 -13 -35 -2 -13 -9 -11 Profit after financial items 475 87 119 156 113 446 72 112 152 110 Tax -107 -12 -30 -38 -27 -105 -6 -31 -40 -27 Profit/loss for the period 368 75 89 118 86 342 66 82 112 83 Gross margin, % 55 55 54 54 54 54 52 54 54 54 EBITDA margin, % 12 10 12 14 11 11 8 12 13 11 EBITA margin, % 11 9 11 13 10 10 7 11 12 10 EBIT margin, % 9 6 9 11 8 8 5 9 10 9 Earnings per share, SEK 10.05 2.07 2.43 3.22 2.33 9.32 1.83 2.20 3.02 2.28 Shareholders’ equity per share, SEK 65.8 65.8 64.3 61.6 66.3 64.4 64.4 63.0 59.3 62.5 Cash flow per share, SEK 13.8 6.8 2.2 3.7 1.0 15.1 5.8 2.2 6.4 0.8 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 15.6 15.6 15.3 15.2 14.9 15.1 15.1 15.9 17.6 18.7 Share price 149.3 149.3 184.5 167.0 176.5 171.5 171.5 167.0 182.0 201.0 1) Net sales for each segment are from external customers. 2) As of 1 January 2017, Marinshopen is included in the segment Mekonomen Sweden instead of “Other segments”, the comparative figures are not restated. Marinshopen’s net sales amounted to SEK 29 M for full-year 2016 and EBIT was SEK -1 M. 3) “Other segments” include Mekonomen’s wholesale and store operations in Finland, Mekonomen’s store operations in Iceland (dormant since the third quarter of 2017), Meko Service Nordic with the service centre operations BilLivet and Speedy, the Car Share operations (which were discontinued in the fourth quarter of 2017), Mekonomen car leasing, the joint venture in Poland (InterMeko Europa), Lasingoo Norge and Group-wide functions also including Mekonomen AB (publ). As of 1 January 2017, Marinshopen is included in the segment Mekonomen Sweden instead of “Other segments”, the comparative figures are not restated. The associated company Automotive Web Solutions AB was divested during the second quarter of 2017. 4) “Other items” include acquisition-related items attributable to MekonomenAB’s direct acquisitions. Current acquisition-related items are amortisation of acquired intangible assets related to the acquisitions of MECA and Sørensen og Balchen. 5) Investments do not include company and business combinations. 6) For information on financial definitions, refer to page 89. 88 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 GLOSSARY, DEFINITIONS AND ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES GLOSSARY, DEFINITIONS AND ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Financial definitions to Parent Company’s shareholders. Average shareholders’ DAB products equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders is Car accessories with solutions for receiving digital radio broad­ Capital employed calculated as shareholders’ equity attributable to the Parent casts. DAB is an abbreviation for Digital Audio Broadcasting. Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities and provisions Company’s shareholders at the end of the period added to including deferred tax liabilities. the four immediately preceding quarters’ shareholders’ equity Fleet operations attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders at the end Mekonomen Group’s offering to business customers comCash flow per share of the period divided by five. prising service and repairs of cars, sales of spare parts and Cash flow from operating activities in relation to the average accessories and tyre storage. number of shares. Average number of shares is calculated as Return on total capital the number of shares at period-end multiplied by the number Profit after net financial items plus interest expenses as a Group companies of days this number existed during the period and added to percentage of the average total assets. Average total assets are The MECA, Mekonomen Sweden, Mekonomen Norway and any other number of shares during the period multiplied by calculated as total assets at the end of the period added to the Sørensen og Balchen segments. the number of days these numbers existed during the period, four immediately preceding quarters’ total assets at the end of divided by the number of days during the period. the period divided by five. Lasingoo The car portal that Mekonomen Group owns together with Gross margin Sales growth industry players that simplifies the workshop selection and Net sales less costs for goods for resale, as a percentage of Increase in the total revenue as a percentage of the total booking processes for car owners. net sales. revenue of the previous year. Mekonomen Yehlove Gross profit Sales per employee Mekonomen’s cutting-edge concept that meets the customers’ Revenue minus the cost of goods for resale. Sales relative to the average number of employees. growing demands for quality, availability and comfort, with an extended range of services and complete solutions. Earnings per share Shareholders’ equity per share Profit for the period excluding non-controlling interests, in Shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling interests, in OBP relation to the average number of shares. Average number relation to the number of shares at the end of the period. Own brand products, such as Mekonomen Group’s own of shares is calculated as the number of shares at period-end brand products ProMeister and Carwise. multiplied by the number of days this number existed during the period and added to any other number of shares during Company-specific definitions Partner stores the period multiplied by the number of days these numbers Stores that are not proprietary, but conduct business under existed during the period, divided by the number of days Accessories for cars the Group’s brands/store concepts. during the period. Products that are not necessary for a car to function, but enhance the experience or extend use of the car, for example, ProMeister EBIT margin car-care products, roof boxes, car child seats, etc. Mekonomen Group’s proprietary brand for high quality EBIT after depreciation/amortisation as a percentage of total spare parts with five-year warranties. revenue. Affiliated workshops Workshops that are not proprietary owned, but conduct Proprietary stores EBITA business under the Group’s brands/workshop concept Stores with operations in subsidiaries, directly or indirectly EBITA after depreciation according to plan but before amorti(Mekonomen Service Centre, MekoPartner, MECA Car majority owned, by Mekonomen AB. sation and impairment of intangible fixed assets. Service, BilXtra and Speedy). Proprietary workshops EBITA margin B2B Workshops with operations in subsidiaries, directly or indiEBITA as a percentage of total revenue. Sales of goods and services between companies rectly majority owned, by Mekonomen AB. (business-to-business). EBITDA Sales in comparable units Operating profit before depreciation/amortisation and impairB2C Sales in comparable units comprise external sales (in local ment of tangible and intangible fixed assets. Sales of goods and services between companies and currency) in majority-owned stores, wholesale sales to consumers (business-to-consumer). partner stores, external sales in majority-owned workshops EBITDA margin and Internet sales. EBITDA as a percentage of total revenue. Comparable units Stores, majority-owned workshops and Internet sales that Sales to customer group Affiliated workshops Equity/assets ratio have been in operation for the past 12 month period and Sales to affiliated workshops and sales to proprietary workShareholders’ equity including non-controlling interest as a throughout the entire preceding comparative period. shops. percentage of total assets. Parent company’s equity/assets ratio includes 78 per cent of untaxed reserves. Concept workshops Sales to customer group Consumers Affiliated workshops. Cash sales from proprietary stores to customer groups other Interest-coverage ratio than affiliated workshops and other B2B-customers, as well as Profit after net financial items plus interest expenses divided Currency effects on the balance sheet the Group’s e-commerce sales to consumers. by interest expenses. The impact of currency regarding realised and unrealised revaluations of foreign short-term non-interest-bearing Sales to customer group Other B2B-customers Net debt receivables and liabilities. Sales to business customers that are not affiliated to any of Current and long-term interest-bearing liabilities for borrowMekonomen Group’s concepts, including sales in the fleet ing, meaning excluding pensions, leasing, derivatives and similar Currency-transaction effects operations. obligations, less cash and cash equivalents. Currency impact on internal sales from Mekonomen Grossist AB and from MECA CarParts AB to each country. Spare parts for cars Net debt/equity ratio Parts that are necessary for a car to function. Net debt divided by shareholders’ equity including non-conCurrency-translation effects trolling interest. Currency impact in the translation of the earnings of foreign Underlying net sales subsidiaries to SEK. Sales adjusted for the number of comparable working days Operating costs and currency effects. Operating costs consist of other external costs, personnel costs and depreciation/amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible fixed assets. Alternative performance measures Return on capital employed As of the January-June 2016 interim report, Mekonomen applies the guidelines for alternative performance figures issued by Profit after net financial items plus interest expenses as a ESMA1). An alternative performance measure is a financial measure over historical or future earnings trends, financial position percentage of average capital employed. Average capital or cash flow that are not defined or specified in IFRS. Mekonomen believes that these measures provide valuable supplemental employed is calculated as capital employed at the end of the information to the company’s management, investors and other stakeholders to evaluate the company’s performance. The period added to the four immediately preceding quarters’ alternative performance measures are not always comparable with measures used by other companies since not all companies capital employed at the end of the period divided by five. calculate these measures in the same way. They shall thereby be seen as a complement to measures defined according to IFRS. For relevant reconciliations of the alternative performance measures that cannot be directly read or derived from the Return on shareholders’ equity financial statements, refer to the complement to the 2017 Annual Report on our website http://www.mekonomen.com/sv/ Profit for the period, excluding non-controlling interests, as alternativa-nyckeltal/. a percentage of average shareholders’ equity attributable 1) The European Securities and Markets Authority. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017 89 ADDRESSES ADDRESSES Mekonomen Group MECA Scandinavia Postal address: Postal address: Box 19542 Box 9225 SE-104 32 Stockholm, Sweden SE-200 39 Malmö, Sweden Visiting address: Visiting address: Solnavägen 4, 10th floor, Stockholm, Sweden Stenåldersgatan 27, Malmö, Sweden Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 Tel: +46 40 671 60 60 E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se E-mail: info@meca.se www.mekonomen.com www.meca.se Mekonomen Sweden Postal address: Box 19542 SE-104 32 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: Solnavägen 4, 10th floor, Stockholm, Sweden Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se www.mekonomen.se Mekonomen Norway Postal address: Postboks 524 Bedriftsenteret NO-1411 Kolbotn, Norway Visiting address: Rosenholmveien 25, NO-1414 Trollåsen, Norway Tel: +47 66 81 76 90 E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se www.mekonomen.no Sørensen og Balchen Postal address: Postboks 134 Holmlia NO-1203 Oslo, Norway Visiting address: Rosenholmveien 12, NO-1252 Oslo, Norway Tel: +47 22 76 44 00 E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se www.sogb.no 90 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2017
