GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Madrid April, 2017 0 Our Vision: Being an exemplary company with a business model based on efficiency and quality management, sustainability, responsible investment, innovation, transparency and continuous engagement with the stakeholders. Exceptional organizations are defined by a purpose and Globalvia’s purpose is to deliver value that matters for our shareholders, our users, our people and society. This purpose is embedded throughout our way of managing our concessions. It defines who we are. 2017 has been no exception. In 2017 the company was able to close different buyouts in Portugal and Chile and in the three operations, we have dedicated our efforts to contribute to society, building confidence and trust, upholding integrity, and supporting the communities. We recognize that we have a responsibility to uphold human rights both in the workplace and more broadly within our sphere of influence in all our concessions. We are also facing new challenges regarding innovation and we understand the only way to approach and navigate this new wave is by sailing in accordance with our higher standards of commitment to our values. Our organization remains committed to sustainability and to supporting the UN Global Compact. We aspire to be a role model of quality, integrity and positive change, helping users to get faster and safer to their destination. We are a leader in infrastructure transport but I, personally, take pride in saying we have come this way but not at all costs. This Communication on Progress (COP) is the culmination of our corporate and personal efforts to implement to do things the right way. Our way. Sincerely yours, Javier Pérez Fortea CEO 2017 has been a wonderful year. We have landed in three different societies and we have made a huge effort to make these new communities part of our family. This effort is totally linked to our commitment with the Sustainable Development Goals being in the spotlight of our own way of doing things, our business. In the following pages you will find examples of how we work with children in order to help them secure a better future. You will find actions related to foster musical culture, others dedicated to find new writer talents and many dedicated to enhance diversity and equality. I hope you enjoy reading this Communication of Progress (COP) as much as we have thrilled in the planning and implementation of all the actions worldwide. Sincerely yours, Belén Castro Giménez HR, Communication and CSR Director CONTENTS Introduction 01 Resumé 07 III. Human rights principles 13 III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals 14 III.2 Implementation of human rights actions 19 III.3 Measurement of human rights outcomes 31 IV. Labor principles 33 IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals 34 IV.2 Implementation of labor actions 39 IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes 46 V. Environmental principles 51 V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals 52 V.2 Implementation of environmental actions 56 V.3 Measurement of environmental outcomes 64 VI. Anti-corruption principles 71 VI.1 Anti-corruption assessment, policy and goals 72 VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption actions 74 VI.3 Measurement of anti-corruption outcomes 76 VII. Conclusions 79 II. RESUMÉ 7 II. RESUMÉ An overall of 92 assessments, actions and indicators that measure their outcomes have been developed in Globalvia that confirm the strategy and operations alignment with UN Global Compact ten principles in four different dimensions. Human rights “Businesses should support and respect the protection of the internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.” Assessment, policy and goals: • Code of Ethics • Corporate Governance policy and principles • Collaboration with Foundations • Sustainable Development Goals support Globalvia respects and adheres to the Implemented actions: human employment • Application of the Code of Ethics rights that are • Communication of both Code of Ethics and Corporate Governance policy and recognized under principles Spanish and • New Compliance Management System international • Collaboration with A LA PAR: labor integration in Spain legislation. • Collaboration with PRODIS: intellectual disable people in Spain • Collaboration with Juegaterapia: cancer children help in Spain • Collaboration with Adelias: house cradle in Morocco • Collaboration with Real Madrid Foundation: children social integration in Latin America • Collaboration with AUARA: the water with values in the world • Support can Teen in Ireland • Appreciation to users • Collaboration for training of disabled people: CAMPVS • Road Educational Talks: Spain, Costa Rica and Chile • Toy collection campaign • Literary Cultural Promotion • Support the community • Special Day for children at Christmas • Donations Measurement of outcomes: • Harassment report • Code of Ethics training 8 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 8 II. RESUMÉ Labor “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms or forced and compulsory labor; the effective abolition of child labor and; the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.” Assessment, policy and goals: • Moral – Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics • Labor Risk Prevention policy • Appraisal process • Training and development plan • Engagement Survey Implemented actions: • Moral – Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics implementation • Communication of Labor Risk Prevention policy • Social benefits for employees • Flexible Payment Plan • Photo contest 2017 • Sport promotion within the Company • Children sport promotion • Membership in economic and educational associations • Healthy habits promotion • Greetings with solidarity to employees • Gender equality support and promotion • Donations for demises Measurement of outcomes: • Employees distribution by gender and hierarchal level • Accidents, absenteeism and illness records • Internal quality of service survey 9 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 9 II. RESUMÉ Environment “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.” Assessment, policy and goals: • Globalvia’s Integrated Management System (IMS): Quality, Environmental, OHSAS, UNE-EN 13816, ISO 50001, Compliance and Business Continuity Management System • CSR Strategic Plan (and specific to Concessions) • Responsible Investment – GRESB Report • Equator Principles • Environmental Impact Declaration Implemented actions: • Collaboration agreement with Abadía de Montserrat Foundation • Training on ISO, OHSAS and other Standards certifications • CSR Strategic Plan (and specific to Concessions) implementation • Specific Environmental Objectives • Carbon Disclosure Protocol Joining • User awareness in waste management • Alliance for animals • Supportive recycling • Sustainable mobility and public transport promotion • ECO Movement in Portugal • Environmental International Day Measurement of outcomes Societies: Subsidiaries: • Headquarters (Spain) • Autovía Nuevo Necaxa-Tihuatlán (Mexico) • Ruta de los Pantanos (Spain) • M50 Concession Limited (Ireland) • Concesiones de Madrid (Spain) • N6 (Ireland) • Túnel d’Envalira (Andorra) • GSJ Maintenance (Ireland) • Autopista Central Gallega (Spain) • Trambaix (Spain) • Túnel de Sóller (Spain) • Trambesòs (Spain) • Autopista del Itata (Chile) • Metro de Málaga (Spain) • Autopista del Aconcagua (Chile) • Autopista Costa Arauco (Chile) • Carbon Footprint • Chile Country Office (Chile) • Power consumption • Ruta 27 (Costa Rica) • Waste management • Tranvía de Parla (Spain) • Water consumption • Metro de Sevilla (Spain) • A23-Beira Interior (Portugal) • Transmontana (Portugal) 10 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 10 II. RESUMÉ Anti-corruption “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” Assessment, policy and goals: • Fraud procedure • Compliance Manual Implemented actions: • Whistleblowing Channel • Compliance Committee Measurement of outcomes: • Public legal cases statement • Internal Audits carried out and its actions 11 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 11 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals III.2 Implementation of human rights actions III.3 Measurement of human rights outcomes III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals “Businesses should support and respect the protection of the internationally proclaimed human rights…” Globalvia supports the three principles related to human rights by the definition of certain actions, codes and manuals: 1 | Code of Ethics 2 | Corporate Governance policy and principles 3 | Collaboration with Foundations 4 | Sustainable Development Goals support “…and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses assessment, policy and goals.” 1 | Code of Ethics Globalvia respects and Globalvia has designed the Code of Ethics as a guide for all employees and adheres to the executives of the Company to perform their professional tasks. This code is related human to their daily working lives, as well as to the resources used and the business employment environment they work in. According to this, Globalvia respects and adheres to the human and employment rights that are recognized under Spanish and international rights that are legislation and the principles behind the World Compact, the UN standards on the recognized under responsibilities of transnational and other organizations in the field of human Spanish and rights, the OCDE guidelines for multinationals, the tripartite declaration of international principles on multinationals, and the social policy of the International Labor legislation. Organization, respecting the laws of each country and the ethical principles of their respective cultures. This Code includes the following paragraphs: • Declaration of principles, stating that the compliance with the Code of Ethics is mandatory for all employees of Globalvia and its subsidiaries. • Values of Globalvia Group, as part of the Organization’s culture in means of i) integrity (as acting ethically and responsibly), ii) team work (as in collaboration, cooperation and communication), iii) quality management (in regard to constant ongoing learning; clear, precise and rigorous action procedures; and last but not least, respect for the environment), iv) resultsdriven (as in organization and efficiency), v) customer service, and finally, vi) innovation, imagination and anticipation, vii) respect for health and safety of people. • Professional Standards and Conduct, which states that the compliance to the Code of Ethics is compulsory for all Globalvia personnel and an inherent obligation as they fulfill their mission. 14 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 14 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals All employees therefore accept specifically and irrevocably that any failure to observe or infringement of this Code of Ethics may be considered as a serious breach of their contractual breach of their contractual conditions and Globalvia may apply any disciplinary measures as appropriate, without prejudice to any other civil or criminal proceedings that may ensue. The breach of this Code is not negotiable under any circumstances. Furthermore, guidelines for professional conduct may include: « Confidential information and professional secrecy « Concurrence and conflict of interests « Intellectual property, means and resources « Relations with the public administration, payoffs and bribery, fraudulent subsidies and obligation of cooperating with investigations « Information about legal or administrative procedures « Prevention of money laundering « Transparency « Auditing and accounting Globalvia « Giving and receiving gifts, benefits or advantages policy establishes the basis for • Standards of conduct amongst professionals within Globalvia Group, as in development of general terms and more specific lines related to managers and executives their activities following the « Always encouraging relations driven by mutual respect and avoiding any kind of discrimination or other actions that may conflict with the criteria of Organization’s values and ethics transparency and « Any conduct that limits any professionals’ dignity, whether physically or confidentiality in verbally, creating an intimidating, hostile or humiliating working their relationship atmosphere will be considered unacceptable with the « Any conduct considered inappropriate will be reported to Human stakeholders Resources for its study involved in its business. • Ethics Committee and Ombudsman, entrusted with the mission of ensuring compliance with the Code of Ethics of Globalvia. The Ombudsman will be responsible for cooperating with the Ethics Committee in the dissemination of the Code of Ethics and for managing the Reporting Channel. • Annex I: Reporting Channel (Whistleblowing), the new internal mechanism to report misconducts (available since this year 2016). • Annex II: Moral (Mobbing) Protocol, the protocol for prevention and action in cases of mobbing, gender-based harassment and/or sexual harassment in the workplace. • Annex III: Protocol against moral and sexual harassment at work, one general for the Group Companies and one specific for Ruta 27, Costa Rican concessionaire, that applies without exception to all workers, without differentiating in any way in terms of the rank the have been assigned. 15 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 15 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals 2 | Corporate Governance policy and principles Corporate Governance includes the commitments and practices relating to good governance expected in the Globalvia Group. It lays the foundations for its implementation in any Group company in the interests of the Group and of its shareholders. Globalvia focuses its activity in OECD countries, and therefore constructs its corporate governance principles according to the guidelines defined by that organisation. The principles also reflect the Spanish Code of Good Conduct because of the legal framework applicable to the Company and the regulatory requirements in the countries where it operates. Internal control mechanisms have been implemented to supervise and check that the processes in Globalvia are operating correctly: Organisation of Governance, Governing Bodies, standards and guidelines, a Risk Management system, the Internal Audit Area and the Controlling function. It has the following elements: • Governing Bodies: Globalvia has the following Governing bodies: Board of Directors, Steering Committee, Audit and Risk Committee and Nomination and Remuneration Committee. • ByLaws: Globalvia Inversiones, S.A.U. is incorporated as public limited company and is governed by these Bylaws, pursuant to Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010 dated 2 July, enacting the consolidated text of the Spanish Capital Companies Act (Ley de Sociedades de Capital) (hereinafter “The Capital Companies Act” or “the Act”), or by any other legislation that completes or replaces said Act in the future, as well as any other legal provisions applicable. The company’s corporate purpose is to engage in: « The management, promotion, development and operation of public infrastructures in Spain or abroad. « Any activities that may be involved in a concession. « Activities related to the acquisition, ownership, management and administration of securities representing equity in entities not resident in Spain. • Corporate Policies Book: they are corporate decisions that define criteria and establish frameworks for action to guide management at all levels of the Group Subsidiaries in specific aspects. 16 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 16 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals They are as follows: « Risk Policy « Tax Policy « Crime Prevention Policy and Anti-Fraud « Stakeholder Communication Policy « Integrated Management System Policy • Annual Corporate Governance Reports: Globalvia provides this report in certain subsidiaries (e.g. Ruta 27 in Costa Rica). 3 | Collaboration with Foundations Since 2013 Globalvia has been selecting several Foundations/NGOs in which to invest taking into account the projects that best represent the goals of its CSR Strategic Plan mostly focused on environment, economic and social development and culture: ❖ Real Madrid Foundation ❖ A LA PAR Foundation ❖ PRODIS Foundation ❖ Abadía de Montserrat Foundation ❖ Juegaterapia Foundation ❖ Adelias Foundation ❖ AUARA ❖ AECC ❖ Cáritas ❖ Unicef ❖ SEUR and FAD Foundations ❖ ADECCO Foundation ❖ Others (demise-related donations among others) All the collaborations with Foundations/NGOs are insightfully explained along this report. 17 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 17 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals 4 | Sustainable Development Goals support On 1 January 2016, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development — adopted by world leaders in September 2015 at an historic UN Summit — officially came into force. Over the next fifteen years, with these new Goals that universally apply to all, countries will mobilize efforts to end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities and tackle climate change, while ensuring that no one is left behind. The SDGs, also known as Global Goals, build on the success of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and aim to go further to end all forms of poverty. The new Goals are unique in that they call for action by all countries, poor, rich and middle-income to promote prosperity while protecting the planet. They recognize that ending poverty must go hand-in-hand with strategies that build economic growth and addresses a range of social needs including education, health, social protection, and job opportunities, while tackling climate change and environmental protection. While the SDGs are not legally binding, governments are expected to take ownership and establish national frameworks for the achievement of the 17 Goals. Countries have the primary responsibility for follow-up and review of the progress made in implementing the Goals, which will require quality, accessible and timely data collection. Regional follow-up and review will be based on national-level analyses and contribute to follow-up and review at the global level. For the goals to be reached, everyone needs to do their part: governments, the private sector, civil society and people like you. Globalvia, is doing its part supporting the SDGs trough different actions described in this report and linked to one or more goals. The Company is also committed by telling all its employees around the eight countries where the Company is present about the SDGs using COMPANIES4SDGs campaign launched by the Spanish Network of UN Global Compact together with Voluntariado y Estrategia and with the support of IMPACT 2030. 18 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 18 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions III.2 Implementation of human rights actions Globalvia supports the three principles related to human rights by the definition of certain actions, codes and manuals: 1 | Application of the Code of Ethics 2 | Communication of both Code of Ethics and Corporate Governance policy and principles 3 | New Compliance Management System 4 | Collaboration with A LA PAR: labor integration in Spain 5 | Collaboration with PRODIS: intellectual disable people in Spain 6 | Collaboration with Juegaterapia: cancer children help in Spain 7 | Collaboration with Adelias: house cradle in Morocco 8 | Collaboration with Real Madrid Foundation: children social integration in Latin America 9 | Collaboration with AUARA: the water with values in the world 10 |Support can Teen in Ireland The application of 11 | Appreciation to users the Code of Ethics 12 | Collaboration for training of disabled people: CAMPVS 13 | Road Educational Talks: Spain, Costa Rica and Chile is a guarantee of 14 | Toy collection campaign ethical integrity 15 | Literary Cultural Promotion for Globalvia and 16 | Support the community a reflection of the 17 | Special Day for children at Christmas Company’s 18 | Donations adherence to the human and 1 | Application of the Code of Ethics employment rights. In the chapter above, “III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals”, Globalvia’s Code of Ethics has been described. At the end of that same document a specific paragraph is dedicated to the application of the Code and may be considered as its implementation. According to this, the Code of Ethics is effective from the date of its approval by the Board of Directors, after which it was communicated to all employees and remains in force until it is cancelled or replaced by a new Code. Thus, all employees will be under the obligation to be aware of, uphold and comply with this Code of Ethics. Any breach of the standards contained in this Code will be considered as an infringement and result in the corresponding disciplinary action being taken. Managers requiring any other legal requirements for formal effectiveness must enforce due compliance. If employees do not agree with the application of any of the principles and standards 19 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 19 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions 2 | Communication of both Code of Ethics and Corporate Governance policy and principles The Code of Ethics is handed over to all employees along with their welcome pack on their first working day. Also, the Code of Ethics and the Corporate Governance policy and principles are available to everyone on the intranet. In 2013, Globalvia designed a tutorial video about the Company's Code of Ethics. At the beginning of 2016, the company redesigned this tutorial video including the new Whistleblowing Channel (further details are included in the point “VI.2 Code of Ethics video Implementation of anti-corruption actions”). screenshot It is a universal tool to get all employees involved emotionally in the importance of the Code of Ethics. The tutorial is oriented to spread the mission, vision, values of Globalvia to its employees. The video is shown when the employee joins Globalvia or any of its Concessions allowing the learner to watch and learn at his own pace. After watching the video, the employee takes a test that will be retaken every three years to refresh its significance. Globalvia Besides, different training sessions will be carried out in some concessions, especially in the new ones, to ensure the application of the Code of Ethics. supports integrating people 3 | New Compliance Management System with disabilities since it involves New policies and procedures have been implemented, based on ISO 19600, committing to the extending the Whistleblowing Channel to prevent crime and fraud in our operations right of everyone and ensuring all regulations are monitored and followed. This Channel is managed to play an active by an external lawyer, the Ombudsman. role in society The Ombudsman is a designated neutral and impartial dispute resolution under conditions practitioner whose major function is to provide independent, impartial, confidential of fairness and and informal assistance to managers and employees, clients and/or other equal opportunity. stakeholders of Globalvia. The Crime prevention and anti-fraud policy has the following objectives: 1. To send to Board Members and all managers and employees of Globalvia Inversiones, S.A.U. and its Group Companies as well as any third party having relations with them, a message of zero-tolerance to the commission of any crime offense, fraudulent conduct and non-compliance with its Code of Ethics. 2. To ensure through the Committee of Ethics and the Compliance process that Globalvia has implemented a Management Model that includes measures to monitor, prevent and react to crimes, fraud and other non-desirable conducts. 3. To become, together with the Crime Prevention Protocol and the Code of Ethics the pillars of Globalvia´s model of Risk prevention which ensures an ethical and compliant behavior of its administrators, managers and employees and eventually third parties. 20 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 20 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions 4. The Committee of Compliance has been created to enable Globalvia to continue its operation in accordance to the highest ethical business standards and in accordance with applicable law and regulations. It is formed by the Senior Management of the Company and the Ombudsman. 4 | Collaboration with A LA PAR: labor integration in Spain In keeping with its commitment to diversity in Spain, Globalvia ​collaborates with A LA PAR Foundation (previously known as Carmen Pardo Valcarce Foundation) in order to promote and encourage integration of people with disabilities. In 2013 the company hired a person with intellectual disabilities for the General Services department of Headquarters, who gives support to the receptionist, answers phone calls, scans and copies documents and does several administrative tasks. From the CSR Department the challenge was to build awareness about people with disabilities in the workplace. We were determined to make all employees learn that people with disabilities can make a positive contribution to business at all levels. For that employee and leadership sensitivity training was a real asset. That is why it was decided that the Steering Committee would be in charge of sensitizing Globalvia’s employees and teams to ensure the successful integration of this employee. Nowadays and thanks to everybody, this person is totally integrated in the company. Over time, Globalvia has increased both in number and diversity the Corporate Social Responsibility actions in cooperation with A LA PAR, tightening the ties between both entities. This actions are described in following parts of this report. 5 | Collaboration with PRODIS: intellectual disable people in Spain At the beginning of 2017 year, Globalvia started a new collaboration with PRODIS Foundation in Spain. PRODIS Foundation is an entity committed to people with intellectual disabilities to assist them in their personal development and job inclusion. All its activities and programs are focused on its main mission: to provide the necessary support to improve the quality of life of these people and their families. The collaboration of Globalvia is destined to the Special Center of Employment integrated in the Foundation. This center is intended for adults with intellectual disabilities with a disability rating awarded by the Community of Madrid. Integrity, Teamwork and / or Quality are some of the values shared by both entities. This fact proves the sense and the assured success of this collaboration which means a further step in the CSR Strategy of the Company. 6 | Collaboration with Juegaterapia: cancer children help in Spain From January 2016 until December 2017, Globalvia collaborated in Valencia with Juegaterapia Foundation on its ”El jardín de mi hospi” project to offer a happier and more pleasant life to children suffering from cancer during their stay in the hospital. 21 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 21 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions Juegaterapia Foundation’s mission is focused on improving the life quality of children with cancer through free delivery of any type of video consoles and promote the humanization of healthcare environments through psychosocial interventions to promote play, creativity and art as a source of welfare for these patients. That is why “El jardín de mi hospi” project exists which consists of the creation of an outdoor space of 1000 m2 located in the roof of the Hospital La Fe de Valencia in Spain. This space will thus become a zone of green games, with plants, trees and other elements designed to enjoy also visually being so the perfect space for these children for playing an relaxing. Thanks to these green and recreation spaces, it is demonstrated that the patients significantly improve their mood and thus their physical conditions. La Fe de Valencia hospital This garden in Valencia is the third project of the Juegaterapia Foundation after La Paz and Doce de Octubre Hospitals in Madrid. Each employee had the option to make an economic contribution along these two years 2016 and 2017 and Globalvia contributed with the same amount provided by all, thus doubling the donation. The project “With you, 1=2”, which was described in the COP of 2014, has been launched once again on December 2017 and it was the starting initiative from which Juegaterapia Foundation was selected by all employees. For the next two years 2018 and 2019, Adelias Foundation has been selected as the new entity with whom collaborate in the framework of this CSR project “With you, 1=2”. In addition, with the same philosophy, in Metro de Sevilla (Spanish railway Concession of Globalvia) exists “Charity Euro“. Each euro donated by each employee is duplicated by the Concession and all the collection is donated to a beneficial entity based in the same area of influence. 7 | Collaboration with Adelias: house cradle in Morocco As it was described in the previous paragraph, Adelias Foundation is the Foundation selected to collaborate for the current year 2018 and for the next year 2019 in the same conditions as Juegaterapia Foundation collaboration. Adelias Foundation’s mission is focused on the social assistance, both in Spain and abroad, to the most disadvantaged groups who are at risk of social exclusion, marginalization or in a situation of need, with special attention to families and minors who live in environments that are not favorable for their social, intellectual and economic development and quality of life. Globalvia’s collaboration is destined to its house cradle in Nador, Morocco, where House cradle in Nador, orphaned or abandoned children are cared until their adoption by a new family. The Morocco children receive everything they need as feeding, medical attention, education and 22 above all love. GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 22 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions 8 | Collaboration with Real Madrid Foundation: children social integration in Latin America Globalvia and Real Madrid Foundation are joined by two cooperation agreements to develop two social and sportive schools in Costa Rica and Chile providing more value to the Group Corporate Social Responsibility Plan. The school of Costa Rica was born in 2013 and it increased his activity until today up to 125 children with ages between 7 and 14 years thanks to Globalvia contribution. This school, which is physically located in Universidad Latina de Heredia Campus, opens its doors every Saturday from 8 to 11 a.m. educating the children different values through the sport. To have a good educational performance is an indispensable requirement to join the school. The school of Chile was born in 2009 and thanks to Globalvia contribution it has been possible to increase the activity of this school to a maximum of 240 children Children of the school and to expand the project to the female population. of Costa Rica This school opens its doors to boys and girls who belong to dysfunctional families and/or living in care centers of Independencia and Estación Central communes located in Santiago de Chile. The main objective is to educate them through different values using the sport as a tool. Furthermore, these two initiatives cover daily health and food needs both for children and their families and engage, inspire and educate them about healthy Children of the school habits in living. of Chile Real Madrid Foundation main objective is to promote around the world the values inherent in sport and the latter’s role as an educational tool capable of contributing to the comprehensive development of the personality of those who practice it. In addition, as a mean of social integration of those who find themselves suffering from any form of marginalization, as well as to promote and disseminate all the cultural aspects linked to sport. Thanks to the mutual trust in 2017 the collaboration agreements between Real Madrid Foundation and Globalvia Costa Rica (on March) and Chile (on October) were renewed for three years more. Moreover, it is a tradition to organize a visit to Spain for a few children as a reward for their efforts and merits in their academic and sport trajectories. Javier Pérez Fortea, CEO of On the occasion of the two children’s trips of 2017, Globalvia organized a visit to Globalvia, and Enrique Globalvia Headquarters Offices, where the CEO could received all of them, as well as Sánchez, vice-president of a complete visit to Metros Ligeros de Madrid. In these activities, the minors could Real Madrid Foundation during the renewal know the work done by our colleagues, could observe the operation of a light rail signature. and could learn how a sustainable transport works and the importance of use this type of transport regarding the environmental care. 23 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 23 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions 9 | AUARA Project: the water with values in the world “You drink, other people drink” is the motto of AUARA, a brand of mineral water that invest the 100% dividends on bring drinking water to people who do not have access to it in the entire world. “Globalvia drinks, other people drink”. This is the reason why the company has started to collaborate with this social entity in terms of water supply through buying half-liter bottles. However, the most important thing is not only the charity essence of AUARA but also everything it covers. From the bottles design that facilitates its transport and storage, the production with a 100% recycled plastic material until the accessibility thanks to a Braille system integrated in the bottle for blind people. Globalvia joins AUARA project, with the aim of change a daily act such as drinking water into an extraordinary act such as try to reach a better world. 10 | Support Can Teen in Ireland In 2015 M50 Concession Limited signed an ongoing collaboration agreement with Can Teen Ireland, a nationwide Dublin based support group for young people between the ages of 12 and 25 years who have cancer and for their families. Can Teen provides 1 to1 support, health professionals involvement, home/hospital visiting, social events and counselling services. In 2017, M50 Concession Limited funded the organization of the first ever CanTeen Family Fun day on the 16th of September. Some of the members of Can Teen gorup. 24 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 24 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions 11 | Appreciation to users In 2017 Globalvia celebrated its 10th anniversary together with the 10th anniversary of Tranvía de Parla, the 10th anniversary of Metros Ligeros de Madrid and the 20th of Túnel de Sóller and the 15th of Túnel d’Envalira. On the occasion of the four anniversaries, Globalvia wished to thank all its users these milestones for the Company because without them those would not have been possible. Gifts together with a lot of signs of gratitude were delivered to all the users of the Concessions during the whole week of the corresponding anniversary. In addition a photography contest was organized in which all the travelers could participate and obtained different present depending on the category. The pieces of art were exhibited in the facilities of the Concessions and among the metros and trains to facilitate all users could enjoy them. 12 | Collaboration for training of disabled people: CAMPVS A LA PAR Foundation (previously known as Carmen Pardo-Valcarce Foundation) realized the integration of people with disabilities required for the disabled community to work to find solutions to break down existing barriers. Thus, the Foundation has launched CAMPVS, an innovative educational project following trends imported from the U.S.A. and UK to involve private enterprise in the world of higher education. People with disabilities may not feel as if they are ready for the job because they do not have the practical, hands-on experience required for skilled positions or they do not have all abilities required. Many people with disabilities who are entering the workforce have not had the benefit of summer employment or part-time jobs as well as specialized training. As a result of this situation, companies cannot find in these people the adequate training for some positions. CAMPVS is just the answer to this issues. Keeping in mind that hiring and supporting people with disabilities must be a successful endeavor for the business, an innovative training system was designed. 25 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 25 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions Three different and very specific training paths have been defined to give students just the right practical experience needed for a job posting. Along the way, companies will play a key role since employees of the different sponsor companies will teach subjects related this “careers”. Globalvia is one of the Sponsors and as part of the CAMPVS Mentoring program, a total of 6 employees have joined the corporate social volunteering and become Mentors regarding the current school period (2017-2018). Five of them had been mentors in previous years and wanted to continue in the project and one of them have joined the Program this year. Moreover, another colleagues contribute to the CAMPVS project by offering Road educational talk in Costa Rica. Master class sessions at the facilities of the university that serve as a complement to the training provided by CAMPVS teachers. The content of these Master Classes includes Business operation and structure , Employment relations, agreements, rights and duties of employees , Types of contracts and Selection processes . In addition and following the initiative launched in 2016, Globalvia offers one more year the execution of interview simulations for 10 students currently attending the third and last year of CAMPVS. These interview simulations are designed and structured in the same way as the interviews that take place during real selection processes of the Company. Students come to Globalvia’s offices, are interviewed Road educational talk during a 40 minute period approximately and later get an appraisal report in Chile. indicating their strengths and areas of improvement. And if this were not enough, Globalvia also wanted to offer CAMPVS students the opportunity to visit one of its railway concessions to bring the activities and business closer to their daily lives. Hence, visits have been organized to Madrid Light Rail for after Easter in which students may enjoy a complete two-hour tour through the concession. 13 | Road Educational Talks: Costa Rica, Chile and Portugal Since 2012, Globalvia has been running a Road Educational Talks program for Road educational talk schools, based on fostering responsible habits and behavior and preventing in Portugal. accidents when using road infrastructure. At the same time, the children taking part are encouraged to be key actors to build awareness of responsible behavior on the roads in their immediate circles, thereby becoming agents for change based on looking after oneself and respecting the environment. The aim is to generate and strengthen relationships with neighboring communities on the road, forging new links and reaffirming the organization’s commitment to local people’s quality of life. 26 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 26 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions Globalvia develops this program in Costa Rica, Chile and Portugal since several years. In Costa Rica the program is called “I am responsible” and through games, the children learn how to be responsible pedestrians, cyclists and passengers. Besides the training, each child receives a hi-vis jacket to wear when they are on the roads. The program has evolved in creating road educational brigades in a manner that the children could transmit the information to their colleagues in the schools. A total of 360 children has been included in this program until today. In Chile the program is called “Learn how to manage your safety”. During 2016 and for the third consecutive year, the plan includes educational activities, interactive and playful presentations adapted to the different ages of the students, accompanied by talks given by staff of Conaset, government agency responsible for road safety. Furthermore, an audiovisual competition on road safety for university students and technicians from Concepción. The participants had to make a video of 30 seconds and the winner will display his video in the cinemas of Concepción. In Portugal, through its concession A23 Beira Interior, Globalvia also develops this kind of program since 2005. There are two modules, the first one is called “Safety Project” and is focused to children ages 6-10 on children “Teaching car simulator” and is focused on children ages 12-18. Both modules use games for teaching better. 14 | Toy, food and school material collection campaigns Toy collection in Globalvia through Metro de Sevilla and in partnership with the users of the Metro de Sevilla Concession organizes every year the following actions: • Toy collection campaign every December. The collection is always donated to Amigos del Parque Alamillo Association. • School material collection campaign in collaboration with the Spanish NGO Cruz Roja between August and September of 2017. The collection was donated In addition Globalvia through Tranvía de Parla organized a food collection campaign on the occasion of the International Food Day in October 2017. The collection was donated to Juventudes Hospitalarias Spanish Food Bank. 15 | Local culture and sport promotion In the framework of the CSR Strategic Plan of the company, it is highlighted the importance of enhancing the local culture and sport of the communities around Globalvia's assets and through its employees and their children. 27 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 27 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions Furthermore, during 2017 Globalvia has developed and/or sponsored several sport, literary, dance, musical and cultural activities inviting the local young users of the Spanish railways concessions to participate voluntarily in them. These local cultural initiatives have been the following: • V Book Fair of Tranvía de Parla (April 2017) • Photography exhibition carried out in Metro se Sevilla (October 2017) • City Festivals (cinema, dance and circus) developed in Metro de Sevilla Book Fair of • II Micro-story Contest organized by Metro de Málaga Tranvía de Parla poster With a special importance, once per year, Globalvia through A23-Beira Interior organizes the Music Festival of Beira Interior in Portugal with the aim of promoting musical culture among the Portuguese population and helping to spread the young interpreters and composers of the region. The festival offers four free concerts on Saturdays, once per month, in different locations closed to A23-Beira Interior highway, one of the Globalvia concessions in Portugal. The local sport initiatives have been the following: • Golf Tournament sponsored by Ruta 27 in Costa Rica XII edition Music Festival • “Big wave” Surf Tournament sponsored by Ruta 27 in Costa Rica poster • Inter-Regional Meeting of Children's Cycling Schools sponsored by Transmontana in Portugal (2017) • MTB Enduro Murça sponsored by Transmontana in Portugal (2017) With a special importance Globalvia has collaborated with Johan Cruyff Foundation being the name sponsor in order to create the first Wheelchair Tennis International Tournament in Barcelona. TRAM, once of the railway Concessions of the Company, has made this project possible. A project that was born with the aim of making know the wheelchair tennis and becoming a global referent on this modality in which the main values are inclusion, equality or personal development. Wheelchair tennis tournament poster 28 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 28 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions 16 | Support the community In February 2017 M50 Concession Limited launched an initiative to support our employees in their involvement of local community based activities to promote the local environment, sports, development and well-being. M50 Concession Limited would support projects by providing funding up to 500 euros each. The requirement is that M50’s employees or close friends/relatives of M50’s employees must be involved directly in the initiatives, thus promoting not only the support to local communities but also the recognition and appreciation of the employees towards the company. From April 2017 to April 2018 M50CL supported five initiatives: the St. Mochtas Football Club (the support will be used to buy new training equipment), the St. Vincent de Paul Charity (dedicated to provide practical support to people in need), the Tallaght Local Schoolboy/girl Community Soccer Club (the support will be used to Local community Soccer fund a new club house), the Association for Vehicle Recovery Operators Benevolent club in Ireland fund (charity that helps recovery operators and their families in case of accident, bereavement or serious illness) and the St Ita's AFC (the support will be used to buy wear sports and balls). 17 | Special Day for children at Christmas Some Concessions of Globalvia celebrate a special party for children under risk of exclusion or under low economical or critical situations of the communities that are closed to the asset. In 2017 Christmas, the Costa Rican Concession Ruta 27 Christmas organized a special day celebration for low-income children in the Bajamar sector where a los of gifts were collected by the employees and delivered to those minors. The Portuguese Concession A23-Beira Interior also joined the same initiative launching its initiative “What would happen If all of us were supporting people?”. The employees of the Concession donated toys, shoes and clothes to the children of Abrigo de Sao José. For its part, Transmontana celebrated a charity Christmas party at the Concession facilities where all the employees were invited. The snacks boxes were prepared by SEMEAR, a social inclusion association that works with children, young people and adults with disabilities. Ruta 27 employees gifting toys 29 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 29 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions 18 | Donations Globalvia, through several concessions, give some money to help entities regarding their financing and enhancement. These entities should share with Globalvia the same values in CSR. Autopista Central Gallega collaborated with “Liquid Biopsy” research campaign promoted by Oncomet and focused on detecting cancer. In April 2017 the collaboration had two ways: diffusion in the toll and economic support. Autovía Necaxa Tihuatlán (AUNETI), Mexican concession of Globalvia, donated the anti-reflective mesh that is changed from the project to improve sports facilities in the communities throughout 2017. In addition, a total of 300 m3 of waste material of the asset was donated for the benefit of the communities regarding the access road of the Community of Cuaxicala in Puebla, Mexico. Due to the earthquake suffered on 19 September 2017 in Puebla, a Collection Center was installed and trucks that carried groceries to Mexico City at the Piñal station were given free passage. Waste material donated During 2017, the Irish N6 Concession Limited was recognized by the local Gaelic in Mexico Sports Team Cappatagle GAA Club Co. Galway for the support started in 2014 and following years. During the year, N6 provided dugouts for the pitch to be sure the young players have a proper shelter to be covered from the Irish weather conditions during the matches. As well a new sign was erected to show the length of the walk to the nearly 100 people that everyday use the walking facility. This club plays a very important role in local society, with very close relation with the local school. It promotes healthy life style, community values, and identity concept to the youth in the area. The activities promoted go beyond the only sports activities and it has an active participation in other aspect of local activities. This action was facilitated by an employee of N6 who has been playing, coaching N6 employees in the and highly involved in the association, since he was a child. beginning of the pitch Furthermore, N6 donated money to Sarsfields GAA Club local because several N6 in Ireland Concession staff are members of this GAA club. In addition N6 sponsored Pat Higgins (maintenance operative) during his participation in the Galway County Ploughing Championship where he got the first position and qualified for the National Championship. 30 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 30 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES IIII.3 Measurements of human rights outcomes III.3 Measurements of human rights outcomes Globalvia has various ways of monitoring and evaluating the performance related to human rights issues: 1 | Harassment report 2 | Code of Ethics training 1 | Harassment report As the chapter related to Labor policies will detail, there is an external figure called the Ombudsman to whom any Globalvia’s employee has the right to report any harassment situation of any kind. The Ombudsman is entrusted with the initial classification of the complaint and must report them to the Compliance Committee where the investigation will carried out appointing the most suitable person to performs the investigation taking into account the circumstances of specific case. These reports followed the specific Protocol established in the annex to the Code of Ethics. As a result, the investigation determined that, in one case, had existed a situation of mobbing and sexual harassment and the perpetrator was fired; in the second case, it was determined that no harassment had occurred. 2 | Code of Ethics training All people hired by Globalvia receive a Code of Ethics. Moreover, there is a tutorial video for newcomers (see III.2 Implementation of human rights actions). To assess whether the matter has been understood, the person viewing the video must fill in a questionnaire on the topic. This tutorial video has been recently extended including the new Whistleblowing Channel as we explained before. Besides, different training sessions have been carried out in almost all some concessions to ensure the understanding and the application of the Code of Ethics.). Code of Ethics video screenshot 31 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 31 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals IV.2 Implementation of labor actions IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals The following actions have been defined and implemented, these supports Labor principles: 1 | Moral – Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics 2 | Labor Risk Prevention policy 3 | Appraisal process 4 | Training and development plan 5 | Engagement Survey “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining…” 1 | Moral Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics The Code of Ethics includes a specific section that describes the protocol for The Moral Protocol prevention and action in mobbing and / or sexual harassment in the workplace. The states the Moral – Protocol states the compliance of the Company with the Spanish compliance of the Constitution, European Union (EU) legislation and the Workers’ Statute and the Company with the Collective Bargaining Agreement for the Construction Sector, related to the Spanish safeguarding of dignity, the right to equality, moral integrity and non-discrimination. Constitution, It also defines the concepts that involves moral harassment: European Union (EU) legislation and • Moral harassment or “mobbing”, that may take three different forms, depending the Workers’ Statute on who is doing the harassing: and the Collective « Descending: when the person doing the harassing is the victim’s Bargaining hierarchical superior. Agreement for the « Horizontal: When the person doing the harassing is on the same Construction Sector. hierarchical level as the victim. « Ascending: When the person doing the harassing is hierarchically below the victim. • Sexual harassment • Gender-based harassment The protocol has been adapted for Costa Rica to comply with local legislation. 2 | Labor Risk Prevention Policy In line with the policy framework on labor risk prevention, from Human Risks team of Globalvia and Labor Relations Department, various activities take place related to this matter with the aim of improving working conditions and workers safety and health. 34 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 34 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals To this end, the Company leans on the support and advice of a risk prevention accredited service, with which various activities are developed aimed at the identification, evaluation and monitoring of risks condition arising from the Company’s activity. During the first half of 2017, Globalvia carried out, together with this External Prevention Service, a psychosocial risks’ survey, in order to identify potential labor risks related to, among other things, moral, sexual and gender-based harassment. Globalvia currently complies with OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) which leads to implement more measures than only required by law. This year, the OHSAS 18001 Certification has been successfully renovated. Globalvia’s Direction, consistent with the guidelines established by the International Labor Organization and the European Union and also in compliance with internal regulations related to labor risks prevention, has developed a labor risk prevention management system that is fully integrated in the Company, at all hierarchal and functional levels, and that is consistent as well with the fundamental right workers health. Globalvia establishes the basis for “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective development of recognition of the right to collective bargaining…” their activities following the 3 | Appraisal process criteria of transparency and Globalvia’s employees are remunerated with a fixed annual salary and a variable confidentiality in salary. This last one is a part of the Integrated Management System framework their relationship applied by the Company’s Human Resources. with the stakeholders The Board determines the strategy and overall objectives of the Company which will be applied in the variable salary. Globalvia’s personnel, including those subsidiaries involved in its where the Company holds a majority stake are included within the Integrated business. Management System (IMS) Human Resources. The variable salary is assigned to each of the managers to ensure that there is a complete alignment between the objectives assigned and the objectives and interests of Globalvia and its shareholders / investors. The variable salary is composed of three types of targets with different weights depending on the degree of responsibility and job to do. There is also a fourth type that is not taken into account for the variable salary. 35 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 35 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals The types of objectives are called R1 (Results-1), R2, R3: • R1, Corporate objectives: global Globalvia’s objectives « The entire organization has the same goals, with different weights. « The aim is that everyone participates in the Group’s development. • R2, Team Goals: specific goals of each team « Business Direction: same goals that R1, but disaggregated to a specific scope: country or concession. « Corporate Areas: specific objectives to provide the service and to generate tools to manage the Company and the business line. • R3, Employee Assessment of Competence: « Specific employee competencies that a person should show executing a Globalvia’s particular job (Human Resources has defined a New Leadership Model appraisal process composed of the nine characteristic features that define our leaders, ensures a complete aligned with the strategy and objectives of Globalvia). alignment of the « As a result of this assessment an action plan is defined to be coordinated interests between with the career plan (specific training, functional and geographical mobility, promotion opportunities, etc.). people and the Company. The weight assigned to each of the objectives sets out the degree of importance of each. With this system Globalvia ensures a complete alignment of interests between people and the company. 4 | Training and development plan Globalvia’s development plan sets the attitudes, skills and expertise needed for an employee to take over the responsibility of the next hierarchal level in the organization. Based on the analysis of the Company’s main functions, Organizational Families are extracted (Finance, Support, Business Development, Highways and Railways). A development path for each family has been also defined and established that details the trail that each functional level needs to follow for their development. Globalvia’s development plan takes into account: « Skills assessment result « Performance evaluation « Individual assessment « TOEIC level (English level) « Training « Individual development needs 36 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 36 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals The training policy is included within the Company’s development plan. The development modules provide four training blocks defined according to the Organization needs: • Corporate culture: « It includes common training activities to all the employees, regardless of the area or department. « The training aims to present the Company, and enhance the employees development within the Company (vision, mission, values, processes and systems). « In 2018 this program has been re-launched under the name Globalvia Insight. • Skills: « This blocks gathers skill training activities common to all employees and graded by level / category. Globalvia « The aim is to train the employee for its development within the establishes the Organization. basis for development of • Technical competences: their activities following the « Specific training actions are included for each employee of the criteria of departments, areas, or professional levels. transparency and « The objective is to develop the employee skills and enhance the confidentiality in development of their daily activities. their relationship • Languages: with the stakeholders « Globalvia offers English classes to their employees. involved in its « In societies where there is another language (different from English), the business. Society offers classes. « It requires students commitment and follow-up. The training modules may be taken at certain points of the development paths, although there are mandatory actions that must be successfully completed in order to access the next functional level. 37 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 37 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals 5 | Engagement Survey The study’s main objective was to identify and understand what fosters and generates employee engagement at Globalvia, and analyse the differences between what Globalvia is offering to its employees, and what the employees feel it’s important for them. The result is an action plan to boost retention and engagement rates in key employees For the first time, this survey included the results of more than 600 employees in 7 different countries: Spain, Chile, Portugal, Mexico, Costa Rica, Ireland and Andorra. The survey was launched on June 7th an closed on June 26th. We reached a participation of 70%. The main findings were: Globalvia’s • The stability and safety in my job is the aspect that is valued as the most Engagement important for Globalvia’s employees and is one of the aspects with the lowest Survey is focused gap on identifying and • Employees at Globalvia consider work-life balance as a key aspect, but it shows understanding the second highest gap compared to what the company offers what fosters and • Employees feel that their team is the third most important aspect for them and generates consider that what Globalvia offers satisfies them, as it is one of the aspects with the smallest gap employee • The compensation policy is the sixth most important element and it is the one engagement at that employees consider Globalvia offers the least Globalvia. • The organization’s style of business communication is seen as not very important for the employees, and it has the third biggest gap • Company reputation is seen as the least important aspect for the employees, nevertheless it is what they think Globalvia offers the most A plan is being developed in order to enhance employee satisfaction. 38 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 38 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions IV.2 Implementation of labor actions “…the effective abolition of child labor; and…” The following paragraphs state the relevance of labor rights for Globalvia, through the implementation of various actions: 1 | Moral – Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics implementation 2 | Communication of Labor Risks Prevention Policy 3 | Social benefits for employees 4 | Flexible Payment Plan 5 | Photo Contest 2017 6 | Sport promotion within the Company 7 | Children sport promotion 8 | Membership in economic and educational associations 9 | Healthy habits promotion 10 | Greetings with solidarity to employees 11 | Gender equality support and promotion 12 | Donations for demises 1 | Moral Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics implementation Related to the Moral-Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics, some measures to prevent harassment of any kind have been implemented within the Company: • Communication, it is necessary to build awareness among the workforce and assure their effective knowledge not only of the definitions and different types of harassment but also of the action procedures set out in this protocol if harassment occurs. • Responsibility, everyone at the Company is responsible for upholding the principle of not tolerating any conduct of this kind, if necessary by taking the disciplinary action provided under the applicable employment legislation. All personnel are also responsible for upholding the principle of co-responsibility in the monitoring of conduct in the workplace. This is especially applicable to supervisors and managers. • Training, this topic is included in the Company’s training programs for the whole workforce including personalized training sessions to each concessionaires of the group. The purpose of these programs will be to identify the factors that contribute towards creating a harassment-free working environment, fostering communication and proximity between supervisors and their teams at all the Organization's hierarchical levels. The training sessions have been successfully carried out in the majority of the concessions throughout year 2017. 39 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 39 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions • Action procedure, has been drawn up and is available to all employees for them to communicate complaints in guaranteed confidentiality and protection of the privacy and dignity of all people involved. • Compliance Committee, the most important functions of this Committee is the investigations activities. Any complaints will be received by an expert external agent who is independent of Globalvia, the Ombudsman, who be entrusted with the initial classification of the complaint and them must report to the Compliance Committee where the investigation will carried out appointing the most suitable person to performs the investigation taking into account the circumstances of specific case. Upon completion of the investigation, the investigator will submit the results to the Compliance Committee together with a written report that must contain at least: « The Ombudsman’s initial assessment « A brief description of the resources used in the investigation « Documented and proven results of the investigation, with an indication of whether or not there has indeed been a breach of the Code of Conduct or the Crime Prevention Model « Conclusion of the investigation and proposed measures to be taken Once the investigation case file has been submitted, the Compliance Committee will: « Dismiss the notification if it finds that there is no evidence « Establish the corrective or disciplinary measures having regard to each specific case, based on the relevant collective bargaining agreements or the applicable labor legislation Within two business days of adopting a resolution the Compliance Committee will serve email notification with acknowledgement of receipt on: « The party subject to investigation « The notifying party, where appropriate Where a disciplinary regime is in place, the hierarchical superior of the party in respect of which the notification was made will adopt the pertinent disciplinary measures, in conjunction with human resources, as soon as possible in line with the decision of the Compliance Committee. • Additional provisions, to the Moral-Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics that include: « Precautionary measures: while the procedure is under way, Management will apply any precautionary measures necessary to put an immediate end to the situation of harassment, without negatively affecting the working conditions of the persons affected. 40 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 40 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions « Assistance for the parties: During the processing of the action, the parties involved may be assisted by another person, who must undertake not to disclose any information obtained in consequence of holding this position of confidence. « No reprisals: Any reprisals against complainants, witnesses, assistants or any other persons involved in good faith a harassment investigation are prohibited. « False complaints: if no harassment, in any of its modalities, is found to have taken place and the complainant is found to have acted in bad faith by falsely reporting improper conduct, the corresponding disciplinary action will be taken. 2 | Communication of Labor Risks Prevention Policy The above detailed policy related to Labor Risks Prevention is available to all employees in the Company’s intranet, stating all the principles that everyone needs to know in order to ensure security and health in the daily work. During 2017, in line with the requirements stated by OHSAS Standard, the Company has continued improving the communications and training to its employees regarding the prevention of occupational hazards. Likewise, through the certification process (renewed until 2019), the Company has confirmed its compliance with every legal obligation on this matter. 3 | Social benefits for employees Globalvia has different measures to control and improve the working environment related to health, safety and hygiene in the workplace. • Health insurance, according to this, the Company subsidize up to 50%, extended to partners and children of the employee by the voluntary adherence. • Risk prevention and health surveillance, the aforementioned agreement related to labor risk prevention offers every employee a yearly medical examination according to the protocol set out in the Company’s prevention plan. • Accidents and professional diseases, a Spanish Social Security collaborating institution manages and protects from accidents and professional diseases that may occur at the workplace and / or during working hours, by providing emergency medical assistance and also manages the transfer to hospital if needed. 41 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 41 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions • Life insurance, in case the employee dies (for any reason), his/her heirs will receive a compensation equivalent to the employee’s gross annual salary. Likewise, in case the employee results seriously injured and, therefore, unable to work, the employee will receive the same amount. • Accidents insurance established under the General Agreement for Construction Industry. • Travel assistance insurance, in case the employee suffers any problem during its professional travels, the employee receive a compensation which depends on its particular incident. • Wellbeing Plan implemented on January 2018 to improve the physical, mental and emotional health of the employees. This Plan offers sport lessons for groups (Pilates, Yoga and Hypopressives) and individual sessions of physical therapy and nutritionist, all of them developed at the Headquarters facilities. Wellbeing Plan poster 4 | Flexible Payment Plan A Flexible Payment Plan is implemented for the employees of Globalvia. This Flexible Payment Plan allows employees to allocate part of their gross salary to the payment of certain services and products (such as kindergarten services) under favorable tax conditions. Therefore, employees can voluntarily join the Plan and optimize their monthly net salary while they are enjoying such services. 5 | Photography Contest 2017 In October 2017, Globalvia encouraged all its employees to participate on the VI Corporate Photo Contest offering them the opportunity to take part on the 2018 Company’s calendar design. The Communication and CSR Department set the basis: « Any employee of Headquarters, Delegations and Concessions, no matter their hierarchal level, could participate. « The 2016 theme of the pictures was “The future of Globalvia”. « All the photos were uploaded in the intranet in order to be available to everyone. Once in the intranet, any employee could vote their 10 favorite pictures. The upload of the photos was anonymous. « The three most voted pictures had prize and the 12 most voted were VI Photography Contest included in the 2018 Corporate calendar. poster 42 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 42 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions 6 | Sport promotion within the Company In 2013 Globalvia created the Sportive Club as an initiative of its employees. Every year Globalvia’s runners participate in several supportive races and the Company manages and pays the registration fees and delivers the sport material required to the employees who participate in benefit races In several concessions of Globalvia, such as Metro de Sevilla, Autopista del Aconcagua, Autopista del Itata and Ruta 27, the charity races are promoted too among the employees and their families. Thus, once per year in spring season, Globalvia organizes a beneficial paddle tournament for its employees. The aim of the tournament is to encourage sport and build personal relationships outside the office between colleagues and focusing on solidarity by organizing it in cooperation with the A LA PAR Foundation, with which Globalvia already works in Globalvia runners other Corporate Social Responsibility activities. In addition, in 2015 in Transmontana, a football team has been created among the employees which is encouraged to participate in solidary sports actions with entities related to this activity. 7 | Children sport promotion Globalvia, through some of its Concessions, promotes sports to be practiced among children because sport is capable of conveying such educational values as effort, loyalty, teamwork and results-oriented performance. In 2017 M50 Concession and GSJ (Ireland)supported for another year the local Gaelic Sports team Rathoath GAA Club in County Meath, close to Dublin. Rathoath GAA Club of The local Gaelic Sports clubs play one of the most influential role in Irish society, County Meath (Ireland) that extends far beyond the basic aim of promoting Gaelic games. Separately GSJ has supported two further teams with close links to the community, Skryne GAA which is also located off the M3 in Meath and Ardee Celtic which is located off the M1. These volunteer community based organizations promote Irish culture and values to people of all ages and seek for lifelong participation throughout the local families. Transmontana (Portugal) in the 2017-2018 season is supporting the Volleyball Club of Vila Real donating the equipment of local children's team in which daughters of employees of the Concession participate. Volleyball Club of VilaReal (Portugal) Metro de Sevilla (Spain) has sponsored two children’s volleyball clubs called Condequinto and Mairena, which are two municipalities where the metro line runs through. 43 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 43 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions Thus, the railway concession Seville Metro of Globalvia also supports two volleyball children’s clubs called Condequinto Sportive Club and Mairena Volley Club. Both clubs are located in the municipalities where Seville Metro Line pass through. The Company, once more, demonstrates its active participation in projects and activities of local communities. 8 | Membership in economic and educational associations Globalvia is an active member of different economic and educational associations In Spain to promote bilateral business relations between Globalvia and other entities of the infrastructure sector or between Spain and several target countries for the Company. Some of these associations are SEOPAN (Infrastructure Construction and Concession Companies Association), ALAMYS (Latin American Metros and Undergrounds Association), UITP (International Union of Public Transport), AmChamSpain (Chamber of Commerce of USA in Spain), Canada-Spain Chamber of Commerce and IESE Business School through which the Company is also member of its program PPP for Cities. In the framework of the collaboration with IESE, Globalvia is also member of the PPP for Cities body in which the CEO of the Company is a special member in its Business Advisory Board. In 2017, Globalvia Ireland collaborated for the fourth year in a row with the ISEA (Ireland Spain Economic Association) becoming a member. The goal of the Association is to promote bilateral business relations between Ireland and Spain. The Association works in close cooperation with the Commercial Office of the Spanish Embassy and also Enterprise Ireland. The Association also established a counterpart association in Madrid under the patronage of Ireland's Ambassador to Spain. 9 | Healthy habits promotion In order to promote healthy habits in the company, Globalvia and AECC signed a cooperation agreement on CSR. Thanks to this agreement, Globalvia supports the Corporate Health and Solidarity Program of the AECC, Spanish Cancer Association, in order to transmit good healthy life habits to employees. Every month Globalvia sends the AECC Newsletter including several topics and suggestions about healthy and responsible life. Besides in 2017 the Company gave three training talks in Headquarters to all employees regarding these healthy topics and several advices to avoid cancer. Another interesting initiative regarding the health of the employees is the launch of the Globalvia Wellbeing Plan in January 2018. The details of the Wellbeing Plan were described in the previous “Social benefits for employees” heading of this same section. 44 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 44 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions 10 | Greetings with solidarity to employees This CSR initiative was launched by Globalvia in 2015 in order to greet the birth of the children of its employees with a gift layette prepared by the Caritas Foundation Madrid charity shop. The baby wear in the layettes is prepared by Taller 99, a labor integration company promoted by Caritas Foundation in Madrid, which offers comprehensive human and professional training to persons facing difficulty entering the labor market, through the manufacture of industrial clothing, children’s clothing and leatherwork. In turn, the layettes are delivered by the Asiscar courier service, a company whose objective is the incorporation of persons suffering social exclusion, providing them with the training they need to access the labor market. Transmontana, one of the Portuguese Concession of Globalvia, has launched the same initiative at the beginning of 2017 in collaboration with Unicef. Gift layette The mission of Unicef is promote the defense of children's rights, help meet their basic needs and contribute to their full development. 11 | Gender equality support and promotion With the aim of supporting the SDG 5 – Gender Equality and on the occasion of the International Women’s Day celebrated on 7 April 2018, Globalvia and its railways Concessions joined the UITP campaign “For an inclusive public transport” disseminating it through all their communication tools and the social media. In addition, all the employees were invited to attend and participate in a discussion session organized at the Headquarters in which the topic was “What can Globalvia do to enhance the Equality?” All the suggestions were analyzed and new actions are being planned for the next semester. Discussion session at Headquarters For their part the Chilean Concessions of Globalvia organized a special breakfast for all the female employees in order to strengthen ties and links between them. 12 | Demise-related donations This CSR initiative was launched by Globalvia in 2016 in order to honor the demise of the parents or children of its employees. The employee concerned selects the Foundation at issue and the Company donates a reasonable amount to the entity selected on behalf of the deceased person. During the period of April 2017 – April 2018, Globalvia has made 4 donations to PRODIS (labor integration of disable people), C.I.E.N (Neurological diseases research center), Reina Sofía (Alzheimer project) and Estudiantes (education and integration) Foundations. 45 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 45 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes “…the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.” The following paragraphs state the relevance of labor rights for Globalvia, through the implementation of various actions: 1 | Employees distribution by gender and hierarchal level 2 | Accidents, absenteeism and illness records 3 | Internal quality of service survey 1 | Employees distribution by gender and hierarchal level Records from 2017 shows the following employees distribution at Headquarters (Delegations and Concessions) by gender in hierarchal level: 57 40 Women Men Direction Assistant 7 2 Department Director 5 21 Business Director 3 9 Analyst 25 25 From its 97 employees, 40 (41,23%) are women. From these women, 8 of them (20%) are at seniority level in the Company. In April 2017, Steering Committee is composed by 10 members, 3 of them are women (figure shown in the next page). 46 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 46 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes Globalvia’s Steering Committee is composed by 10 members, 3 of them CEO are women. Javier Pérez Fortea (April 2017) Audit and Risk Control Director Carmen Rubio Laporta European Highways General Counsel HR, Communication Director & USA José Felipe Gómez & CSR Director Concessionaire de Barreda Belén Castro María Luisa Castro Sayas CFO Construction, LATAM Highways Operations and Director Alberto García Systems Director García Javier Pérez Fortea Pablo Pajares Tarancón (acting) Chief of Structuring Chief Investment Railways Director and Finance Officer Daniel Quintero Lucas Martínez Vuillier Javier Martín Rivals Martínez 47 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 47 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes 2 | Accidents, absenteeism and illness records The Company keeps record of every accident and absenteeism of their employees: • As of February 2018, an accident has happened since last year. • Absenteeism and illness, split into gender and absence reason, in 2016: 11 Maternity 6 3 Paternity 2 Illness Illness 8 4 Women Men 3 | Internal quality of service survey At the beginning of this year, as part of the CSR Plan, an internal satisfaction survey took place considering 2017 period. With this, Globalvia evaluates annually the perceived satisfaction of the Company’s employees, regarding the service provided by the Corporate Services as well as their perception in relation to the requests made to them by the different Business Areas. The survey was launched on the 9th of January 2018 and was closed on 24th of January 2018. 48 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 48 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes A total of 161 people were invited to respond to the survey and 118 people did so, producing a total participation of 73%. In this survey the opinion of the departments of the same Area has been included. The results show that the average of the satisfaction with the service provided by the Corporate Departments is 4,10 over 5, showing a high satisfaction from our business areas and Corporate Departments with the service they receive. During the following years, we will evaluate the internal quality of our services through regular monthly surveys launched in our internal app. With this, Globalvia evaluates annually the perceived satisfaction of the Company’s employees, regarding the service provided by the Corporate Services as well as their perception in relation to the requests made to them by the different Business Areas. The survey was launched on the 9th of January 2017 and was closed on 20th of January 2017. 83% 75% 70% 73% 68% 66% 42% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 49 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 49 V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals V.2 Implementation of environmental actions V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges…” As of today, Globalvia certified its Integrated Management System in ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and UNE-EN 13816. It has expanded its certification year by year and has improved various CSR Strategic plans. 1 | Globalvia’s Integrated Management System (IMS): Quality, Environmental, OHSAS, UNE-EN 13816, ISO 50001, Compliance and Business Continuity Management System 2 | CSR Strategic Plan (and specific to Concessions) 3 | Responsible Investment – GRESB Report 4 | Equator Principles 5 | Environmental Impact Declaration Globalvia upholds a commitment in 1 | Globalvia’s Integrated Management System (IMS): Quality, conducting its Environmental, OHSAS, UNE-EN 13816, ISO 50001, Compliance and business around the Business Continuity Management System environmental Globalvia continues implementing its IMS to address the environmental and social preservation and challenges related to its activity. Moreover, during 2017 Globalvia has carried out the struggle against the process of adapting its IMS to the new version of ISO standards (9001:2015 and climate change. 14001:2015). This changes have been, among others: context of the Organization analysis, life-cycle perspective, risk-based thinking and understanding of needs and expectations of interested parties. • ISO certification 9001: is the internationally recognized standard for the quality management of businesses. It applies to the processes and services Globalvia supplies, and prescribes systematic control of activities to ensure that customers needs are met. Globalvia Group has certified 93,3% of its Subsidiaries according to this standard. <Link> (Group only). • ISO certification 14001: Maps out a framework that a company or organization can follow to set up an effective environmental management system and helps identify and control Globalvia’s environmental impact and constantly improve its environmental performance. Globalvia Group has certified 93,3% of its Subsidiaries according to this standard. <Link> (Group only). • OHSAS 18001: is an internationally Standard for Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems. It exists to help all kinds of organizations put in place demonstrably sound occupational health and safety performance. Globalvia Group has certified 80% of its Subsidiaries according to this standard. <Link> (Group only). 52 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 52 V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals • UNE-EN 13816: Tranvía de Parla and Metro de Sevilla are certified in this standard that guarantees a high level of quality in the public service transport. <Link> Moreover, Globalvia retains these other issues in its IMS: • ISO 50001: an Energy Management System based on this standard as evidence of its commitment to sustainability. Globalvia’s policies and procedures establish guidelines to promote energy efficiency within the Group. • Carbon Footprint: defined as “all Greenhouse Gases (GHGs) emitted either directly or indirectly by a person, organization, event or product”. This environmental impact is measured by taking an inventory of GHG emissions measured in terms of equivalent CO2 emissions following internationally recognized rules. Globalvia is deeply concerned by the issues of climate change and global warming caused by the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, and as a socially responsible organization estimates its Carbon Footprint (scope 1+2) every year since 2015. Knowing the value of the company's carbon footprint, it is possible to design and implement emission reduction strategies, define more sustainable practices and implement savings initiatives. • A Compliance Management System: see Corporate Governance. • A Business Continuity Management System. The scope of Globalvia’s certification refers to management (acquisition, design, construction, operation, maintenance, control and monitoring) of infrastructure concessions (roads, highways, railways) and the conservation, operation and maintenance of roads, highways and railways. Globalvia also promotes the certification of those companies where it has a representative stake: GSJ, M50 and N6 in Ireland, AUNETI in Mexico and Trambaix and Trambesòs in Spain, etc. 53 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 53 V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals 2 | CSR strategic plan (and specific to Concessions) With the objective of assessing Globalvia’s situation regarding Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and devising the lines of actions necessary to lead its commitment to sustainable development, an internal diagnosis on CSR was carried out in 2011, as well as a comparative study of its shareholders and leading competitors, positioning on this subject; with the aim of better defining, from the obtained results, the sustainability guidelines for the forthcoming years. As a result of the conclusions reached, the Company pledged a Strategic Plan to horizon year 2014 to establish the framework and guidelines to be followed by the Company in this field. In 2015 Globalvia decided to continue with the same strategic Globalvia CSR cornerstones lines of that CSR Plan throughout the period 2015-2020. The Strategic Plan defines global short, medium and long term initiatives for each key issue needed to develop CSR at Globalvia. The implemented actions or initiatives related to this matter and focusing on environment are described in the next chapter “Implementation of environmental actions”. At the beginning of this year 2018, Globalvia has defined specific guidelines to be developed along the whole year related all with the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. 3 | Responsible Investment – GRESB Report The GRESB Infrastructure Assessment is an ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) engagement and benchmarking tool for institutional investors, fund managers and asset operators working in the infrastructure space. The Asset Assessment is organized around eight core aspects: Management, Policy and Disclosure, Risks and Opportunities, Monitoring and Environmental Management Systems, Performance Indicators, Stakeholder Engagement and Certifications and Awards. Globalvia, which has actively participated in its development for 2 years in a row, has achieved a great score in many categories under analysis. We highlight the fifth place in the category “Transportation: Toll Road Operations” (GRESB 2017). 4 | Equator Principles The Equator Principles is a risk management framework, adopted by financial institutions, for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risk in projects and is primarily intended to provide a minimum standard for due diligence and monitoring to support responsible risk decision-making. 54 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 54 V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals Accordingly, Globalvia analyzes the processes carried out within the framework of the project Costa Arauco Highway“ (Chile) for its construction and operation stages. In order to facilitate to the corresponding financial institution the evaluation, it has been assessed the project compliance with the environmental and social criteria drafted in the Principles of Ecuador in consensus with the International Finance Corporation (IFC). 5 | Environmental Impact Declaration Spanish legislation establishes the obligation to prepare an Environmental Impact Declaration, prior to the administrative decision related to the authorization and development of constructions and activities, is adopted. The Environmental Impact Declaration includes: « Environmental adaptation of the layout. « Soils protection and conservation. « Water system protection. « Territorial permeability and wildlife protection. « Cultural heritage protection. « Noise pollution. « Location of quarries, spoil, landfill and ancillary facilities. « Defense against erosion, environmental restoration and landscape work integration. « Monitoring and surveillance. In the period April 2017 – April 2018 Globalvia has not constructed any project in Spain which means that the legislation described above has not been applied to the Company. 55 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 55 V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions V.2 Implementation of environmental actions “…undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and…” Here are few concrete actions that support the implementation of environmental policies, reduce environmental risks, and respond to environmental incidents: 1 | Collaboration agreement with Abadía de Montserrat Foundation 2 | Training on ISO, OHSAS and other Standards certifications 3 | CSR Strategic Plan (and specific to Concessions) implementation 4 | Specific Environmental Objectives 5 | Carbon Disclosure Protocol Joining 6 | User awareness in waste management 7 | Alliance for animals 8 | Supportive recycling 9 | Sustainable mobility and public transport promotion 10 | ECO Movement in Portugal 11 | Environmental International Day 1 | Collaboration agreement with Abadía de Montserrat Foundation In the framework of the CSR Strategic Plan, it is highlighted the importance of working with communities around Globalvia's assets. Therefore, from the Department of Communication and CSR, it was considered a very good opportunity to collaborate with the Montserrat 2025 Foundation whose aim is to maintain, promote and encourage the social, spiritual, cultural and ecological values of the Monastery and the Sanctuary of Montserrat (Barcelona, Spain). Throughout 2017 Globalvia has collaborated in one of the priority actions for the Montserrat Complex: Heritage site recovery. The CEO of Globalvia with the Director of the Abadía de Montserrat Foundation 56 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 56 V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions “…encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.” Abadía de Montserrat is made up of different buildings: museum, hotel and residential areas. These facilities are equipped with fire protection systems and external networks hydrants that cover the entire area and must operate simultaneously. Abadía de Montserrat Complex 2 | Training on ISO, OHSAS and other Standards Certifications Within the Company’s training and development plan, there are learning sessions related to Integrated Management Systems (IMS) to raise the awareness of this issues in the organization. This content is given to all Globalvia’s employees, following a scheme that includes: « Risks and opportunities related to environmental aspects. « Compliance obligations. « Management system definition focusing on environmental issues. « Globalvia´s Balance Scorecard (Delfos) « ISO 14001:2015: IMS adaptation and new requirements. « OHSAS 18001 Requirements: general requirements, Health and Safety policy, planning, implementation and operation, controlling and monitoring, Board review. The final Board review has deeply stated that the Integrated Management System implementation has required a remarkable effort throughout the organization. 57 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 57 V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions 3 | CSR Strategic Plan (and specific on Concessions) implementation The CSR Strategic Plan involves the entire Company and enables the CSR strategy to be deployed throughout all business areas through specific initiatives adapted to the social reality of the different communities in which Globalvia is present (eight countries). Among the different strategic lines governing the CSR strategy there is a specific one related to Environment where Globalvia upholds a commitment in conducting its business around the environmental preservation and the struggle against climate change. Globalvia has the following commitment with the environment: “Reduction of the environmental impact of Globalvia’s activities, also maintaining a respectful approach that benefits the environment”. Integrating To overcome this statement, there are two core objectives for the whole environmental organization: protection in the management policy • Promoting improvements and innovation projects with an environmental of infrastructures is impact • Diagnosis of the environmental impact of operations through a single a constant Environmental Management System for the entire Group. The system's support challenge in is mainly based on comprehensive systems certified under standards that Globalvia's activity. contribute to reducing environmental risk, contemplating compliance with both the law and the various international commitments assumed as well as with internal regulations Globalvia also defines a group of objectives to be applied on each phase of the business engagements: • Project « Maintaining strict laws’ consideration and excellent performing of the environmental studies. « Studying and integrating minimization measures concerning acoustic protection, draining waters treatment, landscaping and ecological passages • Construction « Including specific environmental considerations in the building contracts. « Minimizing the impact by means of environmental training, environmental monitoring, archeological follow up and recovering and reintegrating affected areas. 58 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 58 II. RESUMÉ V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions « Environmental Impact Analysis review and follow up in order to identify, predict, evaluate and mitigate the biophysical, social, and other relevant effects of Globalvia's activity. « Operation « Cooperating with the Environmental Management System, not only in terms on monitoring, but conducting the appropriate initiatives to mitigate the environmental impact. • Operation « Cooperating with the Environmental Management System, not only in terms on monitoring, but conducting the appropriate initiatives to mitigate the environmental impact. Aligned with these objectives, Globalvia has defined specific environmental objectives that are described in the next heading. In addition, Globalvia has developed a specific CSR strategic plan in Costa Rica. Ruta 27 CSR strategic plan activities are split into three action pillars: Education, Environment and Fauna and Social Integration. The actions developed in 2017 are described in this report. 4 | Specific environmental objectives Specific objectives have been defined for the Company and for each Concession to reduce environmental impact and health & safety risks. The points below are included as an example: « Globalvia Group: reduction of carbon footprint (2016 vs 2015). « Túnel D’Envalira: reduction of plastic containers waste (2017 vs 2016). « Autopista del Aconcagua: reduction of power consumption and reduction of water consumption (2017 vs 2016). « Autopista del Itata: reduction of power consumption in tolling marquees by implementing LED technology and increase of recycled plastic waste (2017 vs 2016). « Ruta 27: reduction of drinking-water consumption from network distribution, reduction of power consumption (2018 vs 2015) and obtaining the Ecological Blue Flag Program (Climate Change category). « A23-Beira Interior: reduction of water and power consumption (road/tunnels) and paper waste (2017 vs 2016). « Transmontana / Concesiones de Madrid / Ruta de los Pantanos: reduction of vehicle fuel consumption (2017 vs 2016). « Autopista Central Gallega: reduction of pesticide consumption (2018 vs 2016) and reduction of power consumption in toll stations (2017 vs 2015). 59 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 59 V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions « Metro de Sevilla: reduction of GHG emissions in 1% (2018 vs 2017) and water contaminated with hydrocarbons (2017 vs 2016). « Tranvía de Parla: reduction of paper consumption (2018 vs 2016) and brake fluid waste (2017 vs 2016). « M50 Concession Limited: reduction of power consumption achieving 43% energy savings in 2017. The SEAI National Energy Authority of Ireland – has awarded M50CL with its Sustainable Energy Award for this milestone. 5 | Carbon Disclosure Protocol Joining In 2014, M50 Concession Limited carried out an assessment of its carbon emissions for the years 2013 and 2012 and joined the Carbon Disclosure Protocol (CDP) for the first time. In 2017 M50CL carried out once again a new assessment of its carbon emissions for the year 2016 and submitted the CDP response. This CDP response was scored C. The integration of climate change into the business strategy will help Globalvia to conduct its activity in a responsible and sustainable manner. This will prove its commitment with the society and will allow it to enhance our relationships with the Authority and stakeholders up to the point where they would recognize Globalvia in general and M50 in particular as the lead reference of the toll operators in Ireland. 6 | User awareness in waste management Globalvia has designed posters with awareness messages to users and these have been placed along its highway and railway assets. Moreover, Globalvia in Costa Rica continues delivering travel bags to all users in order to store the waste generated during their trip and throw them in the appropriate place at other destination. This initiative is carried out three times a year. Travel bag delivery 60 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 60 V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions 7 | Alliance for animals Globalvia is one of the main companies that helps threatened animals thanks to three partnership agreements with: « Asociación Rescate Animal through Ruta 27 (Costa Rica) whose employees have been trained in animal handling and are responsible for carrying out the rescues and giving the first animal care. Then the association is responsible for the recovery of the animal. In 2017, 7 dogs and 6 cats were rescued. « Refugio Herpetológico de Santa Ana through Ruta 27 (Costa Rica). The agreement follows the same conditions than the one described previously. In 2017 3 turtles, 2 snakes and 4 birds were rescued. « Wildlife Recovery Center of the UTAD Veterinary Hospital through Transmontana (Portugal). Any wild animal found on the highway can be rescued, treated, forwarded to wildlife rehabilitation and release to its Two of the animals natural habitat. The animals that do not survive are referred to University rescued on Ruta 27 studies. In the last two years an owl of the woods and an Iberian wolf were returned to success with nature. 8 | Supportive recycling This initiative has began in 2015 and involves the collection of the plastic bottle tops and metal caps used every day in the Headquarters offices. The collection of this material has been made possible through the cooperation of all the employees of Globalvia, thanks to two containers placed in a communal area in daily use. All of the plastic tops that are collected are sent to SEUR Foundation, the flagship foundation which is driving this great initiative and which has created the “Tops for a New Life” Project, a project that delivers plastic bottle tops to a recycling plant to raise money to help children with health problems. The metal bottle caps collected are donated to the FAD Foundation, Foundation for the Attendance of mentally disabled people, which helps persons with learning Plastc tops and metal difficulties, attending to over 260 people, and which offers advice and support to bottle caps recycling families and others involved through a team of specialized, committed posters professionals. All of the material gathered is channeled through the Liceo Europeo school, which stores, transports and delivers the material to the Foundations. For its part, the Mexican concession of Globalvia – AUNETI has carried out a recycling campaign among its employees with the aim of generating environment Waste collection in Mexico awareness. Thanks to it, 305 kilos of cardboard, 127 kilos of PET, 4.8 kilos of aluminum and 186 kilos of plastic were collected in 2017. 61 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 61 V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions 9 | Sustainable mobility and public transport promotion Some concessions promote electric vehicles among its users, such as Túnel d’Envalira. The Andorran concession and the Government of Andorra have created a program to promote the use of electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles in the Principality. These types of cars are exempt from toll payments, being the first 500 transits in charge of the concessionaire and the rest in charge of the Administration. Globalvia reinforces its image as a company committed to the environment promoting the public transport instead of using an own vehicle. During 2017 Globalvia has developed different communication campaigns explaining the environmental advantages and the benefits for the sustainable development thanks to using the public transport. Mupis, jets, posters of stations and stops and vinyl inside the trains are used to spread the campaigns. In addition, in the majority of the railways concessions, Globalvia organizes training programs with schools focused on teaching children how to use this type of transport. For instance, “Aula Metro program” in Seville Metro, “School guide visits” in Parla Tram, “Welcome to our light rail” in Sanchinarro Light Rail and “How to use the metro” in Malaga Metro. “How to use the metro” Program poster Educational school visit to Metro de Sevilla Furthermore, Metro de Sevilla sponsors one per year the European Mobility Week which is a week-long event where the benefits of the sustainable transport are disseminated to all the attendances – children, young people and adults. Another initiative is Eco-Driving developed by Transmontana in Portugal. It consists in training sessions given every two years to all operational employees of the Concession, with the aim of developing driving techniques that enhance the reduction of fuel consumption and emissions to the environment, as well as increase safety and comfort. 62 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 62 V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions 10 | ECO Movement in Portugal The ECO Movement Companies against Fire, launched in 2007, is today one of the largest initiatives of collective social responsibility in Portugal and a national design in the prevention of forest fires. It brings together a group of national companies, in which Transmontana, one of the Portuguese Concessions of Globalvia, was included as a member that give their own means of disclosure, internal and external, and transmit messages to prevent forest fires. ECO Movement logotype The purpose of the ECO Association is to mobilize civil society to prevent and combat forest fires, stimulate and sensitize companies to the dissemination of messages to prevent risk behavior among citizens, appeal to an attitude of active civic participation in forest protection, to actively collaborate in the preservation of the forest, which is a strategic resource for the country's development. 11 | Environmental International Day The Environmental International Day is the 5th of June and Globalvia and all its concessions join the cause through several initiatives promoting the environmental respect and care. In 2016, Globalvia offered advices and good manners in this matter to all the employees through its intranet. In addition railways concessions used the trains and metros to disseminate their environmental campaigns to educate and make aware about the global warming. Particularly, in one of the stations of Metros Ligeros de Madrid, biodegradable flowerpots were given to users by employees of the concession. For their part Ruta 27 and Autopista Costa Arauco organized educational workshops with the surrounding schools. The workshops are totally linked with the SDG 13 – Climate Change and SDG 15 – Life on Land and are focused on educate the future generations in terms of environmental, social and economical matters promoting their participation in achieving a better and sustainable world. The main aspects explained were those related with waste management, water supply, sustainable energies access, poverty and hanger fight and climate change. 63 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 63 V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes Globalvia ​has identified and assessed all environmental issues generated as a result of its activities in all the Societies and areas included in the ISO 14001, which are: 1 | Headquarters (Spain) 2 | Ruta de los Pantanos (Spain) 3 | Concesiones de Madrid (Spain) 4 | Túnel d’Envalira (Andorra) 5 | Autopista Central Gallega (Spain) 6 | Túnel de Sóller (Spain) 7 | Autopista del Itata (Chile) 8 | Autopista del Aconcagua (Chile) 9 | Autopista Costa Arauco (Chile) 10 | Chile Country Office (Chile) 11 | Ruta 27 (Costa Rica) 12 | Tranvía de Parla (Spain) 13 | Metro de Sevilla (Spain) 14 | A23-Beira Interior (Portugal) 15 | Transmontana (Portugal) Globalvia ​has identified and assessed all environmental issues generated as a result of its activities in all the Subsidiaries and areas included in the ISO 14001, which are: 1 | Autovía Nuevo Necaxa-Tihuatlán (Mexico) 2 | M50 Concession Limited (Ireland) 3 | N6 (Ireland) 4 | GSJ Maintenance (Ireland) 5 | Trambaix (Spain) 6 | Trambesòs (Spain) 7 | Metro de Málaga (Spain) The following table shows some of the indicators identified and evaluated for each Society, that help monitoring the impact of the company on the environment: • Power consumption • Waste: solid waste generation • Water consumption • Waste: plastic containers • Paper consumption • Waste: alkaline batteries • Salt consumption (winter maintenance) • Waste: paper and cardboard • Paint consumption (road and graffiti) • Waste: fluorescent • Pesticide consumption • Waste: toner • Solvent consumption • Pruning • Vehicle fuel consumption and machinery • Waste: metal junk • Waste: batteries containing mercury • Other urban waste • Waste: electrical and electronic equipment • Waste from cleaning ditches 64 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 64 II. RESUMÉ V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes Subsidiaries made ​the identification and assessment of environmental aspects, obtaining the following relevant results: 1 | Carbon Footprint 2 | Power consumption 3 | Waste management 4 | Water consumption 1 | Carbon Footprint For third year in a row, Globalvia calculates its Carbon Footprint (scope 1+2). Globalvia's Carbon Footprint Scope 1+2 (t CO2 eq) 7.930,17 7.711 n # Subsidiaries 6.156,10 2015 4.475 4.630,08 2016 3.341 2017 2.786 8 9 11 2 2 2 13 13 16 131 161 HIGHWAYS RAILWAYS GLOBALVIA GROUP Overall, global results have increased because of the growth of Globalvia Group. Carbon Footprint calculation considered in 2017 a total of 16 societies against 13 in 2015. Railways assets results have decreased since 2016 due to the change of the electric energy supplier to another one that provides them 100% clean energy. 2 | Power consumption Power consumption ratios are measured in highways (MWh per km length), railways (kWh per km travelled) and headquarters/country offices (kWh per employee). Railways run on electricity, so power consumption is higher than in highways. That’s why highest level is recorded in Metro de Sevilla, due to the type and magnitude of this asset. However, the energy used in all the Spanish Subsidiaries is 100% from renewable sources. In a second level are Túnel d’Envalira and Túnel de Sóller due to the tunnel ventilation systems. 65 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 65 V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes Power consumption Highways 2017 500 477,24 400 329,82 MWh / km 300 200 95,72 100 41,12 25,55 16,08 13,95 13,51 10,03 4,52 0 Power consumption Railways 2017 8 7,35 7 6 kWh / km travelled 5 4,56 4 3 2 1 0 Metro de Sevilla Tranvía de Parla Power consumption Offices 2017 2.500 2.162,14 2.000 1.692,86 kWh / nº employees 1.500 1.000 500 0 Headquarters Chile Country Office Based on the guidelines defined in Integrated Management System, Societies will continue raising awareness among its employees to reduce energy consumption and analyze energy efficiency measures implementation feasibility. 66 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 66 V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes 3 | Waste management As a result of its activities, Globalvia’s Subsidiaries generate both hazardous and non-hazardous waste. All of them are properly managed by authorized waste management entities. Hazardous Waste Highways 2017 160 143,35 140 120 113,44 100 kg / km 80 60 47,80 38,71 36,95 40 20 13,33 12,70 10,34 5,20 3,10 0 Hazardous Waste Railways 2017 8 7,0 7 (kg / km travelled) *1000 6 5 3,8 4 3 2 1 0 Tranvía de Parla Metro de Sevilla In case of non-hazardous waste in highways, the differences in the amounts generated are due to the resurfacing campaigns carried out in some of them. In railways, the result includes urban wastes generated by the users of the infrastructure. 67 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 67 V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes Non-hazardous Waste Highways 2017 60.000 53.695,18 47.878,40 40.000 kg / km 20.000 11.608,97 3.905,74 2.865,94 1.281,61 876,80 443,16 151,50 47,80 0 Non-hazardous Waste Railways 2017 90 81,05 64,73 (kg / km travelled) *1000 60 30 0 Tranvía de Parla Metro de Sevilla 68 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 68 V. ENVIROMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes 4 | Water consumption Water consumption ratios are measured in highways (liters per km length) and railways (liters per km travelled) . Water consumption Highways2017 250.000 215.957 200.000 155.071 150.000 l / km 91.786 100.000 43.422 38.873 36.194 31.696 50.000 21.931 8.674 4.307 0 Water consumption Railways 2017 4 3,77 3 2,52 l / km travelled 2 1 0 Metro de Sevilla Tranvía de Parla Highest levels are recorded in Metro de Sevilla and to a lesser extend in Tranvía de Parla, due to the trams' tunnel washer. For instance, a water recycling system is available inside its tunnel washer in Tranvía de Parla. In the framework of Globalvia’s Integrated Management System, some Societies have established environmental objectives in order to reduce their water consumption. 69 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 69 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 70 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.1 Anti-corruption assessment, policy and goals VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption actions VI.3 Measurements of anti-corruption outcomes VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.1 Anti-corruption assessment, policy and goals VI.1 Anti-corruption assessment, policy and goals “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” Globalvia presents the following assessments, policies, goals that prove the relevance of anti-corruption for the company. 1 | Fraud procedure 2 | Compliance Manual 1 | Fraud procedure Globalvia has identified two main types of potential fraud: « Internal fraud; carried out by employees « External fraud; carried out by people / entities out of the Company The Group has established through their Crime Prevention Model, several procedures to mitigate the internal fraud: « Company Level Controls; the Company has established an adequate control environment that is transmitted from top management to all the employees. Management’s commitment to integrity and ethical behavior is effectively communicated throughout the Company, both in words and deeds. « Management incentives are balanced. Compensation policy does not promote an excessive level of interest in increasing the entity’s earnings trend. « Adequate segregation of duties. « The Company has established adequate policies and procedures for authorization and approval of transactions at the appropriate level, specifically in Purchase, Payments and Treasury areas. « Hiring policies are centrally defined at Group level. Hiring requests of the management team from subsidiaries are centrally approved. « Management shows a willingness to consult with the auditors on and address significant matters relating to Internal Control and accounting issues. « The Group has a whistleblower scheme in place in order to detect any potential fraud situation (annex of the code of ethics). « Management takes appropriate disciplinary action in response to departures from approved policies and procedures or violations of the Code of Ethics, if any. « The Group has an Internal Audit function that monitors internal control activities are being performed according to internal policies and procedures. 72 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 72 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.1 Anti-corruption assessment, policy and goals Special consideration should be given to a new regulation on Spanish Penal/Criminal Law that was passed on March 2015. Globalvia response has been to carry out together with an external advisor an exercise to update penal risk map in this field as well as the potential gaps that may exist with its internal control procedures. This initiative was led by the Internal Audit Area together with the Legal and Procurement&HR Areas. In 2016 the Code of Ethics introduced a new regulation of Whistle-blowing channel and the implementation of a Committee of Ethics. The objective for 2018 will be the implementation of Compliance Management System, based on UNE-ISO 19600. For external fraud, the main procedures in place are focused on the safeguarding of assets (both tangible and intangible). All locations of the Group have physical access security procedures in place. Regarding intangible assets, mainly data and information stored in the computers, the Group has established access controls to the network and protected confidential documents to prevent or detect unauthorized accesses. Additionally, all the computers have logical and physical security controls in place. 2 | Compliance Manual The Organization is applying since May 2012 (updated on January 2013), a Compliance Manual that establishes the functions and responsibilities related to the identification, review and compliance with the service requirements provided by the Company. This Manual applies to offers, orders and contracts with customers and it details the following issues: « Compliance function management and reporting « Crime Investigation procedure « Crime Prevention Risk Map elaboration « Compliance Committee, further details are included in the next point “VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption action” 73 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 73 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption actions VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption actions “…the fight against moral and sexual harassment, the fight against fraud and any other crime...” The following paragraphs state the relevance of anti-corruption for Globalvia, through the implementation of various actions: 1 | Whistleblowing Channel 2 | Compliance Committee 1 | Whistleblowing Channel In 2015 Globalvia developed and implemented an internal mechanism to report misconducts called Whistleblowing Channel. Reports must always be made in good faith, with absolute respect for the truth and belief that the reporter is acting correctly. Globalvia expressly forbids making false reports, since they are against the law, morality and the principles and values of the Organization. Knowingly making a false report could be subject to application of disciplinary action by the Company. In order to submit a report, the reporter must be sufficiently identified by providing his/her personal details. Any reports submitted anonymously to the Reporting Channel will be disregarded. This aspect will ensure the system is serious, will help with the investigation of the reported facts, the data and information concerning them will be processed properly and truthfully, and the identity of the reporting party will be protected against any possible retaliation. At the same time the entire report will be processed confidentially, i.e. ensuring strict secrecy about the identity of the reporter, whose details may only be disclosed outside the Globalvia Group, in due course, to the competent Public Authorities in the investigation of the facts, when it is pertinent to refer the crime to said Authority in accordance with applicable regulations. The reports will be managed externally from Globalvia by an Ombudsman who will ensure the proper functioning of the process. Interface of the Whistleblowing Channel of Globalvia 74 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 74 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption actions 2 | Compliance Committee Globalvia has established a Compliance Committee which aim is to identify, advise, assess, warn and monitor any compliance risk. Compliance risk is defined as any violation of applicable laws or regulations, main contracts, Code of Ethics and best practices defined in the Integrated Management System (IMS). The Compliance Committee is an internal, high-level permanent professional body with autonomous powers of decision-making and control entrusted with the oversight and supervision of the programs aimed at compliance with the standards, contracts and policies, procedures and internal controls of Globalvia and its Concessions to, among other things, guarantee their implementation and compliance, and with the prevention of illegal behavior. The Compliance Committee handles the promotion of an ethical culture throughout the organization, is headed by the General Counsel and it is composed of three more Key Executives of the following areas: « Construction, O&M and Systems « Human Resources « Finance Meetings are, at least, twice a year and conclusions are reflected in the minutes of the Committee, which are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. The members, functions and responsibilities of the Compliance Committee are defined in a specific document. Among others, the Committee's principal functions are as follows: « To promote application and update of the Ethics Code, including training and information about ethics within the company. « To make decisions about allowing reports filed. « To establish control and prevention measures against crime and breaches. « To make decisions about internal investigations to clarify the facts inherent to internal reports received, including appointing an investigation team to manage the investigation of the facts. « To make recommendations about measures to take concerning reports processed once the case has been closed, including exercising of legal action and sanctions for breaches of the Ethics Code. Globalvia also established the figure of the Ombudsman. This is a person, external to the Group (either an individual or a business). The decision to appoint and dismiss this figure will be freely taken at any time by the Compliance Committee. 75 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 75 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.3 Measurements of anti-corruption outcomes VI.3 Measurements of anti-corruption outcomes Regarding Globalvia’s anti-corruption performance, the Company has made the following statement: “Globalvia has not been involved in any legal cases, ruling or other events related to corruption and bribery. Globalvia performs several internal audits every year and the report is directly submitted to the Audit and Risk Committee. Our books and accounts are subjected to statutory external audit annually. These audits are used as one of the methods of identifying any suspicious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. There has been no such incident reported to the period.” In regard to the measurement of anti-corruption outcomes, various actions have taken place during 2017: • First semester « Update the High-level Risk Map of the Group « Six internal audits: two concessions and four Corporate processes « Compliance Committee meeting « Risk Management Committee meeting • Second semester « Eleven internal audits: six concessions, one financial model, two Corporate processes and two cybersecurity audits « Compliance Committee meeting « Risk Management Committee meeting « Risk maps of Headquarters (including railways, Spanish highways and investment business) « IMS internal audits From these audits, a total of 185 actions were identified. 76 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 76 II. RESUMÉ 77 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 77 VII. CONCLUSIONS VII. CONCLUSIONS VII. Conclusions Globalvia is one of the reference players in the eight countries in which it operates thanks to its strategy of conducting its business in a responsible and sustainable manner and establishing trusting relationships with its stakeholders. “Being an exemplary company with a business model based on efficiency and quality management, sustainability, responsible investment, innovation, transparency and continuous engagement with the stakeholders.” This commitment with the 10 Principles of de UN Global Compact together with the 17 Sustainable Development Goals is key to understand the effort carried out for the past six years. The company has accomplished the task to review and redefine continuously all processes, is constantly investing in innovating, learning and developing initiatives for its employees and is making a great effort to manage environmental, cultural an social issues. These activities are part of Globalvia’s business daily operations and therefore they are totally integrated in the DNA of all the employees. We care about the impact we make on the environment and local communities and this concern is totally aligned to the strategic objectives. This report shows our commitment to communicate our actions with credibility and authenticity, internally and externally, with the hope that the reward will be a better world for today and a greater hope for tomorrow. 80 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 80 USA IRELAND New York Luttrellstown Road 1230 Avenue of the Americas, 7th Diswellstown Floor -Offices 706 and 707 New York, Castleknock New York 10020 Dublin 15, Ireland Tel. + 1 212-618-6310 Tel. +353 (0)1 823 5888 Fax+ 1 212-618-6309 MEXICO CHILE Monte Pelvoux, 220 Int 404 Rosario Norte 100 Of. 902-904 Edificio Virreyes Edificio Rosario Norte 100 9ª planta Col. Lomas de Chapultepec Las Condes Santiago Chile Del. Miguel Hidalgo Tel. +56 2 565 9011 11000 D.F. (México) Tel. +52 55 52763430 (Headquarters) Paseo de la Castellana, 280, 3rd Floor 28046, Madrid – SPAIN Tel. +34 91 456 58 50 81 GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 81
