Communication on Progress 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle# 1: The business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle# 2: The business should make sure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses HUMAN ipl2 KCE is dedicated and committed to upholding the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all other international, regional and/or local laws that apply to KCE, such as the Thai Labour Standards: Corporate Social Responsibility of Thai Business (TLS 8001-2010), the Labour Protection Act, B.E. 2541 (1998) and its amendments, the Labour Relations Act, B.E. 2518 (1975) and its amendments, the Social Security Act, as well as the Workmen Compensation Insurance Act. POLICIES AND SYSTEMS • To ensure that KCE is constantly improving its commitments to the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, KCE has continually reviewed and revised its policies and strategies to support human rights. Top Management shall define the policy on social and labor accountability by a written document and formal declaration, expressing the intention to confirm the requirement of human rights, employment conditions and working condition standards. • KCE appointed an Employee & Welfare Committee comprised of employer and employee representatives to be responsible for carrying out activities related to the application to the requirement of the Thai Labour Standards. • KCE shall conduct appropriate measures related to occupational safety and health covering all areas and types of work, which may be harmful to worker’s health and safety, in accordance with laws and occupational safety and health standards. In order to prevent harm and to decease risk factors, KCE arranges a safe working environment and provides the following for its workers: a) An opportunity to participate in the management of occupational safety and health. b) An opportunity to obtain access to information concerning hazards that may arise from the working process or working environment. 1 c) Knowledge and awareness of rules, regulations, code of practice or guidelines concerning occupational safety and health. d) Training related to occupational safety and health focusing on issues that are newly assigned or re-assigned for the performance of work. e) Safety equipment in accordance with safety standards and suitable for working conditions of each worker. • KCE shall not engage in or support any discrimination in respect of employment, payment of wages and remuneration, providing welfare and opportunities for training and development, promotion, termination of employment or retirement, and so on, due to national extraction, race, religion, language, age, sex, marital status, personal attitude on gender or sexual orientation, invalidity, HIV/AIDS, AIDS patients, trade union membership, employee committee, political affiliation or personal opinion. • KCE ensures that corporate social responsibility, of which human rights is the core component, being an integral part of the company’s strategy and that KCE will continue to operate its business in responsible manner for the community. • KCE shall provide for and maintain procedures to evaluate and select suppliers or subcontractors who conform to the requirement of the Thai Labour Standards in regard to human rights. ACTIONS  Phase 1 of the new KCE plant at Latkrabang started operations in the beginning of 2015, and Phase 2 was implemented in 3Q15 and completed the transfer of operations from the old plant in the middle of 4Q15. In 2016, Phases 1 & 2 of the new plant ramped up capacity to the highest utilization rate. Phase 3 of the new plant started partially at the end of 2016 and continued throughout 2017. Various measures related to occupational safety and health covering all areas and types of work that may be harmful to workers’ health and safety were increasingly put in place at the new plant facilities in accordance with laws and occupational safety and health standards.  During 2017, the Company participated in safety, occupational health and environmental workplace activities, as follows: 1. Reported a 96.5% achievement rate in compliance with its safety plan for 2017. 2. The Safety Unit performed the following activities: • An emergency drill for natural gas leakage on October 27, 2017 • An emergency drilling for an LPG leakage on October 14, 2017 • An emergency drilling for wastewater rate exceeding standard ratio on December 1, 2017 • An emergency drilling for an X-ray leakage on November 18, 2017 2 • An emergency drilling for a chemical substance leakage on September 28, 2017 • An emergency drilling for a hot oil leakage on November 25, 2017 • An annual emergency fire drilling and evacuation procedure performed twice in 2017 • A safety week exhibition on December 15-18, 2017 • An annual medical examination at Bangprakok 9 Hospital • An assessment regarding safety environment in the workplace • An improvement of Fire Protection system and emergency equipment: • Additional installation of CO2 fire extinguishers in three red zones • New cabinets for firefighting equipment and firefighting suits • Installation of a new fire pump to replace a damaged unit • Improvement of the exhaust system and installation of an auto-cut in case of a fire inside the exhaust pipe • Wheel chairs for injured persons  During 2017, the Company conducted Customer Satisfaction surveys in various categories, such as technical support, quality performance of product, on-time delivery, problem responsiveness, competitiveness, logistics, accuracy of documents and communication. The results were satisfactory (in a level of 80%-95%).  KCE established a Committee for the Thai Labour Standard and appointed an Employee representative, Management representative and an internal assessor of the operations of the Labour Standard. (HR announcement #049/2016 052/2016 dated August 15, 2016). The main responsibility was to enforce the regulation of the Thai Labour Standard in practice, develop a working plan, and monitor and report achievements in order to comply with Labour standards.  KCE appointed an Emergency Response Team (ERT) for each shift,15 persons per shift. (HR announcement #HR025/2016 dated March 9, 2016), to be ready for the protection and/or stoppage of any serious emergency event.  KCE elected a Committee for the Safety, Health and Working Environment (HR announcement #038/2017), effective July 1, 2017, to June 30, 2018. The Committee consisted of 10 supervisors from the employer and 10 representatives from employees. The main responsibility was to establish a safety policy, provide recommendations for improvement, promote safety activities, oversee the safety manual and practice guidelines, set a training plan and assess the operating results of the Committee in reporting to the Company.  KCE appointed safety officers at all levels: professional, supervisor and management (HR announcement #HR014/2017dated February 1, 2017 and HR026/2017 dated June 1, 2017). 3  KCE appointed a KPI Committee (HR announcement #HR019/2017 dated March 8, 2017). The main responsibility was to set KPI for the Plant, assess the KPI evaluation results, monitor KPI reporting efficiency, make suggestion for improvement and oversee problems regarding KPI.  KCE appointed an Educational Fund Committee (HR announcement #HR021/2017 in March 2017).  The Company’s policies and objectives are delivered through “continuous training,” including occupational safety and health, technical and professional education, specific knowledge and skills training, and basic training courses to all employees as appropriate for their job and career path (see Appendix 2).  In 2017, the Company signed a Memorandum of academic cooperation with many Institutes of Technology to create cooperation in academic purposes, such as to provide training for students or to participate in a Cooperative education project. From the training, students could develop knowledge and skills by learning from on-the-job training and from knowledge transferred from the actual situation. It is expected that students will gain the required knowledge that is truly needed by the labor market or an enterprise. 1) On July 26, 2017, the Company signed a Memorandum of academic cooperation with The Minburi Technical College. 2) On September 28, 2017, the Company signed a Memorandum of academic cooperation with the King Mongkut’s University of Technology Thonburi. 3) On December 20, 2017, the Company signed a Memorandum of academic cooperation with the King Mongkut’s University of Technology North Bangkok.  After a Memorandum of academic cooperation was signed in 2016, the Company provided training for 14 first-degree students in Engineering from the King Mongkut’s Institute of Technology Latkrabang, on June 1-July 31, 2017.  In 2017, another 17 students from various institutes participated in other training programs to develop various professional skills in the Company.  KCE has continued its commitment to CSR activities (See Appendix 3). Activity 1:Knowledge sharing for kids in remote areas Ban Nongloompukbungsang School and Ban Nongwangnangbaon School, KhonKaen province, November 4-5, 2017 and November 12, 2017. Activity 2:Donation of clothes, blankets, stationery, sport equipment, consumer goods, and recreational activity, Ban Mae SawanNoi School, Amphur Mae Sariang, Mae Hong Son province, November 18, 2017. Activity 3:Provided lunch and recreational activity at the Half Way Home for Men, Rangsit-NakornNayok Road, Thanyaburi, Pathumthani province, November 25, 2017. 4 Activity 4:Offered Lunch and arranged recreational activities. Thanyaburi Home for Helpless Women, Rangsit-NakornNayok Road Thanyaburi, Pathumthani province, December 9, 2017. Activity 5:Other projects: Donation of teaching aids and gifts on Children’s Day to a total of 12 schools and government units Restoration religious places July 8, 2017, KCE donated gold foil to decorate the arched gate and windows at Wat Bang Na Nai, in preparation for the Royal Cremation Ceremony of His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej on October 26, 2017. October 25, 2017, the Company made a contribution of Baht 22,153 for the purchase of land to be owned by the temple and offered robes to monks at Wat Pa Pratharam (Thamsati), Amphur Photharam, Ratchaburi province. Activity for Flood Relief in the North East and the South August 17, 2017, the Company participated in an activity to provide assistance for those who were impacted by the flood in Amphur Pochai, RoiEt province, by distributing 1,000 survival kits and 30 boxes of clothing to flood victims. December 14, 2017, the Company participated in an activity to provide assistance to those who were impacted by the flood in Southern provinces by distributing survival kits to the flood victims. The Company’s employees and management jointly donated consumer goods. PERFORMANCE o No complaints from employees were filed with the Ministry of Labour during 2017. o KCE was awarded an “Excellent Establishment on Safety, Health and Working Environment” certificate by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, Ministry of Labour, in 2010-2017. o In 2016, the Company was awarded the TLS 8001-2010 Certificate Completion Level, Initiative Phase for the achievement of the requirements of Thai Corporate Social Responsibility issued by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, valid from August 15, 2016, to August 14, 2019. o In 2017, the Company was awarded the “Thai Labour Standard: Corporate Social Responsibility for 5 consecutive years.” o In 2017, the Company was awarded the Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare at the National level for 5 consecutive years (2013-2017), an award organized by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, issued on August 25, 2017. 5 o In 2017, the Company was selected to be 1 of 20 factories nationwide to join the “Healthy and Happy Enterprise” project and received funds from the Thai Health Promotion Foundation (ThaiHealth). ThaiHealth is a state agency chaired by the prime minister and established by the Health Promotion Foundation Act (2001). The program focuses on four major areas: good health, minimizing risk factors that could affect health, financial relief and a happy workplace. o The Human Resource & Organization Development Department has continually arranged various training programs for employees throughout the year, resulting in an increase in the total number of training hours and the number of multi-skilled operators: 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total number of training hours (hrs/person/yr) 23.75 30.14 74.06 73.50 62.52 % of multi-skilled operators 64.44% 69.26% 69.45% 75.22% 70.00% o Assessment regarding safety environment in the workplace Number of check points Total Passed Pollution from Chimney 38 38 Chemical level 43 42 Noise Level 21 20 Lighting Level 89 86 Heat Level 14 14 o Accident Statistics in 2014-2017 Type 2014 2015* 2016 2017 First aid Times 25 36 13 11 Lost days ≤ 3 days Times 24 20 16 15 Lost days> 3 days Times 9 11 11 10 Total number of lost days Days 147 209 245 302 Incident Frequency Rate (IFR) 10.91 12.41 5.63 4.49 Incident Severity Rate (ISR) 27.66 53.43 34.47 37.64 Note: *The statistics of the new plant 6 LABOUR Principle # 3: The business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle # 4: The business should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor. BOUR Principle # 5: The business should effect the abolition of child labor. Principle # 6: The business should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Thai Labour Standards: Corporate Social Responsibility of Thai Business (TLS 8001-2010) is written within the provisional scope of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, provisions of labor laws concerning labor protection, occupational safety, health and environment, labor welfare, and labor relations. Moreover, related conventions of the International Labour Organization and of the United Nations are also brought into account. KCE recognizes that employees are our greatest asset. To ensure that we are able to recruit, hire, and retain the talented individuals in our organization, we strive to assist all of our employees in maintaining a balanced work life and to provide flexibility to employees on an individual basis. • KCE respects the right of a worker to establish or become a member of a trade union or other committees in the company, and the right of the worker to bargain collectively without imposing obstacles or any kind of sanction on such activities. • KCE shall not engage in or support the use of forced and compulsory labor in any form. • KCE shall not hire or give support to hire a young worker under the age of 15. • KCE shall not engage in or support any discrimination in respect of hiring, employment, payment of wage and remuneration, providing welfare and opportunity for training and development, promotion, termination of employment or retirement. POLICIES AND SYSTEMS • Union-neutral policy: An employee representative will not be subjected to discrimination, displacement or dismissal, or other illegal actions. • The Company’s management provides facilities to the Union or employees’ representative in regard to carrying out their functions: collect annual union member fees via payroll deduction 7 time-off with pay for union activities: union committee meeting, Union Annual General Meeting (AGM) arrange for a meeting venue outside the company for the Union’s AGM provide partial financial support for union activities allow union activities during regular working hours, as requested Provide a bulletin board to post union notices • HR administration policy addressing the issues of human rights: HR policy takes into account the Company’s strategy and conforms to the business ethics and the equitable treatment of employees. The HR policy ensures clear, transparent and fair procedures. The Company will recruit and hire a person who is suitable for the job based on skills and experience and other qualifications as required. The Company will pay wages and remuneration according to the Company’s pay structure, which is based on job responsibility, economics, and the wage rate of the current market. The Company supports HR development as well as self-development so that employees are knowledgeable and continually increase their efficiency in carrying out their job duties. • There is no requirement that workers lodge a financial deposit with the Company. • KCE recognizes the importance of the workforce and prohibits any form of forced or compulsory labor. Workers in debt bondage or in other forms of forced labor are not engaged and, where found, removed. • The Company’s policy for pregnant employees is that they are prohibited to work in situations deemed detrimental to their condition, health and safety for women, and prohibited from working during the hours of 22.00 – 6.00, from working overtime and working on holidays so that they may take care of their health. • The minimum wage age provision of Thai Labour law is15 years. However, KCE prohibits hiring employees under the age of 18 years. • In the recruitment process, an adequate verification method for age is employed to ensure the validity of the applicant’s age. • KCE seeks to disseminate to staff, among other relevant information, applicable laws and regulations, and international regulations ratified by the country for the eradication of child labor and current debates about these issues. • Grievance procedures regarding discrimination, where found. • KCE offers equal employment opportunities for all. The persons we recruit and promotions are based on merit and suitability. 8 • KCE has an annual performance and career development review process which provides all employees with the opportunity to receive regular reviews, regardless of job, grade, gender, age or ethnic origin. • The recruitment and selection process for employment is based on a policy of non-discrimination and guidelines of Thai Labor Standard. • All employees are awarded equal opportunities to develop knowledge, skill and competence that are relevant to their job. KCE started to conduct a training needs analysis for specific roles within the organization. • The recruitment and the selection process of employees of KCE are based on a policy of nondiscrimination and the guideline of Thai Labour Standards • Salary increases for employees depend on performance and added value of an employee’s work. All employees are accorded equal opportunity to develop their knowledge, skill and competence as relevant to their job. • We seek to eradicate discrimination, increase cross-cultural understanding and eliminate workplace violence and harassment. In addition to all the above, KCE organizes in-service training such as the learning of languages, first-aid training, rules of protocol, occupational course training, personnel development courses, team work and regular social events, such as New Year parties, walk rallies, and other sport activities. • KCE’s employees are not discriminated against because of gender, race, origin, background, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, disability or age. ACTIONS  Board of Directors Meeting No. 5/2016 held on May 10, 2016, passed a resolution to approve an Employee Joint Investment Program of KCE Electronics Public Company Limited No. 1 ( EJIP ). The EJIP serves as another means of compensation for employees, executives of the Company and subsidiaries, to promote a sense of ownership, to serve as a work incentive, and to encourage personnel to make a long-term commitment to the Company. Qualified employees can apply to participate in the project on a voluntary basis. Each month, the Company will deduct a rate of 4% to 20% of the basic salary of each employee who joins the EJIP, and the Company will contribute 100% of such deducted amount. However, EJIP participants must strictly comply with a silent period. The Company has already proposed the terms and conditions of the EJIP to the SEC and received approval. The Program period starting from July 1, 2016 to June 31, 2023, the total duration of 7 years (including the silent period). 9  The company appointed an EJIP Committee, HR Announcement # 037, dated June 8, 2016. The main responsibility is to establish the EJIP project and qualifications to apply for the participation, and monitor the operations of the project.  The Company changed the working schedule for pregnant employees, from working in rotated shift to regular office hours , HR Announcement # 013, dated January 23, 2016.  During 2017, the union cooperated with the Company’s management in various activities, as follows: 2017 annual collective bargaining as a forum to improve employment terms and other benefits and welfare Regular meetings Participation in the Company’s activities as well as CSR activities Member of the Employee Committee and Welfare Committee  KCE appointed an Employee Committee and Welfare Committee since January 2012. At present, the committee is composed of thirteen representatives from employees and thirteen representatives from the employer (HR announcement #059/2560, dated September 21, 2017).The committee is responsible for proposing provisions to ensure that employees have access to adequate welfare, consider grievances from employees and resolve any conflicts, if any. In 2017, there were four meetings in which the following topics were discussed: The general business situation KPI evaluations Company recreational activities Schooling scholarships for children of employee Welfare for medical expense for the employee's family members Food service in the canteen, the hygiene of the canteen and the canteen supplies Arrangement of trade union activities Annual working calendar and schedule for the New Year holiday General disciplinary procedures 5-S activities and the Big cleaning day Bus service Miscellaneous issues: car parking, drinking water, time recording machine, wi-fi availability, wheel chair for sick employee, ventilation at SM room, toilet repair  On February 8, 2017, collective bargaining was conducted to address issues related to working conditions and employee welfare. Negotiations reached an agreement for both parties: Schedule for the Annual recreation day 10 Leaving allowance Budget for the Labor Union’s activity Annual Salary increase rate Annual bonus rate for 2017 Other employment conditions  KCE has always been supportive of the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  Prior to employment, it is our policy to be transparent about all working terms and conditions. KCE’s employee policies are specified within employment contracts. These contracts clearly state the actual working conditions and their rights, and thus all employees are aware of their existence and must agree before signing an employment contract.  Regularly review timecard, payroll and production records in respect of incorrect record keeping, incorrect or non-payment of wages and excessive overtime hours and verify their accuracy through worker interviews.  KCE’s employee manual defines work hours. The overtime procedure provides employees a form to sign if he/she agrees to render more than eight hours of duty. Those on overtime are given a premium pay rate according to Thai Labour law, travel allowance from and to their home and a meal allowance.  KCE has a child labor employee policy for suppliers and subcontractors to follow. In its contracts with suppliers, the Company requires that suppliers declare that they do not employ child labor.  In 2017, KCE announced the policy (HR announcement # HR036/2017, dated April 1, 2017) regarding guideline practice for child labor (age under 18 years), which is required to conform with the Labor Protect Act B.E. 2541.  An Employee Satisfaction Survey was conducted for 2017, the result of which was summarized at an average of 65% (a range of min-max 57-70%), an increase from 64%in 2016 and 62% in 2015, representing a high level of satisfaction. The highest score category was for an intrinsic aspects of the job and a Social aspects of the job, and the lowest score category was for benefits. In general, most categories earned higher score and some remained at the same level.  The Company continually communicates with employees in order to obtain feedback, assess their needs and problems through various channels; reports from supervisors, employee satisfaction surveys, grievances by employees via personal consultation, telephone, intranet, e-mail or comment box and etc.  Since 2015, the Talent Management program had been implemented and continuously be in operation until currently in 2017.It is mainly used for personnel development planning, which is already incorporated in the SAP system. The program is based on the principle of competency management, 11 which can help identify and develop a suitable career development plan for individual personnel, including a succession plan for key positions.  KCE treats subcontracted labor fairly based on the same standard as used with the Company’s own staff in terms of human rights, competency development, training, safety & health and working environment, incentive pay, etc. During 2017, a number of daily-subcontracted workers continued to change to the monthly-workers. Subcontracted labor is also entitled to a merit increase and an annual bonus from the Company. This has caused a major change in the workforce structure; and the turnover rate was reduced from 1.7% to 1.5% in 2017. Subcontracted labor headcount by type: 2014 2015 2016 2017 Daily 1,043 772 871 939 Monthly 496 (33%) 796 (50%) 767 (47%) 926 (50%) Total 1,539 1,568 1,638 1,865 persons  Human Resources Department develop a road map for 2016-2018 : Challenge: Support business requirement Customer needs Expansion of KCE's business Foundation of HR system Increase HR service level  HR develop the Master Training plan for 2018  An Assessment Center was set up to track HR service via on line, regarding : 1) Recruitment 2) Training 3) Employee relation 4) Employee self service (KPI, OT, Leave record, EPay slip ...)  HR announcement # 053/2560, dated September 21, 2017: HR Administration Policy addressing the following issues: The Company will administer the human resource in compliance to the laws and regulations relating to the HR administration. HR policy takes into account the Company’s strategy and conforms to the business ethics and the equitable treatment of employees. The HR policy ensures clear, transparent and fair procedures and be consistence throughout the whole company. 12 All supervisors are responsible to administer their unit in line with the Company’s guideline of HR policy. Employees are responsible to work in their full capacity and strictly comply to the Company’s practice guidelines of the Quality policy, Environmental policy, Safety policy, as well as the Company’s working regulations. The Company abides by the “Merit system” that will take in to account the individual knowledge and capability in considering compensation and progress in career. The Company will recruit and hire a person who is suitable for the job based on skills and experience and other qualifications as required. The Company will pay wages and remuneration according to the Company’s pay structure, which is based on job responsibility, economics, and the wage rate of the current market that is comparable to the Company. The Company will arrange necessary welfare to facilitate transportation to work. The Company supports HR development as well as self-development so that employees are knowledgeable and continually increase their efficiency in carrying out their job duties. The Company promotes a better quality in life of safe workplace and good occupational health. The Company will maintain a good relationship and understanding between employees and management, as well as among employees, listen to employees’ comment and complaint, and will consider for resolution as soon as possible.  HR announcement #054/2560, dated September 21, 2017: The Administration of Labour Relation Policy addressing the following issues: Abide by the provision of Labor law, Labor relations, agreed employment terms and related laws. Settle a dispute, conflict or labor petition in according to the agreed process, otherwise use the negotiation, compromise method or arbitration instead. Promote the efficiency of the co-negotiation, for fairness in employment condition, working condition, and also foster good relations between employer and employee. Determine policy and appropriate practice guideline in HR administration to promote the labor relations within the company to create work satisfactory for workers. Do not support infringement, and do not stop any legal operations regarding freedom in association, the right to negotiate, rules and conventional practice in the company. 13 Promote and develop labor relations, based on the foundation of tradition and the national culture to create good labor relations system, which is fair to all parties and meet the social and economic needs for the country.  HR announcement #017/2560, dated February 20, 2017: The HR regulation of early retirement. Employee who is 55 years of age, who has worked with the company for more than 20 years, can submit the request for his/her early retirement to HR for consideration and approval. PERFORMANCE o KCE received accreditation from the Thai Labour Standard project of the Ministry of Labour in 2010.The Company received TLS 8001-2010 certification (Thai Labour Standard: Corporate Social Responsibility)on February 8, 2013, by having met the requirements of the Department of Labour, Protection and Welfare of the Ministry of Labour. The certification is valid until February 7, 2016. o In 2016, the Company was awarded the TLS 8001-2010 Certificate Completion Level, Initiative Phase for the achievement of the requirements of Thai Corporate Social Responsibility issued by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, which is valid from August 15, 2016, to August 14, 2019. o In 2017, the Company was awarded the “Thai Labour Standard: Corporate Social Responsibility for 5 consecutive years” o The Company received the “Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare” award from the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare on August 20, 2014. o In 2015, the Company was awarded the Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare at the National level in the year 2015 achievement, award organized by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, issued July 17, 2015. o In 2016, the Company was awarded the Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare at the National level in the year 2016 achievement, award organized by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, issued date August 17, 2016. o In 2017, the Company was awarded the Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare at the National level for 5 consecutive years (2013-2017), award organized by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, issued date August 25, 2017. o 60% of the Company’s employees are represented by the union. o List of established Associations: • Labour Union • Employee and Welfare Committee • Safety, Health and Working Environment Committee • 5S Team 14 • Thai Labour Standard Committee • Educational Fund for Employees’ Children Committee • KPI Committee • Environment Management Representative (EMR) • EJIP Committee o In 2017, there were no conflicts between employees and the Company. o All employees received salary above the stipulated minimum wage. o KCE does not employ child labor, and all employees are over 18 years old. o KCE’s risk management demonstrates that there are no current or planned business activities in which child labor is or is likely to be a factor. We have appropriate systems in place to ensure that we do not employ child labor. o We have enhanced our ability to identify opportunities to influence others to abolish child labor and are considering further embedding of this within our existing risk management system. o Neither employees nor the union filed a case regarding unfair treatment against the Company with the Ministry of Labour in accordance with Labour Relations Act B.E. 2518 (1975). o Employee complaints averaged less than 1% per year. o In 2017, KCE employed 1,008 employees. All employees were above18 years of age, and there were no employees between the ages of 15-18. Age 18+ yrs. Age 15-18 yrs. Handicap Men Woman Men Woman Men Woman 2013 418 387 None None 4 1 2014 438 400 None None 3 2 2015 450 388 None None 4 4 2016 525 443 None None 6 3 2017 556 452 None None 6 3 15 ENVIRONMENT Principle #7: The business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle # 8: The business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. BOUR Principle # 9: The business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. KCE recognizes the importance of being a socially and environmentally conscious company. KCE is committed to supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and will undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, as well as encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. KCE demonstrates our commitment through a strong set of policies and objectives that shape the scope of the business and the way that it deals with clients and suppliers.8 POLICIES AND SYSTEMS • KCE is committed to the establishment of an Environment Management System by complying with the Company’s environment management policy, as follows: To meet all legal requirements as well as contribute to the improvement of environmental issues. Reduce waste materials. An effective and efficient utilization of natural resources. Continuous assessment and evaluation of the environment management system; review objectives, and targets to ensure the effectiveness of the system. Promote and develop staff awareness and responsibility to the environment through communication, provision of relevant information and cooperation among staff, suppliers, customers, government agencies, the private sector and the general public. • KCE applies a precautionary principle and seeks to minimize the environmental impact of its activities. Social and environmental impact assessments and reviews are carried out regularly in accordance with international standards and industry requirements. • KCE aims at collaborating with stakeholders for the protection of environmental quality and values by using every effort in the utilization of energy and natural resources for a sustainable life and environment, working for the development and implementation of environmentally friendly and clean technology and 16 voluntarily adopting environmental management systems and environmental standards. In addition, the Company collaborates and exchanges information with local, national and international environmental organizations to that end. • KCE adheres strictly to environmental law and other regulatory requirements, including concerned environmental directives such as RoHs, WEEE, and REACH. • KCE provides an ongoing environmental induction training and awareness program to provide employees with an insight into our environmental efforts at both the operational and office levels. • The Company continuously strives to improve our environmental performance by: promoting environmental awareness integrating environmental consideration into the business process developing and applying sustainable processes and products reducing the use of resources and endeavoring to prevent pollution monitoring and evaluating environmental performance throughout the entire supply chain engaging in dialogue with stakeholders and partnerships, and providing performance reports complying with environmental legislation and relevant requirements • KCE started to reduce paper consumption and encourage its employees to use alternative products such as recycled paper and to avoid unnecessary expense. KCE encouraged staff to correspond and communicate via electronic mail to minimize paper usage. • Energy and natural resources are utilized effectively and efficiently. The Company has established a waste water treatment plant and an air emission prevention system to treat waste water and air before discharge. • KCE is committed to contributing to the development of public policy and to the initiatives of businesses, government agencies, international programs and non-government organizations that will enhance environmental awareness and protection through the public release of selected research findings. • KCE is dedicated to creating more environmental friendly products; to produce environmentally safe PCB products, and to work with our customers and raw material suppliers to produce environmental friendly products such as lead-free and halogen-free products, as well as to use environmental friendly packaging materials such as bubble sheets instead of plastic foam. ACTIONS  In 2016, KCE performed two internal audits, conducted two management reviews, and satisfied a surveillance audit performed by SGS (Thailand) for ISO 16949:2009. 17  In 2017, the Company conducted Internal Audit System to monitor all Departments' performances to ensure the compliance to the customer's requirements and the ISO/TS 16949 quality standard. Due to the transition of ISO/TS16949 to the IATF16949, the company has already prepared and planed to be qualified for the IATF16949 quality standard in June 2018. Stage 1 Audit will be conducted in April 2018. Stage 2 Audit will be conducted in June 2018.  In 2015, the Company received ISO 14001: 2004 certification (October 14, 2015 March 28, 2017), which is the standard for environmental management. An audit is continually conducted by SGS (Thailand) to ensure that the Company complies with the policy and strictly operates according to environmental regulations.  In 2017, the Company received ISO 14001: 2015 certification (March 28, 2017 March 28, 2020), which is the standard for environmental management. An audit is continually conducted by SGS (Thailand) to ensure that the Company complies with the policy and strictly operates according to environmental regulations. In 2017, 2 audits were performed, in February and in September.  Established environmental plans for 2016, as follows: • Reduce electricity consumption usage: Target: ≤ 6.40 Kw.hr/ Sq. ft Results: 5.96 Kw.hr/ Sq. ft • Reduce water usage: Target: 40.00% Results: 35.74%  The Company began operating a new plant to expand capacity in order to accommodate growth in customer orders. The new plant was designed based on the Green Building concept to be more resource friendly and efficient in accordance with evaluation criteria of the US Leadership in Energy & Environment Design Standard (LEED) by incorporating the following • Waste water treatment technology to reduce water usage , using a Reverse Osmosis (RO) system to treat wastewater from production to recycling. • 24-hour use of LED lighting in production areas to reduce electricity usage. • A fire sprinkler system in line with the US National Fire Protection Association Standard (NFPA). • A fire suppression system for specific areas such as electrical rooms that does not utilize ozone-depleting substances. • Full wastewater treatment in accordance with IEAT regulations. 18 • A high efficiency chiller with an Atmosphere Impact Index according to LEED (Green Building Design and Construction). • VSD (variable speed drives) installed on pumps and AHUs. • A building management system is provided to monitor and control all energy consumption equipment in order to maximize efficiency during operations. • A Chiller Plant Manager monitors and operates chillers and pumps to ensure they operate at the highest efficiency. • A sponge Ball-Cleaning system is utilized to clean the condenser tubes of chillers to enhance system performance. • Generators are provided to back up life safety equipment.  In terms of environmental operation, the Company has achieved the objectives specified by the legal rules and regulations as well as the environmental management system. In 2017, the Company arranged several activities for employees to participate in with the aim to promote and encourage environmental safety in accordance with ISO 14001 practices, as follows: • Promoted the Waste Separation Project; General waste, Recycled waste and Dangerous waste. The result was a better separation of the waste. • Promote energy saving in the office area by encouraging all departments to adjust their behavior in order to reduce electricity consumption. • Promote water consumption saving in the production area. The result was satisfactory. • Monitored the environmental management systems by a newly appointed committee for the Group. • Monitored waste water quality after the treatment by the Company on a daily basis,; Copper content must < 2 ppm and PH level must be between 5.5 -9.0. • Arranged 2017 Environmental activities in the Safety week event in December • Using of environment-friendly raw materials, by controlling the use of prohibited chemicals in the raw materials, which is in compliance to the regulations of RoHS (Directive2011/65/EU),Packaging Directive(Directive 94/62/EC)End-of-Live Vehicle (Directive 2000/53/EC),REACH and Substance of Very High Concern (SVHC) (Directive 1907/2006/EC) and Global Automotive Declarable Substance List (GASL)and implemented IMDS (International Materials Data System). • PCBs that the Company produced is an environment-friendly product. This was certified by a third party certified laboratory, and being recertified every year. 19 • Reduction of paper usage, including paper for copying, and encouraging the use of recycled paper. The team also seeks cooperation from all departments in changing their behavior or adjusting their work patterns. The result was satisfactory. • Promote energy saving in office areas by encouraging all departments to change their behavior in order to reduce electricity consumption.  Promoted safety and environment awareness through fun activities during the Safety Week event.  HR Announcement # 010/2560, dated January 19, 2560: Appointment of the internal auditor for the assessment of Environmental Management system for KCE Group, incompliance to the ISO 14001:2015.  HR Announcement # 028/2560, dated January 1, 2560: Appointment of the Auditor for the Energy management Committee  HR Announcement # 029/2560, dated January 1, 2560: Appointment of the working Team for the Energy management. The team consists of 30 members, being supervisors and Managers from related departments such as Production, QA, Maintenance, Engineer and all supporting departments. .  HR Announcement # 030/2560, dated January 1, 2560: The Energy Conservation Policy • The Company will develop appropriate energy management system and determine that the energy conservation is part of the Company’s operations, to be in line with law and other related regulations. • The Company will continue to improve the efficiency of the usage of energy resources, in line with technology and conform to the good guideline practice for work. • The Company will set a plan and determine target to achieve in energy conservation in each year and communicate with all employee to build understanding and follow good practice. • The Company set that all employees and management at all levels are responsible for the energy conservation, and must be cooperated to follow the policy guideline measures. • The Company will provide necessary support including human resource, budget, working times, training and proposing recommendation for development of energy matter. • The Energy Management committee will review and amend the policy and target, as well as the energy conservation plan each year.  In 2017, the Company had no social or environmental legal disputes. PERFORMANCE o KCE was granted recertification of ISO 14001:2004 (October 2015 – March 2017). o KCE passed the surveillance audit of ISO 16949:2009. o In terms of environmental operation, the Company achieved the objectives specified by the legal rules and regulations as well as the environmental management system. 20 o KCE was awarded the following: ISO/TS 16949:2009 Edition 3 (September 23, 2016 September 14, 2018), Certificate of Quality Management System of Technical Specification for Automatic Productive and Relevant Service Part (certified since July 18, 2003). This certification is extended to all KCE's Sales and Customer service office worldwide. Due to the transition/upgrade of ISO/TS16949 to the IATF16949, the company has already prepared and planed to be qualified for the IATF16949 quality standard in June 2018. ISO 14001: 2015, valid from March 28, 2017 March 28, 2020), certified by UKAS in regard to the Environmental Management System and Quality Management System. ISO 9001:2008 (October 14, 2015 September 14, 2018), certified by UKAS. The Company is certified as meeting the requirements of ISO 9001:2008 for the manufacturing of Multi Layer PCBs, at the new plant. o The Company was certified by the Green Industry , the Ministry of Industry, that the Company is rated Green industry-Level 3” in the Green system, as the Company has systematically manage the environment, monitor and assess the outcome and continuously improve the results, issued by April 3, 2015 April 2, 2018. o In 2017, KCE was awarded the Certificate for the “Good Governance for Environment”, issued by the Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand, dated December 13, 2017. o PCB that the Company produced was in accordance with the RoHS (Directive 2011/65/EC: 2015/863) and was certified by a third party certified laboratory (SGS Thailand Limited, Laboratory Services). The performed test results of Lead, Mercury, Cadmium and 7 other restricted substances, comply with the limits as set by RoHS Directive 2011/65/EC: 2015/863. o The Company was categorized under the “Universe” of 2017 ESG100 companies, who have an outstanding sustainability performance regarding the Environment, Social and Governance, in 2017, rated by THAIPAT’s ESG Rating unit, the Foundation for Thailand Rural Reconstruction Movement (TRRM) under the royal patronage of His Majesty the King. o In 2018, the Company was awarded the Certificate of Compliance, issued by UL, dated February 23, 2018, regarding PCB product with 6 oz. copper inner layer which is certify under UL standards for safety (CAN/CSA-C22.2 No. 0.17-00Standard for Evaluation of Properties of Polymeric Materials) 21 Environmental Performance in 2017 2017 Actual measurement Jan Jun Jul Dec Per Law Air quality from chimneys CO Emission (ppm) 32.30 4.70 690 No2 Emission (ppm) 29.99 2.95 200 Particulate (mg/Nm3) 30.07 1.50 400 Noise quality Average noise level 8 hrs. 55.58 90 Maximum noise level 121.6 140 Quantity of industrial waste Properly Buried or Non-toxic industrial waste (per year) 4,077Tons/ Year Recycled Managed by Toxic industrial waste (per year) 9,392Tons/ Year licensed company 22 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle# 10: The business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. KCE manages its business with honesty, fairness and transparency, and is committed to being responsible to society and all stakeholders in compliance with accepted principles of good corporate governance and business ethics. KCE is committed to achieving the highest levels of business integrity, morals and transparency through good corporate governance in responding to society and all stakeholders. Thus, fraud risk management is one of the key components applied by the Company to achieve its business objectives. KCE believes that bribery and corruption must be tackled by all levels of society. KCE’s role as a private company is to act responsibly in all aspects of how KCE conducts business, as well as to actively support relevant initiatives to combat corruption. POLICIES AND SYSTEMS • Zero Tolerance Policy Statement : KCE upholds good ethics and morals as critical components in its business operations and does not tolerate any form of fraudulent or corrupt activities even if such activities would be beneficial to the Company. Thus, to ensure KCE Personnel will not disregard the risk of fraud and corruption, all KCE personnel must understand and strictly follow the Company’s Anti Fraud-and-Corruption Policy, Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct Handbook and all other relevant policies, procedures, protocols and guidelines without exception. • Anti Fraud-and-Corruption Policy KCE has established anti-fraud and corruption policies, procedures, and measures – for instance, the Anti-Fraud and Corruption Policy, Fraud Risk Management Procedures, Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct Handbook, Political Contribution Procedures, Charitable Contribution and Sponsorship Procedures, and Gift and Entertainment Procedures – in order to create awareness and foster an antifraud environment within KCE. KCE must communicate and establish steps to communicate related policies, procedures and measures to KCE Personnel as well as to communicate the policies and measures to external parties (related 23 business partners and the public). All KCE Personnel have a duty to read, understand, and strictly follow all content of such policies, procedures and measures. • The Company is committed to implementing an anti-corruption policy. Directors, management executives and all employees of the Company will not accept any form of corruption involving all areas of business and all related sections of the organization. • The Company’s directors are responsible for setting up a policy and ensuring that an efficient system to detect corruption is in place. • The Company’s code of conduct and the business ethics must emphasize anti-corruption. • The Company’s financial statements are reviewed quarterly and audited by a qualified external auditor who is fully independent. • All information presented in the financial reports are correct, complete and reliable. It was prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and appropriate standards. • KCE strives to treat all parties equally and consistently within the framework of the SET by avoiding favoritism or situations where conflicts of interest may arise. • Directors, management executives and all employees must comply with the Company’s code of conduct where sensitive issues are involved. • Whistle blowing: The Company has a policy to receive information regarding wrongdoing, violations of the law, regulations or Good Corporate Governance principles, or corruption, directly through the Audit Committee. ACTIONS  KCE’s Board of Directors appointed a Corporate Governance Committee on September 17, 2013. The committee is responsible for managing and controlling the Company’s operations in accordance with good corporate governance, policies and related laws.  In 2015, the CG Committee promoted the efficiency in the practice of Corporate Governance: • Encouraged the distribution of Corporate Governance Policy, business ethics and a code of conduct • Updated the corporate governance and code of conduct handbook. • Had all subcommittees and the CEO conduct a self-performance appraisal. • Established a channel for claims and suggestions on any matter so that employees and stakeholders could express their opinions independently, which led to improvements. 24 • Reviewed, adjusted, assessed and updated Corporate Governance principles and business ethics to conform with the law, regulations of the SET and SEC, and good practices of international standards, and reported such compliance to the Board in each quarter.  Throughout 2015, KCE promoted communication regarding an anti-corruption policy and fully supported the undertaking of the certification process. As a result, the Company was certified a member of CAC on April 3, 2015.  The Company encouraged the distribution of the Anti-corruption policy and communicated with management and employees of all level in order that the policy is accounted for as a practical guideline and ensured that operation management is performed honestly, efficiently and effectively.  At orientations provided for new employees, the Company explains KCE’s business ethics, and employees must sign a form in which they agree to strictly comply with the Company’s employee code of conduct.  Regarding the anti-corruption news, HR regularly communicated throughout the organization.  Concern Departments: HR implemented the reference check before hiring and Purchasing Department also implemented the reference check on seller and subcontractor, before procurement.  The Company provided whistle blowing channel and investigate the petition.  Subsequent to the CAC membership certification awarded on April 3, 2015, the Committee has placed an importance on corporate governance procedures and the compliance with anti-corruption guideline practice. The Committee assigned Internal Audit Unit to incorporate assessment criteria for anticorruption measures on all its audit's checklist.  In 2017, the Board continued to promote the efficiency in the practice of Corporate Governance, the Board: • Endorsed an action plan on CG and Anti-corruption for the year 2017, together with the annual goals for cascading the plan to all for implementation. • Encouraged the distribution of Corporate Governance Policy, business ethics and a code of conduct. • Updated the corporate governance and code of conduct handbook. • Established a channel for claims and suggestions on any matter so that employees and stakeholders could express their opinions independently, which led to improvements. • Oversaw the Corporate Governance Committee in reviewing, adjusting, assessing and updating Corporate Governance principles and business ethics to conform with the law, regulations of the SET and SEC, and good practices of international standards, and reported such compliance to the Board. 25 • Designated the Internal Auditor unit to take role of the Compliance Unit , and directly reported to the Audit Committee. • Considered key materiality of the governance-related laws and criteria, e.g., the Securities and Exchange Act (No. 5), B.E. 2559 (Amended), effective 2016. The Committee reviewed the Company’s regulations and guideline practice to ensure full compliance. • The Committee determined the policy of CSR and sustainability development. • Communicated throughout the organization regarding the anti-corruption news. • Concern Departments: HR implemented the reference check before hiring and Purchasing Department also implemented the reference check on seller and subcontractor, before procurement. • Provide whistle blowing channel and investigate the petition. • Considered and approved a review of anti-corruption measures and approved the submission of the recertification of Thailand’s private sector Collective Action Coalition (CAC) membership, which the CAC already approved the extension of the certification on Feb 12, 2018.  In 2017, the Company’s Business Ethic was communicated to a majority of local suppliers. The Company encouraged its business partners to participate in any network to fight against any forms of corruption practices, for instance the Thailand’s private sector Collective Action Coalition (CAC).  During 2017, trainings were provided to senior managements and employees at all level, in fostering knowledge, understanding and awareness of the importance of complying with anti-fraud and corruption policies, procedures, and measures as well as promoting the participation of KCE Personnel in managing fraud risks, taking part to prevent and detect fraud, communicating to related business partners to illustrate the transparency and the strive to work against fraud and corruption at KCE. (See Appendix 4). • KCE appoints the Supply Chain Division to perform the screening of related business parties prior to the commencement of work. This includes potential vendors, contractors and service providers to verify the reliability, qualification, financial health, reputation and integrity of business partners  In February 2018, the Code of Conduct and CSR Committee was established, to review the customer’s Code of Conduct and to provide the Company’s Statement of commitment to the Code of Conduct for customers. PERFORMANCE o There was no fraud reported by the internal auditor for 2017. o A business code of conduct and practical guidelines were completed in 2014 and continuously updated in the following years. 26 o KCE undertook steps in compliance with the CAC's certification process, such as the development of anti-corruption measures, conducting self-evaluations regarding anti-corruption practices. As a result, the Company was certified a CAC member on April 3, 2015. o SET Awards 2015: The Company was awarded the Outstanding CEO Awards and the Outstanding Company Performance Awards , in a category of company with market capitalization of Bt10,000 30,000 million. o The Board has committed to place importance in conducting business within the framework of Good Corporate Governance. As a result, the Company achieved an Excellent” corporate governance score in the 2016 Annual survey by the Thai Institute of Directors Association (IOD), for the second consecutive year. o SET Awards 2016: KCE's CEO was awarded the Outstanding CEO Awards (in SET) and the Young Rising Star CEO Award . In addition, the Company was awarded the Best Company Performance Awards , in a category of company with market capitalization of Bt30,000 100,000 million. o In 2017, the Company was awarded an Excellent ranking for its Corporate Governance for the third consecutive years, based on a survey of listed companies, by the Thai Institute of Directors Association (IOD) o In 2017, the Board oversight the preparation of practical guidelines for anti-corruption policy, and promote communication regarding an anti-corruption measures through all subsidiaries in the group. o The 2017 Audit Committee’s report confirmed that: The Company’s financial report for the year ended December 31, 2017, was prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and the information was accurate, complete and reliable with a reasonable application of accounting policy. The Company’s internal control systems are adequate and appropriate. All related party transactions are part of the Company’s normal course of business with regular commercial terms, sensible and fair conditions and for the maximum benefit of the Company. The Company fully complies with the Public Company Act and regulations of the Stock Exchange of Thailand, as well as other laws pertaining to the Company’s business. Subsequent to CAC membership certification that was awarded on April 3, 2015, the Committee placed increased importance on corporate governance procedures and compliance with anticorruption guideline practices. The Committee assigned the Internal Audit Unit to review KCE’s anti-corruption guideline practices and reviewed the criteria for filing for the recertification of CAC membership. The Company received the extension of the certification on February 12, 2018 for another 3 years. 27 Appendix 1: Certificates/Awards KCE was awarded the TLS 8001-2010 Certificate Completion Level, Initiative Phase for the achievement of the requirements of Thai Corporate Social Responsibility issued by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, which is valid from August 15, 2016, to August 14, 2019. 28 In 2017, the Company was awarded the Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare at the National level for 5 consecutive years (2013-2017), award organized by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, issued date August 25, 2017. 29 The Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations The “Thai Labour Standard: Corporate Social Responsibility” and Welfare” award (for 5 consecutive years) award (for 5 consecutive years) 30 KCE was awarded an “Excellent Establishment on Safety, Occupational Health and Working Environment” certificate by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, Ministry of Labour, issued date August 25, 2017. 31 The “Healthy and Happy Enterprise” Project, by ThaiHealth. In 2017, the Company was selected to be 1 of 20 factories nationwide to join the “Healthy and Happy Enterprise” project and received funds from the Thai Health Promotion Foundation. 32 The Certificate for the “Good Governance for Environment”, in Latkrabang Industrial Estate: The so-called “White Flag, Green Star” Project: KCE was awarded the Certificate for the achievement of the excellent factory in the “Project of the promotion in cooperation among communities and the factory in the Estate”, in 2017, issued by the Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand, dated December 13, 2017. 33 ISO 14001: 2015, valid from March 28, 2017 – March 28, 2020 (certified since March 28, 2002), certified by UKAS in regard to the Environmental Management System and Quality Management System. 34 ISO/TS 16949:2009 Edition 3 (September 23, 2016 September 14, 2018), Certificate of Quality Management System of Technical Specification for Automatic Productive and Relevant Service Part (certified since July 18, 2003). 35 The Company is certified as meeting the requirements of ISO 9001:2008 For the Manufacturing of Multi Layer PCBs (Valid from October 14, 2015 September 14, 2018), certified by UKAS 36 KCE was certified by the Green Industry , the Ministry of Industry, that the Company is rated Green industry-Level 3) in the Green system, as the Company has systematically manage the environment, monitor and assess the outcome and continuously improve the results, issued by April 3, 2015 April 2, 2018. 37 2017 ESG100 COMPANIES Jun 03, 2017|undefined THAIPAT’s ESG Rating Unit, a Thailand pioneer of corporate sustainability assessment, has evaluated... THAIPAT’s ESG Rating Unit, a Thailand pioneer of corporate sustainability assessment, has evaluated the Thai publicly listed companies on their Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors for the first time. Out of 656 companies that were assessed, THAIPAT selected 100 companies which having outstanding sustainability performance to construct the ESG100 list as a starting universe of the 100 publicly listed companies addressing to the growing demand on sustainable investments. The full list of ESG100 companies is freely available here. 2017 List of ESG100 Companies Company Name Industry % Free Float * ADVANCED INFO SERVICE Telecommunications 36.22 AIKCHOL HOSPITAL Health Care Delivery 55.69 ALUCON Containers & Packaging 21.95 ARROW SYNDICATE Industrial Machinery & Goods 28.32 ASIA AVIATION Airlines 63.94 BANGCHAK PETROLEUM Oil & Gas – Refining & Marketing 59.89 BANGKOK AVIATION FUEL SERVICES Oil & Gas – Services 55.35 BANGKOK DEC-CON Building Products & Furnishings 38.07 BANGKOK DUSIT MEDICAL SERVICES Health Care Delivery 52.14 BANGKOK EXPRESSWAY AND METRO Land Transportation 53.99 BANK OF AYUDHYA Commercial Banks 23.11 BEAUTY COMMUNITY Drug Retailers & Convenience Stores 64.46 BETTER WORLD GREEN Waste Management 91.70 CENTRAL PATTANA Real Estate Owners, Developers & Investment Trusts 52.34 CENTRAL PLAZA HOTEL Hotels & Lodging 51.66 CH. KARNCHANG Engineering & Construction Services 63.69 CHIANGMAI FROZEN FOODS Processed foods 36.44 CHULARAT HOSPITAL Health Care Delivery 40.52 DELTA ELECTRONICS (THAILAND) Electronic Manufacturing Services & Original Design Manufacturing 36.88 DENTAL CORPORATION Health Care Delivery 22.95 DUSIT THANI Hotels & Lodging 16.48 DYNASTY CERAMIC Building Products & Furnishings 48.90 ELECTRICITY GENERATING Electric Utilities 42.92 ERAWAN GROUP Hotels & Lodging 44.65 FORTH CORPORATION Electronic Manufacturing Services & Original Design Manufacturing 35.89 FORTUNE PARTS INDUSTRY Auto Parts 21.85 GLOBAL CONNECTIONS Chemicals 32.22 GLOBAL POWER SYNERGY Electric Utilities 24.91 GLOW ENERGY Electric Utilities 30.89 GOODYEAR (THAILAND) Auto Parts 25.59 HANA MICROELECTRONICS Electronic Manufacturing Services & Original Design Manufacturing 49.69 HOME PRODUCT CENTER Multiline and Specialty Retailers & Distributors 44.87 INDORAMA VENTURES Chemicals 33.50 INOUE RUBBER (THAILAND) Auto Parts 27.83 INTERLINK COMMUNICATION Hardware 43.20 INTERLINK TELECOM Telecommunications 36.30 INTOUCH HOLDINGS Telecommunications 59.49 IRPC Oil & Gas – Refining & Marketing 51.90 KANG YONG ELECTRIC Appliance Manufacturing 34.99 KASIKORNBANK Commercial Banks 66.50 KCE ELECTRONICS Electronic Manufacturing Services & Original Design Manufacturing 62.15 KIATNAKIN BANK Commercial Banks 84.71 KHON KAEN SUGAR INDUSTRY Agricultural Products 23.12 KRUNG THAI BANK Commercial Banks 44.93 KRUNGTHAI CARD Consumer Finance 39.33 L.P.N. DEVELOPMENT Real Estate Owners, Developers & Investment Trusts 81.17 LADPRAO GENERAL HOSPITAL Health Care Delivery 56.16 LH FINANCIAL GROUP Commercial Banks 26.39 MBK Leisure Facilities 43.47 METRO SYSTEMS CORPORATION Software & IT Services 25.68 MINOR INTERNATIONAL Hotels & Lodging 58.20 MK RESTAURANT GROUP Food Retailers & Distributors 21.18 NAM SENG INSURANCE Insurance 34.73 NONTHAVEJ HOSPITAL Health Care Delivery 31.21 OCEAN GLASS Industrial Machinery & Goods 37.04 PRE-BUILT Home Builders 66.38 PREMIER MARKETING Processed foods 42.85 PREMIER TECHNOLOGY Software & IT Services 44.27 PRESIDENT BAKERY Food Retailers & Distributors 25.48 PRESIDENT RICE PRODUCTS Processed foods 44.78 PROJECT PLANNING SERVICE Engineering & Construction Services 48.84 PRUKSA HOLDING Real Estate Owners, Developers & Investment Trusts 24.50 38 39 In 2018, the Company was awarded the Certificate of Compliance, issued by UL, dated February 23, 2018. 40 KCE undertook steps in compliance with the CAC's certification process, such as the development of anticorruption measures, conducting self-evaluations regarding anti-corruption practices. As a result, the Company was certified a CAC member on April 3, 2015 and subsequently received the extension of the certification on February 12, 2018. 41 SET Awards 2016: The Company was awarded the Outstanding CEO Awards and the Best Company Performance Awards , in a category of company with market capitalization of Bt30,000 100,000 million. 42 Appendix 2: Training and Development KCE implements an employee development program to enhance their knowledge and potential. In 2017, training courses for employees included, but were not limited to, the following: Period (TL No. of No. Course Objective Target Group Date Hours) Trainee Safety 1 ERT (EMERGENCY Train Emergency Response Team Emergency Response Jan-Dec 2017 108 10-15 RESPONSE TEAM) Team 2 Fire Suppression 1.To educate causes and All levels of employees Jan, Mar, May, 36 300 Basis prevention of fires July, Sept, Nov 2) To educate how to use fire July 2017 6 60 suppression equipment. April 2017 6 32 3 Safety Officer in 1) To comply with the safety Supervisors of all May, Oct 2017 12 50 Supervisor level regulation Section March 2017 12 60 2) To provide knowledge regarding Sept 2017 12 60 work safety, safety law Nov 2017 24 120 3) To prevent or to control incident and disease from work 4 Folklift skills and 1. To develop skills in using Warehouse, Material Oct 2017 6 26 Maintenance Training Forklift. preparation, FG stock Nov 2017 6 20 2. To educate for maintenance. 5 Safety for working with To comply with the rules and X-ray Area Staffs Mar, Sept 2017 12 20 X-rays educate how to prevent dangerous June 2017 9 23 when working with X-rays. 6 Safety for working with To provide knowledge of electrical Supervisor Aug 2017 6 26 Electricity system, how to prevent danger, and safety rules 7 Personal Safety To understand the importance of All employees Mar 2017 3 37 personal safety equipments Provide knowledge how to use the proper equipment 43 8 Safety training for the 1. To comply with the law The Committee Oct 2017 12 25 Committee of Safety, 2. To educate the Committee member Occupational Health member to understand their roles and Environment and responsibilities. 9 Annual Fire Drills and 1.To comply with the rules. All Employees Dec 2017 1.0 2,927 Evacuation. 2.To educate how to survive and move from fire areas. 10 Training for the basic To understand the basic Foreman, Leader, Jun 2017 6 31 of First Aid knowledge of the first aid and be Technician, Operator able to help in the emergency Officer incident 11 Chemical Handing & 1. To know various types of Employee working with May 2017 3 27 Emergency chemical and the usage of chemical Oct 2017 3 24 Response chemical. Dec 2017 6 51 2. Provide safety procedure in handling and storing chemical and working with chemical. 3. How to handle the emergency incident in case of chemical leaking. 12 Controlling procedure To understand the regulation of EU All employees Jul, Aug, Sept, 30 40-55 for RoHs V.2. WEEE Oct, Dec 2017 and REACH 13 Safety Awareness To create safety awareness in All levels of employee Feb, Apr, Jun, 12 124 everyday working, toward zero Aug 2017 accident. 14 Safe Driving To prevent or minimize car Related employee March 2017 3 74 accident 15 Risk Assessment 1. To provide knowledge of risk All levels of employee Apr, Jun 2017 6 30-40 assessment in workplace Mar 2017 6 36 2. To increase the efficiency in Apr 2017 6 33 safety work 44 Environment 16 ISO 14001:2015 1.To educate about the Sr.Engineer, Engineer, Mar 2017 6.0 60 Requirement environment management system Sr. Supervisor, 2. To specify rules of environment Supervisor management for ISO 14001:2015 Foreman, Leader 17 Monitoring for To understand the importance and Sr.Engineer, Engineer, Mar 2017 12 60 environment the regulations of the environment Sr. Supervisor, management management system of ISO Supervisor (Effective Internal 14001:2015 and be able to Audit for ISO prepare an effective monitoring 14001:2015) report for the audit 18 Creation of an 1.To create awareness of energy All levels of employee Jan – Dec 2017 9 360–450 awareness in energy conservation conservation, and 2. Provide guideline for energy Techniques conservation in short term and long term 3. Create a role model for energy conservation 19 Basic knpwledge on To provide basic knowledge of Related employee Nov 2017 6 27 large Particle particle management, and to be management system able to apply to action to minimize in clean room the particle in the clean-room so that to reduce the defect caused by particle. 20 ISO14001: 1. To understand the importance of Sr. Supervisor Mar 2017 6 43 New version the environment management Sr. Engineer system Supervisor, Engineer 2. To know the regulation of ISO 14001: new version and understand the type of problem of environmental issue. 45 Human Resources 21 Training for the To be aware of the proper Sr.Engineer, Engineer, Sept 2017 6 28 Trainer qualification for the Trainer Sr.Supervisor, Supervisor, Foreman, Leader, Sr. Officer Train the Trainer Trainer team Dec 2017 12 50 22 Team Building & To create enthusiasm and joyful in Sr.Engineer, Engineer, Aug 2017 6 55 Teamwork working together as a team Sr. Supervisor, Techniques Supervisor, foreman, leader, officer Radar Meeting For employees to take part in All employees Oct, Nov 2017 9 90-120 identifying problems Proactive working To improve the work efficiency Sr. Sup, Sr. Engineer Apr 2017 6 53 23 Supervisory skills To provide knowledge regarding Foreman, Leader Aug, Oct 2017 24 200-240 necessary skills for a supervisor; good attitude, leadership skill, and to apply to work Technique for Foreman, Leader Sept 2017 6 50 Supervisor Supervisory behavior Supervisor, Engineer Feb, Mar 2017 6 70 Effective Sr. Sup, Sr. Engineer, Feb 2017 6 42 Performance Foreman, Leader, management Officer Efficient work Sr. Sup, Sr. Engineer, May 2017 6 59 scheduling Supervisor, foreman 24 Anti-corruption To be aware of corruption and the All employees Apr, Aug, Nov, 21 280-350 Anti-Corruption policy in place for Dec 2017 KCE group. Anti-corruption All employees Oct, Nov 2017 27 270-360 46 25 Developing KPI 1. To educate KPI concept and Sr. Sup, Sr. Engineer, Feb 2017 6 45 guideline for developing KPI Sup, Engineer, Foreman, Leader, Officer KPI for Performance All employees Mar, Apr, Jun, 15 100-150 appraisal Aug, Oct 2017 Technique for Supervisor, Engineer Feb 2017 6 36 effective KPI 26 Communication & Co1. To learn how to effectively Supervisor, Sr.Sup. Jun 2017 6 54 ordination technique assign the work to subordinate Engineer, Sr. Engineer 2. To get the skill in evaluating the foreman, leader, subordinate, and the needs for officer coaching. 27 Coaching & Mentoring To understand the essence of Leader Oct, Nov, Dec 18 90-120 coaching 2017 Coaching Techniques 28 Smart Mom – Healthy For pregnant women to know the Pregnant women Mar, May 2017 9 37 kids proper procedure for taking care 29 Enterprise Risk To do risk assessment in all areas HR personnel Aug 2017 3 19 Management 30 Disciplinary action To be aware of the Labor law and Foreman, Leader Dec 2017 6 30-45 and the Labor law regulations, and understand the technique for disciplinary actions 47 Appendix 3: CSR activities In 2017, the Company together with its employees participated in the following activities to contribute to the community and the public: Activity 1: Knowledge sharing for kids in the remote area Project Ban Nongloompukbungsang School and Ban Nongwangnangbaon School, Khon Kaen province, November 4-5, 2017 and November 12, 2017 The Company provided school scholarships, 1,200 sets of teaching aids and sport equipments to the school. 48 Activity 2: Donation of clothes, blankets, stationery, sport equipment, consumer goods, and recreational activity, Ban Mae Sawan Noi School, Amphur Mae Sariang, Mae Hong Son province, November 18, 2017 The Company donated clothes, blankets, stationery, sport equipment, consumer goods to the students of Ban Mae Sawan Noi School, located in a mountainous area of Amphur Mae Sariang, Mae Hong Son province, which has two wooden school buildings and one school hall. There are 64 students and 6 teachers at the school. On the activity day, the Company provided lunch to the students and donated clothes, blankets, stationery, sport equipments, consumer goods and funds for a lunch program. In addition, the Company held recreational activities with the students. 49 50 Activity 3: Provided lunch and recreational activity at the Half Way Home for Men, Rangsit-NakornNayok Road, Thanyaburi, Pathumthani province, November 25, 2017. Number of participants: 45 On the activity day, the employees of KCE Group joined to support the Half Way Home for Men by donating money and consumer items, e.g., adult pampers, ASEPSO soap, deodorant roll-on and other personal items, and provided lunch and arranged some recreational activity for entertainment. The Half Way Home for Men situated on 70 rai of land at 130 Moo 2 Rangsit-NakornNayok Road, Thanyaburi, Pathumthani Province, was established on December 10, 1968. The Half Way Home for Men provides welfare and rehabilitation services for men who are recovering from mental illness after having been discharged from Srithanya Hospital, Somdet Chaopraya Institute of Psychiatry, Galyarajanagarindra Institute, etc., who have no one to take care of them, have no permanent residence, are unable to live with their family or were abandoned. There are 490 patients at the center between 18 and 60 years old. 51 52 Activity 4: Offered Lunch and arranged recreational activity. Thanyaburi Home for Helpless Women, Rangsit-NakornNayok Road Thanyaburi, Pathumthani province, December 9, 2017 Number of participants: 45 The Thanyaburi Home for Helpless Women is located at 7, Moo 2, Amphur Thanyaburi, Pathumthani province. The home has 485 persons between the ages of 18 and 60. The home was established in accordance with the Beggar Control Act B.E. 2484, in response to an increasing number of people who require welfare service. The home opened on February 22, 1988, to provide welfare and skill development for women who were engaged in begging, aged more than 18 years. Begging is illegal according to the Beggar Control Act, which defines beggars as those being vagrant, homeless, being in trouble, or who lack anyone to take care of them. 53 On the activity day, the employees of KCE Group joined the activity by donating money, providing lunch, donating consumer goods, e.g., detergent, cleaning supplies, adult pampers, ASEPSO soap, deodorant roll-on and other personal items to the residents of the home, and arranged some recreational activity for entertainment. 54 Activity 5: Other projects: Donation of teaching aids and gifts on Children’s Day to a total of 12 schools and government units On January 9, 2017, the Company donated teaching aids and gifts on Children’s Day to a total of 12 schools and government units, as follows: Watplooksattha School, LatKrabang, Bangkok 55 PathumThani Special Education Center, PathimThani Watpolmanee School, LatKrabang, Bangkok SiriwangWittayakarn School, NongChok, Bangkok WatLatKrabang School, LatKrabang, Bangkok Banlumtonkluay School, NongChok, Bangkok Prasansamakkeewitthaya School, LatKrabang, Bangkok KhehaChumchonLatKrabang School, LatKrabang, Bangkok WatBuengBua School, LatKrabang, Bangkok WatPakbueng School, LatKrabang, Bangkok Lam Phra Ong (Rat ChamroenBamrung) School, LatKrabang, Bangkok LatKrabang Industrial Estate Office, LatKrabang, Bangkok 2) Restoration religious places July 8, 2017, KCE donated for gold foil to decorate the arched gate and window at Wat Bang Na Nai, in preparation for the Royal Cremation Ceremony of His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej on October 26, 2017. October 25, 2017, The Company made a contribution of Baht 22,153 for the purchase of land to be owned by the temple. Offered robes to monks at Wat Pa Pratharam (Thamsati), Amphur Photharam, Ratchaburi province. 56 3) Activity for Flood Relief in the North East and the South August 16, 2017, The Company participated in the activity to provide assistance to those who were impacted by the flood in Amphur Pochai, RoiEt province, by distributing 1,000 survival kits and 30 boxes of clothing to flood victims. December 14, 2017, The Company participated in the activity to provide assistance to those who were impacted by the flood in Southern province, by distributing survival kits to the flood victims. The Company’s employee and management jointly donated consumer goods. 57 58 Appendix 4: Anti-Corruption activity 59
