Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 PensionDanmark A/S CVR no. 16163279 4 8 14 16 18 22 32 34 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Contents Founded on social responsibility............................................................................... 4 PensionDanmark’s business model.......................................................................... 6 PensionDanmark supports the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals................... 8 Created in partnerships........................................................................................... 10 Better customer services through digital solutions............................................... 12 Retaining members in the labour market through preventive efforts................... 14 Being where our members are ............................................................................... 16 Lifelong learning in a changing labour market....................................................... 18 Investments create growth and jobs....................................................................... 20 Sustainable real estate produce solid returns........................................................ 22 Sustainability programme for new real estate........................................................ 24 Our international footprint ...................................................................................... 26 Value creation through active ownership................................................................ 28 Active ownership pays off......................................................................................... 30 Green investments produce stable returns............................................................. 32 Responsibility begins with us................................................................................... 34 Keeping up our CSR efforts .................................................................................... 36 This report constitutes PensionDanmark’s statutory report on corporate social responsibility in pursuance of sections 132 and 132a of the Executive Order on financial reports for insurance companies and multi-employer occupational pension funds. Printed: In Denmark in 2018 by GSB Grafisk, an ecolabelled printing house Paper: MultiDesign Original White Photos: Ursula Bach, Stine Bro (p. 7), Simon Knudsen (pp. 10, 19, 36), Morten Svenningsen (p.16), Ole Mortensen (p. 17), Claus Bonnerup (p. 19), MT Højgaard (s. 22), Dragør Luftfotos (p. 23), ESOFT (p.23), BC Hospitality Group (p. 23), Jesper Heldgaard (p. 26), Jakob Boserup (pp. 28, 30), Nykredit (p. 29), zodebala/iStock (p. 31). Front page: Electricians at the Kronen shopping centre in Vanløse − all members of PensionDanmark Back page: Brick layers at Indiakaj, Østerbro − all members of PensionDanmark Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 3 Founded on social responsibility Social responsibility and sustainability have been part of consistent with the principles of the UN Global Compact, to PensionDanmark’s DNA from the beginning. Just over 25 which PensionDanmark is a participant. years ago, the social partners agreed to set up occupational pension schemes for all Danish workers in the private Through our investments in equities, listed and non-listed and public labour markets as part of Denmark’s colleccorporate bonds and credits, PensionDanmark provides tive agreements. The purpose of these schemes was to funding for large and small businesses to enable them provide all workers with robust supplements to their state to grow and create jobs. Through active ownership of the pensions – through savings accumulated throughout their more than 1,400 companies in which PensionDanmark working lives – and effective insurance cover in the event is a shareholder, we support long-term value creation by of an accident. PensionDanmark was created to fulfil that insisting on responsible behaviour in relation to the climate role. and environmental, social and governance issues. PensionDanmark’s mission is to enable our members to For several years, PensionDanmark has been a leading remain active members of the workforce until retirement investor in climate-friendly energy infrastructure such and then to give them a financially secure retirement. We as wind farms and biomass power plants. When building support our members during their working lives by offering new real estate, we have sustainability standards that all them a healthcare programme and insurance cover in the building projects have to meet. In that way, our responsievent of critical illness, disability or death – and by subsidisble investments do not only ensure attractive returns for ing relevant supplementary training through the educational our members – they also make a positive difference for funds we manage for the parties to the collective agreeDenmark and the world. We call this approach “doing good ments. We provide good customer service and advice while and doing well”. at the same time keeping costs to a minimum. We are able to do this thanks to extensive digitalisation of processes This corporate social responsibility report highlights our and communication. It frees up time to further improve our efforts in all our business areas. Our ambitions and goals services to members and companies. will remain high also in the years to come. We are confident we can do even better. But we can only succeed if we Ensuring a financially secure retirement for our memmaintain strong partnerships and close dialogue with our bers requires solid and stable returns on their pension members, companies, shop stewards, organisations and savings. Our ambition is therefore to provide world-class partners. We stand prepared. investment management. PensionDanmark’s assets under management have now surpassed DKK 233 billion, and 37,000 members currently have more than DKK 1 million in their savings account. We invest responsibly and design our investments so they contribute as much as possible to developing innovative solutions to the key challenges facing Denmark and the Torben Möger Pedersen international community. Our investments are aligned with CEO, PensionDanmark the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals for 2030 and are tmp@pension.dk 4 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 “PensionDanmark’s job is to enable our members to remain active members of the workforce for longer and to give them a financially secure retirement.” Torben Möger Pedersen Painter and PensionDanmark member at Hvidovre Stadium PensionDanmark’s business model PensionDanmark has a 360-degree approach to our members. We want to give our members a financially secure retirement. We want to protect them during their working lives by means of insurances that come into operation in case of an accident. We want to help them remain active members of the workforce for longer by offering them active, preventive healthcare programmes. And we want them to maintain and develop their skills through lifelong learning. PRODUCTS VALUE FOR MEMBERS PENSION Members are given a financially secure retirement. InPension savings consist of three vestment risks are adjusted to members’ age, and pensavings products: Retirement savings, sion contributions are distributed on savings products lifelong pension and annuity pension. so as to minimise offsetting against public benefits. INSURANCE Insurances provide security for our members during Our members are covered by insurances their working lives. Members can raise or reduce insurthat become operative on death, critical ance amounts to align them with their current needs. illness, early retirement and subsided Through integration of public registers, we make sure jobs. our members always receive what they are entitled to. HEALTHCARE PROGRAMME Our healthcare programme prevents attrition and PensionDanmark’s healthcare proassists members in overcoming health problems gramme offers free access to prevenand return to the labour market faster. This provides tive interdisciplinary treatment, health security for each individual member. advice and prompt diagnosis. LIFELONG LEARNING Lifelong learning helps our members maintain and PensionDanmark manages a number upgrade their skills and thus remain active members of educational funds which provide of the workforce. ­financial support for various types of adult training programmes. CUSTOMER SERVICE Members receive proactive, individualised customer Members can access our customer services by service aligned with their current life situation. phone Mondays-Fridays from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. − and at pension.dk 24/7. Members can choose their preferred platform of com­munication. This ensures a high degree of acces200,000 members have signed up to sibility and readiness to meet our members’ needs. receive e-mails with individualised information. Members receive individualised information through e-mail, text messages, e-Boks, website and by telephone. 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 RESULTS ACHIEVED IN 2017 Members achieved a return of DKK 17 billion, corresponding to percentage returns from 6.9% (older members) to 9.9% (younger members). Over the past five years, a typical member has achieved a total return of 50%. 580 members received supplementary early retirement benefits. 3,000 members received a lump sum of typically DKK 100,000 for critical illness. 2,600 beneficiaries received a lump sum on death. In total, we paid pension and insurance benefits of DKK 3.5 billion to our members. 35,000 members received 300,000 treatments at our health clinics. 24,000 members contacted PensionDanmark’s health team. The team assisted more than 70% of our mem­ bers with long-term illnesses return to work. 2,800 members received paid memberships of patient associations. 21,200 employees in 2,400 companies were able to upgrade their skills thanks to adult training funded by the educational funds managed by PensionDanmark. Our members received more than 1 million individualised messages. 200,000 members logged on to pension.dk − an increase of more than 40%. The average call wait time was nine seconds. Our customer service conducted 155,000 calls to members − an increase of 22% over the year before. A PensionDanmark member at the regional laundry in Aalborg PensionDanmark supports the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals In September 2015, the UN adopted the Sustainable Development Goals to replace the Millennium Development Goals that addressed developing countries. The 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals and 169 targets, which apply to all countries set out to solve some of the world’s major sustainability issues by 2030. In 2017, the Danish government adopted an action plan setting the framework for Denmark's implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The government encourages Danish companies to contribute actively to fulfilling these goals. At PensionDanmark, we have made the UN Sustainable Development Goals the platform for our CSR and sustainability efforts. Throughout the report, we assess how PensionDanmark’s work and results contribute to the relevant targets. Learn more about the UN Sustainable Development Goals at: www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/ 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 9 PensionDanmark’s shop steward forum meets every year in September Created in partnerships PensionDanmark is the result of a partIn 2017, PensionDanmark formed a partnership with nership between the social partners. Realdania for the construction of multioccupied homes, socalled 50+ life style homes. The first project will be in Køge Partnerships are thus deeply rooted in and PensionDanmark’s members will have preferred rights PensionDanmark’s DNA. to the units. PensionDanmark has also entered into a collaborative agreement with Bolig­fonden DTU for the develToday, our partnerships are no longer only with trade opment of housing units for students and temporary staff unions, businesses and shop stewards. They have grown in at DTU, the Technical University of Denmark, in Lyngby. number as well as in scope. We use these partnerships to put together the best and most effective solutions for our 2017 also saw the formation of a partnership with A.P. members, and we participate actively in our partnerships Møller Holding on the establishment of two funds to invest with a view to sharing knowledge and impacting the condiin ships and infrastructure in Africa. The funds comple­ tions we operate under. ment our partnership with the Investment Fund for Developing Countries (IFU) and the Danish state concerning cliIn connection with our healthcare programme, we work mate and agricultural investments in developing countries. with Hjernesagen (brain injury society), the Danish Heart Foundation, the Danish Cancer Society, ParkinsonforeninPartnerships are a prerequisite for reaching our CSR and gen (Parkinson’s disease association), the Danish Multiple sustainability targets. Therefore, PensionDanmark parSclerosis Society and the Danish Rheumatism Association. ticipates actively in the public debate and in a number of networks and organisations. We cooperate with public authorities such as the Danish Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment on data intePensionDanmark is a signatory to the UN Global Compact gration for the purpose of identifying members with longand a member of the board of directors of the recently term illnesses and with the National Agency for IT and esta­blished Global Compact Network Denmark. UN Global Learning on the exchange of data for purposes of managCompact is a leading corporate sustainability initiative, and ing our educational funds. PensionDanmark has formed a the ten Global Compact principles have been a driving force new partnership with the Capital Region and the Zealand in our investment screening and active ownership efforts Region and the eight vocational schools in their areas to for several years. In the years ahead, we will continue to create more traineeships in building and construction at support the UN Global Compact and to report on our proPensionDanmark’s building sites. gress in relation to its principles. 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 PensionDanmark plays an active role in Insurance & Board Leadership Energispring Dansif the public debate on Pension Denmark Society social responsibility through... Global Compact Network Denmark Green Building Council Green Climate Fund Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change OECD Centre on UN Global World Green Finance Sustainable Build Compact Economic Forum and Investment Target 17.17 Promote the development, transfer, ­dissemination and diffusion of environmentally sound technologies to developing countries on favourable terms, including on concessional and preferential terms, as mutually agreed. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 11 Pernille, one of PensionDanmark’s nurses, talking to a member Better customer services through digital solutions PensionDanmark’s digital solutions supDanmark. In such cases, the system ensures that the port the provision of individual customer member is contacted by our customer service team, who will then help the member transfer the money. service and faster case processing, and help our members make the most of Putting robots to work their pension schemes. Using software robots is an important part of Pension­ Danmark’s customer service strategy, and we began using As part of PensionDanmark’s customer service strategy, software robots for case processing purposes in 2017. The we provide our members with relevant information aligned robots solve both administrative and member-oriented with their current life situation. We are able to do this tasks, freeing up time for our advisers to further improve thanks to the very high quality of our data on our members, the service provided to members and companies. their insurance covers and their use of PensionDanmark’s services. We use this data to provide proactive customer Some of the benefits of using robots are that our members service through advisory e-mails (200,000 subscribers), get better service and receive their insurance benefits e-Boks (500,000 subscribers) or text messages (150,000 faster when applying for insurance payout on pension.dk in subscribers). Our members also receive individualised the event of critical illness. The case processing time has push notifications when logging on to pension.dk. dropped from 16 to two days. Through targeted, automatically generated content distributed through various digital channels, we make sure our Results in 2017 members receive information that is relevant to them, and >> Every fourth log-in to pension.dk takes place that they are contacted through their preferred channel(s) through PensionDanmark’s app. with information on, for example, early retirement, the >> 60% of contribution-paying members between the use of our healthcare programme or in case of missing ages of 64 and 65 have logged on to pension.dk. payment of pension contributions. >> The number of visits to pension.dk exceeded 1.1 The same automatics unfold if a member gets stuck using million – an increase of 44% in just one year. the self-service solution on pension.dk to, for example, >> The administration fee is DKK 297 per member. transfer pension savings from a previous job to Pension12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 How the robot works... A member is diagnosed ­ The member downloads The member uploads his with a critical illness his or her medical or her medical record to and visits pension.dk to record from sundhed.dk. pension.dk. check whether the illness is covered by his or her insurance. The case processing time in connection with critical illness has dropped from 16 to two days PensionDanmark’s robots receive the member’s medical record The robot performs The robot sends The robot signs up The robot notifies a technical check the payment to the the member with one of Pension­ of the member's member’s NemKonto the relevant paDanmark’s nurses insurance. account and a letter to tients association. of the member’s e-Boks. situation. The nurse at PensionDanmark uses the freed-up time to place a care call to the member, offering advice and guidance. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 13 A PensionDanmark member being treated in one of our 135 health clinics Retaining members in the labour market through preventive efforts The purpose of PensionDanmark’s By proactively reaching out to our members, we contribute healt­hcare programme is, through preto improving their quality of life and to enabling them to remain in the labour market longer. A tool in this process vention and prompt action, to enable our is the health test available on PensionDanmark’s webmembers to remain in the labour marsite. If the test shows that the member has health issues, ket. This is in the interests of our memPensionDanmark’s health team will contact the member bers, the companies they work for and to arrange follow-up, preventive efforts or, if necessary, treatment. society. We make sure that members with long-term illnesses are Prevention is the primary focus of our healthcare prooffered advice. We do this in collaboration with the Danish gramme. We want our members to have easy access to Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment (STAR), which treatment in PensionDanmark’s 135 health clinics operis in charge of the sickness benefit register. Members reated by a total of 800 physiotherapists, chiropractors and ceiving sickness benefits will receive a letter advising them massage therapist. A doctor’s referral is therefore not to contact PensionDanmark for personal counselling from required. The purpose is to prevent minor symptoms from a nurse. developing into more serious injuries, long-term illness or, at worst, early retirement. Once the damage is done, the healthcare programme activates a number of coordinated efforts to alleviate the injury. Target 3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, We are continually upgrading our healthcare programme including financial risk protection, access and our health team currently consists of about 20 nurses to quality essential health-care services and social workers. The team provides counselling on and access to safe, effective, quality and health issues experienced by our members while working, affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all. if they become redundant and when they retire. The team may, for instance, offer advice on the offers available under Most of our members have a health plan with Pensionthe public Diet, Smoking, Alcohol and Exercise (KRAM) Danmark. In addition, all members are covered by an programme or more extensive assistance where a member insurance of typically DKK 100,000 in case of a critical risks expulsion from the labour market. The team can also illness. In addition to insurance benefits, the member help members who have been referred to a specialist get a with a critical illness receives one year’s free memberprompt diagnosis. This helps speed up the patient’s journey ship of a relevant patients association. through the healthcare system. 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 The health team is Care call Assistance in Follow-up on joining public there to help in case of health test smo­king cessation our members critical illness programme Preventive treatment Guide to the public health service Rehabilitation Prompt diagnosis Helle, social worker at PensionDanmark Health Assistance with Psychological Substance abuse counselling job centre counselling counselling proceedings Results in 2017 >> 35,000 members received 300,000 preventive treatments. >> 3,200 cases of prompt diagnosis. Just over 30% state they would be on medical leave if they had not received prompt diagnosis assistance. >> 70% of all members with long-term illnesses who contacted PensionDanmark’s health team after receiving a letter from STAR have returned to work. >> 20,000 members have taken PensionDanmark’s health test on pension.dk. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 15 Being where our members are 2017 saw PensionDanmark’s new advisory bus hit the road for the first time to visit companies and local trade unions. The bus has been a great success – with companies and with members who are not always aware of the services available to them under their pension scheme. The bus made a total of 100 stops across Denmark to allow members to consult a pension adviser or a nurse. PensionDanmark has set up health clinics at a number of major construction sites, offering treatment of construction workers under their health plan with PensionDanmark. At our own construction sites, we have arranged for a physiotherapist to introduce the various construction teams to PensionDanmark’s healthcare programme when they start on a job and to advise them on how to take care of their body and avoid attrition. At construction sites with available facilities, we also offer weekly physiotherapy treatments. These initiatives are of great value to individual members and to their employers as the number of days lost through illness is reduced. Photo: PensionDanmark’s counselling bus visiting Bornholm in 2017 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 “It was a great surprise to me when I found out that you can change your insurance covers. I would never have thought of that if we hadn’t had a visit from the advisory bus.” Jonas, road asphalter apprentice in Ulfborg, standing next to Hans, PensionDanmark pension adviser. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 17 Construction designers are entitled to training subsidies from the Building and Construction Industry’s Development Fund Lifelong learning in a changing labour market In our capacity as managers of a number companies can often recover most of their adult vocational of educational funds provided for by the training expenses. collective agreements, PensionDanmark It is important, especially for small and medium-sized supports our members in upgrading businesses, that applying for adult vocational training their skills. subsidies is easy and non-bureaucratic. PensionDanmark has developed an easy administrative approach that, based on data-supported IT solutions, helps keep administrative With digitalisation and robots continuing to gain ground in expenses to a minimum. the rapidly changing labour market, it is essential to design training programmes to match the skills of each individual. For example, PensionDanmark exchanges data with the Our members need to maintain and develop the skills that National Agency for IT and Learning on which employees are required within their field and that match companies’ have participated in AMU programmes (adult vocationneeds. Studies show that lifelong learning leads to less al training programmes). Companies that have applied sickness absence and enhanced job security, job mobility for and received VEU (adult and supplementary training) and corporate productivity − as well as higher wages for reimbursement for employees’ participation in AMU our members. programmes do not need to re-enter the information to receive subsidies from the educational funds. Pension­ An effective lifelong learning system helps prevent the Danmark will automatically retrieve the information from Danish labour market from being caught in a situation of efteruddannelse.dk and subsequently send the companies skills shortages and unemployment. Avoiding this paradoxical problem requires a massive effort in upgrading unskilled workers to skilled professionals and intensified efforts to continually upgrade the general and specialist Target 4.4 skills of our members. The educational funds provided for By 2030, substantially increase the numby the collective agreements play a key role in doing this. ber of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational PensionDanmark manages 18 educational funds provided skills, for employment, decent jobs and for by collective agreements. We assist the social partentrepreneurship. ners in ensuring quick and easy access for companies to reimbursement from the funds when their employees PensionDanmark manages 18 educational funds, which participate in adult vocational training programmes. The have subsidised 46,000 training programmes. funds are a supplement to public subsidy schemes, and 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Julie has become a better waitress Julie is undergoing training as a skilled waitress at Silkeborg Technical College. The programme gives her broad insight into the waiting trade and basic gastronomy and servicing knowledge. Outside school, she works as an unskilled waitress at Hotel Scandic City in Aarhus, which has received funding for her training from the Hotel, Restaurant and Tourism Industry’s Competence Development Fund, which is managed by PensionDanmark. “I have learned about meat cuts and about matching wine and food, and we have also attended a coffee course. The programme also provides me with more long-term career opportunities. I would like to become a manager one day, and I have been quite extensively involved in introducing our new apprentice waiters to the trade, so in that context it is also important to me to be able to document my skills.” an e-mail informing them that they are also entitled to subsidies from the educational fund they are associated Need for lifelong learning with. Studies undertaken by the Think Tank DEA have shown that adult and supplementary training leads The social parties’ lifelong learning support was most re­ to less sickness absence and enhanced job security, cently manifested in a tripartite agreement setting out to job mobility and corporate productivity. There is broad ensure lifelong skills enhancement for Danish workers. The consensus that in 2025, Denmark will be short of agreement, which sets aside DKK 2.5 billion for initiatives 70,000 skilled workers, whereas the number of unto be implemented between 2018 and 2021, earmarks DKK skilled workers will exceed demand by 65,000. A 2013 400 million for a fund targeting unskilled and skilled workstudy showed that some 600,000 adult Danish workers ers, ensuring access for these groups of workers to up­ have poor reading, writing and arithmetic skills, and grade their skills or to completely retrain so they can offer that more than one million workers lack proficiency in employers the skills they need in a changing labour market. performing everyday computer operations. Trainee chefs undergoing training at the Selandia vocational college Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 19 Investments create growth and jobs PensionDanmark invests in a broad range of assets in order to diversify the risk and secure robust returns for our members. Our investments provide funding for a wide range of projects and activities that stimulate growth and job creation in Denmark and the rest of the world. When buying mortgage bonds issued by Danish mortgage banks, we effectively provide loans to Danish home owners and housing associations. By investing in shares and direct loans, we help procure capital for small and large businesses to enable them to develop and create growth and jobs. By investing in real estate, we help create jobs for large numbers of construction workers during the construction period and provide healthy workplaces for the many employees who work in PensionDanmark’s office buildings, hotels and department stores. By investing in wind farms and biomass power plants, we help produce green energy and create jobs in Danish businesses and their many sub-contractors. Target 8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value. PensionDanmark’s real estate projects create 1,000 construction jobs for each billion Danish kroner invested. Photo: Elite Miljø window cleaner and PensionDanmark member 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Our national footprint Co-owner of wind farms, biomass power plants and solar parks worldwide, which produce green energy and green jobs in Denmark. We have invested DKK 7.7 Holding mortgage bonds billion in 46 small ­ worth DKK 40 billion, we and large listed Danish have effectively financed companies employing a 30,000 Danish homes. total of 1 million people. Infrastructure DKK 21bn Government and Listed shares mortgage bonds DKK 80bn DKK 47bn Real estate DKK 19bn Private Equity Credit DKK 9bn DKK 39bn We have provided 170 700,000 sqm of real estate small unlisted Danish with 60,000 attractive and businesses with longhealthy workplaces in 30 term risk capital of DKK cities across Denmark. 700 million. We have provided Danish businesses with long-term growth capital of DKK 2.4 billion. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 21 PensionDanmark co-invested in Denmark’s first PPP hospital, the psychiatric hospital in Vejle, which was completed in 2017 Sustainable real estate produce solid returns For PensionDanmark, integrating susWhen acting as a developer, we require that everyone worktainability into the construction of new ing on our projects must be covered by a Danish collective agreement, that a reasonable number of apprentices and buildings is both profitable and part of trainees are taken on, that work places set a good example our social responsibility. and are committed to ensuring occupational health and safety, and that collaboration is always established with Sustainability is the strategic cornerstone of PensionDlocal trade unions. anmark’s real estate investments. We strive to combine strong profitability with responsible development, construction and management of the property projects we Traineeship agreement invest in. At the same time, PensionDanmark’s properties PensionDanmark, the Zealand Region, the Capital must be of a high technical standard and quality. Region and the eight vocational schools located in their areas are collaborating on a programme called Sustainable housing, hotels and offices are attractive for “Traineeships in large construction projects”. The proowners and tenants alike. Sustainable buildings produce gramme is supported by the Building and Construction higher returns and are easy to re-let. Accordingly, it is Industry’s Development Fund. PensionDanmark’s strategy to obtain gold sustainability certificates for all new non-residential and residential The main purpose of the programme is to establish properties. PensionDanmark primarily uses the Danish more traineeships within the building and construction DGNB certification system as this applies the most holistic industry at PensionDanmark’s building sites. The prosustainability model. For collaboration purposes, the US gramme is combined with recruiting efforts to attract LEED system or the UK BREEAM system is used as well. more youth and adults to the building and construction industry. PensionDanmark currently owns 19 sustainability-certified properties. The agreement provides for an appropriate number of traineeships for each construction project, follow-up We are also working to certify and energy upgrade our from building superintendents, school representative portfolio of existing buildings. We are part of the Energi­ participation at site meetings and coordination bespring partnership working to energy upgrade buildings tween schools and construction contractors concernin order to make the City of Copenhagen the world’s first ing traineeships. CO2-neutral capital by 2025. 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Target 11.3 50+ life style homes By 2030, enhance inclusive and sustainable urbanization and capacity for particiPensionDanmark is building certified sustainable patory, integrated and sustainable human residential units in the new Køge Kyst district at Køge. settlement planning and management in The project comprises both ordinary housing units all countries. and multioccupied homes for the 50+ segment, the purpose being to create a diverse district. In 2012, PensionDanmark decided that all our new buildings under construction should receive a sustainThe units are being developed in a partnership with ability certi­ficate. Currently, we have 19 properties with Realdania as part of the “Room and communities for sustainability certificates. seniors” project, which sets out to promote activities that may also prevent loneliness. The multioccupied homes take up a third of the floor space and will include facilities such as a shared kitchen, a workshop and outdoor spaces that will set the scene for joint activities for the residents. Four of PensionDanmark’s new properties Copenhagen Marriott Hotel, Copenhagen V. Nordea Headquarter, Ørestad, Copenhagen S Floor space: Approx. 24,000 sqm Floor space: Approx. 46,000 sqm Tenant: BC Hospitality Group A/S Tenant: Nordea Bank Danmark Architects: PLH Arkitekter Architects: Henning Larsen Architects Consortium consisting of ATP and PensionDanmark Consortium consisting of three pension companies Residential units, Islands Brygge, Copenhagen S Residential units, Kanaltårnene, Vejle Harbour Floor space: Approx. 20,000 sqm Floor space: Approx. 10,800 sqm No. of units: 120 of a total of 550 Units: 44 of a total of 88 Architects: Henning Larsen Architects Architects: Arkitema Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 23 Locally sourced building materials Sustainability programme for new real estate In 2017, we developed our own sustainability programme we are committed to ensuring that the building process is setting out requirements for the properties we build. Regu­ sustainable as well. This involves waste management and lating the financial, technical, environmental and social energy consumption management at the building site and standards of the property, these requirements set out to in the building, and requirements regarding the documenreduce the environmental and climate impact of the proptation of materials used. erty and to enhance the health and well-being of its users. Before commencing a project, our partners must demonSustainable buildings are more attractive for owners and strate how they intend to fulfil our sustainability requiretenants and are thus exposed to a lower risk of vacant ments, including collective agreement rules and safety and premises. Thus, our sustainability programme and certifiworking requirements. cation helps provide solid returns for our members. Focus is on the lifetime economy of the building and on keeping operational and maintenance costs low. Committed also to ensuring that end-users will be happy with the completed building, we go to great lengths throughout the construction process to consult with neighbours and to heighten the social qualities of the building. And lastly, Planting focused on local flowers Attractive outdoor and focus on biodiversity spaces offering  Focus on the overall economy of the building throughsun and shelter out its expected lifetime  Reject materials with substances that are toxic for people and the environment  Minimise the environmental footprint of the building Healthy working environment at the  Document materials used, production conditions and construction site building processes 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Reusing rainwater in the property Solar cells Green roofs Healthy indoor Balconies designed to serve as climate with as private spaces much daylight LED as possible lighting Minimising background noise Sepera­ tion of waste Regeneration modules in Water-saving elevators installa­tions and domestic appliances Recycled tiles FSCor PEFCcertified timber Easy and safe access to the building Waste management at the construction site Rainwater collection for local use Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 25 Our international footprint Through our investments in two funds managed by the Investment Fund for Developing Countries (IFU) − Danish Climate Investment Fund (DCIF) and Danish Agribusiness Fund (DAF) − PensionDanmark has helped raise private capital for direct investments in developing countries. Both funds are examples of “blended finance”, meaning that public and private capital are combined. This reduces the risk exposure of private investors and thus enables them to participate in attractive investments in developing countries. At the same time, the private capital provided by, among others, PensionDanmark adds to the funds’ investment capacity and professionalism. DCIF has invested in the Lake Turkana windfarm in Kenya, solar power plants in South America and a number of other renewable energy projects. DAF has invested in, e.g., sustainable pig production in China and Africa focusing on the environment and animal welfare. Under the auspices of the UN Global Compact’s new “Financial Innovation for the SDGs” initiative, the purpose of which is to develop new ways of directing private finance towards efforts supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals, PensionDanmark is sharing the experience from participating in the two funds. Target 17.3 Mobilize additional financial resources for developing countries from multiple sources. In 2017, PensionDanmark committed to investing just under DKK 1 billion in Africa Infrastructure Fund I, which is managed by A.P. Møller Capital. Set up to invest in transport and energy infrastructure in Africa, the fund is expected to make its initial investments in 2018 and will over the next ten years make infrastructure investments in excess of DKK 6 billion. 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 “Blended finance projects combine public and private funds to bring sustainable technology to developing countries while at the same time generating attractive returns for PensionDanmark’s members.” Claus, head of Alternative Investments at PensionDanmark Lake Turkana The 310 MW Lake Turkana wind farm in Kenya is the largest in Africa. The Lake Turkana location was selected because of the favourable wind conditions, which are some of the best in the world for onshore wind farms. The 365 turbines were supplied by Danish-based Vestas Wind Systems. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 27 Søren, Head of Equities at PensionDanmark, and his team manage investments totalling DKK 80 billion in 1,400 companies Value creation through active ownership By the end of 2017, PensionDanmark ance with our guidelines. We use active ownership to try to was invested in more than 1,400 listed induce portfolio companies to rectify unacceptable conditions and ensure their policies and procedures comply with companies. Being a shareholder and a international standards and norms. co-owner entails responsibilities and rights, and those responsibilities and rights are managed through Pension­ Focus areas in PensionDanmark's Danmark’s active ownership. active ownership PensionDanmark’s responsible investment guidelines are Environment based on a range of widely recognised international stand>> Climate ards and conventions in the areas of human and labour >> Water rights, environmental and climate conditions and corpoSocial conditions rate governance. The guidelines are reviewed annually to >> Human rights ensure they are aligned with developments in the area. >> Labour rights >> Diversity Companies meeting the expectations of the surrounding >> Supply chain management community make for better long-term investments, and >> Bribery and corruption active ownership thus supports long-term value creation in >> Tax the companies for the benefit of our members’ savings. Governance >> Board composition Active ownership, practised by voting at general meet>> Remuneration ings and maintaining dialogue with businesses in which >> Shareholder rights PensionDanmark is a shareholder, is an integral part of >> Audit PensionDanmark’s work as a responsible investor. We >> Integrated reporting regularly screen our portfolio to identify any non-compli28 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 To that end, PensionDanmark is collaborating with Hermes EOS. This collaboration enhances the impact of Pension­ Climate Action 100+ Danmark’s work in two ways: In 2017, PensionDanmark signed on to Climate Action 100+, a five-year initiative led by investors to engage >> Hermes EOS represents 42 investors from Europe, with the world’s largest corporate greenhouse gas North America and Asia with equity investments of an emitters to curb emissions, improve governance on aggregate DKK 2,800 billion. That gives Hermes EOS climate change and strengthen climate-related finanmuch greater leverage with companies than Pension­ cial disclosures. Read more at climateaction100.org Danmark has acting on its own. >> With specialists capable of engaging in dialogue with companies across the world and experience from a processes are important steps towards sustainable develwide range of industries, Hermes EOS is able to comopment in accordance with the 17 Sustainable Developmunicate where cultural and language understanding ment Goals. PensionDanmark complies with the Danish and industry insights are required to achieve a positive stewardship code. outcome. Transparency and dialogue Recommendations on active ownership PensionDanmark’s equity portfolio and a list of excluded companies are disclosed at pensiondanmark.com. We also By virtue of our work and experience with responsible publish cases related to our work on active ownership. On investments, PensionDanmark was in 2017 invited to join request, PensionDanmark will disclose how we voted at a working group advising the Danish Minister for Indusgeneral meetings. try, Business and Financial Affairs on the drafting of new responsible investment guidelines for Danish investors. Members and other stakeholders may inquire about PensionDanmark's work on responsible investments at The new guidelines are based on the OECD’s Responsible pensiondanmark.com. All comments are presented to the Business Conduct for Institutional Investors, which exBoard of Directors of PensionDanmark. plains the application of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises in the context of institutional investors. The OECD guidelines state clearly that compliance with the OECD's guidelines and implementation of due diligence In 2017, PensionDanmark was part of a consortium of five pension companies acquiring a stake of just under 20% in Nykredit Holding Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 29 Steffen and Marc from PensionDanmark’s Fixed Income team, which is in charge of bond investments totalling DKK 47 billion. Active ownership pays off In 2017, PensionDanmark was engaged, through Hermes Milestones in 2017 EOS, in dialogue with 320 companies, including 422 dialogues on corporate governance, 251 on labour and Progress No progress or new milestones human rights, 91 on corporate strategy and risk and 146 on environmental and climate issues. Environment and climate In order to be able to measure our work, we set specific Labour and human rights etc. milestones for the dialogue conducted with companies. In 2017, the companies in which we are invested reported Corporate governance progress on 213 milestones. The subjects to be addressed are often complex, and the process of bringing a company Strategy, risk and communication to take action and thus reaching a milestone is therefore 0 50 100 150 200 Milestones time-consuming. Milepæle for selskabsdialog If made aware of a possible breach of our responsible to influence a company to rectify unacceptable conditions investment guidelines, we assess the issue together with rather than divest our shares in the company. We consider Hermes EOS and consider whether Hermes EOS should this the most responsible approach. If a dialogue does not engage in dialogue with the company. We will always seek produce the intended progress, we will divest. Corporate dialogue milestones Dialogue with The company Action plan Action plan is the company is acknowledges addressing issue carried out and initiated issue is developed dialogue ended 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 PensionDanmark’s voting at general meetings in 2017 In favour of the board’s recommendation Against the board’s recommendation Shareholder issues 205 14 Shareholder proposals 325 274 Other 446 72 Articles of association 531 67 Capital structure 1.527 280 Remuneration 2.147 538 Audit & financial statements 3.263 104 Board composition 8.178 1.004 0% 50% 100% Voting at general meetings is an integral part of active voted in accordance with all of the recommendations of the ownership. We vote based on our own voting policy, which board of directors. stipulates that the companies must be run in the best interests of all shareholders. We emphasise the importance Target 8.8 of the company’s board of directors being independent of Protect labour rights and promote safe its management and of the company pursuing a remunerand secure working environments for all ation policy that aligns the interests of management and workers, including migrant workers, in shareholders. particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment. In 2017, PensionDanmark voted at 1,632 general meetings of foreign companies, and in 88% of the cases we voted in In 2017, PensionDanmark was engaged in dialogue with favour of the recommendations of the board of directors. 30 companies on labour rights. We voted at 43 general meetings of Danish companies and In 2017, PensionDanmark co-established the Maritime Investment Fund for investing in ships Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 31 Green investments produce stable returns PensionDanmark invests in sustainable energy infrastructure such as wind farms, biomass power plants, solar parks and transmission assets. These investments provide solid, attractive returns and help support the green transition. Most of PensionDanmark energy investments in Europe and North America are made through funds managed by Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners (CIP). PensionDanmark co-established CIP in 2012 and was initially the only investor in CIP’s funds. Subsequently, other investors have been invited to join, and the alliance for direct investment in renewable energy infrastructure currently has more than 30 investors. Since its establishment, the partnership has raised some DKK 45 billion for its funds. This makes CIP a European leader within its field. PensionDanmark invests in energy and climate projects in developing countries through two funds managed by the Investment Fund for Developing Countries (IFU). PensionDanmark’s renewable energy investments have capacity corresponding to more than all of the power consumed annually by PensionDanmark’s 713,000 members and their families combined. The world map shows where PensionDanmark is invested in renewable energy. Target 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix. PensionDanmark has renewable energy investments of more than DKK 20 billion. In 2017, we committed to investing DKK 4 billion in Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners’ third fund, which over the coming years will invest in onshore and offshore wind turbines, solar power plants, biomass power plants, transmission grids, etc. Photo: Wind turbines and transformer at the Anholt offshore wind farm, in which PensionDanmark is an investor 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Worldmap by Layerace Wind farm Biomass power plant Transmission grid Solar park Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 33 PensionDanmark’s domicile at Langelinie Allé was awarded the DGNB gold sustainability certificate in 2016 Responsibility begins with us At PensionDanmark, our social responGender composition sibility extends beyond our members and PensionDanmark is committed to promoting equal opporinvestments, it also includes our role as tunities for men and women and has adopted a policy on the gender composition of the company's upper managean employer, the working conditions of ment tiers, which lays down a target for the proportion of our employees, internal policies and our the under-represented gender on the Board of Directors. collaboration with suppliers. The target for 2017 was 20%. Four of the 17 incumbent members of PensionDanmark’s Board of Directors are PensionDanmark wants to be a first mover when it comes women. At the end of 2017, the share of women in top to protecting the climate and the environment, enhancmanagement was 29%, while the proportion of women in ing diversity and ensuring healthy working conditions. If mid-level management was 41%. A total of 97, or 43%, of we want to be among those setting the sustainability and PensionDanmark’s 224 employees are women. responsibility agenda, we need to begin with ourselves. When recruiting new managers, PensionDanmark makes a point of interviewing qualified candidates of both genders, Environment and climate and our staff policy and terms of employment offer equal PensionDanmark has implemented a number of green career opportunities in the company regardless of gender. measures, including mounting solar cells on the roof of our domicile property at Langelinie Allé in Copenhagen and Working with suppliers using seawater in the building’s cooling system. This won PensionDanmark works with a number of suppliers, and us a DGNB gold sustainability certificate in the existing our supplier policy stipulates that our suppliers must: buildings category in 2016. We have also created herb gardens, which supply our organic kitchen. And we have bicycles available to our employees. >> respect the rights of employees to unionise and to collective bargaining; PensionDanmark owns half of the Nysted offshore wind >> promote health and safety at work and prevent farm, and we keep part of the RECS certificates produced work-related accidents, attrition, etc.; by the wind farm for purposes of CO2-neutralising our power consumption. >> discourage discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity, 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 religion, age, disability, gender, sexual orientation, trade union membership or political conviction; >> pay their employees wages and salaries that are consistent with relevant collective agreements and ensure fair living standards relative to national standards; >> dissociate themselves from forced, compulsory and child labour; >> work persistently and systematically to comply with national environmental legislation and limit their impact on the environment; and >> discourage and work actively against tax evasion, bribery and other kinds of corruption. If we find that a supplier fails to live up to our policy and guidelines, we will initiate a dialogue with that supplier. If this dialogue does not lead to any improvements, we will terminate our collaboration with the supplier. No breaches of PensionDanmark’s supplier policy were registered in 2017. PensionDanmark’s chef, Maurice, in the organic vegetable garden Tax All of PensionDanmark’s investment returns, whether generated in or outside Denmark, are subject to tax on law of the countries in which we operate. We pay tax in the pension returns in Denmark. The investment return on all countries in which the underlying investments are placed PensionDanmark’s investments is reported annually to the in the form of local income tax, indirect taxes, payroll taxes, Danish tax authorities. In 2017, PensionDanmark paid DKK etc. Read more at pensiondanmark.com. 2.3 billion in tax on pension returns. Over the past few years, the OECD and the EU have implePensionDanmark is under an obligation to maximise mented a range of measures to enhance the transparency returns for our members within the legislative framework. of global tax payments and contain tax evasion through, When making investments, we thoroughly investigate the among other measures, the use of third countries in tax tax conditions in the relevant locations and make sure that structures. PensionDanmark’s tax reporting and investinternational tax structures are in accordance with the ments comply with the principles of these initiatives. The solar power system on the roof of PensionDanmark’s domicile produced 90,000 kWh of green power in 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 35 Keeping up our CSR efforts PensionDanmark will continue to focus on CSR and sustainability initiatives in 2018. We need to become better at measuring the impact of our efforts and therefore, in 2018 and the years ahead we will develop measuring and reporting tools for our various business areas. We will measure the effects for our members, for Denmark and for the international community, guided by the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Photo: PensionDanmark’s shop steward forum 2017 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 37 PensionDanmark A/S Langelinie Allé 43 DK-2100 Copenhagen Ø +45 3374 8000 info@pension.dk pensiondanmark.com Social icon Square Only use blue and/or white. For more details check out our Brand Guidelines.
