DISCLOSURE This Communication on Progress (COP) is a stand alone document which includes the Annual performance of SNGPL with respect to activities related to Health, Safety, Environment and Corporate Social Responsibility, in addition to the compliance to ten principles of UN Global Compact. Company’s first COP report is based on “Core Option” in accordance with GRI Standard. We report our progress in implementing 10 principles at the “GC Learner Level”. This COP contains a statement by Managing Director expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing our company’s ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. COMMUNICATION ON Our Annual Report (along with Audited Financial Statements ) is available at link: http://www.sngpl.com.pk/web/page.jsp?pgids=1724&pgname=PAGES_NAME_a& PROGRESS secs=ss7xa852op845&cats=ct456712337&artcl=artuyh709123465 2 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 3 CONTENTS 01. MD STATEMENT 05 02. ABOUT US 06 03. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 09 04. OUR MISSION 10 05. OUR VISION 10 06. OUR VALUES 12 07. CORPORATE STRATEGIES / OBJECTIVES 13 08. GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATIONS 14 09. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 18 09.1 Assessment Policy and Goals 19 09.2 Measurement of Outcome 23 10. LABOR PRINCIPLES 42 10.1 Assessment Policy and Goals 43 10.2 Measurement of Outcome 44 11. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES 62 11.1 Assessment Policy and Goals 63 11.2 Measurement of Outcome 64 12. ANTI – CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 68 12.1 Assessment Policy and Goals 68 12.2 Measurement of Outcome 69 13. ACHIEVEMENTS / MEMBERSHIPS 70 13.1 Awards / Achievements 70 13.2 Memberships 71 14. FEEDBACK FORM 72 15. SUMMARY 73 4 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 5 MANAGING DIRECTOR’S STATEMENT 1 In SNGPL, we live up to our legacy of giving back to environmental improvement, welfare activities, the society and investing on our people. We want stronger communities and a better future for all our to make a positive impact by addressing societal stakeholders. We believe in Continual Improvement concerns through our investment focus, as we and efforts have to be directed towards this cause. believe; our biggest asset is our people. On behalf of SNGPL Management, I would like to The Communication on Progress and our Annual thank all Company’s employees for their hard work, Report relates to the activities in the areas of Human commitment, dedication and our stakeholders for Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti – Corruption. their support. We are certain that all our efforts This document captures our contribution as a during the year have made us more strengthened to committed signatory of UN Global Compact. work in challenging environment in order to achieve our goal. We wish for a safe year ahead, with the Along with trust comes accountability we believe promise of continual improvement. all of us are uniquely created with the ability to reason, make decisions and be held accountable for our commitments and actions. We hold ourselves accountable for fulfilling our responsibilities and commitments We understand that we have achieved a great AMJAD LATIF deal but have a lot more to go to achieve our HSE Managing Director and Sustainability Vision. We intend to do this by carrying our business in a way that contributes to safe work place, safe and transparent practices 2 6 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 7 ABOUT US OUR HOPE FOR A BETTER TOMORROW…..... The Company has over 50 years of experience in operation and maintenance of high-pressure gas transmission and distribution systems. It has also expanded its activities as Engineering, Procurement Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited (SNGPL) was Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited (SNGPL) is the and Construction (EPC) Contractor to undertake the incorporated as a private limited Company in largest integrated gas company serving more than planning, designing and construction of pipelines, 1963 and converted into a public limited Company 5.3 million consumers in North Central Pakistan both for itself and other organizations. in January 1964 under the Companies Act 1913, through an extensive network in Punjab, Khyber now The Companies Act 2017, and is listed on the Pakhtun khwa and Azad Jammu & Kashmir and SNGPL transmission system extends from Sui in Pakistan Stock Exchange (PSX). is certified against ISO 14001:2004 & OHSAS Baluchistan to Peshawar in Khyber Pakhtun khwa 18001:2007 Standards. SNGPL is the member of (KPK) comprising over 7,756 KM of Transmission Company took over the existing Sui-Multan ‘National Safety Council’ USA, which is a non-profit System (Main lines & Loop lines). The distribution System (217 miles of 16 inch and 80 miles of 10 organization dedicated to their mission of saving activities covering 3,250 main towns along with inch diameter pipelines) from Pakistan Industrial lives by preventing injuries and deaths at work, in adjoining villages in Punjab & Khyber Pakhtun Development Corporation (PIDC) and Dhulianhomes and communities, and on the road through khwa are organized through 15 regional offices. Rawalpindi-Wah System (82 miles of 6 inch diameter leadership, research, education and advocacy. In Distribution system consists of 94,263 KM of pipeline. pipeline) from Attock Oil Company Limited. The addition to this, HSE Engineers of SNGPL are the SNGPL has over 5.3 million consumers comprising Company’s commercial operations commenced by International Member of American Society of Safety Commercial, Domestic, General Industry, Fertilizer selling an average of 47 MMCFD gas in two regions Engineers (ASSE) which is a global association and Power & Cement Sectors. Annual gas sales to the Company Registration Number: CUIN-0043761 viz. Multan and Rawalpindi, serving a total number of premier leader for Health, Safety and Environment consumers were 615,003 MMCF worth Rs. 346,308 National Tax Number (NTN): 0801137-7 67 consumers. (HSE) professional, dedicated to the profession. million during Jul 2016 Jun 2017. General Sales Tax Number (GST): 03-91-9999-967-19 3 8 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 9 MAP OF TRANSMISSION NETWORK OF SNGPL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Good Business is all about corporate governance. The Board of Directors provides strategic guidance This is the main philosophy based on which for sustainable growth along with effective Company’s business has been successfully operated management oversight in respect of comprehensive since 1964. The prime objective of the Company is corporate governance. All periodic financial to protect the interest of all stakeholders through statements and working papers for consideration fair, ethical and transparent business practices. The of the Board and its sub-committees are circulated Board has ensured compliance to Code of Corporate to the Directors well before the meeting (i.e at least Governance by adopting transparent procedures and seven days before the meeting) except in case of an methodologies which are constantly being monitored emergent meeting, in order to give sufficient time for and reviewed through better internal controls. informed and prudent decision making. The minutes The Company also ensures compliance to the of the meetings are circulated within fourteen days Compliance Act 2017, Listing Regulations of Pakistan from the date of meetings after due clarification Stock Exchange Limited and Financial Reporting from respective Chairman of the Board and its subFramework of Securities and Exchange Commission committees. of Pakistan. 4 10 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 11 OUR MISSION MISSION STATEMENT A commitment to deliver natural gas to all door steps in our chosen areas through continuous expansion of our network, by optimally employing technological, human and organizational resources, best practices and high ethical standards. 5 OUR VISION VISION STATEMENT To be the leading integrated natural gas provider in the region seeking to improve the quality of life of our customers and achieve maximum benefit for our stakeholders by providing an uninterrupted and environment friendly energy resource. 6 7 12 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 13 OUR VALUES CORPORATE STRATEGY/OBJECTIVES SNGPL IS COMMITTED FOR: 1. COMMITMENT 4. RESPONSIBILITY • Enhancement of System Capacity. We are committed to our vision, mission, and to We are responsible as individuals and as teams • Expansion of Transmission and Distribution creating and delivering stakeholder value. for our work and our actions. We welcome Network. scrutiny, and we hold ourselves accountable. • Increase in Gas Sales 2. COURTESY We are courteous with our customers, 5. INTEGRITY • Rehabilitation of Transmission and stakeholders and towards each other and We have integrity as individuals and as teams Distribution Network. encourage open communication. our decisions are characterized by honesty and • Reduction in Unaccounted for Gas Losses. fairness. • Improvement in Profitability. 3. COMPETENCE We are competent and strive to continuously • Improvement in Consumer Services. develop and improve our skills and business • Adoption of Information Technology. practices. • Human Resource Development. • Pursue Pipelines Construction and Advisory Business. 8 14 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 15 GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATIONS WE WORK DEDICATEDLY AND SAFELY IN HARD AREAS TOUGH ENVIRONMNET OF SNGPL OFFICES IT’S THE WILL, NOT THE SKILL Sr. No. Site Location / Address 01 Abbottabad-D Regional Office Mansehra Road, Jab Pul, Abbottabad, Pakistan 02 Lahore-D Industrial area, Gulberg-lll, Lahore, Pakistan 03 Multan-D Piran Ghaib Road, Samijabad, Multan, Pakistan 04 Islamabad-D Plot # 27-30, Industrial Area, Sector I-9, Islamabad, Pakistan 05 Faisalabad-D Sargodha Road, Faisalabad, 38800, Pakistan 06 Peshawar-D Phase 5, Hyatabad, behind Rehman Medical Complex 07 Gujranwala-D M.A. Jinnah Rd, D.C. Colony, Gujranwala, Pakistan 08 Bahawalpur-D 2-A, Railway Road, Model Town A, Bahawalpur, Pakistan 09 Sahiwal-D Farid Town, Sahiwal, Pakistan 10 Sheikhupura-D Sargodha Road, Near Punjab College, Sheikhupura. Pakistan 11 Rawalpindi-D Al-Mansha plaza, opposite Humak More, Main G.T Road (N-5), Rawalpindi, Pakistan 12 Gujrat-D State Life Insurance Building, G.T Road, Gujrat, Pakistan 13 Sargodha-D 15-Muslim Town, Near New Satellite Town, Sargodha, Pakistan 14 Sialkot-D SNGPL Regional Office, Malk –eKalan, Marala Road, Sialkot, Pakistan 15 Mardan-D SNGPL Regional Office Mardan, Main Nowshera Road near Industrial estate Mardan, Pakistan 16 FSD-T Transmission Head Quarters, Terminal, Sargodha Road, Faisalabad, 38850, Pakistan 17 MUL-T Transmission Office, Piran Ghaib Road Multan, 59030 Pakistan 18 Wah-T Transmission Office, Gudwal Lind Road, Lalarukh, Wah Cantt, 47010, Pakistan 19 LHR-T Transmission Office, Section-IV, Defence Road, Mohlanwal, Lahore, Pakistan 20 MUL-C Compression Station, A-7, Piran Ghaib Road, Multan, 60000, Pakistan 21 FSD-C Compression Department, Transmission Head Quarter, Terminal, Sargodha Road, Faisalabad, 38852, Pakistan 22 Coating Plant UCH Sharif Pipe Coating Plant, Uch Sharif, 54000, Pakistan 23 Mardan Camp SNGPL Project Camp Jandai, Gujjar Garhi, main Takht bhai Malakand Road Mardan, Pakistan 24 Lachi Camp Opp. Saad Ullah Shah PSO Pump Tehsil Lachi District Kohat, Pakistan 25 Sadiqabad Camp SNGPL Construction Camp, Near Jamal Din Wali By Pass Chowk, Sadiqabad, Pakistan 26 FSD / SKP-Camp Al Hamrah Plot # 82 Near Waheed Estate Agency Canal Road, Faisalabad 27 Taranda Camp Taranda Muhammad Panah Liaqat Pur Rahim Yar Khan, Pakistan 28 Shujabad Camp Jalal Pur Road, 5 Km from Shujahbad By Pass. Pakistan 29 Manga Camp 1.5 Km Manga Raiwind Road SNGPL Construction Camp Near Taj Flour Mill Manga Mandi, Pakistan 30 Habibabad Camp Habibabad Camp Multan Road Akhtarabad District Okara, Pakistan 31 Manga W/S Stores & Maintenance Division, Manga Mandi, Lahore, Pakistan 32 Manga Store Stores & Maintenance Division, Manga Mandi, Lahore, Pakistan 33 Civil Head Office Co-Generation Plant, Gas House, 21-Kashmir Road, P.O Box # 56 Lahore, 54000, Pakistan 34 CCC-LHR C.P Plant, 150-Industrial Area, Kot Lakhpat, Lahore, Pakistan 35 Metering W/S Metering Workshop, Plot # 113/14, Quaid e Azam Industrial Estate, Kot Lakhpat, Lahore, Pakistan 16 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 17 GENERATING SMILES… BEYOND SUPPLYING MMCFD’S PROUD TO BE A TEAM MEMBER OF SUI NORTHERN 9 18 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 19 9.1 performance is ensured only after a thorough HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS: SNGPL is devoted to UNGC Human Rights principles comparison of employee performance with employee objectives. as reflected in our Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct has been prepared for the use and guidance Clause 3: Health & Safety Environment Policy: of all SNGPL employees. It clearly sets out the The Company also has a comprehensive Health standards of professional behavior that are expected Safety & Environment Policy and referrals should be and outlines the principles that should guide made to the policy for guidance in a typical matters employees in maintaining the highest professional pertaining to the same. Every staff member should Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of level of ethical conduct. We manage our business take reasonable care to ensure the health and safety internationally proclaimed Human Rights; and responsibly, sustainably, and with a passion for of him / herself and others, who may be affected by creating value for our customers, our shareholders, his/her acts or omissions at work. Staff members Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses consumers and communities we serve. We recognize should not temper with or misuse any item provided Assessment, Policy and Goals that creating shared value for shareholders, by the Company to secure the safety, health and employees, consumers, and communities is critical welfare to its staff and for the protection of the to our long-term success. environment. Our Code of Conduct upholds the international To preserve and protect the environment, all SNGPL Human Rights principles as a whole. We strive to staff members should: conduct our business with the utmost integrity. • Design and operate the Company’s facilities and Our code of conduct sets out the legal and ethical processes so as to ensure the trust of adjoining principles that guide our daily work activities. communities. Upholding the principles is crucial to maintaining • Promote resource conservations, waste our reputation as an employer and a reliable minimization and minimization of the release of business partner. The code of conduct is binding for chemicals / gas into the environment. all employees as well as all entities that are part of • Provide employee customers, supplies, public SNGPL. authorities and communities with appropriate information for informed decision making, and The following policies stated within our Code show • Strive continuously to improve environmental our compliance with the above mentioned principles. awareness and protection. Clause 1: Personal Maintenance All SNGPL staff is to operate Company facilities in a Employer and the employees should jointly manner, so as to ensure trust of their surrounding encourage the work environment where all of us can communities, thus contributing directly to the practice the organizational values and job goals both Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) effectively and efficiently. Policy. Employees should promote resource conservation, and waste minimization. Clause 2: Performance Management Policy SNGPL understands that the most important method Clause 4: Statement of Intent of attaining and maintaining performance excellence SNGPL believes the key to the proper functioning and in the Company lies in proper monitoring, appraisal maintenance of public and stakeholder confidence and feedback of individual staff performance. in the Company, is that employees perform their To ensure the optimum degree for coherence of duties with honesty and integrity. SNGPL requires Company objectives with individual performance its entire staff both in executive and subordinate WE BELIEVE IN objectives, it is paramount to first clarify cadres to observe the highest ethical standards in expectations and performance standards and then the conduct of its business activities to minimize SOCIAL GROWTH review delivery of each employee. Proper alignment the significant risk associated with non compliance. of compensation and benefits with employee This policy is intended to assist SNPGL staff in 20 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 21 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Clause 9: Exchange of Gifts Receiving. It is the Company policy that no gifts should be accepted from customers or suppliers. Having said this, potential donors of gifts should be informed as politely as possible regarding this policy. Since moderate hospitality is an accepted courtesy of a business relationship, recipients should not allow themselves to get into a situation where they might be influenced in making a business decision as a consequence of accepting such hospitality. However, where refusal of a gift would be regarded as an insult or where the return of a gift would be impractical, a gift may be accepted under the following criteria: Giving. It is also Company policy that no gifts should be given either directly or indirectly, or through third parties to promote SNGPL’s political or economic advantage. Exceptions are made for gifts of nominal value that are given on the Company’s behalf as common promotional goodwill. Clause 10: Media Communications meeting the standards of professional and personal information during and after their employment with If an employee wishes to write any article or give integrity expected of them. SNGPL staff will act with SNGPL. Within the Company, disclosure of such be exercised in making sure that information given an interview that may be construed as representing honesty at all times, protecting and safeguarding the information must be limited to those persons whose to customers is free of errors, making it as factual SNGPL’s position, prior written approval must be reputation of the Company. Any contravention of this duties require and permit them to have access to or candid as can be while protecting interest of the obtained from the Managing Director. All other policy will be regarded as misconduct. it. It may be noted that customer privacy is a basic Company. SNGPL executives shall not indulge in contacts with the media should be reported to the principle of relationship management. speculative trading of shares of the Company, or of Company immediately, including any type of acting, Clause 5: Conflict of Interest a company or companies under the management of television appearances, etc. All employees must avoid situations where there is Employees should also guard against unintentional SNGPL. a conflict of interest, as failure to comply with these disclosure through careless handling of data. Desks Clause 11: Taking Part in Collective Agitation and ethical policies may render an individual liable to and open areas should be clear of business related Clause 8: Personal Conflict of Interest Political, Religious or Subversive Activities disciplinary action and even subsequent dismissal in paperwork after business hours/ office timings and An employee must not engage in any activity that No political activity that interferes with employment an instance where a severe breach of policy occurs. sensitive information should be kept in a locked area. could result in a potential or perceived conflict of by the Company should be carried out by any SNGPL During telephone conversations, care must be taken interest. Thus, an employee should not represent employee. Nor should an employee utilize Company It is not possible to make a policy comprehensive to prevent outsiders from overhearing confidential SNGPL in any transaction if the personal interests facilities and material in the pursuance of political enough to cover every eventuality; hence, staff information. Particular care needs to be exercised of the employee might affect his or her ability end. No employee should collectively or through should use common sense and remain conscious in handling of credit information and data given to represent SNGPL fairly and impartially. Any an association agitate for purposes of agitation of of their personal behaviour with respect to the must be governed by acceptable standard practice. transaction by SNGPL that also involves a member demands relating to their remuneration or terms and Company and its operations. The following guidelines A supervisor must be referred to whenever doubt of the employee’s family must be brought to conditions. provide a business code of conduct within which all exists in the minds of staff. the attention of the Company management and SNGPL executives must abide. authorized by the Company to be handled by No employee should propagate any religious or Clause 7: Honesty & Integrity another employee. Employees should never become sectarian creeds or take part in such controversies Clause 6: Confidentiality Company employees shall not convert for their own personally involved in any transaction, negotiation, that are likely to affect his I her integrity in the During the course of employment with SNGPL, personal use any funds or property which is not their or contract on behalf of the Company with an entity, discharge of his / her duties, to embarrass the employees may have access to confidential own, nor should they assist another person in the a family member, or a friend in which they have an Company, or to create feelings of discontent or information pertaining to the Company or its misappropriation of such assets. SNPGL expects interest, without full written disclosure and prior displeasure amongst the Company’s employees. customers. As a matter of course, they are expected absolute assurance of its employees when it comes consent of SGM HR, Head of Compliance / Audit, and to maintain confidentiality and integrity of all such to honesty and integrity. Maximum caution has to / or individual Department Head. 22 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 23 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES No employee should indulge in provincialism, parochialism, or willful abuse of his / her office. the workplace while carefully practicing human rights. We are a socially responsible corporate 9.2 l Career at SNGPL Following comprehensive training programs No employee should propagate views of political citizen, providing opportunities to make desired MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME: specific to company needs had also been In the past 01 year, SNGPL has achieved designed and being delivered for Executives. parties during working hours at the establishment changes within the community. We have considerable improvements in our business Pedagogy behind these programs, persists the or bring – or attempt to bring – political or outside developed robust policies and we try to make processes, systems and culture. advancement and development of participant’s influence, directly or indirectly, to bear on the sure that our third party contractors or business Company or any employee of SNGPL in support of partners reflect the same ethos in Human Rights Technical and Managerial skills so that they can l Management Committee Meetings prepare themselves for senior leadership roles. his/ her claim or intervention on his / her behalf in principles as ours. We conduct businesses Management Committee Meetings are being any matter. with entities that do not actively violate the conducted frequently (Almost monthly) and is • Executive Development Program (EDP) International Human Rights standards. chaired by the Managing Director. The Agenda • Developing Future Leaders (DFL) Clause 12: Alcohol, Drugs and Gambling includes not only the issues related to the The use of alcohol in any form is prohibited on all • Being a responsible Company, SNGPL carries Benefits / Privileges related to the Employees Executive Development Program (EDP): Company locations / premises. Similarly, the use of out multiple activities for enhancing the quality but also about those pertaining to the Company’s After detailed Training Needs Analysis (TNA), drugs, except under medical advice, is prohibited of life of community in which it operates. operations and business growth. Executives (Grade I to Grade III) of the Company on all Company locations / premises. Any staff Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy l Grievance Redressal Policy have been exposed to a wide range of courses, member arriving at a work place under the influence of the Company, approved by the Board of SNGPL has a well established Grievance which were designed for the fulfillment of of alcohol or drugs will not be permitted to enter the Directors, is in line with the laid down principles Handling Policy. The purpose of which is to TNA. A comprehensive Executive Development premises and will be liable to disciplinary action. of Securities and Exchange Commission of maintain and improve positive working relations Program (EDP) was envisaged in consultation All forms of gambling / betting on the Company’s Pakistan (SECP) and covers all aspects of CSR. between SNGPL Management and its employees. with all stake holders, enabling the participants premises are forbidden. We encourage our employees to raise their to understand the needs of the corporate ASSET MAKE concerns in the event they come across illegal or cultural change, acquisition of leadership and Clause 13: We are Socially Responsible Business unethical circumstances. communication/ presentation skills besides SNGPL is dedicated towards its CSR policy which THINGS POSSIBLE is based on the best practices all over the world understanding basic elements of company’s The Grievance Redressal committee is headed business. So far 39 EDPs have been conducted to leave a positive impact on the environment, PEOPLE MAKE by the Board Member or Senior Management with participation of about 887 Executives. employees, social norms and economic development. (depending upon the seniority of the Executive The laid out objectives are to be achieved by adopting THINGS HAPPEN whose case is to be discussed). Furthermore, our a methodology that drives contact of the Company’s Management has an open door policy. Our Staff business leading to commercial success in ways can meet the Management any time, in order to and manner that honor ethical values, environment, discuss any issue. The purpose of formulation people and communities. SNGPL believes in of this committee is to make sure that Human Rights of each employee are protected, • Business that should be both profitable and maintained and upheld at all levels. beneficial to the society • Improving the quality of life of the communities especially those who are under privileged. • Ensuring harmonious relations with our stakeholders, by working in partnership with the community, the Government and NGOs through the principles of Sustainable Development. We as “SNGPL”, believe in “Social Responsibility”. SNGPL has an approved CSR Policy. CSR Cells have been established at sites for the implementation of CSR Projects. Various CSR Projects completed in FY 2015-16 are enlisted as below: • SNGPL upholds its value of treating everyone fairly, equally and also valuing diversity within 24 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 25 STRATEGY FOR HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTATION OF INTEGRATED HSE internally and externally. To keep the employees MANAGEMENT SYSTEM and Surveillance Audits by Certifying Body abreast with the latest knowledge and business trends of 21st century a repository of knowledge IN SNGPL to evaluate the effectiveness of Company’s HSE Management System. This reflects • HSE infrastructure at SNGPL is divided into 35 in hard and soft form is accessible to all sites of operational departments. Incharge of the Management Commitment towards employees of SNGPL. each site is designated as HSE Focal Points. implementation of HSE Management System. Each HSE Focal Points is responsible for the • We have developed 35 procedures for Potential Assessment Test: PAT is devised Implementation of Company’s HSE Management implementation of HSE Management system, to determine special abilities required to System through line management under his duly approved by the management based measure concentrate and responsiveness of the domain. upon operational activities of the Company employees of the Company. These types of tests and circulated across the company for • In compliance to Company’s HSE Policy a are used for the potential evaluation for jobs implementation in true letter and spirit. These systematic Management Program is introduced with high, specific requirements. Third Party procedures are also available on Company’s web by developing procedures and guidelines for all Consultants/ Professionals vide PPRA rule is portal for easy access. operational activities across the Company. used to hire for these activities. • Monitoring and measurement is carried out • To show its commitment towards implementing Developing Future Leaders (DFL): Keeping HSE Policy across the Company, Management l Health, Safety and Environment at SNGPL as per standard through HSE Internal Audits up the tradition of extending excellence to Review Meeting headed by Managing Director To ensure that our Health, Safety and the Executives (Grade VGrade VI) another is conducted bi-annually for periodic review and Environmental Policy is systematically applied landmark was achieved in shaping of an evaluation of HSE management system. and best industry practices are adopted within in house training program for the future all operations, we have developed an Integrated • All the operations and maintenance manuals of leaders namely “Developing Future Leaders”. HSE Management System (IMS) based upon ISO our Technical Departments are in line with the Considering the utmost importance of human 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007 standards. IMS Manual. resource development a unique blend of soft SNGPL HSE Management System is based on • Integrated Management System Manual is based and technical skills was conceived to equip the the continual improvement process of the Plan on PDCA Cycle, which is elaborated as below. Middle Management for the current and the – Do – Check – Act (PDCA) cycle utilized by the challenges of the future. Eight (10) DFL’s have P –Plan international certification standards. Maintaining been conducted with the participation of 171 D – Do outstanding HSE Performance is a core value of Executives. C – Check SNGPL. A – Act These programs focus on personality development, professional and skills up gradation of employees leading to reshape the Company’s culture by creating a conducive work environment. The ongoing feedback from the Senior Management and the participant’s input has been monitored and evaluated in light of a vibrant and dynamic culture of the organization, 26 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 27 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Training and awareness is an integral part of Company’s HSE Management System and specific certification training plays important role for Continual Professional Development. Capacity building of HSE Engineers is required to enable them for better identification of hazards and assessment of associated risks to which Company employees are exposed at their work places especially during execution of various field activities. It is also necessary for equipping themselves with considerable knowledge and modern techniques employed for the protection of workforce. A Training Hours per employee FY 2016-17 Average no of employees per month 415 EMPLOYEE Training Hours 115,720 ENGAGEMENT FOR COMMUNITY SERVICE: Average Hours of Training 23.24 B Training hours per employee by gender Since becoming the member of UNGC, SNGPL has FY 2016-17 become actively involved in community service. l Trainings Average no of Average i) Employee Engagement Activity at Changa SNGPL is continually developing its employee employees Man-Hours Training Hours Manga – Manga Mandi Lahore, Punjab workforce and protection measures through Male 401 111,600 23.14 During the Month of April, SNGPL joined employee trainings. Training of Human Female 13 4,120 26.24 hands with WWF Pakistan for the Employee Resource is crucial to any organization’s success Engagement activity for the Conservation of and growth. The Company in the year 2005 C Training hours per employee by category Environment and to aware community about its established Sui Northern Gas Training Institute FY 2016-17 significance. (SNGTI) at Kot Lakh Pat, Industrial area, Lahore, with an aim to develop employee skills and Average no of Average Category employees Man-Hours Training Hours Around 100 SNGPL Executives participated competencies which contribute towards overall Trainings, Certification Training for Welders, in Employee engagement plan. The activities organizational efficiency. and Helper Trade Test etc. SNGPL investment Management 266 82,520 25.77 include Tree Plantation Drive, Team Building in Training and Development is perhaps the Staff 148 33,200 18.68 / ECO tasks (knots techniques, tent pitching, The Institute has highly qualified Trainers who single most important way that manifests the possess Best Academic and Corporate work Top Management’s recognition that Employees experience. They are proficient in designing, are our greatest asset. In the FY 2016-17 SNGTI developing and delivering Training programs conducted 355 training courses relevant to the reflective of the modern business tools and organizational working, culture and Training techniques in today’s challenging and vibrant needs of the employees in above mentioned business environment. Its professional training categories and trained 5119 organizational workforce offers and conducts trainings in more employees. The mosaic of training modules than thirteen (13) different types/categories included not only Class room lectures but i.e. Technical Trainings, Soft Skill Trainings, also Technical workshops, Hands of Trainings, External-Domestic Trainings, External-Foreign Case studies, Assignments, Presentations, Trainings, Orientation Programs, Management Interviews, Trade tests, Theoretical and Practical for Junior Executives (MJE), Developing Future examinations. Practical Trainings on drilling Leaders (DFL), Executive Development Program machines and welding machines are also (EDP), Guest Speakers, Gas Control, Regional arranged. 28 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 29 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES WE BELIEVE THAT OUR YOUTH IS OUR FUTURE GENERATION. WE ARE PROVIDING A PLATFORM FOR THE YOUNG MINDS OF OUR COUNTRY, TO ii) Road Safety Awareness Road safety initiatives are implemented to DEVELOP THEIR ABILITY reduce the risk of road accidents and road side TO COMPREHEND THE ISSUES FACED injury because of the unsafe acts of people and unsafe conditions while driving on the road. Every person on the road has risk of injury or BY OUR PLANET AND COME UP WITH LONGdeath, such as pedestrians, motorists, cyclists, passengers, etc. Everyone needs to be well aware of the road traffic rules especially children RUN SOLUTIONS TO THE EVER INCREASING and young people who are at significant road accident risks. ENVIRONMENTAL THREATS, FOR FUTURE. Keeping in view the above and Safety Theme of Month March “Road Safety” Coordination was made with National Highway and Motorway directions & navigation), Cleanup Drive and After the successful completion of the Police (NH&MP), Islamabad to arrange a session other related activities. Caps were distributed internship, in accordance with the pre set terms on Defensive Driving/ Road Safety Management among SNGPL Executives, in order to protect and conditions students receive their certificates and Road Safety Awareness Walk for Drivers from the harsh weather and also to project the along with the 30 Hour Community Service posted at Islamabad Region. With the approval uniformity. ECO Friendly activities were carried Letter. This year more than 700 students were of DIG (NH&MP) Mobile Education Unit’s trainers out in Groups and all the executives participated engaged in different community service projects. arranged a Session and Walk at Regional Office, actively in the team building tasks and remained I-9, Islamabad in March, 2017. motivated throughout the day. Evaluation and assessment of each group was done by the iii) Awareness to the Public / Community regarding WWF teams. Female executives participated Gas Safety equally and enthusiastically in every activity. SNGPL being a socially responsible organization Tree Plantation and Cleaning activity (for waste believes that the safety of consumers is collection) was also carried out. The purpose of equally important and essential, as depicted in the team building exercises is to improve inter Company’s HSE Policy. Gas Safety instructions personnel communications, building effective are being communicated to the consumers working relationships and finding solutions to through electronic and print media, time to time, team problems. In short, team building is one as a “Public Service Message”. Furthermore, of the most widely used group-development Gas Safety and Conservation instructions are activities in organizations. printed at the back side of our Gas Bill. Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) of Natural Gas, We are of the view that such events must be Monthly Magazine of SNGPL “PRIDE”, Bulletin organized in order to build the inter personal on different topics of HSE, Safety Talks Booklet, communications, skills, to improve the First Aid Booklet, Dengue Booklet is also performance and office environment. displayed at Company’s website. 30 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 31 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLES OF The disclosure shall include but shall not be limited to the following: manner i.e. maintaining properly audited accounts and operations on non-profit basis and CORPORATE SOCIAL a) Education having credibility and reputation in the public RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) b) Energy Conservation sector. POLICY: c) Community Investment and Welfare • That priority is given to under-privileged areas We pledge to perform our corporate duty, based on Schemes and segments of society, institution and projects following acknowledge & principles with dedication, which generally do not have easy access to other d) Consumer Protection Measures diligence and integrity. sources of funds. e) Welfare spending for under privileged a) Standard of business conduct classes • That NGOs/CBOs and institutions having We are committed to ensure that all our f) Industrial Relations political/ ethnic affiliation are not supported. corporate activities are conducted strictly in g) Employment of special persons accordance with high levels of professional and • That special funds are got approved from the legal standards as per code of business ethics. h) Occupational safety and health Board of Directors each year for implementation i) Rural Development Programmes the CSR policy. b) Health, Safety & Environment We are committed to provide and strive We will ensure that effective systems are in to maintain clean, healthy & safe working environment by continually conducting public place to manage and monitor compliance with DARE TO CARE... HONOR this policy and take remedial action whenever we awareness campaigns to promote safe use of fall short of our commitment. A CSR Committee YOURSELF’ natural gas. having the following composition will review and approve strategic plans, assess progress and c) Community We are committed to be a responsible corporate offer guidance about emerging CSR issues of HONOR OTHERS’ HONOR THE importance. l How Responsible we Are citizen by pro-actively supporting the affected PLANET SNGPL is dedicated towards its CSR policy which communities in the events of national and i Deputy Managing Director Chairman is based on the best practices all over the world natural catastrophe. to leave a positive impact on the environment, ii Senior General Manager (ES) Member employees, social norms and economic d) Disclosure iii Chief Financial Officer Member development. The laid out objectives are to be SNGPL shall provide information about iv General Manager (LS) Member achieved by adopting a methodology that drives descriptive as well as monetary disclosures of contact of the Company’s business leading to v Chief Engineer (HSE) Member/Secretary the CSR activities undertaken in each financial commercial success in ways and manner that year on its website, annual reports and other honour ethical values, environment, people and communication media. The disclosure shall CSR Committee will periodically evaluate and communities. SNGPL believes in be made in the Director’s report to the share approve the projects recommended by the holders annexed to the annual audited accounts. regional CSR cells headed by each Regional In• Business that should be both profitable and charge duly assisted by his team. beneficial to the society The CSR Committee will ensure: • Improving the quality of life of the • That projects are within the area of SNGPL’s communities especially those who are under operation. However, being a national Company, privileged. SNGPL may extend its support regardless of geographical locations for special projects of • Ensuring harmonious relations with our national importance. stakeholders, by working in partnership with the community, the Government and • That SNGPL cooperates with and/or associates NGOs through the principles of Sustainable with NGOs and Community Based Organizations Development. (CBOs) working in a financially transparent 32 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 33 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Basic Human needs CSR GLANCE AT SNGPL • Contribute due share in fulfillment of basic human needs of the deprived and underprivileged by focusing on health care, • Internatonal ECO Internship Program, Gas Conservancy Campaign and Agro Waste Project with WWF Pakistan 1 sport, sanitation and environment etc • Corporate Membership from WWF Pakistan 2 Educational Reforms • Provision of Drinking Water for Community at Murree, Kahuta, Karak, Nowshera, Shahdara (different areas of Punjab and • Provide assistance for the Promotion of education in Pakistan 3 Khyber Pakhtun Khwa), alongwithe installation of Reverse Osmosis Plants at 35 Locations at Company Offices • Beautification / Renovation of Chowks at Khyber Pakhtun Khwa (Chamkani Interchange and Rashkai) & Punjab (Multan) Self Reliance 4 • Build self reliance through programs aimed at Skill • Construction / Rehabilitation of Bridge and Approach Road at Abbasia Canal, Uch Sharif 5 Enhancement and creating income generating opportunities for the under privileged • Awareness Session on Thalassemia along with Blood Donation Camps at Multan, Faisalabad, Gujranwala, Gujrat, Lahore. 6. FOCUS AREAS Health Safety & Environmnet • Awareness Session on Breast Cancer in collaboration with WWF Pakistan, at Head Office Lahore 7. • Implementing sound Environment, Health & Safety Management Systems and take a proactive approach to • Provision of Gold Medals at NFC Multan and Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute Topi, Sawabi. 8. address environmental issues like tree plantations, awareness campaigns etc • CSR Award won in the Recognition of CSR Activities in Category Environment and Energy Conservation, by M/s National 9. Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH) • Sponsorship of Chair On Gas Engineering at University of Engineering and Technology -Lahore, University of Engineering Labour Standards and Technology-Peshawar, University of the Punjab-Lahore. 10. • Support and upload the principles contained in the University • Bio Gas Plant at Village Mailu VirkanSheikhupura, Lahore, Punjab Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor 11. Organizations fundamental conventions on core labor standards • Installation of Solar Panels System at Regional Office Lahore. 12. Medical Facilities • Provision of Blood Screening Kit to Sundas Foundation 13. • Provide medical and community aid to alleviate hardship and • Support to Pakistan Red Crescent for the Upgradation of Ambulance for National Ambulace College Islamabad. distress to under privileged 14. • Relief Activities (e.g for the Affectess of Earthquake Awaran and Murree, Azad Jammu Kashmir due to Heavy Rains and National Heritage 15. Thunder Storms) • Conserve National Heritage, indigenous culture and sports • Awareness Session with the students of Schools / Colleges / Universities regarding the Emergency Response Plan 16. durng implementation of projects • Tree Plantation Activity at different Events (Employee Engagement activity, Independence Day, Earth Day etc) 17. Awareness programs • SNGPL invests a lot on the Safety and Health of its Employees (depicted at various locations inthis report) 18. • Organise awareness programs regarding gas conservation, dengue awareness, promotion of renewabel energy resources, trainning workshops for workers • Sports Cell is established in the Company. Annual Sports are carried out. 19. 34 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 35 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES EXPENSE FOR projects executed in this regard are briefly described below: plots and planting trees. Following the projects were carried out in this regard: In order to ensure that the water quality remains consistent, tests are performed to check that the SUSTAINABLE quality parameters remain within the defined ACTIVITIES AT SNGPL WE FEEL PROUD… i) Chowk Multan-Khanewal road, Multan. ii) Rashkai, Nowshera Mardan road. range. SUSTAINABILITY IS (for FY 2016-17) c) PROMOTING ALTERNATE / RENEWABLE iii) Chamkani Interchange, GT Road Peshawar. ENERGY: IN OUR HANDS… Break up of Cost for CSR Activities Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited is iv) Fawara chowk, Rawalpindi. 0.11 0.31 committed towards sustainable development v) Roundabout between liberty market and of communities in which it operates Corporate 1.87 Gaddafi Stadium Lahore. Social Responsibility (CSR) policy of the Company has objectives related to energy In addition to the above, SNGPL has rehabilitated conservation and development of alternate and constructed the approach road and energy sources. 3.81 bridge over Abbasia Canal Uch Sharif for the community, keeping in view the rate of accidents In this regard, SNGPL has installed a 100 m3 and fatality cases due to the poor condition of the Bio gas plant in a village (Mailu Virkan) near bridge and the access road. Shiekhupura. This biogas plant not only provide clean and environment friendly fuel to around b) FILTERED WATER SUPPLY: 12 house holds (70-80 people) but also provide Potable water quality is 4.00 deteriorating across Pakistan ■ Partnership with WWF Pakistan ■ Provision of Drinking Water for Community due to several ■ Rehabilitation/Construction of Chowks /Bridges factors resulting ■ CSR Awards in health issue ■ Provision of Gold Medals to Universities a) RENOVATION OF CHOWKS / HERITAGE / to various REHABILITATION: communities. SNGPL is highly conscientious corporate entity with Beautification / Renovation of important With a view to a commitment to return to the society partially to its roundabouts in the cities, roads and high ways provide clean potable water to communities, under privileged strata. is taken care of through this initiative. The sites SNGPL has installed Reverse Osmosis (RO) selected are renovated by installing a monument useful fertilizer, as a by product. Additional plants/water filtration plants at its offices and Out of the listed areas of CSR interest, SNGPL has a and making the area green by developing grassy benefits of better health conditions and spare made arrangements outside its office for supply focus on the following initiatives: time for women folk are mentionable as it can of potable water through taps for the community contribute to their earnings. surrounding SNGPL offices. Apart from its 1) Renovation of Chowks / Roundabouts. offices, SNGPL has also arranged potable water • Bio gas plant reduces the consumption of 2) Potable Water Supply. supply in areas where water supply is scarce or wood and LPG resulting in monetary saving 3) Energy Conservation / Renewables. where requirement of potable water is a major for the community. Additionally, fertilizer 4) Education. issue to the community. 25 water filtration / RO from bio gas is 40% more rich in nutrients. 5) Health. plants of capacities ranging from 250 to 1000 • It decreases the use of animal dung and 6) SNGPL Partnership with WWF. lit/hr has been installed. Around 25 plants of wood for cooking which reduces the risk of 7) Relief Activities. similar capacities are in planning phase and is disease. Every year a sizeable amount is spent to carry out expected to be installed in the current fiscal year. • It reduces the bad smell from animal waste schemes related to new projects based on these Provision of potable drinking water has resulted and improves the surroundings esthetically. initiatives or for the ongoing projects. SNGPL in improved quality of life of the community • Previously handling of cow dung was carried primary focus in selecting a project is to ensure that using this facility and promotes soft image of the out by female members of the community maximum benefits of the project is passed on to a company. which has been minimized resulting in extra larger community. Progress on each initiative and time available to female members. 36 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 37 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES d) EDUCATION: SNGPL is sponsoring three Chairs in the universities of Punjab and KPK. These Chairs on Gas Engineering promotes research work on issues related to SNGPL especially energy conservation. Gas Engineering Chairs are established at following Universities: 1) Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore. 2) Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology, University of the Punjab, Lahore. 3) Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Engineering & Technology, that we do recognize our social responsibilities Peshawar. along with our professional ones. It is a healthy gesture, which not only portrays a positive image The research work carried out is published in of the organization but further enlightens the reputed journal. Laboratories are established steps being taken for the betterment of the at each university by the funds provided by society. Health benefits of donating blood include SNGPL. This initiative helps student to carry good health, reduced risk of cancer and risk to out advanced level course work related to Gas liver and pancreas. Donating blood may help in engineering. improving cardiovascular health and reducing obesity. It is important to note that people are In addition to above, SNGPL also promotes the only source of blood and that is why it is students having higher education by award of important to donate blood and help those who Gold medals. Two students each of Ghulam Ishaq need it Khan institute, Topi and NFC Institute Multan are decorated with these gold medals each year as a f) SNGPL PARTNERSHIP WITH WWF: token of appreciation. SNGPL is a corporate member of WWF (World Wide Fund for Nature Pakistan) which is an international organization engaged in ECO friendly activities. It is essential that the youth of Pakistan realizes the importance of nature conservation and commits to conserve the e) HEALTH: precious natural resources of Pakistan. Through SNGPL contribution on health sector is also this partnership SNGPL has helped WWFincreasing as it supports blood donation Pakistan to raise environmental awareness campaign of Fatimid Foundation and Sundas and disseminate the education of energy Foundation. SNGPL has motivated its employees conservation for this noble cause and has arranged around seven camps at its offices with a considerable SNGPL supports two programs of WWF for donor group among the employees. conservation of energy. SNGPL also supports Pakistan Red Crescent Society and has contributed for an ambulance for its Islamabad office. The participation of people in large numbers and donation blood is a sign 38 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 39 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES i) ECO Internship Program: Youth with age group of 12-22 are focused through this program. WWF engage these children through their educational institutions for promoting awareness regarding environmental issues and motivating them to become active players for conservation of environment. This program is supported by SNGPL since 2013 and around 10,000 students have benefited from this program. IEIP gives students an opportunity to become ambassadors of change. This programme will be implemented in the leading school systems across Pakistan. SNGPL has sponsored 3,500 students of Private / Government Schools, Colleges and Universities at a total cost of Rs.1,600,000/. The Program is based on the interactive sessions, enabling the students to understand better ways of energy utilization and the significance of its conservation and impact ii) Gasifier with Agro Waste as a Fuel: such knowledge to their families in the larger Pakistan being an agricultural country has a interest of our country. large amount of agro waste after each crop. This waste is used in many ways as a fuel for cooking, as a raw material for paper production or wasted by burning for making room for new crops. SNGPL and WWF has developed a partnership for making use of the Agro Waste as a cleaner fuel in a gasifier. The project of installing 500 gasifiers includes its fabrication and training of community in using gasifiers. The project is expected to provide better source of living for the community and improve the quality of life. g) RELIEF ACTIVITIES: SNGPL always contributes for the national cause in case of natural calamity. It has contributed for the earth quake victims of Punjab, KPK and Baluchistan. Flood affectees of KPK and Punjab were supported by SNGPL through generous donations. Tents / shelter were provided for the affectees of flash floods in Murree. 40 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 41 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Sports Complex, Lahore. The opening ceremony of the event took place amid much fanfare. Deputy Managing Director (services) Amer Tufail inaugurated the three day event. Different games e.g Badminton, Table Tennis, Shot Put, Athletics, Long Jump, High Jump, Tug of War, Volley Ball and Cricket were played in the Sports Gala. SNGPL annual Sports Gala is fast becoming one of the regular features of the company which provide employees with the opportunity to showcase their sporting talent on a grand scale. h) SPORTS Sports and games have been part of human society for thousands of years. Playing games increase one’s brain activity, never letting attention wander and also making one understand things in more detail. SNGPL had its Annual Sports Gala in March 2017, in Lahore. 308 players from 18 regions of the Company participated in 18 different Game. This event is true reflection of the SA FE company’s longstanding association with sports TY and sportsmen which contributes greatly in promotion of healthy activities in the society. HEA LTH It is pertinent to note that females employees T ONMEN ENVIR equally participated in the Annual Sports. The annual event was held for three days in WAPDA 42 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 43 10.1 LABOR PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS: We believe that Human resource is the most valuable asset of any organization. SNGPL proactively continues to play an integral role to increase human resource efficiency and accountability, improve service to the public, and streamline administration. Keeping pace with the changing market and incorporating the philosophies of transparency, Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the equitability and consistency, SNGPL has an approved effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; HR Manual which have been prepared and is being updated from time to time after profound thought, Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; discussion and collaboration with experts. The Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and HR Policies are the part of HR Manual and are being implemented in true letter and spirit. We are Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and compliant to the Labor Laws and we ensure the occupation. implementation. Clause 1: Confidentiality Staff members should not keep or make copies of HR VISION STATEMENT correspondence, documents, papers and records, “To attract, retain and nurture quality human”. list of suppliers or consumers without the consent of the Company. Company’s information and records should be kept on Company premises only HR MISSION STATEMENT and unpublished information may be disclosed to “The Human Resource Department is external organizations / individuals only on “need committed to motivate and optimize human to know” basis. In case of doubt in this regard, the potential through capacity building and creation Management’s advice should be sought. of a conducive statement”. Clause 2: Employment Policy The Company is committed to provide an open alone. SNGPL’s ability to continually identify, recruit, and honest work environment that enables every develop, and motivate its most precious resource in employee to reach the highest possible level an increasingly competitive marketplace will be its of professional and personal fulfillment. The greatest strength gong forward. Employment policy is a part of HR Manual. Primary aim is to build SNGPL from within, promoting and Our Hiring criteria is strictly being followed and we rewarding people on the basis of performance strongly discourage Child Labor. We do not recruit / alone. As an equal opportunity employer, SNGPL hire any employee below the age of 18 years. follows a transparent and merit based recruitment We have transparent recruitment policy and we policy and its selection procedure and employment uphold it at all levels. policies are geared to attract and retain capable and qualified employees of the country who are willing to Clause 3: Equal Opportunity Employment contribute their best to accomplish the objective of We are committed to ensure that all staff is treated the Company. fairly and with dignity and that no discrimination or harassment occurs in the workplace. SNGPL is an Our aim is to build SNGPL from within, promoting equal opportunity employer, which means all their and rewarding people on the basis of performance policies and procedures are aimed at ensuring that 44 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 45 LABOR PRINCIPLES all decisions made in relation to appointments, We have open door policy for all employees and our a lot of importance to the well being of promotions, transfers, training opportunities and Management always take initiative to resolve their its employees and their families. The performance assessments are made entirely on the issues relating to workplace. Company recognize that medical benefits basis of merit alone. give employees the peace of mind to focus In order to monitor the compliance of ISO 14001 on their job function without having worry Clause 4: Workplace Harassment / OHSAS 18001 Standards, Surveillance audit is about financial risks in the event of sickness SNGPL staff will maintain an environment that is being by M/s United Registrar of Systems (URS) or injury. SNGPL provide Medical coverage free from harassment and in which all employees bi-annually. Successful conduction of these audits to all serving as well as retired Company are equally respected. Workplace harassment is demonstrate the effectiveness of HSE Management employees. defined as any action that creates an intimidating, System. Management commitment towards HSE was hostile or offensive work environment. Such actions highly appreciated by the Auditors. iii) Travel Policy: include, but are not limited to, sexual harassment, We aim to provide employees travelling on disparaging comments based on gender, religion, the Company business with a reasonable race or ethnicity. level of comfort in their boarding and lodging arrangements at the lowest possible cost to Clause 5: Health, Safety Policy the organization. Managing Director endorses the SNGPL Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety iv) Vehicle / Transport Policy Policy. The policy is appropriate to the nature, SNGPL provide vehicles to certain members scale and environmental impacts of all activities at of the executives staff as a key component of the SNGPL. The Policy includes a commitment to their overall compensation package. continual improvement and prevention of pollution We provide a comfortable environment to our and prevention of hazards & risks for occupational employees, so that they feel safe, secure and v) Leave Policy health & safety, as well as committed to meet protected. SNGPL appreciates the importance of or exceed relevant environmental, occupational rest and recreation for the well being of health & safety legislation, regulations and other l Employee Satisfaction employees and that contingencies arising requirements. SNGPL believes that the employees are out asset and unforeseen eventualities require l Employee Recruitment and they must be taken care in all respect. It is employees to be away from work. All Clause 5: Legal Requirements SNGPL’s recruitment decisions are based upon necessary to ensure and enhance the business employees are eligible to avail leaves as per SNGPL has established and maintained a procedure a careful selection process in order to determine performance and for creating good working Company Policy. for the purpose of identifying, accessing and the individual best qualified for a position to environment among the organization. We have communicating legal and other requirements be filled in. As an equal opportunity employer, high level of employee satisfaction and low Sick Leave, Minimum Annual Leave, Annual that are applicable to the SNGPL in relation SNGPL follows a transparent and merit-based sickness rate of our worker. Leave accumulation and encashment, Hajj with Occupational Health and safety. Additional recruitment policy. SNGPL believes that its Leave, Ex Pakistan Leaves, Prolonged Illness information is also available through legal employees are the people who give the Company SNGPL believes in attracting and retaining (Medical Leave), Study Leave, Special Leave, publications. Local regulations are identified, their skill, energy and time, making them its talent through a combination of monetary and Maternity Leave (for Married Females) are accessed and communicated by the Management most precious asset. non-monetary rewards and incentives. Our few the various types of leaves that are part of Representative (MR). policies are enlisted as below. our Leave Policy. l Grievance Handling & Harassment Policy In order to improve positive working relations i) Compensation Policy 10.2 between SNGPL Managements and its In order to formulate and establish a MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME employees, we have a Grievance Handling competitive compensation structure, SNGPL We at SNGPL hire and recruit employees without Procedure / Policy . It includes Whistle Blowing evaluates its remuneration package viz discrimination of race, color, religion, sex, age, policy and grievance redressal. competitors and aligns compensation to the language, physical condition etc. and treat them market after 2 years. equally with others respect to compensation and A full fledge committee headed by Senior opportunities for advancement and career growth, Management is in place, to address any case ii) Medical Policy: including promotions & transfer. We have culture related to the Harassment. We discourage any SNGPL regards its employees as its most of zero tolerance against any such discrimination. type of harassment at the workplace. valuable resource and accordingly assigns 46 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 47 LABOR PRINCIPLES We give special leave to the concerned in Investment In Employees case of death of his / her spouse, so that one Retirement Funds can adjust after sustaining the tragic loss. Benefits Management Staff Activity Funds Life Insurance YES Till 05 years SN Senior Staff Pension Fund 2,226,374/after Retirement SN Junior Staff Pension Fund 10,530,528/65 years Health Care YES YES SN Executive Staff Gratuity Fund 120,000/Disability / Invalidity coverage YES YES SN Non-Executive Staff Gratuity Fund 4,150,460/Parental leave YES YES SN Trustees Provident Fund 10,298,882/Retirement Provision YES YES SNGPL Superannuation In addition to the above, Residential policy Free Gas Executives Fund 304,500/and Mobile Policy is also for our employees SNGPL Superannuation l Safety of Employees SNGPL procures good quantity of PPEs every (depending upon the nature of job and Free Gas Subordinates Fund 4,473,370/We are OHAS 18001:2007 Certified organization year for its employees to make them safe during posting). It is pertinent to mention that SNGPL Superannuation and have a full fledge Health Safety Environment various field activities. In fiscal year 2016-17, after every 02 years, Collective Bargaining Compensated Absence Executives Fund 452,000/(HSE) Department, headed by General Manager Company procured 40,000 Nos. of PPEs. These Agreement (CBA) is agreed mutually by the SNGPL Superannuation who directly reports to the Managing Director. PPEs include: Staff and SNGPL Management and is then Compensated Absence Subordinates Fund 1,024,000/We have Operations and Maintenance Manual of registered in National Insurance Company HSE, duly approved by the Management. • Dust Mask Limited (NICL). It becomes a legal binding SNGPL Superannuation • Ear Muff for the Management and also for the CBA Medical Executives Fund 3,904,109/SNGPL through its core values and HSE policy • Ear Plug With Cord to follow it as per the Agreement. We offer SNGPL Superannuation thrives to provide a safe work environment for its • Face Mask Full different attractive allowance to our staff and Medical Subordinates Fund 8,143,239/employees. We own our employee and provide • Face Mask Full Filter (Particulate) hence we honor them. SN Employees Accidental necessary protection to all concerned during • Face Mask Half Death Endowment Fund 8,000/various operations of the Company. Hazard • Face Mask Half Filter (Gaseous) We are of the view that employee satisfaction Identification and Risk Assessment procedure is • Face Shield with Hard Hat and reduced sickness leads to increase job Total 45,635,462/being implemented across the Company. • Fluorescent Jacket performance. • Gloves Cotton i) Personal Protective Equipments (PPE’s) • Gloves Heat Resistant • Gloves Leather Welding BECAUSE ……. The purpose of personal protective equipment (PPE) is to protect individuals, exposed to health • Gloves Rubber Chemical WE VALUE OUR EMPLOYEE and safety hazards, from the risk of ill health and injury by creating a barrier against workplace • • Gloves Rubber Electrical Safety Cones hazards. Wearing of PPEs by field staff not only • Safety Goggles Black/Welding protects employees from injuries but also raises • Safety Goggles White employees’ confidence producing good quality • Safety Harness Belt (Full Body) work. • Safety Helmets • Welding Mask PPEs should only be prescribed to provide • Welding Shield additional protection, when a hazard continues to • Safety Shoes exist even after the following control measures • Gum Shoes have been applied in the given priority. • Coveralls • Elimination or minimization of hazard. Company also provided uniforms to its executive staff. Wearing of PPEs not only provides • Control of hazard through engineering design. protection to employees but also raises the • Procedural control to eliminate exposure Company image. 48 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 49 LABOR PRINCIPLES SNGPL set Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) and 3500 Nos. fire extinguishers (portable / trolleys) HIGHLIGHTS Environmental objectives in order to comply with Company’s HSE policy and considering various aspects i.e. legal and are installed at SNGPL sites. SNGPL employees In order to maintain Certification are being trained regularly in fire fighting locally other requirements, significant OHS and environmental requirements and to make sure that planned at sites and also at SNGPL’s training institute hazards, technological developments and concerns of (SNGTI) at Lahore. HSE activities demonstrate the effectiveness interested parties. Objectives and targets are developed for of the HSE Management System, Surveillance each Company site and reviewed by the top Management biFire Hydrant System ensures an adequate, Audits (third party audit) are being conducted annually. SNGPL has achieved most of HSE objectives within the deadline through regular perusal and teamwork. Status un-interrupted water supply, under sufficient bi-annually by M/s United Registrar of of objectives till 30.06.2017 is as follows pressure, at all strategic points of a building Systems (URS) (Certifying Body). Surveillance in such a way that fire can be extinguished Audits were conducted in December, 2016 and OHS Status till June 2017 immediately, with minimum loss of time and April, 2017. 90 with maximum efficiency. Major components 80 81 79 of the fire hydrant system are Fire Pumps It is pertinent to mention that the sites have 70 71 Station, Piping, Hydrant Connection, Fire hoses / 60 been prepared on ISO 14001:2004 & OHSAS 64 cabinets / Nozzles and Water Tank. Fire hydrant 50 18001:2007 Standards by in house resources 40 systems are currently installed at various & without the engagement of Consultant. 30 39 locations of SNGPL. In order to improve fire Overall Management commitment towards 20 fighting capabilities; fire hydrant systems with HSE and efforts of HSE department was 10 automatic pumping arrangements as per NFPA 0 appreciated by the Auditor. Distribution Transmission Compression Projects Misc code / IAP Rules have been recently installed / commissioned at Regional offices Lahore, EMS Status till June 2017 Faisalabad, Islamabad and Compressor Stations ii) Occupational Health and Safety Risk a) Legislative and regulatory requirements. 120 AC-6 (Multan), AC-4 (Uch Sharif) and AC-IX Assessment Risk Assessment b) Identification of the OH&S risks faced by SNGPL. 100 (Bhong). Installation of new fire hydrant systems Integrated Management System Manual have 94 100 and up-gradation of various existing fire hydrant c) An examination of all existing OH&S 80 a detailed guidelines / mechanism for the systems of SNGPL is also in progress for dealing management practices, processes and 75 75 identification of operational and potential OH&S 60 67 with fire related emergencies more efficiently. procedures. hazards, its significance, evaluation and risk 40 assessment. d) An evaluation of feedback from the investigation 20 of previous incidents, accidents and Hazard are identified in the following categories, emergencies. 0 Distribution Transmission Compression Projects Misc but not limited to the following: Risk Assessment is carried out by following iii) Fire Safety 1) Ergonomic Hazards 8) Toxic Hazards hierarchy of controls. In order to ensure safety of employees / 2) Mechanical Hazards 9) Explosion Hazards assets from fire related emergencies, SNGPL 3) Electrical Hazards 10) Chemical Hazards is continuously enhancing fire detection and 4) Pressure Hazards 11) Fire Hazards fighting capabilities. Following Fire Equipments 5) Pneumatic Hazards 12) Noise Hazards E =Elimination I P were installed at various SNGPL sites; =Isolate =Protect 6) Falling Hazards 13) Vibration Hazards 7) Biological Hazards 14) Radiation Hazards • Fire Extinguishers (Portable / Trolleys) • Fire Hydrant Systems List of hazards identified are maintained and R =Reduce C =Control • Fire Trucks Fire Truck is a vehicle designed primarily for reviewed at the site at least annually. New • Smoke Detection and Fire Alarm System firefighting operations. Primary purposes of a hazards identified during review are being added fire truck include transporting firefighters to and any hazard eliminated are deleted from the Fire Extinguisher is an active fire protection an incident scene, providing Water / Powder / above list. device used to extinguish or control small fires, CO2 etc with which to fight a fire and carrying often in emergency situations. It is not intended other equipment including ladders, fire suits While doing the OHS Risk Assessment, following Accordingly necessary controls are applied according for use on an out-of-control fire, such as one and first aid kits needed by firefighters. SNGPL factors are considered (but not limiting itself to): to the Risk rating. which has reached the ceiling. Currently over has Fire trucks at Faisalabad, Multan, Wah and 50 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 51 LABOR PRINCIPLES Lahore Transmission Terminals for dealing with to the concerned, using their devised system fire emergencies. Fire trucks for Compressor as per Departmental manual. HSE Department stations located at remote sites i.e. Uch Sharif, initiates the Detailed Investigation (depending Bhong, Haranpur and Gali Jagir has been upon the severity of the incident). The incident recently procured for enhancing fire safety. is investigated in depth, in order to go to the root cause. Learning Events of the incident along with “Recommendations” are circulated by HSE Head Office, in order to promote awareness across the Company. During the fiscal year 2016-17, most of the accidents were related to vehicle. Procedures developed by HSE department on Safe operation FEATURES OF EMERGENCY of vehicles & equipment are available at sites RESPONSE PLAN for implementation, to reduce such kind of l Construction of Shelters accidents. l Provision of Assembly Points l Training of Staff Online Incident Reporting System has also been l Provision of Emergency Exits Smoke Detection and Fire Alarm System is established for ensuring smooth and timely very important for early detection of fire. If fire reporting of all the incidents. This system l Fire Fighters is detected at initial stage then massive asset / has been instrumental in making it easier for l First Aiders human loss may be avoided. We are installing employees to report incidents and has greatly l Installation of Warning Devices latest technology smoke systems at various reduced time for reporting. l Provision of Personal Protective Equipments locations and also upgrading existing systems. l Fire Fighting Arrangements Number of Incidents l Sound System 3% 4% iv) Work Stop Authority 3% l Emergency Contact Numbers SNGPL is committed to ZERO TOLERANCE l Fire Prevention System (Smoke Detectors) policy and in order to carry out daily activities 35% l Mock Drills like repairing , maintenance or construction ■ Near Miss ■ Environmental work in operating areas. Guidelines for Work ■ Vehicle Permit has been implemented to prevent any ■ LWDI Sr. No Site Data Loggers (Nos.) ■ Fire injury, fire, property damage, material loss and ■ Fatality 1 Head Office 26 environmental accident. 54% 1% 2 Islamabad Region 28 3 Lahore Region 18 Safety of our employee is our top responsibility 4 Faisalabad Region 11 and Management is committed towards its vi) Emergency Response Plan 5 Gujranwala Region 04 implementation. We have guidelines to identify potential for and 6 Gujrat Region 03 respond to accidents and emergency institutions, vii) Road Safety 7 Sargodha Region 03 v) Incident Reporting and Investigation and for preventing and mitigating the Trackers / Data Loggers have been installed in 8 Sahiwal Region 04 SNGPL IMS Manual provides a comprehensive environmental impacts, and occupational health Company’s vehicles to reduce vehicles related 9 Multan Region 08 guideline for reporting and investigation & safety risks that may be associated with them. accidents. Driver Safety Report is generated 10 Bahawalpur Region 04 of dangerous occurrences, incidents, fire, Site based Emergency response procedures are each month and actions are taken against the 11 Peshawar Region 05 environmental incidents and vehicle incidents. It available and are being updated regularly. Mock violators. Training on Road Safety is being 12 Abbottabad Region 03 enables identification of the causes and planning Drills are conducted at least Bi Annually at all arranged for the Drivers, at regular frequency. 13 Multan Compression 04 of correctives actions to prevent re-occurrence. sites, across Company. 14 Manga Camp 01 In addition to this, Vehicle fitness is ensured by 15 Faisalabad Camp 02 All incidents are required to be reported within Preparedness focuses on preparing equipment issuing Vehicle Fitness Certificates, on Monthly 16 Transmission department Sites 91 24 hours. Any incident requiring reporting to the and procedures for use when a disaster or basis. The purpose is to ensure that accidents relevant Government agencies shall be reported emergency occurs. can be avoided, due to vehicle malfunction. Total 215 52 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 53 LABOR PRINCIPLES Occupational Health Monitoring is being carried B. Medical Camps A. Counseling was done and treatment advised out for the following category of employees: Medical camps are organized for all personnel for all those who have low levels of bone mass regardless of their nature of job and type of density, Hepatitis B & C, Diabetes Mellitus and • Drivers engagement with the Company. These camps Hypertension. • Janitorial Staff facilitate the employees to get their health status B. Printed brochures related to communicable, • Canteen Staff and Staff Attendants screened with a variety of tests under one roof occupational and non communicable diseases • Computer Operators within a reasonable time. are also distributed to all those who come to • Employees exposed to Noise attend medical camps. • Employees exposed to Dust, Fumes and Vapors Busy work environment, job stress and frequent C. All those with impaired lung function testing • Employees exposed to radiation traveling hinders our staff to give needed were counseled to use PPE and avoid smoking attention to their health. The environment in the to prevent further deterioration in their lungs To improve dope yards workers respiratory medical camps gives them some time to interact health status. health, cold tape application is being substituted with their colleagues and provide some break in D. As per health status of specific category with dope kettle operation at dope yards and their busy routine to think about their health and occupational health advice is provided. corrosion control centre. Occupational health be awared of the health related hazards from E. OHS & Environmental hazard and risk safety awareness sessions are imparted related the literature available at awareness material assessment is revised, mitigation measures are to workplace hazards, preventive measures, first stall which contain useful information regarding taken. aid and fire safety to all newly hired workers precautions to be taken during daily routine. F. Strict monitoring of safety measures utilization at the time of induction. All newly hired vehicle is a continual process. drivers have to get their pre-employment health HSE initiative of Medical Camps is a very G. Awareness sessions are imparted related to Job status done as part of their contract with the effective event to promote Health Care category hazards and protection. Organization. awareness, on spot health screening of employees and also provides an excellent OH Surveillance 2016-17 Occupational Health risk assessment is a very opportunity for providing information about 977 important tool to monitor and advise any health general HSE initiative. In 2016-17 Medical Camps 1000 944 viii) Occupational Health Surveillance risk which provides input for developing suitable have been arranged at Multan (D), Kacha Khu controls before any out break. Camp, Bahawalpur (D), Head Office, Habibabad 800 A. Occupational Health Monitoring Camp, Manga Workshop, Manga Stores and 600 SNGPL’s top management is devoted to promote Abbott bad(D). 392 416 392 416 HSE culture across the Company. Hazard 400 223 identification and evaluation / root cause analysis After the Medical Camp, the reports are analysed 220 200 of the risks associated with it, is an integral part by the Occupational Health Consultant HSE Head 56 56 of HSE Integrated Management System (IMS). Office and recommendations are given, which 0 Food Sanitation RadioHygiene Drivers The same process is also being applied in the may be as following. Handlers Staff graphers Cards field of Occupational Health. Many potentially ■ Total ■ Fit Medical Camps 2016-17 hazardous situations occur in work place like high noise level, heat stress, low level of lighting 8.7% 30 196 416 etc. 1.9% 213 Occupational Health monitoring and is being 1.2% carried out regularly at various sites across 173 Total the Company, especially in those areas where 2.1% workers are directly involved in an activity / 1,876 operation which may be affecting their 9.1% health. The main purpose of conducting the 449 OH Monitoring is to make more aware of 1017 8.6% Occupational Health. A consolidated report is to be apprised to the Management for necessary ■ Diabetese Mellitus ■ Hypertension ■ Hepatitis-C ■ Drivers ■ Audiograms ■ PFT ■ Food Handlers review and advice. ■ Hepatitis-B ■ Errors of Refraction ■ Bone Mass Density ■ Sanitation Staff ■ Radiographers ■ Hygiene Cards 54 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 55 LABOR PRINCIPLES In addition to the above, different training xi) World Day for Occupational Health and Safety – sessions are being carried out by HSE Engineers 28th April to all employees old and new (permanent, Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited has contractual, executives, staff) regarding the conducted World Day for Occupational Health HSE Awareness, Emergency Drills, Ergonomics, and Safety at Work 2017 at its Corporate HEALTHY OHS and Environment Risk Assessment, Head office and across the Company, in Conservation of Environment, How to Handle collaboration with American Society of Safety WORK FORCE IS Chemicals, Affects of Smoking on Health and Engineers (ASSE) and Department of Chemical PRODUCTIVE WORK Energy Conservation etc. The training evaluation Engineering, University of Engineering and is being carried out by evaluating at Performance Technology, Lahore. FORCE observed ( on the job), Oral / Written tests, Demonstration, Questions / interviews. The International Labor Organization (ILO) ix) Wellness Club for the Employees started observing the World Day for Safety and A new initiative has been undertaken by HSE In addition to the above, SNGPL also coordinates Health at Work on April 28, 2003. Globally “World Department regarding development of Wellness with Government agencies e.g Rescue 1122, Day for Safety and Health at Work and Workers’ Club at SNGPL Head Office. It allows employees National High Way and Motorway Police is recognized as a “Memorial Day” – A day to to exercise which in turn will help improve their for conducting the Awareness sessions on think about how our actions can prevent future health. Emergency Response Plan and Defensive work-related deaths, injuries and illnesses, Driving. and a day to remember those who have died Wellness Club has been established in Head x) HSE Trainings from a work-related injury or illness. Workplace Office building basement B-2. This initiative of Training and awareness is an integral part Furthermore, HSE Departments keeps on injury and disease destroys quality of life, social Management would help in improving health and of Company’s HSE Management System and communicating the safety message time to and family activities, affects job prospects, fitness of executives which will ultimately result specific certification training plays important role time across Company through HSE Message of performance and career advancement. in improved productivity. for Continual Professional Development. Training the Day, HSE Bulletin, Safety Posters, Learning sessions are being delivered to all concerned for Events, HSE Booklets on First Aid / Safety Talks / It is pertinent to mention that SNGPL is proud The wellness club was inaugurated on Friday, better identification of hazards and assessment Dengue, Safety Theme of the Month and HSE to conduct World Day for Safety and Health at 17th February 2017 by the worthy Managing of associated risks to which Company employees Videos. Work 2017 across the Company and hence it Director SNGPL, Mr. Amjad Latif. All higher are exposed at their work places especially depicts the Management commitment for the Management of SNGPL also participated in the during execution of various field activities. Status of HSE Trainings for FY2016-17 implementation of Occupational health and inauguration ceremony. While addressing the safety of the employees. 12,423 occasion, worthy Managing Director appreciated Following Training modules are being conducted 15000 the efforts of Health Safety and Environment on regular basis. xii) HSE Internal Audits 12000 (HSE) department for completing the task SNGPL has established a system for Internal within the stipulated time and encouraged 1) Operations and Maintenance Manual of HSE 9000 Auditing in order to check the compliance of HSE the employees to fully participate for getting 5,347 4,618 Management System at all Company sites and 2) Achieving Zero Goal through Accident Prevention 6000 4,255 4,494 maximum benefit from this wellness club to help 2,701 identification of gaps for further improvement. maintain their health & fitness. Upon successful 3) Fire Fighting 3000 Internal auditing is also a requirement of ISO execution of the wellness club, he further 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards to which 4) First Aid 0 advised to establish wellness clubs at other Company is certified. Each site of SNGPL is Insident Emergency Fire Defensive First Aid HSE SNGPL offices as well. 5) Defensive Driving / Road Safety Fighting Driving & OH Awareness being audited biannually by qualified Lead 56 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 57 LABOR PRINCIPLES Auditors. Record of internal audit reports is being maintained and status shared with the top HUMAN RESOURCE Management for further instructions. Internal STRENGTH AT SNGPL auditing activity has played a very important Region / Gender wise summary of Staff as on 30-Jun-2017 role for overall improvement in HSE compliance Sr. Career Term On Contract Basis of the Company. Compliance status of internal No. Regions Female Male Female Male audit conducted in November and December, 1 Abbottabad (D) 1 276 7 2016 is as follows; 2 Bahawalpur (D) 3 234 1 8 NCR’s 2016 (2nd Phase) 3 Faisalabad (D) 9 620 24 120 4 Faisalabad (T) 11 266 1 100 5 Gujranwala (D) 4 262 11 100 100 80 93 93 6 Gujrat (D) 132 6 80 60 7 Head Office 47 719 2 10 40 8 Islamabad (D) 7 562 4 32 20 9 Lahore East (D) 13 632 27 0 10 Lahore West (D) 10 323 1 11 Distribution Transmission Compression Projects Misc 11 Mardan (D) 211 1 xiii) Corrective and Preventive Action Request 12 Multan (D) 6 529 16 Corrective and preventive actions are key 13 Multan (T) 4 483 elements in Occupational Health and Safety 14 Peshawar (D) 2 634 18 Management System (OHSAS 18001) and 15 Project Hq 285 90 Environmental Management System (ISO 14001). 16 Rawalpindi (D) 2 405 24 Corrective action (CA) is an action to eliminate 17 Sahiwal (D) 192 4 the cause of detected non-conformity and its 18 Sargodha (D) 2 202 8 re-occurrence. For example buying a new tyre after getting a puncture. Preventive action (PA) 19 Sheikhupura (D) 4 249 9 is an action to eliminate the cause of potential 20 Sialkot (D) 101 2 non-conformity and its occurrence. For example 21 Wah (T) 1 233 1 filling the petrol tank of your car before its empty Total 126 7,550 9 309 i.e. by watching the petrol gauge problem is avoided. Simply corrective action is a reactive Age Band / Gender wise summary of Staff as on We believe it is the Human Resource who make the approach and preventive action is a proactive 30-Jun-2017 approach. Sr Career Term On Contract Basis organization unique and No. Age Band Female Male Female Male xiv) SNGPL is certified to ISO-14001 and 1 Below 30 43 1168 6 207 OHSAS-18001 standards which pay special emphasis on identification / elimination of 2 30 50 70 4598 3 97 define its reputation for hazards and for controlling / eliminating the hazards corrective and preventive actions are 3 Total Above 50 13 126 1784 7550 9 309 5 excellence taken. SNGPL has devised a procedure “Control Employees by gender minority group and % age give age Employees by employment category gender give % age on non-conformance, Corrective and Preventive group minority group and age group actions” according to which any person can Minority Group Age group Employee Gender Minority Group Age group Gender Muslim Non-Muslim <30 30-50 >50 Category Male Female Muslim Non-Muslim <30 30-50 >50 report a hazard. The CPA form is logged in HSE department and as per standard requirement Male 7440 110 1168 4598 1784 Management its record is maintained. Pending CPA forms are Female 121 5 43 70 13 Staff 7550 126 7561 115 1211 4668 1797 regularly being monitored with great concern till they are adequately closed out. 58 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 59 Employees by employment category gender give % age minority group and age group LABOR PRINCIPLES Employee Gender Minority Group Age group Category Male Female Muslim Non-Muslim <30 30-50 >50 Management 1444 63 1499 8 243 992 272 Staff Region / Gender wise Summary of Staff Region / Gender wise summary of Executives as on 30Region / Gender wise Summary of Staff as on 30-Jun-2017 June-2017 as on 30-Jun-2017 l Employment of Special Persons 800 Sr. Career Term On Contract Basis 400 The Company in accordance with its Corporate 700 350 No. Regions Female Male Female Male Social Responsibility has always given due 600 300 500 1 Abbottabad (D) 37 250 consideration to engage special persons. 400 200 Resultantly, present establishments of Company 300 2 Bahawalpur (D) 4 49 1 150 200 100 comprises a number of special employees. 100 3 Faisalabad (D) 4 56 2 10 50 0 0 The Board of Directors of SNGPL as well as 4 Faisalabad (T) 1 82 1 12 Abbottabad (D) Bahawalpur (D) Faisalabad (D) Faisalabad (T) Gujranwala (D) Gujrat (D) HEAD OFFICE Islamabad (D) Lahore East (D) Lahore West (D) Mardan (D) Multan (D) Multan (T) Peshawar (D) Project HQ Rawalpindi (D) Sahiwal (D( Sargodha (D) Sheikhupura (D) Sialkot (D) Wah (T) Abbottabad (D) Bahawalpur (D) Faisalabad (D) Faisalabad (T) Gujranwala (D) Gujrat (D) HEAD OFFICE Islamabad (D) Lahore East (D) Lahore West (D) Mardan (D) Multan (D) Multan (T) Peshawar (D) Project HQ Rawalpindi (D) Sahiwal (D( Sargodha (D) Sheikhupura (D) Sialkot (D) Wah (T) the Management is also determined to ensure 5 Gujranwala (D) 1 40 5 recruitment against the reserved seats for 6 Gujrat (D) 1 28 2 Special person in the forthcoming recruitment ■ Career Term Female ■ Career Term Male ■ Career Term Female ■ Career Term Male ■ On Contract Basis Female ■ On Contract Basis Male 7 Head Office 37 359 20 40 ■ On Contract Basis Female ■ On Contract Basis Male exercises. During the Fiscal Year 2016-17, 10 8 Islamabad (D) 1 73 2 15 numbers of Special persons were recruited / Age Band / Gender wise Summary of Staff Age Band / Gender wise Summary of Staff as on 30-Jun-2017 as on 30-Jun-2017 hired, as mentioned in next pages. 9 Lahore East (D) 4 75 3 17 5000 10 Lahore West (D) 37 1 1000 4500 900 l Employment of Females / Minorities 4000 11 Mardan (D) 25 1 800 As evident from data provided, SNGPL have 3500 700 3000 12 Multan (D) 1 68 1 16 600 a significant number female employees and 2500 500 2000 13 Multan (T) 2 69 1 5 400 encourage minorities also. The data shows that 1500 14 Peshawar (D) 2 75 12 300 no applicant / employee is discriminated on the 1000 200 500 15 Project Hq 1 137 1 58 100 grounds of their race, nationality, ethnic / social 0 0 origin, religious or political beliefs, age, gender, Career Term Career Term On Contract Basis On Contract Basis 16 Rawalpindi (D) 1 57 2 11 Career Term Career Term On Contract Basis On Contract Basis Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male marital status or disability. All human resource 17 Sahiwal (D) 37 3 ■ Below-30 ■ 30-50 ■ Above-50 ■ Below-30 ■ 30-50 ■ Above-50 decisions are made by utilizing objective 18 Sargodha (D) 34 4 standards that are based on an individual’s Employees by gender minority group and % age give 19 Sheikhupura (D) 52 3 Employees by gender minority group and % age give qualifications and experience as they relate to a age group as on 30-Jun-2017 age group as on 30-Jun-2017 20 Sialkot (D) 1 18 2 particular vacancy. The employment is done on 8000 1600 21 Wah (T) 2 36 purely on Merit basis. 7000 1400 6000 Total 63 1444 33 218 1200 5000 1000 l Awareness Session on Breast Cancer by M/s 4000 800 Pink Ribbon 3000 600 Awareness session on “Breast Cancer” was 2000 Age Band / Gender wise summary of Executives as on 30400 1000 June-17 200 arranged at SNGPL Head Office, in collaboration 0 Sr Career Term On Contract Basis 0 with M/s Pink Ribbon. Muslim Non-Muslim Age Group Age Group Age Group Muslim Non-Muslim Age Group Age Group Age Group <30 between >50 No. Age Band Female Male Female Male <30 between >50 30-50 30-50 SNGPL Management and significant number ■ Male ■ Female 1 Below 30 14 229 27 156 ■ Male ■ Female of female and male employees participated in 2 30 50 47 945 6 54 Employees by employment category gender give % age Employees by employment category gender give % age the session. Mr. Omer Aftab, CEO Pink Ribbon minority group and age group as on 30-Jun-2017 3 Above 50 2 270 8 minority group and age group as on 30-Jun-2017 stressed at the importance of breast cancer 8000 Total 63 1444 33 218 1600 awareness and the steps taken by Pink Ribbon 7000 1400 with respect to the treatment. Ms. Sonia Qaiser 6000 1200 5000 1000 Asst. Manager Pink Ribbon shared the salient Employees by gender minority group and % age give age 4000 group 800 features of the campaign and highlighted its 3000 600 importance. All women are at risk of breast 2000 Minority Group Age group 400 Gender Muslim Non-Muslim <30 30-50 >50 cancer which increases with growing age. It is 1000 200 0 0 the second leading cause of death in females Male 1436 8 229 945 270 Male Female Muslim NonAge Group Age Group Age Group Male Female Muslim NonAge Group Age Group Age Group but its important to mention that it is curable if Muslim <30 between >50 Female 63 0 14 47 2 Muslim <30 between >50 30-50 30-50 detected at an earlier stage. Breast cancer is ■ Management ■ Staff ■ Management ■ Staff a complex disease and there are many factors 60 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 61 LABOR PRINCIPLES There is no force equal to a woman determined to a rise that play a role in its development, such as diet, Pakistani women have fully exhibited their inactivity, and exposure to certain chemicals in the environment. talents in different walks of the life of life whenever given the opportunity. SNGPL also HIGHLIGHTS FOR encourages women by providing them equal 2016-17 Literature regarding the awareness on Breast opportunities in all aspects. To celebrate the Cancer was distributed among the participants. struggle and success of women, a special Female participants purchased Souvenirs as a program was organized in token of ownership. We at SNGPL celebrate “Women Day” every year 310 Celebration of Women Day to acknowledge the individuality and gender Students l International Women’s Day (March 08) is a global equality of Women. On 08th March 2017, Female 71 engaged as Scholarships Interns day celebrating the social, economic, cultural employees thanked SNGPL management for the 47 (including and political achievements of women. The date conducive environment which always encourages Individuals admission fee angaged as & tuition fee) also marks the call to action for accelerating women, ensure gender equality and create an 40 Apprentices awarded to the gender parity. It is celebrated in many countries atmosphere where the women feel safe and Employees children of our availed employees around the world. Its a day when women are motivated. SNGPL Management appreciates and Hajj Facility accepted for their achievements without regards encourage the women empowerment. We believe 10 Handicaps to divisions, whether national, ethnic, linguistic, that there is no tool for development more than recruited cultural, economic or political. the empowerment of women. 62 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 63 Principle 7: Principle 8: 11ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 11. 1 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We are proud to maintain ISO 14001 Certification for our organization. SNGPL makes extensive efforts to reduce energy consumption in its own operations as well as convince its consumers on efficient utilization of energy through improvements in processes, use of energy efficient equipments and changing life style. Clause 1: Environment Policy The Managing Director endorses the SNGPL gases, Promote awareness among the consumers regarding usage of energy efficient appliances/ devices, Coordinate with industrial consumers through Energy Efficiency Audits to assist them in making their processes energy efficient. Clause 3: Environmental Aspects Identification and Risk Assessment SNGPL has established and maintained a procedure for identifying environmental aspect and impact. The HSE Site Committee (HSC) identifies the Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety Policy. The policy is appropriate to the nature, environmental aspects, which the SNGPL Controls and over which it may be expected to have an friendly technologies. scale and environmental impacts of all activities at influence, and determines which of those aspects the SNGPL. The Policy includes a commitment to are considered significant. Environmental aspects continual improvement and prevention of pollution are reviewed as per frequency defined or when there and prevention of hazards & risks for occupational is new / changed process or activity at the SNGPL. health & safety, as well as committed to meet or exceed relevant environmental, occupational Company has also a procedure to monitor and health & safety legislation, regulations and other measure the key characteristics of its operations requirements. and activities that can have a significant impact on the environment and significant risk for occupational Clause 2: Energy Conservation Policy health & safety at SNGPL. These guidelines include SNGPL has formulated Energy Conservation Policy calibration and maintenance requirements and to follow a systematic approach to reduce energy ensures that records will be retained. consumption in our own operations as well as to persuade consumers for efficient utilization of Clause 4: Legal Requirements energy. Under the domain of Energy Conservation The SNGPL has established and maintained a Policy Company endeavours to work on renewable procedure for the purpose of identifying, accessing energy resources, Reduce emissions of green house and communicating legal and other requirements 64 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 65 ENVIRONMENT effective utilization of the available energy. Total 406 captive power industries and 820 boiler industries are audited in the fiscal year 2016-17. l Energy Conservation Devices SNGPL is putting its valuable share towards conservation of natural gas as well as for reducing green house gas emissions by introducing different energy conservation devices including Solar water heaters, Geyser timer devices and conical baffles. These devices are available at SNGPL offices and its cost is recovered from consumer bills through installments. SNGPL, in this way facilitate consumers by providing them such devices on installments which reduces their gas bills. SNGPL do not take any profit on these initiatives. l Energy Efficiency Audit of Captive and Boiler Industries Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited is committed to conserve energy by optimum utilization of energy and making extensive efforts to reduce energy consumption in its own operations as well as convince its consumers through that are applicable to the SNGPL in relation with SNGPL has developed its Energy Conservation Policy Energy efficiency audits of Captive and boiler Environment. Additional information is also available which is implemented across the Company. industries for efficient utilization of energy through legal publications. Local regulations are through improvements in processes, use of identified, accessed and communicated by the energy efficient equipments and changing Management Representative (MR). 11.2 life style. Energy efficiency audit of captive MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME power and boiler industries are conducted as i) SNGPL introduced Solar Water Heater as an SNGPL is putting its valuable share towards We are committed to minimize impact on the per guidelines provided by the Ministry. We alternative to conventional gas water heater. It is conservation of natural gas as well as for reducing environment through pollution prevention, reduction are educating the consumers for adopting environmental friendly as it reduces / eliminates green house gas emissions by introducing different in consumption of natural resource, control energy efficient techniques and equipment for carbon emissions associated with water heating. energy conservation devices including Solar water emissions, and reduction and recycling of waste. The To ensure gas conservation and optimum heaters, Geyser timer devices and conical baffles. company manages its product and processes that Energy Efficiency Audit of Captive Power Industry utilization of natural gas, SNGPL has installed Company has installed a number of these devices at are not harmful to its surroundings and community 120 solar water heaters to our valuable consumers the premises of its consumers saving emissions as by complying to all applicable legal and regulatory 100 at no profit basis. well as conserving valuable resource i.e. natural gas requirements. All Environmental Testing conducted 80 and the practice is going on. by SNGPL under the guideline of NEQS (National 60 ii) Geyser timer device is a timer device for Environmental Quality Standard) provide safe 40 controlling gas consumption SNGPL is also providing guidelines to its industrial environment not only to all employees but also to the 20 through a set program depending consumers on professional basis convincing them stakeholders. It is indeed heartening see companies 0 upon requirement of heated water Lahore Sahiwal Gujranwala Gujrat Islamabad Rawalpindi Peshawar Mardan Abbotabad Faisalabad Sargodha Sheikhupura Multan Bahawalpur regarding energy conservation by conducting energy like playing their part by contributing to the well at a particular hour of the day. efficiency audits and advising them to adopt energy being of the environment and society. It can save 20% to 30% of gas conservation initiatives for making their equipment ■ Total Number of Industries consumption resulting in lesser energy efficient. ■ Industries Above Bench Mark ■ Industries Below Bench Mark gas bills. 66 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 67 ENVIRONMENT iii) Conical baffles improve energy efficiency of the l Earth Hour Celebration conventional geyser significantly. Earth Hour is the world’s largest voluntary action and celebration of our planet. It is an initiative to encourage individuals, businesses and governments around the world to take accountability for their ecological footprint and engage in dialogue and resource exchange that Trees improve our air quality by filtering harmful provides real solutions to our environmental dust and pollutants. Trees absorb carbon dioxide challenges. Participation in Earth Hour, by and potentially harmful gasses, such as sulfur switching off lights for the hour, symbolizes a dioxide, carbon monoxide, from the air and commitment to change beyond the hour. release oxygen. Many species of wildlife depend on trees for habitat. Build a future in SNGPL has plantation of trees at many of its Turn off which human can premises across the Company in Punjab and KPK and through this initiative, Company is the lights l Control of Emissions SNGPL is committed to preserve the live in harmony playing is role towards prevention of pollution and global warming. before you environment by making compliance to all with nature perish applicable laws and codes. A procedure for During the fiscal year 2016-17, SNGPL did environmental monitoring is part of Integrated resources for monitoring of emissions of all plantation at its various locations including SNGPL celebrated the “Earth Hour” across the Management System Manual. In addition, vehicles, generators, stacks and welding plants regional office Sialkot and project camps Company on 18th March 2017, by switching off emission tests of stacks, generators, vehicles with state-of-the-art portable equipments like Sheikhupura, Kacha khu & Manga by planting unnecessary lights from 0800pm to 0900pm. and welding plants are carried out as per LANCOM, TESTO, IMR. A vehicle installed with 580 Nos. of plants of different species including frequency using either in house resources or 3rd Crypton emission analyzer equipment has been grassy plots, flower plants and fruit trees. l Waste Water Monitoring party services. SNGPL has developed In-house specially designed for emission monitoring in Plantation of 800 Nos. of plants is in progress. SNGPL has an established system for monitoring addition to portable devices. The environmental of waste water generated from the locations Total Number of Vehicles Checked impacts of these emissions are covered in To reduce carbon footprint, SNGPL is working where water is use in some process and where 200 environmental risk assessment (wherein the continuously on this initiative and has plan Company offices are provided with HVAC 192 150 current controls and preventive measures are for plantation of trees at its premises where systems. The waste water is drained after 148 132 suggested). sufficient space might be made available. In being examined from third party labs. SNGPL is 100 101 82 an effort to enhance the urban forest cover and committed towards prevention of any polluted 86 81 77 50 69 49 72 50 35 l Tree Plantation raise awareness regarding the importance of waters and efficiently manages its processes to 40 14 Trees improve our air quality by filtering harmful trees, SNGPL and WWF Pakistan has joined avoid such land or water contamination. 37 7 17 6 4 5 0 dust and pollutants. Trees absorb carbon dioxide LHR-D hands for the noble cause of Environment. RWP-D ISD-D BWP-D SWL-D MUL-D ABT-D and potentially harmful gasses, such as sulfur Each Eco-Intern of our International ECO FSD-D PSR-D SGD-D FSD-T MUL-T MUL-C Kacha Khu Camp dioxide, carbon monoxide, from the air and Internship Program is encouraged to plant an NSR Camp Coating Plant Sadiqabad Camp PEQS Limits and SNGPL Concentrations Manga Camp Manga W/S Manga Store CMS release oxygen. Many species of wildlife depend indigenous tree species and share their pictures Total Number of Equipment / Machinery Checked 3500.0 4000 on trees for habitat. Social Media with the hashtag #One Tree One 3500 45 Certificate. 40 3000 35 30 2500 25 As a result of this campaign, in less than a year’s 2000 20 15 time more than 2000 trees have been planted in 1500 10 960.0 5 different communities within Lahore. 1000 0 500 150.0 200.0 80.0 10.0 50.0 1.0 14.0 RWP-D 6.9 ISD-D 8.5 6.0 0.0 0 BWP-D 0.0 In addition to this, SNGPL has also planted SWL-D MUL-D ABT-D FSD-D pH BOD COD TSS TDS Grease Chromium PSR-D SGD-D around 100 number of Trees during Employee FSD-T and Oil Hexavalent MUL-T Kacha Khu Camp NSR Camp Coating Plant Value Sadiqabad Camp Engagement Activity at Changa Manga. Manga Camp ■ PEQS ■ Concentration Manga Store CMS 12 68 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 69 Line Manager. Situations that may cause concern of wrong doings such as fraud, malpractices, include but are not limited to the following: any mismanagement, breach of health and safety law, ANTI-CORRUPTION action that is detrimental to the reputation or profitability of SNGPL, any action that undermines employee or customer rights, any action of abetting or any other illegal or unethical act either on the part of Management, Senior Executives or by fellow employees / workers may include volunteers, consumers in pilferage of gas; any action that contractors and outside agencies or others. may qualify as misconduct as defined and explained in this policy; and any illegal action. The We have a mechanism to provide a confidential and Company prohibits any retaliatory action against an secure mechanism to enable Company employees employee for reporting in good faith, any and other stakeholders to report concerns about suspected violations of proper conduct. behavior that might be unsafe, unlawful, unethical, corrupt, irregular or otherwise contrary to Company 12.2 Values. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME SNGPL upholds its value of never indulging in any Furthermore, we have a well established Anti fraudulent or dishonest act with its employees or Corruption check and balance system in place any third party. SNGPL’s Human Resource (HR) through our Compliance Department (pre audit), Manual is a detailed and comprehensive document Audit department. Public Procurement Rules (PPRA) which addresses the actions to be taken against the are being implemented for the Procurement across concerned who gets involved in any activities like the Company. Our system procedures are stringent fraud, deception, dishonest, bribery and corruption. and are being followed to ensure the transparency Disciplinary Enquiry and Whistle Blowing policy at all levels of business steps. We print the message are in place and are implemented (if required) in “Say No to Corruption” at the back side of Gas Bills. true letter and spirit. Whistle Blowing policy is Hence discourage the corruption at all levels. defined as the reporting by workers or ex-workers Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 12.1 Clause 2: Personal Loans from ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Colleagues & Customers SNGPL code of conducts has a specific clause SNGPL offers a handsome compensation for “Fraud, Deception, Dishonesty, Bribery and package with fringe benefits to facilitate staff with Corruption. Stated below. maintaining a respectable standard of living and for the acquisition of various assets and as such allows Clause 1: Use of SNGPL Information them to borrow sufficient monies from their lenders. Technology Resources Therefore borrowing money from fellow colleagues, Use of SNGPL Information Technology resources is customers or placing oneself under pecuniary strictly limited to business requirements. Employees obligation to a moneylender or broker or subordinate should aware that e-mails are not confidential Company staff or any other person or group having and may be accessed for monitoring purposes. dealings with the Company is strictly forbidden. Any breach of IT security protocol that involves private business use or unsuitable material will Clause 3: Reporting Legal Violations be considered as a misconduct. Employees will be If an employee becomes aware of any improper, accountable for all activities created under their unethical or illegal conduct on the part of a password and subsequently, any unauthorized use of colleague, he / she has a moral obligation to report it a password will be treated as gross misconduct. immediately to their Department Head or 13 70 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 71 ACHIEVEMENTS/AWARDS/MEMBERSHIPS 13.2 MEMBERSHIPS SNGPL is a member of National Safety Council USA since 2011. SNGPL also has a Corporate member of WWF Pakistan. 13.1 AWARDS / ACHIEVEMENTS The accomplishment of SNGPL in the field of CSR Companies are being evaluated for their overall CSR and HSE have been recognized and the Company & HSE best practices not for one offs or short term was awarded with the following distinctions; projects. Particularly good governance, addressing 1Fire Safety Award all key stakeholders, sincerity and ongoing commitment in incorporating ethical values into 2CSR Award (Category Environment and Energy their business; employee health & safety program; Conservation) involvement in community related activities and 3Emission Control Award protection of the environment. 14 15 72 Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited Communication on Progress 2017 73 FEED BACK FORM SUMMARY FOR COP (FOR PERIOD We comply with the 10 Principles of UNGC. Our Business FY 2016-17) OF SNGPL Code of Conduct is a comprehensive documents along with the departmental operational manuals. Code of conduct is being received to every employee on annual basis, to take an undertaking that the same have been read and understood by each and every employee. Further, it is ensured that the system is in place and is being well implemented. We assure to continue our journey towards the acceptance, We’d love to hear from you! Tell us what you think about SNGPL’s COP (Annual implementation, development and compliance to the Principles of UNGC relating to Human Rights, Environment Sustainability covering HSE & CSR) 2016-17 Report. This will help us further and Anti corruption. improve how we put together future annual reports. Through our various activities, sessions and implemented • Name: processes, we continue our journey towards the acceptance, • Company: implementation and development of UNGC Principles relating to Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti• Email Address: Corruption within our operations. Our future outcome is • Contac No: related to strengthening this developmental process and to publish our next Communication on Progress (COP) with a broader spectrum of initiatives with a more focused foothold How would you rate the annual report in terms of the following attributes: within the area of Corporate Social Responsibility. • Presentation of content Average Good Better • Value for information Average Good Better We understand that we have achieved a great deal but have • Style of language Average Good Better a lot more to go to achieve our HSE Vision. We intend to do this by carrying our business in a way that contributes • Level of details provided Average Good Better to safe work place, Environmental Improvement, Stronger • Your overall rating for this report Average Good Better communities and a better future for all our stakeholders. We believe in Continual Improvement and efforts have to be How do you think we can improve our report? (pls give comments in email) directed towards this cause. Send the above form to email at farrukh.majeed@sngpl.com.pk COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS
