John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Contents Introduction Foreword 03 Our vision and values 04 At a glance 05 Our business 06 Our sustainable business 08 Materiality 10 Governing performance 12 People Overview 14 Respecting human rights 16 Investing in our people 18 Health, safety & security of our people 28 Investing in our communities 40 Planet Overview 44 Environmental management 46 and incident reporting Our carbon footprint 48 Tackling climate change 54 Profit Overview 58 Profitability 60 Ethics & compliance 62 Driving innovation 66 Sustainability in projects 70 Foreword This is our first sustainability report; we aim to establish strong foundations Introduction for our new programme, we have identified our key sustainability aspects utilising these as drivers that help shape our values, culture, behaviours and governance. We will continue to build on this over the coming years and shape our approach in an outward looking way which is why we have aligned our goals alongside that of the UN Sustainable Development Goals and renewed our ongoing commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. We mean to make a tangible difference in the way that we operate which delivers benefits People for Wood, our investors and wider society. At my first global leadership conference I chose to speak about sustainability and its wider implications for our business, customers and investors. We live in a volatile world, we need to ensure that we understand geopolitical factors driving markets, we need to be one step ahead Welcome to our first Wood Sustainability Report. of the challenges that climate change Wood came into existence on the 6th October 2017 and resource depletion will inevitably bring. We need to be the source of through Wood Group’s acquisition of Amec Foster ingenuity that brings imaginative Wheeler. Both companies had a long and proud history solutions to the very same challenges Planet that our clients face. We need to deliver of excellence in delivery. sustainable profit through strong, ethical driven relationships built on trust; ensuring these relationships Today, we have created exciting new Ensuring that we continue to look sustain will enable us to forge a long opportunities to create effective outwards is important, it gives us the and prosperous future. solutions across a broad range of vision to anticipate new opportunities industrial markets and become a and plan early to meet challenges with This report has been written to provide global leader in the delivery of project, well thought out solutions. both awareness and guidance on our engineering and technical services. minimum expectations and future In the short term as a business we need aspirations towards maintaining and As a new company it has been very to continue to focus on managing our key growing our business in a way that will important to me to put sustainability on risks and complete the harmonisation of provide a sustainable future for all at our agenda as a critical area we need our governance system. Safe operations Wood. My expectation as CEO is for all to focus effort as we come together. remain our most important issue in the our employees to drive sustainability in The sustainability agenda affects every way that we operate and the projects Profit all our day to day actions; I firmly believe aspect of our business; it’s a big part of we deliver. Tragically in 2017, we lost two we have both the passion and drive to steering the business into a sustainable members of our team. In March 2017 inspire, create new possibilities and build future, economically, environmentally in Amec Foster Wheeler, prior to the an exciting journey ahead. and socially. acquisition, our contractor working on a project site in Poland was struck by Wood does not operate in a bubble; we Robin Watson a reversing lorry, suffering fatal crush are connected to the wider economy Chief Executive injuries. In November 2017, a member of which is connected to a global society, Wood’s E&IS team in Canada struck a operating in a shared environment. moose at speed that had strayed onto We have huge potential to contribute the highway and died of his injuries. to sustainability in all of these areas Wood’s thoughts continue to be with through operating smartly, effectively their families, their loss is keenly felt by and efficiently providing services which their colleagues. These events serve to help our client base, in turn, to be underline that there is nothing more sustainable. important than safety and it remains my commitment to create an environment and culture dedicated to making sure that every member of the team goes home safely every day. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 03 Our vision and values Our vision is to: Inspire with ingenuity, partner with agility, create new possibilities... Our values are: Care Commitment Courage Working safely, with integrity, Consistently delivering to Pushing the boundaries to create respecting and valuing each all our stakeholders smarter, more sustainable other and our communities solutions 04 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 At a glance The acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler (“AFW”) by Wood Group brought together three brands and two companies to create Wood, a global leader in project, engineering and technical services delivery headquartered in Aberdeen, UK. We look to grow by Introduction developing our full service capability across energy and industrial markets. Revenue: Countries: Sector breakdown: c.$10 bn 60+ Oil & Gas 6% Upstream 31% 3% Downstream 26% 4% Power and process 4% 57% Environment and infrastructure 14% People: Mining People c.57,000 Automation Clean energy 12% Other industrial Our operating structure The integration of AFW required only minor modification to our operating structure with many of AFW’s operations being incorporated into our existing Asset Solutions and Specialist Technical Solutions business units with the addition of Environment & Infrastructure Solutions. Investment Services will continue to operate as a separate business unit. Asset Specialist Environment & Solutions (AS) Technical Infrastructure Planet Solutions (STS) Solutions (E&IS) Focused on increasing production, improving efficiency, Provides a range of Provides consulting, reducing cost and extending asset life. Services range specialist services. engineering, project and from initial feasibility and design, through construction, Focused on solving complex construction management operation, maintenance and decommissioning. AS is technological challenges, services. Covers a range split into two regional business groupings; Americas and such as systems integration, of sectors including Europe, Africa, Asia & Australia (EAAA). across a broad range government, water, of energy and industrial transport, energy and sectors. pharmaceuticals. Profit Americas EAAA* Service breakdown: Service breakdown: Service breakdown: Service breakdown: 70% 30% 70% 30% 65% 35% 60% 40% Customer capex driven Customer capex driven Customer capex driven Customer capex driven capital projects capital projects capital projects capital projects Customer opex driven Customer opex driven Customer opex driven Customer opex driven operations services operations services operations services operations services * Excluding Turbines John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 05 Our business Inputs How we create and sustain value Our people deliver project, engineering and technical services Vision and values across a broad range of industrial underpinned by markets Care, Commitment and Courage Project, engineering Our services and technical improve the Feasibility Construct Maintain capability across performance of broad industrial our customers' > > > > > markets industrial assets across the asset Design Operate Decommission life cycle Talented, flexible and motivated workforce We are differentiated by the capabilities of our People: 57,400 people, track record of delivery, know-how and Performance driven range of services and innovative solutions Flexible commercial model with a We employ an asset light, flexible measured risk Reimbursable Smaller Lump sum  and predominantly appetite lump sum/ EPC reimbursable model incentivised >$100m with a measured risk appetite Operating structure optimised for sustainability, agility and future growth In our core oil & gas market we have a Proforma total revenue from oil & gas: 57% strong offering across upstream, midstream and downstream Efficient capital allocation 06 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Revenue analysis Outputs % of proforma total Proforma total Strong shareholder Asset revenue: revenue: returns and progressive Solutions Americas Americas dividend policy (AS) $3.2bn 32% People Reduced cyclicality People 42,500 through broad EAAA EAAA industry exposure Americas 16,800 $3.7bn 38% EAAA 25,700 Leading technical % of proforma total Proforma total services and smarter, Specialist revenue: revenue: more sustainable Technical Solutions $1.3bn solutions (STS) Planet 13% People Track record on 7,600 industry leading projects % of proforma total Proforma total Environment & revenue: revenue: Global reach with Infrastructure Solutions 13% $1.3bn balanced portfolio of long term partner (E&IS) relationships with Profit customers People 7,300 Significant contribution to % of proforma total Proforma total local employment Investment revenue: revenue: and communities Services 4% $0.4bn Rewarding careers and focus on retention John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 07 Our sustainable business Our sustainability, or long-term future as a Wood operates within a wider economy, which in turns operates successful business, relies upon our ability to within a global society all within one environment, our planet. We have balance economic, social and environmental a responsibility to operate in a way issues in our decision making processes, across which allows the environment, society and economy to flourish. our business. We believe that doing this well It is neither responsible nor is the key to being a great company, helping acceptable to make a profit at any cost. Who would want to work for a ensure we identify and manage risk and company which exploited people and communities or caused irreversible opportunities. environmental destruction? We are committed to living our values and principles and caring for people our planet and sustainable profit; planning our future not just the here and now but in the decades to come; ensuring we act responsibly in a way that sustains our business, contributes to the economy and society we live in as well as the world we all share. Our approach is simple; focussing People on three factors , Social (People), Environmental (Planet) and Economic (Profit). Our strategy embeds sustainable practice into every aspect of our business; ensuring our approach aligns to global priorities and the part Wood plays in a sustainable future for Bearable Equitable us all. Our People, Planet and Profit model allows us to clearly demonstrate the Sustainable key risks and opportunities we face, how our strategy aims to tackle these issues and how we link this to the Planet Viable Profit global agenda and our contribution to the wider economy. 08 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Aligning our sustainability agenda with the global challenges identified under the United Introduction Nations Sustainable Development Goals Agreed by all UN Member states and launched in September 2015, the sustainable development goals focus on 17 key areas with 169 underlying global targets that seek to create a sustainable world. Tackling a broad range of social and economic development issues the global goals promote a socially fair, economically secure, prosperous and inclusive planet; which our Wood sustainability strategy supports and aims to work towards. In each section of this report we make reference to the Sustainable Development Goals, detailing the associated targets most relevant to our areas of focus and where our efforts in these areas contribute to global development goals. Our approach Our focus United Nations sustainable development goals People Respecting human rights People Investing in our people Health, safety & security of our people Investing in our communities Planet Environmental management and incident reporting Our carbon footprint Planet Tackling climate change Profit Profitability Ethics & compliance Driving innovation Profit Sustainability in projects John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 09 Materiality developing our programme & report Wood’s approach to sustainability will evolve United Nations Sustainable over time, as a business we are still exploring Development Goals what sustainability means to us and our We undertook a review of the goals to establish how we, as Wood, our people stakeholders and, like all effective sustainability and activities, as well as the services we provide and use, contributed and/ programmes, this will change and evolve. or impacted on each of the Goals. From this work we could see that, although they were all relevant to us We conducted our first sustainability programme materiality assessment in there were some that were of more November 2017. The objective of this work was to consider a broad range of aspects relevance to Wood than others. We across the people, plant, profit agenda in terms of Wood’s footprint and alignment used this output to help us to identify to the global agenda through the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. the elements of our programme. Understanding our risks There is an increasing demand from investors and non financial stakeholders for transparency around actual risks arising from the impacts of our operations. Being open and honest is core to Wood’s values and behaviours, transparency that comes with reporting on material issues such as our significant risks provided in Wood’s Annual Report and Accounts (p32-35). We have used the company risk register to inform our sustainability programme and contribute to the development, understanding and management of risk through our programme. Looking back to our history Wood was formed by the coming together of two long established companies and, therefore, it has been essential to ensure we look at what had gone before. To be clear we are not following the same trajectory as either Amec Foster Wheeler or Wood Group – we are forging a new path which is informed by our heritage. Wood is a new company but it has been important to take stock of the aspects identified as important to our stakeholders in the heritage businesses and the basis on which those aspects were determined to ensure these stakeholder needs are reflected in our future thinking. Many great tools, thoughts, processes and ideas were born in our heritage companies which we have made sure to retain, this will help us to develop and mature our approach. 10 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Outlining our initial impact areas Our report Introduction Sustainability is an all-encompassing agenda, clearly we In order for the information in this first report to be meaningful, cannot tackle all aspects therefore it was important for us we have identified the content that reflects our significant to draw out the tangible issues which will help build capacity economic, environmental, and social impacts which influence and be of greatest value to the business. We undertook an the decisions made in our business. These topics include those assessment taking into consideration the maturity of the that have a direct or indirect impact on our ability to create, business, progress towards integration, risks and opportunity preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value of to the business in the short and medium term. This assessment Wood, our stakeholders, the environment, and society at large. is a ‘snap shot’ of where we are now and we will need to This includes our operations and activities which lead to positive frequently revisit this as our programme develops to ensure we and negative economic, environmental and social impacts. We continue to focus on our material elements as we mature. have used the Global Compact and Global Reporting Initiative to help us to organise our report, although we have much to do The elements identified as the highest value to Wood have to align with them. become the foundations of our new sustainability programme. We have drawn on progress in our legacy and, where sensible to People do so, presented amalgamated information which will serve as a baseline for development. We have taken the view that our report should enable internal and external stakeholders to understand our approach and raise awareness of our material aspects. However, we understand that material reporting helps mitigate and improve our impact on society, local economy and environment through focusing on specific issues. Materiality mapping Ethics Planet HIGH Licence to operate People and engagement Supply chain Health and safety Environmental management Labour relations Likelihood of impact Environmental technology Waste production Community relations Transport Driving innovation Biodiversity Human Rights Indirect economic impacts Product and service labelling Profit Degree of impact HIGH John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 11 Governing performance At Wood we recognise the importance of We understand the importance of assessing our economic, social and instilling strong governance to how we manage environmental risks and opportunities. Assessing how these elements interrelate our triple bottom line performance. Good helps us improve the way we do business, governance must extend beyond the traditional build sustainable value and provide transparency to our internal and external accurate and fair financial accounting, which stakeholders including our investors. does not take into consideration our social Embedding and raising awareness of interaction or environmental impacts. our new Wood Ethics Code of Business Conduct and Wood Supply Chain Code Our report aims to measure the financial, will be a key focus in 2018. Wood’s reputation, built over many years, social and environmental performance of the depends on consistently doing the right business over the last 12 months. thing; both our ethics and supply chains codes of conduct will serve as the base expectations on how we conduct and manage our business interactions. Governance Model Protecting Managing Creating Wood has put in place a governance stakeholder rights risk value structures which seek to ensure the and interests company operates in line with our values, maximising opportunity but not making a profit at any cost. Our corporate mandatory policies and Overall performance procedures are cascaded throughout the business, these provide the architecture of Woods governance framework. This framework is developing as the business harmonises Economic Environmental Social heritage management systems. The performance performance performance model to the right and below sets out how we govern our business. Role of the Board and Committees At the highest level Wood has put in place Board Committees which seek to ensure that Wood acts with the highest level of integrity. These Committees cover the triple bottom line people, planet and profit. Board The Board focuses its time and energy on strategy, significant acquisitions, the annual budget and performance against it, monitoring the performance of the management team and risk management, specifically focusing on principal risks and the overall system of internal control. The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) and the Board Committees – the Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. Safety, Assurance & Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Business Ethics Monitors and reviews Responsible for compliance Committee Committee the structure, size and with financial reporting Advises the Board on Responsible for the composition of the Board, standards, consideration of executive remuneration Group’s safety strategy makes recommendations the internal financial and and sets the packages and performance and with regard to any changes IT control environment and of each of the executive for ensuring compliance and ensures board the relationship with the directors within the with laws and regulations succession plans are in external auditor. approved Remuneration including business ethics. place. Policy. 12 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 We recognise the need to extend our management of environmental, social and economic impacts to our supply chain and understand its importance in bringing sustainable business value to Wood. We have a wide reaching and diverse portfolio of Introduction approved suppliers and strategic partnerships Spanning: 60+ Countries 30,000 People Approximate no. of suppliers across a range of energy, process and utility markets $3.5bn Annual spend on third party materials and services Planet Business Case for Sustainability Understanding our broad range of stakeholders is vital to creating a sustainable business. The traditional business model of aiming to solely create value for shareholders is often at the expense of others; where creating a sustainable business looks at multiple stakeholders from a social, environmental an economic perspective; an approach often referred to as the Triple Bottom Line. • Our business requires a healthy, diverse workforce that is content to deliver future growth • We operate in a wider society and our business can only operate long term in a local economy that is thriving; placing focus Profit on our supply change and connections with our local community • We rely on the natural resources provided by the planet we share; efficient and responsible stewardship of resources will ensure these are available in the future to sustain our operations John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 13 People Sustainability starts with people, our greatest asset. Wood is a great company and through People our people we want to be known as a 'good citizen' of the world; responding to the needs of our people and the communities where we operate, nurturing and supporting future generations. Respecting human rights This section of the report looks at how Investing in our people we build sustainable practice into the social aspect of our business and the Health, safety & security of our people challenges we feel are appropriate to ensuring a balanced and fair society. Investing in our communities 14 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Respecting Investing in our people human rights People are the heart of our business, People Ensuring we maintain a standard of ensuring we provide a fair, equal and business that complies with the law, consistent approach to employment respects the rights of others and protects will help us attract, develop, manage human rights is crucial to the long term and retain our workforce. Building future of Wood and our operations. a diverse and inclusive working environment gives Wood flexibility in We pride ourselves on being a responsible our operations and positions us well employer and recognise the global role we for the challenges of tomorrow. play; aside from it being the right thing to do, it also makes good business sense to respect human rights. Planet Profit Health, safety & Investing in our communities security of our people Engaging with our communities is vital The health, safety and security of to the role Wood plays in our wider our employees and those we work society. Investing in our communities with is our number one priority. It’s helps support, maintain and fundamental for our business in order demonstrate we care about building a to continue that we take care of our sustainable future that aims to address people and responsibly manage the both local and global challenges. work we undertake in a healthy, safe and secure way. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 15 People Respecting human rights Wood is committed to the Human rights are embedded in our approach to business ethics and our shared company values that guide our protection and enhancement collective behaviours and our belief in ‘doing the right thing’. Integrity is the cornerstone of our business that allows us to of internationally proclaimed maintain the respect of our people, customers and suppliers. human rights. We understand the We understand the importance of continually accessing the importance of addressing and risk to human rights in our operations and wider supply chain to ensure we enhance the systems and policies in place to help upholding basic human rights drive continuous improvement. issues and this is reflected in Our business ethics policy/code of business conduct guides our employees on our day to day business, applicable wherever the culture of our organisation, in the world we operate and on whatever we are working on. Alongside our supply chain code of conduct we expect our values, policies and code of those working on our behalf to also follow our direction, conduct. with specific reference to human and labour rights, health, safety and environment, ethics, compliance and legal requirements. All Wood personnel have a duty to report breaches of our business ethics policy/code of business conduct and our third party hotlines are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and in over 100 languages. 16 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Modern slavery and human Business collaboration on Human rights related Introduction trafficking worker welfare Sustainable Development In our published statements on Modern We recognise the need and importance of Goals (SDG) Slavery and Human Trafficking we sector and cross sector collaboration to An example of some of the SDG acknowledge our responsibility to ensure have a meaningful impact on modern day targets relative to our business in our people, as well as those in our value issues. We participated in the design of, relation to Human Rights: chain are not subject to any form of and are a founding member of Building modern slavery, whether this is human Responsibly, a global business-led, trafficking or forced and bonded labour. business-financed initiative formed by Raising awareness of modern slavery six leading engineering and construction is a priority for our business and key companies and launched in March 2017. to improving our policies, procedures The mission: and systems that tackle these issues as well as ensuring legal compliance in To promote the rights and welfare 8.7 Take immediate and effective the countries we operate. Training plays of workers in the engineering and measures to eradicate forced labour, People an important part of our approach to construction industry by developing end modern slavery and human raising awareness across our operations; common approaches and standards, trafficking with a focus on the areas of our business sharing learning and tools, and engaging 8.8 Protect labour rights and with a higher potential to face human workers and other stakeholders on the promote safe and secure working rights and slavery issues and improving specific challenges companies face. environments for all workers, our ability to spot indicators of risk as we including migrant workers maintain and grow our business. The Focus: • Recruitment practices 16.2 End abuse, exploitation, trafficking and all forms of violence Modern Slavery Awareness • Working and living conditions: against and torture of children Training • Subcontractor and supply chain 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption practices and bribery in all their forms In 2017 both legacy companies worked to raise awareness around modern slavery The initiative is facilitated by Business 16.B Promote and enforce nonand human trafficking. In legacy Wood for Social Responsibility (BSR), who discriminatory laws and policies for Planet Group face to face awareness sessions hold the Secretariat, with backing from sustainable development were conducted with relevant personnel Humanity United. in both our Supply Chain and People & Organisation functions on the new In 2018 we will look to expand our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking member base as well as launch our Statement. Building Responsibly principles. In Amec Foster Wheeler this was done in the form of computer-based training on a risk-based approach, targeting individuals in each business with a risk of exposure to modern slavery and human rights issues. This part of our business issued a nonfinancial KPI within the company's previous sustainability report to achieve a 95% Profit completion rate of targeted employees; this target was reached with awareness training reaching 5,866 employees. Number of employees in scope: 6,149 Number of employees completing the full training module: 5,866 Percentage complete: 95% John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 17 People Investing in our people Operating in over 60 countries, Developing full potential employing around 57,000 people Our approach our business relies upon the In Wood our talent strategy focuses on identifying, attracting, nurturing and retaining talent across the whole of our business. talent, efficiency and drive of our We believe in promoting a diverse, adaptive and equal culture employees to ensure our collective that ensures a fair and balanced approach to employment and conditions for all. success and the growth of our Building a sustainable workforce business. Wood takes a holistic Wood is committed to developing local talent in the regions overview of our people and their we operate. Investing in local nationalisation plans not only capabilities to provide the right contributes to the local economy, but benefits the employee, their communities and makes economic sense for our business people, in the right place, at the to grow on a sustainable foundation. right time and at the right cost. We believe investment in graduate, apprentice and entry level positions will ensure a sustainable future for our company and the industries we are a part of. Focusing on effective recruitment processes from our in-house teams makes us well placed to identify great people aligned to our standards, culture and diverse business. Our focus on improving the efficiency of how we recruit allows us to react faster, become more cost effective, improve the candidate experience and deliver to our customers. 18 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Investing in skills Workforce engagement Employee development Introduction Identifying performance and potential At Wood we aim to create a positive Sustainable Development is vital to ensuring we develop our working environment for our employees. employees and allow growth from We know that an employee, who feels Goals (SDG) within to fill key leadership and critical valued and engaged, will positively An example of just some of the SDG roles across Wood. We undertake talent promote a healthy workplace culture targets relative to our business in relation to investing in our people: reviews on a regular basis to continually that in turn will benefit not just monitor and harness the wealth of themselves but our business as a whole. experience in our business and ensure Culture plays a hugely important part continuity of management roles and in establishing Wood and critical to our development of high potential talent. success is employee understanding; To ensure a sustainable structure we alignment and engagement around our regularly review and adapt our processes vision, values, behaviours; and leadership. By 2020 to assess their continued effectiveness. The creation and final draft of our vision, 8.6 Substantially reduce the People At Wood we take a blended approach vales and behaviours was the culmination proportion of youth not in to learning and believe ‘on the job’ of six month’s engagement with our employment, education or training experience is often crucial to achieve workforce, involving 5,552 survey responses, a more rounded development of skills, hundreds of interviews and dozens of knowledge and behaviour to support our workshops across five continents; a By 2030 employees to reach their full potential; truly inclusive approach to engaging our 8.5 Achieve full and productive of course, in support of this we have workforce and a precedent set for our employment and decent work for all dedicated technical competency and approach going forward as Wood. women and men, including for young training programs. people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value We believe everyone at Wood has the Leadership opportunity to grow their own career; for this reason we hold ongoing discussions Vision 5.1 End all forms of discrimination with employees to ensure their against all women and girls aspirations are aligned with business everywhere Planet needs and opportunities. We promote 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective regular discussions between employees participation and equal opportunities and management to encourage People for leadership at all levels of decisionconstructive dialogue; working towards rs making in political, economic and clear performance goals. We take a io u public life lu coaching method to learning that builds Va av es eh 16.7 Ensure responsive, inclusive, trust and support internally with a focus B participatory and representative on regular feedback throughout the decision-making at all levels year; in turn this builds on our healthy workplace culture and has benefits L e a d e rs h i p to both employee and the business in retaining talent. We post internal global vacancies in a central location to provide a fair recruitment process for all. 5,552 Survey responses Profit Career 121 58 management Assessment Performance Internal interviews Workshops & selection development Leadership development Learning 20 5 External interviews Continents Succession management John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 19 Case study Investing in skills: developing potential Attracting talent: graduate development In 2016 we initiated plans to roll out a graduate development programme in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia as part of our ongoing commitment to developing local talent in the country. We aimed to recruit five Saudi national graduate engineers into the programme and develop them according to the international standards of the oil and gas industry, while supporting supporting Wood projects in Saudi Arabia. Following an extensive recruitment campaign and a cycle of assessments, we were delighted to introduce not five, but six highly talented graduates who officially joined our Al-Khobar office in May 2017. The graduates were enrolled into the graduate development programme – a structured two-year development pathway which involves classroom training combined with handson experience. “We have a strong focus on attracting young talent to the industry and having structured At Wood we believe people are our greatest programmes in place to support asset. Our focus on developing talent and develop them to their full potential. These programmes across the breadth of our business is link into Wood’s continuing demonstrated in our approach to how we investment into Science, attract, develop and retain people within Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) activities, our business. Investing in skill sets of our inspiring young people to remain employees reaps rewards for Wood and engaged in STEM subjects at more importantly the individual. school – which we feel is key to the long-term sustainability of the industry”. Wood People and Organisation Director, Saudi Arabia 20 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Investing our skillsets: Introduction Partnering with the Prince’s Trust Using the skills and expertise of our people to inspire the next generation is rewarding not just for those on the receiving end but for our employee and their personal development. Our nuclear business in the UK has worked for some time with The Prince’s Trust (Mosaic) which inspires young people from deprived communities to realise their talents and potential. People A number of volunteers from the nuclear business have already Developing talent: The majority of learning will take participated in mentoring sessions place on the job by shadowing leaders of tomorrow current business/contract managers; as part of our support to Mosaic’s secondary school programme. This Sponsored by our leadership teams, allowing individuals to gain exposure offers a package of opportunities the accelerated business manager to client and contract management, that includes inspirational speaker programme is a 12 month development as well as real responsibility to deliver presentations and Mosaic’s World programme aimed at individuals operationally. of Work (WoW) visits, alongside identified as being capable of connecting students to positive role To further support their development, undertaking a business/contract models who combine life experience individuals are invited to participate manager role in the future. Business/ with a structured programme to in two formal learning weeks and a contract managers play a key role to the help raise their confidence, selfnumber of informal learning initiatives, Planet success of Wood and as such, we need to efficacy and future employability. where the content focuses on leading The WoW visits complement our have a strong pipeline of globally mobile self, leading others and leading the mentoring activities and addresses business leaders capable of delivering business. issues including low motivation, flagship projects and embracing future industry challenges. It is our aim that successful individuals lack of goals and ambitions for the future and lack of awareness of will be placed into a business/contract The programme aims to make the most opportunities with local companies. manager role within two years of of an individual’s potential, talent and completing the programme. Wood’s WOW day involved a experience, while giving them the skills group of students aged 13 to 15 and opportunity to lead Wood into the “The programme has been years who were invited to spend a future and develop their own long-term invaluable to me in terms day at our Warrington office and career. laboratories. The students had the of both development and opportunity to safely interact with Individuals are identified via the talent opportunities By relocating a range of engineering equipment, review and development centre processes to a foreign assignment in completing tasks such as scanning Profit and nominated by regional management. Kazakhstan, I was not only metal to ensure it was free from Once selected to participate in the impurities and constructing a 50cm programme individuals are encouraged exposed to cultural awareness high tower; testing skills such as to take ownership of their development and nationalisation challenges, innovative thinking, problem solving and progress, and make the most of the but also to a business stream I and efficiency. exciting opportunities the programme was previously unfamiliar with. will present. “My hope is that by our By rotating around the various Throughout the programme participants employees taking the time departments and spending time take part in a combination of stretching to engage with the younger in project controls, construction, assignments, formal and informal generation, we will help learning experiences and mentoring. contracts and project them to see that these jobs Assignments are driven by real Wood management, I was able to are attainable and excite business priorities and provide individuals gain a holistic view of the overall with the opportunity for international them so that they actively project cycle, which I am now experience. pursue careers in science putting into practise as a Project and engineering” Manager” Vice President, Wood Nuclear Programme participant Service line John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 21 Case study STEM: developing the workforce of tomorrow Commercial greenhouse in Iceland using geothermal energy Supporting the students at the University of Alberta Providing mentoring support to students has always been important for Wood. In 2017 when the University of Alberta approached Wood to support their materials engineering course for senior undergraduates we didn’t hesitate to get involved. Undertaking a design challenge on geothermal energy, we acted as the customer, defining the scope of the problem and requiring a solution. Currently, geothermal energy At Wood we recognise our role in supporting is exploited in relatively few locations, the engineers of tomorrow. People are our but it is a potential source of low carbon energy in many more places. business and it is in our interests to maintain Large future expansion is possible in and promote the skills pipeline that will some parts of the world, with many make our business and the sectors we work hundreds of new wells envisaged. However, to be viable, these facilities in sustainable now and in the future. require materials that are both reliable and cost effective, while meeting a range of other demands on their Like many others in our sector we believe early education is key to promoting performance. awareness and helping target the source of any potential future skill gap. Working with schools, colleges and groups we develop and deliver activities Each year our vibration, dynamics and that highlight STEM (science technology, engineering and mathematics) noise team within AIS hires interns from subjects in a fun and engaging way. As well as meeting our own needs this the University of Calgary’s mechanical work aids the industries we operate in and supports the UN Sustainable engineering department for 16 month Development Goal on quality education. terms, as well as funding an annual engineering student scholarship. Our experts also provide a guest lecture in vibration. 22 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction People Supporting STEM in Also in Houston, Wood took part in Supporting tomorrows Girls Exploring Math and Science Houston (GEMS), one of Houston's most engineering week and In 2017 our Houston colleagues notable events for exposing young the women engineering celebrated a fifth year volunteering women to STEM. The event, hosted at society to share their passion for engineering the Houston Natural Science Museum with eager young minds of students by the Girl Scouts of San Jacinto Our colleagues in North East between the ages of 10 and 15. Council, brings together local STEM England, UK supported tomorrow’s Organised by the Boy Scouts of organisations and companies that engineers’ week in November 2017 America, the program has so far offer fun activities and demonstrations through creating their very own introduced 300 boys and girls to for kids of all ages, while middle and Lottie doll, helping promote the high school students compete by #Lottietour in partnership with the Planet professions from various industries to learn how they apply science, presenting their own STEM projects. Women Engineering Society (WES). technology, engineering and math GEMS welcomed more than 1,700 (STEM) in the workplace. visitors this year and the Wood table Created to empower children to allowed them to create their own lava be them-selves, Lottie dolls are Wood provides students in Katy, lamp using a test tube, coloured water, made to look like children reflecting Texas, with an overview of engineering oil and Alka Seltzer. Our experiment a balance of gender, ethnicity in the oil and gas industry over two was a resounding success! and ability. The dolls are aimed organised semesters per year. Each at engaging primary school girls semester has four sessions: Offshore Introducing girls to women role in engineering and STEM; if a Facilities, Subsea, Onshore and models in STEM industries is a vital young girl can see a doll that looks Automation, which cover some of part of how we will be successful in like them, taking part in real-life Wood’s core business divisions. Held helping women to join and stick to STEM careers. This is important not STEM activities, then they can at the Wood Park Ten campus on the only to our industry, but also to our start to imagine themselves going west side of Houston, each session future success as a company. into STEM, and hopefully install a has a set agenda with an introduction, Profit passion as they progress through safety moment, ice breaker, presentation, activity and closeout. “GEMS is really a good way school and future careers. to introduce girls to science. Our doll Mia wears a cochlear “The overall intent of the It was very interactive and implant, which is part of her story program is to educate, enthuse entertaining such that rather than a focal point. Mia was and energize students about (hopefully) more girls will go created through a collaboration the activities engineers perform. into the STEM field. Overall, with 'Toy Like Me', a not-for-profit organisation, campaigning for In addition to the engineering it’s a really good event to diversity in the toy-box ; promoting topics, we try to incorporate attract kids to be more better representation of disabilities. a sense of collaboration, interested in science. So, they Mia had a busy week as she communication and teamwork know science is not boring, but travelled to site in a Wood van, as running themes throughout interesting!” climbed an overhead line, reviewed drawings and attended an event. the semesters.” Wood sr. process engineer Throughout the week Wood posted Program manager and Wood’s subsea on social media providing updates support team lead on Mia’s adventures. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 23 Diversity & Inclusion Wood is committed to creating a more diverse workforce and inclusive environment, where diversity of thought is both encouraged and enabled throughout our business. Our customers, suppliers and Gender Diversity Performance Male Female shareholders are increasingly global and diverse. By attracting and retaining In 2017 we continued our focus on gender Board 67% 33% the best people from the global talent diversity, in particular at a leadership ELT 70% 30% pool, creating a variety of perspectives level. We believe in the benefits a broad range of backgrounds, experience and Leadership team that stimulates greater creativity and 72% 28% thought can bring to the management of (incl. ELT) innovation, we will be better placed to understand, respond and deliver to their our operations. Functions 62% 38% unique expectations. In turn we will Operations 95% 5% become a more sustainable, resilient and Gender diversity profitable business. Our diversity and inclusion efforts are 82% 18% centred on the following areas: • Leadership and vision • Communication and engagement • Culture and behaviours • Recruitment and talent management • Business development • Community impact • Measurement and evaluation Each area of focus is founded on the principles that we encourage fair employment practices worldwide, offer equal opportunities to all our employees and that meritocracy drives our actions, decisions and employee advancement. Thought processes Functional specialism Geographic location Personality Behaviour I n c l u si Work experience Pastimes Carer/caregiver li t y o Personal traits Thinking style u a Accent The range of visible and Perspectives q invisible differences Life Skills that make us the individuals that we are experience n Sexual Creating and E Creed orientation Disability Seniority maintaining a work Language environment and Belief culture where all Gender Working style individual differences are respected and the Religion Family Values Educational value of difference is Ensuring equality of status not only recognised but opportunity for all our Heritage Ancestry positively encouraged Colour people by eliminating Citizenship Communication style discrimination, bias and prejudice Race Diversity Age Nationality Gender re-assignment Ethnicity Marital status 24 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Sustainability Innovation Partnership Appreciated Encouraged New ideas Understanding Developed Belonging For our Creative Solutions customers For our Valued Supported Technical excellence Connected people Cost Respect Problem solving Engaged efficiency Communication People Diversity Inclusion Involved Opportunities Vision and values Equality Respected Growth Market focus Global brand Corporate social For Wood Profitability responsibility Planet Employee Sustainability engagement Attraction Productivity Retention Supporting the wider Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) An example of just some of the SDG targets relative to our business in relation to diversity and inclusion: Profit By 2030 10.2 empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status 10.3 Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of outcome, including by eliminating discriminatory laws, policies and practices and promoting appropriate legislation, policies and action in this regard John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 25 Case study Building a diverse and inclusive workplace Strengthening our trades At Wood we recognise the benefits a diverse workforce can bring to our projects. We believe striking a better gender balance in our resource sector leads to improved safety, workplace relations and team performance by introducing a variety of opinions, backgrounds and thinking styles which contribute to better decision making. This is perhaps best demonstrated on our Hebron project, Canada. Underpinned by a strong diversity programme – which has achieved 18 percent / 240 female employees – the team recently set a safety record of 40 million man hours without an LTI. In Australia women make up 49.7 percent of the overall Australian workforce across all industries, but within technicians and trade the split is 88 percent male and 12 percent female. In 2017, we saw one example from our business demonstrate this commitment to diverse opportunity; at a petrochemical refinery in Queensland, Australia where Wood provides ongoing electrical and mechanical maintenance We embrace diversity and promote an services along with projects and shutdowns. For the shutdown project inclusive environment that respects, we were able to successfully source a welcomes and encourages our people to blue collar team that comprised of 20 percent females. contribute to our success. We believe that Also in Australia, but slightly further to develop our business and our people we north at another Wood contract need to provide the opportunity for all to a winter maintenance campaign completed with a team made up of 16 contribute; ensuring we are better prepared percent female trade hires. to understand and deliver to our customers, Inclusive diversity is the alignment of Wood’s practices, leadership, culture, In turn providing us a more sustainable and values and systems to create an profitable business. environment where employees feel respected, valued and included in the Our aim to build an inclusive working organisation. An inspiring vision, one that we will continue to champion environment is evolving and we are when mobilising for future projects across our business. committed to remaining curious and learning from our people. 26 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction When diversity becomes Building equality Supporting indigenous People part of our DNA Wood’s aim is to promote a safe, youths At the end of 2016, the Tees Valley inclusive and diverse working In our Australia business Wood diversity and inclusion committee environment that encourages a was proud to announce a two year set themselves a number of culture of respect and equality for charitable partnership extension actions, one of which was to try everyone regardless of their sexual with the Girls Academy. and obtain the UK Government’s orientation or gender identity. For the second year we took part Wood first entered into our 'disability confident' accreditation. in London Pride Parade on July partnership with Role Models The disability confident scheme 8th 2017; taking to the streets and Leaders Australia (RMLA) in analyses how a business attracts of London to celebrate LGBT February 2016 to support their talent, as well as how they retain culture. The theme for the year was Girls Academy programme across and develop staff. It aims to #lovehappenshere, in recognition 40 sites Australia-wide. ensure that employers support of the fact the global battle for The Girls Academy mission existing employees who have a true equality is far from over, and is to develop and empower Planet disability or long-term health rights hard won can be threatened, Aboriginal high school girls condition, and ensure their skills attacked and taken away. through leadership training, and experience are both retained Representatives from different mentoring, sport and extraand developed, as well as ensuring parts of our business marched curricular programmes. To date, that recruitment processes are as as part of a much larger Wood has offered opportunities inclusive and accessible as possible. #BuildingEquality group, to Indigenous girls, including site Legacy Amec Foster Wheeler was which included many of the big tours of oil & gas facilities, career awarded the disability confident engineering and construction advice and coaching, provision of committed accreditation in 2017 companies in the UK. Although we iPads and financial assistance of as a result of the dedication are competitors in the work field, AUD $60,000. and passion employees have for there was no competition between In our next chapter of partnership, creating a diverse and inclusive the groups on the day – just a Wood’s goal is to help create workplace. good amount of laughter, great and embed an environment discussion and a huge desire to Profit This reflects the best kind show how diverse and progressive within schools where Indigenous Australian girls receive the support of Diversity & Inclusion, our industry can be. needed to help them realise their where it’s in the DNA of full potential, all in support of the our people, who take the It was indeed a very Girls Academy’s adage: Develop a initiative to make things positive experience, a great girl, change a community. happen because they believe feeling of inclusion and unity it’s the right thing to do and and positive energy. I’m not feel passionate about it sure I’ve ever seen so many smiles in one day. I am very Wood senior vice president, People & Organisation, Oil, Gas & Chemicals grateful I could be part of this Wood employee, London Canary Wharf office John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 27 People Health, safety & security of our people Our expectation is simple, that We have an HSSEA culture where strong leadership, personal accountability and a commitment to achieving excellence in wherever we work, our people HSSEA are the anchor points for how we conduct our business. We have a roadmap for improvement where we acknowledge are secure, injury and ill health our challenges, learn from each other and drive best practice. free. Ensuring that our people don’t get hurt does not happen by chance we plan for success. 28 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Health and wellbeing at Wood The Wood global occupational health strategy has been built on a Introduction Health and Safety related For Wood, sustainability is not just four cornerstone model on which a Sustainable Development Goals about putting measures in place to sustainable improvement on health and (SDG) have a healthy workforce but also about wellbeing can be achieved though better supporting healthy communities in the An example of just some of understanding of the health hazards areas that the organisation operates. the SDG targets relative to our faced in the organisation, better decision business in relation to health and Already within the two legacy making through use of the Occupational sefety operations localised health initiatives Health Standards in mitigating against have successfully raised overall health the health risks faced and increased awareness. understanding of health matters across the whole organisation. However the joining of the two organisations has now given the The use of health focal points in all parts opportunity to develop a global of the business to help raise awareness occupational health and wellbeing on occupational health and wellbeing will People strategy that not only focuses on the help strengthen the key preventive and By 2020 traditional occupational health hazards, proactive measures necessary to combat both communicable diseases seen 3.6 Halve the number of global but also on improving the wellbeing of within the organisation and reduce the deaths and injuries from road staff and of the communities it operates burden of ill-health as a consequence of traffic accidents in as well. 2018 will see the roll out of 13 Occupational Health Standards to direct hazardous exposures; it will also promote how, on a global scale the health of our healthy lifestyles to support both physical By 2030 people will be managed and supported and mental wellbeing. 3.3 End the epidemics of AIDS, going forwards in Wood. 'The wealth of business depends tuberculosis, malaria and neglected on the health of the workers.' tropical diseases and combat hepatitis, water-borne diseases World Health Organisation and other communicable diseases 3.4 reduce by one third premature Planet mortality from non-communicable diseases through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being Understand and manage Encourage and support impact of work on health general wellbeing includes 3.9 Substantially reduce the potential for adverse effects physical and mental wellbeing number of deaths and illnesses to develop as a consequence and providing tools to help from hazardous chemicals and of hazardous exposures achieve optimal health air, water and soil pollution and includes health/medical contamination surveillance, exposure Core influencer on people 8.8.1 Protect labour rights and monitoring, travel health ability to perform promote safe and secure working i.e. health risk effectively, efficiently, management safely and with environments for all workers Impact innovation Profit of work Wellbeing on health Promote Understand a healthy Healthy Impact of and manage company company health on impact of health company work on work commitment to the covers drug and overall occupational alcoholmanagement, health of the workforce understanding of embracing WHO definition fitness for task and adjustments to support individuals John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 29 Safety and security at Wood At Wood we care and stay focused by always Life Saving Rules talking about safety, we help to look after Our Life Saving Rules are there to help us plan and control our work safely ourselves and one another. providing a minimum standard to which everyone is expected to comply. They Our HSSEA management system provides the framework for how we lead, plan and raise awareness of the activities that organise ourselves to ensure HSSEA risks are controlled and to deliver continuous are most likely to result in fatalities and improvement in our HSSEA performance. Our HSSE policy sets out what we will the simple actions individuals can take do to ensure that our people have a safe, healthy and secure workplace and the to protect themselves and others. The methods by which we will do this. adoption and enforcement of our rules helps us to ensure the safety of everyone that works with Wood. Stand up for Safety Leadership for safety Our Stand up for Safety campaign We all have collective responsibility brings us together as a team of 57,000 towards ourselves and our colleague’s colleagues with one, shared goal to safety. We recognise not only our keep safety at the heart of every employee’s personnel responsibility for conversation we have. Let's collectively safety, but the role of our leadership have the courage to care. We’ve analysed to instil a safe working culture and ro ct D pp s e d o bje Is ol our HSSEA data and have been and will behaviours that sustain our business and a tio n continue to focus on common key safety the safety of our operations. challenges we collectively face as a Since the formation of Wood we have global business: dropped objects, driving, placed a focus on ensuring our leaders working at height and process safety. are both visible but outspoken on safety, at a time of great change we recognise Safety Essentials we need to maintain our focus on O er it y Ex he ric v retaining a safe and secure workplace c a v a ti o n s a d elect Behaviours directly influence the way environment. we work, the way we do things and the way we follow processes. The Wood Wood has a focus on ensuring our Safety Essentials raise awareness people at all levels are equipped with M ovin g of how the right behaviours can help the tools, skills, knowledge, training e nt prevent incidents and improve our safety and competence to deliver the ip m performance. They are designed to commitments made in our HSSE Policy Pe nd qu rk a rm ene e complement our Life Saving Rules and and management system. In particular it t o w o rg i s e d apply to all office and site personnel. our front line leader programme which was designed to help our leaders lead ake care the rules others, the business and themselves in st w fostering a culture for care. Leadership alwa follo training for HSSEA will continue to evolve y during 2018 with a clear line of sight to our vision, values and behaviours. W or ht kin ig D ri vi n g g at he essment ntervene ss ti a risk you mus do a us C e d on fin e d s p ac S s pen a d e d lo change rect ppe ny or manage a ar the we ter c Wo r k wa in er ov t rit P y o e r o r clo s e g so n al secu 30 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Wood HSE performance (employees and subcontractors) Although reporting a reduction in Total Recordable Case Frequency in Introduction A key priority of integrating our business 2017, we sadly saw two fatalities in has been to combine our safety data; giving our combined business; one in the first quarter of the year, prior to the our business oversight of our collective combination of both legacy companies and one in the last quarter, as the performance and key areas of risk. newly formed Wood. Both fatalities have spurred learnings that we will take forward into 2018 as we further integrate our legacy businesses. At Wood we truly understand that people are our biggest asset and safety Key performance indicators must always be our priority. People Wood *LWCF *TRCF *AIFR Hours 2017 Combined 0.25 1.27 7.08 174,930,763 Key findings 2 Employee 0.24 1.13 6.50 134,867,536 Subcontractor 0.25 1.75 9.04 40,063,227 Fatalities 2016 Combined 0.30 1.38 7.49 222,967,216 Tragically Wood lost two of our colleagues in 2017. Both of which were Employee 0.31 1.26 7.31 162,464,304 transport related. Subcontractor 0.26 1.69 7.98 60,502,912 3429 Incidents There were 3429 incidents reported Reporting overview in 2017 this is a 15% reduction from Planet 2016 (4052) this correlates with a 17% Reports Harm to Asset Environmental Security Raised 2017 People Damage decrease in our exposure hours during the same period. Employee 2515 56% 32% 10% 2% Subcontractor 914 64% 28% 6% 1% Combined 3429 58% 31% 9% 2% 16% Reduction in LWCF There has been a positive 16% reduction Incident classification by Combined / Employee / in our LWCF (0.3 in 2016 down to 0.25 in 2017). Coupled with this is a reduction Subcontractor in our TRCR and AICF which respectively decreased by 8% and 5.5%. FAT 2 1 1 LWC RWC 43 56 33 42 10 14 94 High potentials reported Profit HiPo’s for Wood employees reduced from MTC 122 77 45 96 in 2016 to 94 in 2017. FAC 1016 724 292 Driving/vehicle related incidents remain HiPo 102 71 31 our top incident type in 2017. NM 673 404 269 Human factors was our most common Wood Employee Subcontractor immediate cause in 2017 and Tools, plant and equipment the most common root cause of incidents. *Lost Work Case Frequency (LWCF) Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF) All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 31 High potential incident overview (employees and subcontractors) Key findings High potential incidents are those events High potential incident reporting has remained relatively static over the that could, in slightly different circumstances previous 24 months (105 in 2016 and realistically result in serious injuries or 102 in 2017); although with a reduction in exposure hours this has resulted in an one or more fatalities. Investigating increase to our high potential frequency. and understanding our high potential incidents allows us to form a picture of the effectiveness of our management systems 68% of our high potential events reported and ensure our efforts are best placed to risked harm to people – of which 40% resulted in actual injuries being reported. target our high risk areas. Wood High Potential No of High Hours 1/5 Just over one fifth of high potential Freq Potential incidents reported cited risk Incidents management as the top root cause. 2017 Combined 0.58 102 174,930,763 43% Employee 0.53 71 134,867,536 Subcontractor 0.77 31 40,063,227 2016 Combined 0.47 105 222,967,216 Over 43% of employee high potential Employee 0.45 73 162,464,304 incidents cited human factors as an immediate cause, mirroring 2016 Subcontractor 0.53 32 60,502,912 performance. Targeted focus on high potential incidents in 2017 The safety staircase has been designed to be a simple illustration of the top 5 high potential incident types that have occurred in our business in the previous 24 months. The staircase demonstrates the percentage improvement we could achieve by tackling our key risk areas on a prioritised basis, for example on our 2017/18 data; If we focus on dropped object incidents we could reduce our high potential events by 22%, targeting fall from height related events would reduce this number by a further 14% and so on. This analysis was shared across our business in the early weeks of forming Wood as a mechanism to focus on our key areas of concern and drive targeted focus within our business. 188 High potential incidents 22% Targeting dropped object incidents 14% Targeting fall from height incidents 11% Targeting contact with energy source incidents 10% Targeting driving incidents 7% Targeting process safety incidents Step change = Potential 64% reduction 32 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Benchmarking performance We benchmark our performance against our peers and the industries Introduction in which we operate using both the Lost Work Case Frequency (LWCF) and Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF) rates. Benchmarking allows us to gauge our performance relative to other similar entities. The International Association of Oil & Gas Occupational Safety and Health Producers (IOGP) Administration (OSHA) The Global Oil and Gas Industry trade association (IOGP) OSHA is the occupational safety and health administration is the voice to the global oil and gas industry representing under the United States Department of Labour. Set up members producing 40% of the world’s oil and gas. IOGP to assure safe and healthy working conditions for working People publish annual safety performance data showing the men and women, by setting and enforcing standards performance of their members. IOGP figures are only as well as providing training, outreach, education and published to 2016 and projected onto 2017. assistance. Our internal reporting methodology is aligned with OSHA reporting. OSHA figures are only published to 2016 and projected onto 2017. Wood TRCF IOGP comparison Wood TRCF OSHA comparison 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 Planet Wood combined 0.23 0.28 0.28 0.25 Wood combined 0.23 0.28 0.28 0.25 IOGP Construction 0.31 0.24 0.14 0.14 OSHA All Industry 3.40 3.30 3.20 3.20 Overall OSHA Private Industry 1.50 3.00 2.90 2.90 IOGP Overall 0.31 0.24 0.21 0.21 OSHA Professional & 0.08 1.40 1.40 1.40 IOGP Contractor 0.34 0.26 0.22 0.22 Business Services IOGP Company 0.18 0.18 0.16 0.16 OSHA Construction (23) 3.60 3.50 3.20 3.20 IOGP Top Quartile 0.17 0.20 0.18 0.18 (Contractor) Wood LWCF IOGP comparison Wood LWCF OSHA comparison Profit 2014 2015 2016 2017 Wood combined 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.05 2014 2015 2016 2017 IOGP Construction 0.07 0.06 0.03 0.03 Overall Wood combined 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.05 IOGP Overall 0.07 0.06 0.05 0.05 OSHA All Industry 1.10 1.00 1.00 1.00 IOGP Contractor 0.08 0.06 0.06 0.06 OSHA Private Industry 1.00 0.90 0.90 0.90 OSHA Professional & 0.50 0.40 050 0.50 IOGP Company 0.05 0.06 0.05 0.05 Business Services IOGP Top Quartile 0.03 0.04 0.03 0.03 OSHA Construction (23) 1.30 1.30 1.30 1.30 (Contractor) John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 33 The Construction Industry Institute (CII) Based in Austin, Texas, The CII, is a consortium of more than 100 owner, engineering-contractor and supplier firms for both the public and private sectors. Providing a forum for researching and sharing best practice, the group aims to enhance the business effectiveness and sustainability of the capital facility life cycle through CII research, related initiatives, and industry alliances. CII data is only published to 2015. Construction comparisons have also been made against OSHA, IOGP and CII. Wood TRCF CII comparison Wood TRCF construction comparison 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 Wood combined 0.23 0.28 0.28 0.25 Wood combined 0.23 0.28 0.28 0.25 OSHA Construction (23) 3.60 3.50 3.20 3.20 CII All 0.42 0.39 CII All 0.42 0.39 CII Contractors 0.38 0.44 CII Contractors 0.38 0.44 IOGP Construction 0.31 0.24 0.14 0.14 Overall Wood LWCF CII comparison Wood LWCF construction comparison 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 Wood combined 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.05 Wood combined 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.05 OSHA Construction (23) 1.30 1.30 1.30 1.30 CII All 0.06 0.08 CII All 0.06 0.08 CII Contractors 0.05 0.10 CII Contractors 0.05 0.10 IOGP Construction 0.07 0.06 0.03 0.03 Overall 34 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Security of our people Security risk management at Wood is led by the Group head security Introduction Wood's security team provides the tools and represented on the executive necessary to secure Wood’s global business leadership team (ELT) by the Group head HSSEA. The primary points of operations, while simultaneously focusing contact for specialist security advice are the Group security directors, on preparedness in order to safeguard our ensuring that security is effectively people, assets, and reputation. managed across the business. 2017 highlights • Crisis management Training (CMT) Country risk map exercise conducted with the ELT. • Rollout of mandatory travel People security e-learning and workshops in US and UK • Provision of security support in countries Wood has not previously conducted operations • Security workshop held in Colombia following the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC peace agreement Low Medium High Looking forward Extreme Planet In 2018, security will focus on the following: • Improve crisis management and emergency preparedness capabilities across the business Low Romania Ghana High • Implementation of a unique global Australia Saint Lucia India Algeria security system Belgium Singapore Indonesia Bangladesh • Securing engineering centres Brunei Slovakia Israel Cameroon and data centres to minimise Bulgaria Spain Kazakhstan Chad business disruption during security Canada Sweden Korea, South Colombia emergencies. Chile Switzerland Kuwait Egypt Czech Republic United Arab Malaysia El Salvador • Harmonise contracts with travel Profit Finland Emirates Mozambique Mexico security providers to enable better France United Kingdom Peru Nigeria business travel accountability Germany United States Philippines Papua New • Rollout of new security website Guam Uruguay Puerto Rico Guinea Ireland Wallis and Russia Ukraine Italy Futuna Saudi Arabia Japan South Africa Extreme Lithuania Medium Thailand Afghanistan Marshall Islands Angola Tonga Iraq Namibia Argentina Trinidad and Netherlands Azerbaijan Tobago New Zealand Bahrain Tunisia Norway Bolivia Turkey Oman Brazil Vietnam Poland China Qatar Gabon John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 35 Countries in focus for 2018: Iraq Turkey Kuwait Pakistan Algeria Saudi Arabia Mexico Nigeria Colombia Papua New Guinea Case Studies: Mexico Pakistan Kuwait Mexico remains an important country In 2017, Wood security supported STS’ Wood security support for both of business in the Americas regions, clean energy team activities in and the clean fuels and Al-Zour refinery as it currently houses several Wood around the commercial capital Karachi. megaprojects began in 2017. Although offices and multiple projects from While STS does not have a permanent Kuwait is not considered a high risk several business units. In 2017, Mexico in-country presence, there are frequent country for business operations, experienced a significant increase in short-term assignments to wind, tidal securing both projects presented a violent crime levels due to the ongoing and solar fields approximately 100km massive undertaking nevertheless. conflict with organised crime. As such, outside of Karachi. A potent and As part of the awarded work, Wood security provided continuous diverse range of security threats exist Wood assumed all responsibility for support to all levels of business in in Karachi, including terrorism, crime, security operations on behalf of the Mexico throughout the year. In addition kidnapping and civil unrest. While there client. This included the design and to existing travel security protocols, was a downward trend in the number implementation of on-site security Wood security introduced active travel of terrorist attacks in Pakistan over the systems, the selection of third-party monitoring, which has enabled better past couple of years, militant groups security contractors, and the addition journey management for business retain the capability and intent to carry of dedicated, in-house security travellers in Mexico. Project support out indiscriminate attacks against both managers for both projects. Ultimately, also remained paramount, with Wood soft targets and high security facilities. support from Wood security enabled security involvement on major E&IS Wood security visited Karachi early in both project teams to overcome key and AS Americas projects in Ciudad 2017 and conducted various security challenges and create a secure work Madero/Tampico, as well as various assessments, including accommodation, environment for all. short-term projects located throughout journey management and third-party the country. security providers. A risk treatment plan was subsequently devised to eliminate and minimise security risks, thereby ensuring the safety of Wood personnel working in Pakistan. 36 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Case study Promoting health and wellbeing Introduction People Supporting Men’s Health At Wood we understand that to create a Founded in 2003, in Australia, sustainable future, we have a duty to protect, the Movember Foundation places a focus on addressing some of nurture and support our people and communities. the biggest health issues facing The care, courage and commitment we show men: prostate cancer, testicular cancer, mental health and suicide towards others is demonstrated in the actions prevention. The movement we take to support our fellow employees and has grown exponentially – and globally – since its early beginnings the communities around us. Planet largely because of the universal icon representing the epitome of manliness: the moustache! With The journey of Jubilee Hope Kisumu, Kenya. It took 250 days, 9,000 prostate cancer rates set to double miles and support from volunteers and in the next 15 years and testicular Wood has supported the Vine corporations alike to see Jubilee Hope cancer rates already doubled in the Trust since early 2013. Our ongoing launched into the waters of Lake Victoria past 50 years, we can’t afford to relationship has reaped rewards not in October 2014. Today the Jubilee Hope stay silent. just for the charity and its work but continues to provide vital support to the many volunteers from Wood who the communities around Lake Victoria, Wood has participated in over the years have demonstrated their with the HIV/Aids epidemic in Tanzania Movember since 2011 with care and commitment to helping those affecting 1 in 20 of the country's citizens employees raising more than less fortunate. One such project we it is one of the primary health issues the £200,000 to support men’s health. are particularly proud to have worked team onboard the Jubilee Hope face; In 2017, 49 of our committed on was the launch of Jubilee Hope. A Profit with an estimated 20-30% of people in employees grew a moustache, former Royal Navy Tender, Jubilee Hope the fishing communities around Lake participated in the ‘Move’ challenge was refitted as a mobile clinic with a Victoria living with HIV. To date the and helped raise awareness for small operating theatre and dental Jubilee Hope has treated over 1.4 million men’s health by speaking to their surgery at the end of 2013. Providing a people, who otherwise would have no friends and colleagues. Thanks range of primary healthcare services, access to health care. to their collective efforts, the including General Medicine, Dentistry, teams raised more than £5,186 Mother & Child clinics, and HIV testing/ To date Wood has successfully raised (US$ 6,942) and covered over 367 treatment. Jubilee Hope conducts more than £250,000 for the Vine Trust, kilometres (228 miles) in support of more than 100,000 consultations helping to support the building, transport men’s health; showcasing the true annually for some of the estimated and maintenance of Jubilee Hope as courage, care and commitment of 450,000 people in the area who have well as providing building materials for our employees. little or no access to medical care. homes and orphanages as part of their volunteer programme in Tanzania and How did we get involved? Peru. We are particularly proud to have played our part at the very start of the Wood supported the Vine Trust at the Jubilee hope story and continue to watch early stages of this project, sending a team of experts to Mombasa its progress as the vessel goes from to safely deconstruct the boat for strength to strength. transportation as it travelled onto John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 37 Case study Stand Up for Safety Celebrating safety excellence What have we achieved? External recognition Kelchner, a civil construction division of Asset Solutions Americas, recently earned three prestigious awards from the Ohio Valley Chapter of the Associated Builders and Contractors (ABC) trade association. The Excellence In Construction (EIC) awards honour the nation’s most innovative and high-quality construction projects, safety programs and diversity programs. Kelchner was awarded: • 2017 Safety Training Evaluation Process (STEP) Award: STEP Platinum Safety Award (first time in company history) • 2017 Eagle Award: Project: Allen Rd., Windisch Rd., and Civic Center Blvd. • 2017 Award of Merit: FedEx Hub We have a strong safety culture that is Expansion reflected throughout all our operations Kearl team wins ExxonMobil globally. We have people, teams and leaders President’s SSH&E Award committed to protecting and improving In early 2017, our team working at the Kearl oil sands mining and extraction conditions for everyone Wood works with. plant, north of Fort McMurray, Canada We are proud to have been recognised was selected to receive the 2016 ExxonMobil Development Company both by clients and industry bodies for our President’s Safety, Security, Health & Environment (SSH&E) award. Wood proactive, innovative and caring approach. has been working with ExxonMobil and several other contractors on the Kearl projects for more than 10 years. The Kearl site is one of Canada’s largest open-pit mining operations. “The Kearl projects also received this award in 2012 and it’s fantastic to see a repeat award through consistently setting the bar for outstanding SSH&E performance! The Kearl suite of projects executed more than 15 million hours without a lost-time incident. Everyone on the team should be extremely proud of this outstanding achievement.” Wood senior vice president, Canada 38 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction People Internal recognition Our Papua New Guinea (PNG) contract Focus on operational The major challenge on this project team delivers projects and maintenance was to maintain safe and efficient safety operations, while delivering a complex services across diverse and challenging geographical environments. and challenging scope of work. Active Setting the scene engagement of the workforce and The team were internally nominated for Planet Towards the end of 2015, Wood a focus on improved Pre-Task Talks their significant improvement in safety was awarded an engineering, (PTT) or Hazard Identification for performance. Their efforts resulted procurement and construction Total Safety (HITS) tools were key in 50% less injuries against 700,000 management contract with a large factors in achieving a safe working exposure hours. The team also achieved scale operator to complete a lube oil environment. ZERO recordable injuries and grease plant project. Making a difference Milestone Achievements Unusually, the client replaced the Over the span of the contract the In 2017 our industrial services team in incumbent contractor two thirds of team achieved seven million manthe UK achieved a significant milestone the way through construction and the hours without an LTI and three million and external recognition. team had to assess the outstanding hours with zero recordable injuries. work, and present a plan to complete More than 2000 employees in the This project and many others like it the remainder of the unique and service line work on sites across the across the breadth of our operations complex project. UK and Ireland including shipyards showcase our vision, values and Profit and docks, offshore platforms, What did we do? behaviours in action; our courage to power stations, construction and We had to quickly ramp up the site rise to the challenge and our collective manufacturing sites, and reached six team (over 100 Wood personnel) care and commitment towards safety million man hours with no recorded lost to manage concurrent engineering at all times. work cases in November. and construction work involving 20 3 million The team also received a highly (mostly unfamiliar) implementation commended award from the UK’s contractors on-site who were spread man hours National Association of Scaffolding over four hectares, and a contractor Contractors (NASC) in recognition workforce of about 1,200. of their behavioural safety initiative, During 2016 and into 2017 our site Zero injuries reported leadership commitment and continuous team, with corporate support, drive to create a safe working responded quickly to bring this environment for employees when 7 million complex and unique project to erecting and dismantling scaffolding, completion. The lube and grease plant for customers, third-parties and the man hours were successfully commissioned and general public. are both now operational. Lost work case free John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 39 People Investing in our communities Investing in our communities We care about the communities in which we operate and recognise our responsibility to respect, nurture contributes to building a and empower the people and locations we impact. Our continued commitment and support to a wide range of sustainable future that aims causes close to the hearts and minds of our employees to address local and global truly demonstrates the difference we make to our shared communities. challenges. At Wood we believe This year has been one of change as Wood Group and our role extends beyond the Amec Foster Wheeler combined to create Wood; however one thing that hasn’t changed throughout our transition donation of money, just as is our compassionate and caring colleagues who strive to help others less fortunate. important is how we show up in the communities we are a part of. 40 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Governance Aligned to the UN sustainable development goals, employees have been Introduction Community related Our charitable giving and community asked to decide our global cause as part Sustainable Development Goals investment efforts are in line with our of a global engagement plan and once (SDG) global community investment policy chosen each business unit will be given Our community investment efforts and overseen by the global community the challenge on how they best support can be widespread but the SDGs investment committee. The committee the global cause. most relevant to our business and an is chaired by the executive president example of relevant targets include: This method allows us to unite our HSSEA and supported by a global employees around the United Nations sustainability champion from each of Sustainable Development Goals making our internal business units, nominated a direct link between Wood and the by a business unit CEO. We understand wider sustainability agenda. the need for group wide consultation on community investment so that we best Volunteering – Showing up in the engage our workforce on the causes communities we operate in and not just close to their hearts. In 2018 we will providing monetary benefit but our time, People work on expanding our global community skills and resources. investment committee to help drive Following on from the selection of our locally driven decision making. Our global global cause, volunteering will be the next community investment committee element of our community investment will administer budget allocation on a programme; driven by the business units, business unit basis, taking into account each will be challenged to demonstrate our global employee headcount to their action and how best they can Ensure healthy lives and promote provide a fair and consistent approach well-being for all at all ages engage employees at a local level to get to our budget spend each year. Once involved and support their communities, By 2030 our global committee approval process the global cause and demonstrate has had time to embed, we will look at 3.3 End the epidemics of AIDS, Woods' support for the United Nations how best to expand the governance tuberculosis, malaria and neglected Development Goals. tropical diseases and combat of community investment and provide hepatitis, water-borne diseases and greater ownership to our regional Continual investment in our other communicable diseases Planet businesses on how they engage with our community investment programme. communities End poverty in all its forms everywhere The donations we make benefit Throughout the year, we supported a legitimate charitable organisations range of good causes close to the hearts of By 2030 and causes, consistent with our code our employees. Our amazing people have 1.1 Eradicate extreme poverty for of business conduct that help support run marathons, cycled huge distances and all people everywhere, currently the environment around us, better the organised bake sales to raise funds among measured as people living on less economic situation of those in need and many other examples. than $1.25 a day address social development. Make cities and human settlements Some truly amazing organisations inclusive, safe, resilient and have benefitted throughout the past Our approach year including SOS Children’s Villages sustainable supporting orphaned children across By 2030 We have taken a three tiered approach the world, Vine Trust helping people in to community investment at Wood and 11.1 Ensure access for all to adequate, Profit Tanzania and Clontarf Girls Academy in will look to embed this as we roll out our safe and affordable housing and Australia to name a few. basic services and upgrade slums community investment strategy in 2018. 2017 community investment statistics Ensure inclusive and equitable Match funding – Employee personal choice charities quality education and promote £535,181 lifelong learning opportunities for all This requires active engagement of our employees in fund raising to which Wood By 2030 will contribute up to a capped amount. Charitable donations made by Wood 4.4 Substantially increase the number This method of charitable funding (GBP) of youth and adults who have engages the greatest number of people relevant skills, including technical and in a meaningful and tangible way which vocational skills, for employment, 6,926 can be replicated across our global decent jobs and entrepreneurship organisation. Global strategic cause Uniting our Employees involved in volunteering business behind a global cause that demonstrates we are stronger together and can show measurable impact across our global business 23,439 Total hours volunteered John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 41 Case study Hurricane Harvey Hurricane Harvey was a devastating storm that hit our people in Texas on August 25 2017. 155 mph Wind speeds Wind speeds ranging between 131-155 miles per hour caused catastrophic damage in the region of $125 billion dollars. 250,000 People were left without power Over 250,000 people were left without The help and commitment shown power while the storm swept across the truly demonstrates how much we care Houston area over four days. Highways about our co-workers, neighbours, became waterways and areas as large as New York City and Chicago combined family and friends at a time of need. Financial support was one of the $125 billion were left underwater. In damages most crucial needs arising from the Wood have over 8,000 employees aftermath of hurricane Harvey; living in the Corpus Christi, Rockport, allowing families to provide food, 200+ Kennedy, Houston, Lafayette areas as clothes, temporary housing and other well as offshore in the Gulf of Mexico. essentials that we take for granted Fortunately all our employees remained until disaster strikes. safe following the storm; many lost Employees volunteered to help The 'Hope after Harvey' campaign their homes, some lost their vehicles and helped raise funds through Community more than 100 suffered severe flood Heartreach, our registered charity; damage to their homes. helping connect volunteer offerings with peoples needs as the recovery What did we achieve? efforts swung into effect. With more Wood started a 'Hope after Harvey' than 200 employees volunteering initiative to allow volunteers from across their time and resources our people our global business to make connections truly showcased our values in motion; and support their fellow colleagues. showing compassion and care at a Employees opened up their homes, time of real need. shared their vehicles, donated clothing, loaned their tools and cooked meals. Volunteers ripped up wet carpet, sledgehammered sheet rock, power washed mouldy driveways and collected rubbish left in the wake of the disaster. 42 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Case study Philanthropy at Wood “Wood is dedicated to Introduction supporting charities that are aligned with our company’s values, important to our employees and meet a critical local community need” CEO, Asset Solutions Americas, Andrew Stewart People Houston Business Journal Philanthropy Awards names Wood a top 10 large company for volunteerism in Houston. Houston Business Journal (HBJ) hosted the inaugural Corporate Philanthropy Awards in November 2017. HBJ ranked and recognised companies that donated the most money to a United Way campaign and volunteered the most hours, based on company size. Planet What did we achieve? In December, Wood sponsored various events within the community to provide Wood was ranked in the top 10 for most less fortunate families a merrier volunteered hours in 2016 in the large Christmas. We adopted 22 families, company category (greater than 500 visited four veteran homes, supported employees). In total, employees from our a youth centre and conducted four toy/ Houston offices had volunteered more supply drives. Additional service activities than 3,000 hours to local charities and included preparing and delivering meals organisations. The astonishing fact is for Lunches of Love, and volunteering at that there were additional “leveraged the Houston Food Bank. hours” in which employees contributed personal time towards important causes. Our graduate employee group (Young Profit Guns) helped with several volunteer We aim to make a positive difference to efforts throughout 2016. They volunteered the communities where we operate and more than 300 hours, including at the seek ways to assist them. We strive to let Peanut Butter Cannery and the Houston our employees, clients and vendors know Food Bank. Peanut butter is one of the how important philanthropy is to our most needed items for all food banks, due culture at Wood. to its popularity, long shelf life and high In 2016, Wood provided volunteer, nutritional value. After canning hundreds monetary and in-kind support to of jars of peanut butter in August, our organisations such as the National teams distributed those very same jars Multiple Sclerosis Society, American to hungry families when volunteering at Heart Association, Texas Children’s the Houston Food Bank in November. “It Hospital, Katy Independent School was awesome to see our service come full District, Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts in circle,” Nancy Phan, Young Guns advisor. the Houston area. “We’re feeding hungry families and having a blast doing it!” John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 43 Planet This section of the report looks at how we build sustainable practice into the environmental aspect of our business and the challenges we tackle to manage environmental risk, minimise our impact on the environment and Planet tackle wider global climate change concerns. At Wood we aim to minimise our Environmental management impact on the environment through and incident reporting conserving resource, reducing waste Our carbon footprint and emissions and preventing environmental pollution. Tackling climate change 44 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Environmental management Our carbon footprint Tackling climate change and incident reporting How we assess and manage our Climate change is one of the biggest People Good environmental management carbon footprint is as important to our global challenges that will shape the is not only the right thing to do, but business as it is to the environment way we do business now and in the makes business sense in protecting around us; our collective efforts to coming decades. Climate change our people, the business and locations mitigate & minimise consumption help poses significant environmental, social, we operate in. Managing our us reduce the impact of our operations. political and economic repercussions for environmental aspects is imperative to Efficient use of the resources we our planet. Extreme and unpredictable the sustainability of our business and have is vital for our operations to be weather conditions, floods, droughts the standards we set and maintain help sustainable over time and to ensure the and rising sea levels are among the shape the performance, profitability well-being of future generations is not major climate challenges our current and the reputation of Wood. compromised. and future generations face. Planet Profit John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 45 Planet Environmental management and incident reporting Our integrated HSSEA We care for the environment and our responsibility to protect and minimise the impact of our operations; our HSSE policy management system provides the states how we do this to ensure we leave a positive legacy in the areas we operate. The policy underpins our approach to framework for how we manage environmental management and is regularly reviewed and environmental risks, ensuring approved by our board of directors. we remain in control and deliver Environmental management is not new to us, with many parts of the business holding ISO 14001: 2015 certification, continuous improvement in our however the formation of Wood has created the opportunity for us to re-assess and enhance how we currently manage our environmental performance. environmental responsibilities. An environmental strategy taking us to the end of 2019 has been developed based on the environmental risks we have identified as being associated with our operations; the strategy has three areas of focus: • Managing Environmental Risk • Reducing our environmental impact • Raising environmental awareness and competence amongst employees 46 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Managing environmental risk Reducing environmental Raising environmental Introduction Managing our environmental risks impact awareness and competence appropriately ensures the business can We care about the legacy we leave among employees retain its social licence to operate and behind as a result of our operations. It is vital that our employees preserve our reputation as a business Carbon emissions are arguably the understand why we care about the that cares. most significant impact we have on the environment and why it is important to environment and carbon management Having a thorough understanding our business. Employees form a central will be a key focus for Wood. We are of the environmental risks posed by part of our sustainability team and it currently working to align our reporting operations is critical. This allows for clear is important that we give them the processes, once complete a strategy expectations and minimum standards for long-term reduction of our global knowledge to make informed decisions to be developed which ensure effective emissions will be implemented. in their day to day activities, embedding mitigation and management. During environmental considerations into 2018 we will embed these expectations Other projects we will be progressing their thought process. By doing so, and standards into our integrated over the coming two years to reduce our environment does not need to be a ‘bolt impact on the environment include: People global management system, ensuring on’, it becomes ingrained in the psyche consistent delivery of environmental • Reducing the use of single use plastics allowing for better management of management across all our operations. across our offices and projects our operations. Employees who have specific environmental responsibilities • Reducing the amount of water used by associated to their roles must be our operations in water scarce regions equipped with the competence and • Developing a suit of sustainable tools to discharge these requirements procurement guidelines appropriately. • Developing biodiversity enhancement guidance for projects Environmental performance Severity of environmental incidents Supporting the wider Global Planet 2017 Sustainable Development Goals We record all near miss and (SDG) environmental incidents globally. The total number of environmental incidents recorded rose in 2017 by almost 9%. 95% 5% 0 An example of some of the SDG targets relative to our business in relation to managing our Number of environmental incidents Low potential Medium High environmental risks: 2016 2017 236 258 Number of environmental incidents reported to the regulator The environmental incident frequency Of the 258 rate also increased; 0.21 in 2016 to 0.29 environmental in 2017. This increase can be attributed incidents which were to improvements in reporting in certain recorded, 37% were 37% By 2030 Profit areas of the business. reported to the 63% 3.9 Substantially reduce the number relevant statutory Environmental Incident Frequency body. TThis is higher of deaths and illnesses from Rate* 2017: than would normally hazardous chemicals and air, water 0.29 be expected due and soil pollution and contamination. to the close relationship between one 11.6 Reduce the adverse per capita specific project and the local statutory environmental impact of cities, *Environmental Incident Frequency Rate per bodies. The sensitive nature of the including by paying special attention 200,000 hours worked projects work location means that all to air quality and municipal and other environmental incidents, no matter how waste management. minor they are in nature, are reported to We classify our environmental incident the relevant body(s). based on the worst credible outcome that could have occurred. During 2017 Wood received five improvement notices from regulators Low Minor pollution with reversible or relating to our offshore operations in the short-term impact UK. Steps were taken to ensure closure Medium Moderate pollution with of the issues identified and no further localised impact action was taken. We have not faced any High Severe / long term damage to the environmental prosecutions in 2017. environment John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 47 Planet Our carbon footprint We assess and manage our carbon footprint to ensure our At Wood we recognise that collective efforts help to mitigate, reduce and minimise responsibly managing our our consumption helping us to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment we share. energy consumption offers both Our approach towards carbon reporting at Wood will be a environment and economic key focus as we progress through 2018 towards a combined method. Both legacy companies operate differing global benefits to our business; reporting scopes; legacy Wood Group on a financial basis reducing energy consumption and legacy Amec Foster Wheeler on an operational basis; as such we are unable to draw fair comparison between the reduces overhead cost which combining companies. makes us a more sustainable and competitive business. 48 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Carbon performance overview Introduction Both legacy Green House Gas (GHG) emissions are stated based on current boundaries until we implement a combined approach; we have however aligned our carbon year to 1st October to 30th September post acquisition in October 2017 and this is the basis of the calculations illustrated. Legacy Wood Group Legacy Amec Foster Wheeler SCOPE 1: SCOPE 2: SCOPE 1: SCOPE 2: Direct GHG Emissions Indirect GHG Emissions Direct GHG Emissions Indirect GHG Emissions Scope 1 comprises of Scope 2 comprises of Scope 1 comprises of Scope 2 comprises of company vehicle fuel purchased electricity for our company vehicle fuel purchased electricity and consumption, natural gas office locations. consumption, natural gas steam for our office locations from our offices and on-site from our offices and on-site as well as the manufacturing fuel supplying generators and fuel supplying generators and plants of our GPG business. People other site equipment. other site equipment. 2016: 2016: 2016: 2016: 19,449 2,271 1,150,401 50,226 tCO2e tCO2e tCO2e tCO2e 2017: 2017: 2017: 2017: 19,907 2,213 565,705 50,132 tCO2e tCO2e tCO2e tCO2e Planet ▲ 2% ▼ 3% ▼ 51% ▼0.2% The increase seen in scope Scope 2 GHG emissions show Scope 1 GHG emissions Scope 2 GHG emissions 1 GHG emissions are mainly a decrease in 2017; mainly includes two owned power show a decrease in 2017; attributable to an increase in attributable to a reduction in generation facilities, mainly attributable to a on-site fuel consumption for personnel and on-going real PetroPower Energia Limitada reduction in personnel and the supply of generators and estate consolidation in Chile and Wood Power real estate consolidation. site equipment. Systems in Martinez, Although we see a fall California; the Chilean facility in overall emissions, the however was sold in the first pattern of consumption quarter of the 2017 carbon remains in line with historic reporting year and accounts data. for the large decrease in scope 1 emissions. Direct emissions Profit from the Martinez plant in 2017 made up 87% of our scope 1 reporting. 2016 (tCO2e) 2017 (tCO2e) 2016 2017 Natural Gas 561 334 40 % ▼ (tCO2e) (tCO2e) Onsite Fuel 18,888 19,573 4%▲ Natural Gas 7,955 7,530 5%▼ Electricity 2,271 2,213 3%▼ Onsite Fuel 4,530 3,804 16 % ▼ Total 21,720 22,120 2%▲ Company Vehicle 17,736 17,586 1% ▼ Direct Emissions 1,120,179 536,785 52% ▼ Electricity 48,857 48,038 2 %▼ Steam 1,369 2,094 53% ▲ Total 1,200,627 615,837 49 % ▼ Note: Data is for a full carbon year on a Note: Data is for a full carbon year on an operational financial boundaries basis boundaries basis John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 49 SCOPE 3 emissions The difference in the reporting boundaries for both legacy companies and the Carbon related Sustainable materiality of scope 3 in particular means we are unable to present combined scope Development Goals (SDG) 3 GHG emissions. Amec Foster Wheeler reported scope 3 emissions on a global basis An example of some of the SDG whereas Wood Group did not. Our focus in 2018 will be to assess the materiality of targets relative to our business in scope 3 to our operations and implement a strategy on how we will report this going relation to managing our carbon forward. footprint: In the interest of transparency we can illustrate scope three emissions for Amec Foster Wheeler as shown below. SCOPE 3: Direct GHG Emissions Scope 3 emissions are attributable to business travel, including air and rail as well as mileage travelled in personal vehicles and hire cars. By 2025 14.1 Prevent and significantly reduce 2017: 2016: marine pollution of all kinds, in particular from land-based activities, 49,054 53,587 including marine debris and nutrient pollution tCO2e tCO2e By 2030 9.4 Upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them ▼ 8% sustainable, with increased resourceThe decrease in scope 3 GHG emissions are mainly attributable to a reduction in use efficiency and greater adoption business long haul and short haul air travel; due in part to the rationalisation of travel of clean and environmentally sound as a whole, promotion of technological alternatives and the group wide travel policy. technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective 2016 (tCO2e) 2017 (tCO2e) capabilities Long Haul Air 22,170 20,044 10% ▼ 12.2 Achieve the sustainable Short Haul Air 16,506 12,887 22% ▼ management and efficient use of Non-Company Vehicle 10,732 12,491 16% ▲ natural resources Train & Bus 288 198 31% ▼ Transmission & Distribution 3,891 3,434 12% ▼ Note: Transmission & Distribution emissions associated with electricity which is lost in the Transmission & Distribution system used for delivering purchased electricity. Reporting going forward As we continue our process to align our carbon reporting we will communicate our strategy on this in 2018. We will continue to report on our carbon performance in both a legal and voluntary capacity; these include: Legislative • The Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC) scheme • Article 8 of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive (2012/27/EU) • The Companies Act 2006 (strategic and directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013 Voluntary • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) – Climate Change 50 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Case study Our role in creating a low carbon economy Introduction People We recognise the major threat climate change poses to the world economy and the direct effect of global warming on our business. Our carbon footprint and how we manage that within our business is vital to realising our own as well as global carbon reduction targets. Planet In 2015, more than 190 countries ratified an historic agreement on climate change in Paris. Aiming to limit the rise in Our three year carbon strategy global temperatures to well below 2c, Based upon a carbon year from 1 October to 30 September, our three year the agreement will come into effect in strategy to align reporting commenced in October 2017 with the objective of 2020. We recognise the role Wood plays being fully aligned by October 2020. Utilising consumption data from year in helping the global economy reduce three of our strategy will allow us to set our baseline and create group wide it’s carbon footprint and realise the carbon reduction targets. importance of providing targeted focus to achieving our global goal. As well as allowing us to reach a reduction target, our three year strategy will also allow us to align the various voluntary and legislative compliance schemes applicable to John Wood Group PLC. Profit Where do we want to be? To reduce our carbon footprint we must Wood carbon reduction target set 2020 first set a reduction target. In order to achieve a unified approach we require a carbon strategy to align our legacy businesses, in order to provide a baseline year in which to set our target reduction. Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 To reach a combined Wood carbon Migrating to one Align and begin Align and begin footprint we recognise our strategy reporting system and reporting combined reporting scope 3 must: laying the process scope 1 & 2 emissions on emissions based upon a • Create an aligned carbon reporting foundations to support an operational materiality assessment process for the business data collection basis of the business conducted in year 1 • Provide a singular platform for periodic data collection • Create sufficient time for the business to adapt and implement the required changes John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 51 Case study Focus on local sustainable action Across Wood we have many dedicated and passionate employee volunteer groups that help champion sustainable action at a local level. These teams are vital to ensuring we continually challenge and assess how we operate as a business, helping positively manage our impacts on the wider environment around us. One example is our Green Team based Mike Smith, operations Team Lead Mike goes on to say at the Central Area Transmission System heading up the Green Team at CATS (CATS) in Teesside, England. Consisting speaks passionately about some of the ‘Another challenge was to of eleven volunteers from a cross-section challenges they have faced address issues with our effluent of disciplines including Operations, treatment system, where we Maintenance and Engineering the team ‘One of our recent challenges had a damaged pond liner. act as the environmental conscience for was to deal with more Instead of replacing the liner, we the CATS site, working closely with the than 2,000 tonnes of spoil environmental advisor, waste contractor actually planted a new reedbed. which was generated from and external parties such as the Industry This in turn provides extra excavations for a new building Nature Conservation Association effluent treatment and also (INCA). The team meet on a quarterly and infrastructure. We worked spare capacity, so if our original basis and are fully supported by the closely with INCA to develop reedbed requires maintenance local Management Team, with either a plan for using the spoil to the Terminal Manager or his deputy or replacement, we are able re-profile another area on attending every Green Team meeting. to continue treating our the CATS site and thereby Although the team do not have a provide a new habitat for effluent without any increased dedicated budget, funding for projects environmental risk.’ has never been an issue; producing some plants and insects (supporting great wins as a result of the team's care the biodiversity which is very and commitment to improving the site's specific to the local area). environmental performance. This also had the added benefit of saving almost £250,000 in disposal costs and diverted the waste from landfill.’ 52 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Upcoming Challenges Introduction One of the team’s objectives for this year is to install smart electricity meters so they can maximise the use of free power generated by a 3 MW turbo expander onsite. This will reduce the amount of imported power and have the potential to save more than £50,000 per year. A further Improvement initiative being implemented in the coming year is to eliminate the use of all disposable plastic cups on site. All staff onsite will be issued with a 500ml stainless steel water bottle, not only does this eliminate the People waste stream, but it also has an added health benefit of encouraging staff to drink more water, whilst also saving over £1000 per year. Potential Re-introduction Project for Small Blue Butterfly at CATS Reducing our operational impact on the environment is a key focus for Wood; we promote the protection and enhancement of biodiversity throughout our business and encourage sustainable Planet action at a local level through teams such as the CATS Green Team. One ongoing project the team are currently working on proudly demonstrates the efforts our employees take to go above and beyond the operations of Wood; seeking to re-introduce a rare species of butterfly to the local area using land at Wood's disposal. Butterfly Conservation, a UK charity dealing with the conservation of butterflies and moths, is considering a re-introduction programme for the Small The Larva of Small Blue uses Kidney Blue butterfly in Northern England and is Vetch Anthyllis Vulneraria, as its larval currently looking for candidate sites. Part foodplant. This plant is abundant Profit of the CATS site was highlighted as a across the CATS site, particularly suitable candidate location and ongoing within the land area covered by the site investigations by Butterfly Conservation Biodiversity Action Plan. In terms of will determine whether re-introduction its conservation status, Small Blue is can go ahead. a UK Biodiversity Action Plan priority species, which is the same status as The Small Blue butterfly Cupido the Dingy Skipper Erynnis Tages and Minimus is a nationally scarce species Grayling Hipparchia Semele, two priority which has a mainly southern and butterfly species which already occur on western distribution in England, the CATS site. with scattered colonies occurring in Scotland and Wales. In Northern England the butterfly has populations on the Cumbrian coast and there are recent reports of at least one colony in Yorkshire. Colonies are generally small and very localised in terms of the land space that they occupy. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 53 Planet Tackling climate change We recognise the responsible role we play in driving a low As a society we are faced with carbon approach to business; particularly as part of the ever a modern day challenge of changing energy industry. We invest in technological solutions that we believe advance our own and our customers low carbon managing an increasing demand ambitions that help tackle global climate change concerns. We believe the future of energy must strike a balance between for energy while finding ways to acceptable environmental parameters and commercial viability reduce our CO2 emissions. whilst adapting and staying ahead of future energy and fuel requirements. Wood has a key role to play We support governmental efforts to tackle climate change, in particular the United Nations Paris Agreement on Climate in managing climate change; Change seeking to limit global warming this century to below 2 through working with our clients degrees above pre-industrial levels. in providing innovative solutions to how we manage our own impact in challenging ourselves to operate more effectively. 54 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Climate change reporting We recognise the need to be transparent in how we report and track our risks and Introduction opportunities associated with climate change. Both legacy companies before the formation of Wood reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and will continue to do so. CDP is the largest registry of corporate GHG emissions in the world and allows investors & cities to better understand risk, capitalise on opportunities and make investment decisions that drive action toward a more sustainable world. There are numerous advantages for Wood in gathering data in response to the CDP Climate Change questionnaire, including: People • Identification of key risks associated with climate change • Increased transparency to shareholders, clients and the general public • Allowing us to benchmark our organisation against our peer and industry groups. How did we perform in 2017? A Leadership AB Management BPlanet C Awareness CD Disclosure DCDP submissions are assessed across four consecutive levels which represents the steps a company moves through as it progresses towards environmental stewardship. The score assesses the level of detail and comprehensiveness of the content, as well as the companies’ awareness of climate change issues, management methods and progress Promoting Awareness Launched by our CEO Robin Watson activities ranged from clean up towards action taken on climate change. Cultural change is essential to drive campaigns, recycling and shoe drives, Profit action against climate change. Employee bike to work events and even a showcase Disclosure scores overview engagement in energy efficiency and of live bees (in a glass box), explaining carbon reduction can help change 2017 behaviour in the workplace, to reduce their importance to nature and the environment. Legacy Wood Group: B unnecessary energy consumption and cut an organisation's carbon emissions. In Sustainability Week Legacy AFW: C Wood we conducted various awareness In the AFW business sustainability activities throughout 2017. week ran for the first time in July as a Sector benchmarking mechanism to raise awareness around Environment Day sustainability, promote the annual Country: United Kingdom In celebration of World Environment sustainability report and engage CDP Program: Investor Day, the United Nations principle vehicle employees on the UN Sustainability Sector: Energy for worldwide awareness and action on Goals. The intention is to hold a similar Industry activity group: Oil & Gas environmental protection our employees event as we engage the business in united around the annual theme ‘I’m with launching sustainability as Wood. Industry activity group average nature’. Awareness: C CDP program average Awareness: C John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 55 Minimising resources Energy management Conserving resources will allow us to reduce and minimise our impact on the environment. Our direct energy consumption is associated mainly with our office and site locations utility consumption of electricity, natural gas, heating oil, steam and generator fuel. Awareness and efficiency initiatives are crucial to driving down our consumption and subsequent GHG emissions. In 2017 a number of local initiatives across our business promoted efficiency measures and awareness with our employees; linking in with our environment day and sustainability week events. The collection of energy data across both our legacy companies has meant we cannot at present fairly compare consumption; however, we can give a legacy overview for each in terms of intensity and volume consumed. Annual fuel and energy consumption (MWh) Legacy Amec Foster Wheeler Energy performance Intensity 2016 (MWhs) 2017 (MWhs) Based on the reporting boundaries Natural Gas 43691.75 41366.61 5%▼ highlighted at the foot of each table we can measure our energy intensity by Electricity 105279.55 101743.81 3%▼ employee (average full time equivalent) Onsite Fuel 18422.55 15530.62 16 % ▲ and by unit of turnover (per $1 million). Heat & Steam 6702.44 9897.39 48 % ▲ To better showcase overall energy consumption, for legacy Amec Foster Total Energy Consumption 174096.29 168538.42 3%▼ Wheeler data our power generation Note: Data is for a full carbon year on an operational boundaries basis plant in Martinez has been separated out Figures exclude the power generation sites. due to the scale of consumption. Legacy Wood Group Legacy Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 (MWhs) 2017 (MWhs) 2016 2017 Natural Gas 3,043 1,807 41 % ▼ MWh per Employee 4.40 5.02 Electricity 11,062 10,853 2%▼ MWh per $1m Onsite Fuel 79,832 82,144 3%▲ 32.05 35.89 Revenue Total Energy Consumption 93,937 94,804 1%▲ Note: Data is for a full carbon year on an Note: Data is for a full carbon year on a financial boundaries basis operational boundaries basis Figures exclude the power generation site Annual Fuel and Energy Consumption (MWh) Power Generation Plant, Martinez ,California Legacy Wood Group 2017 (MWhs) 2016 2017 Energy consumption Natural Gas 2234.70 of the site MWh per Employee 3.64 3.55 Electricity 15.75 MWh per $1m 12.98 16.31 Diesel 23.87 Revenue Total Energy Consumption 2274.32 Note: Data is for a full carbon year on a financial boundaries basis 56 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Climate change related Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) An example of just some of the SDG targets relative to our business in relation to tackling climate change: People By 2030: 6.3 Improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping and minimizing release of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the proportion of untreated wastewater and substantially increasing recycling and safe reuse globally 6.4 Substantially increase wateruse efficiency across all sectors and Planet ensure sustainable withdrawals and Water management Legacy Wood Group’s submission supply of freshwater to address to the Carbon Disclosure Project water scarcity and substantially At Wood we recognise the risk that (CDP) Water in 2015 and 2016 helped reduce the number of people water scarcity, pollution and weak structure the approach to assessing suffering from water scarcity water governance can have on our water risk across three categories: organisation and the adverse impacts 7.2 Increase substantially the share of • Physical Risk Quantity renewable energy in the global energy this poses to communities and the mix environment. Water is an essential • Physical Risk Quality ingredient to business operations and 7.3 Double the global rate of we acknowledge our responsibility to • Regulatory & Reputational Risk improvement in energy efficiency enable more sustainable management 12.2 Achieve the sustainable Although this assessment focused on of shared freshwater resources. management and efficient use of Wood Group’s European locations, we see this as a longer term assessment natural resources Prior to the formation of Wood, both Profit legacy companies assessed water strategy. Our focus in 2018/19 as part 12.5 Substantially reduce waste risk and usage across the breadth of our environmental strategy will generation through prevention, of their operations. Although in the be to assess water use in areas with reduction, recycling and reuse early stages of data collection, both high water stress; our environmental 13.1 Strengthen resilience and companies took the approach to focus impact assessment will look at adaptive capacity to climate-related on facilities with the most significant assessment, benchmarking and hazards and natural disasters in all exposure to water related risk. the introduction of water reduction countries targets. 13.3 Improve education, awarenessraising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 57 Profit We do not believe that a sustainable business is driven by ‘profit at any cost’. We take a responsible approach to managing our legal obligations and operating in an ethical and fair way in our market place and supply chain. Profit Ensuring that we create value through innovative skills and technology working towards a sustainable future for our business. Profitability Ethics & compliance Driving innovation Sustainability in projects 58 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Profitability Ethics & compliance Driving innovation Our future is governed by the At Wood we operate under one simple Building a sustainable future for Wood People profitability of our business and expectation, to do the right thing; is about being adaptable in an ever our ability to generate value for whether this is related to ethics, safety, changing environment. At Wood we our customers, shareholders and business or technical standards we believe to deliver sustainable growth employees. At Wood we don’t operate expect our people to make choices that we must embrace technology to create under the notion of ‘profit at any build Wood’s reputation. new possibilities, transforming how cost’ and firmly believe in the value we use information to innovate and Our vision and values guide our of sustainable business growth; we differentiate our business in meeting approach, supported by key behaviours; take a measured approach to risk the evolving needs of our clients as well three of which speak directly to our in developing our business strategy, as the world around us. ethics code of conduct, Listen Up, assessing this across the social, Stand Up and Speak Up. environmental and economic impacts of our operations. Doing the right thing makes good Planet business sense and helps ensure we continue to operate now and in the future. Profit Sustainability in projects Our global business is diverse, operating across multiple sectors and a vast variety of projects, each bringing unique risk to our operations. At Wood we embed sustainable practice into the delivery of our projects to mitigate that operational risk, to respect and protect the environment and communities in which we operate, protect our reputation, our licence to operate and ultimately build a stronger, more resilient business. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 59 Profit Profitability An important element in securing our future profitability is to Wood like most businesses is assess our business against that of our triple bottom line risks focused on realising value for to ensure we make more informed decisions about how we chose to run our business. its shareholders providing a But our profitability also rests on the services we choose to sustainable return to our investors, bring to the market, these services are increasingly focusing on managing triple bottom line risks. Our service offering is wide shareholders and employees. ranging and diverse; our business strategy remains focused on To do this it is important we improving our service offering in project delivery, enhancing our capability across the value chain in core markets, as well as make profit in such a way that is broadening and deepening end market and customer exposure. sustainable, this is crucial to our In our core oil & gas market Proforma total revenue long term sustainability. we have a strong offering from oil & gas: across upstream, midstream and downstream 57% The share of Annual Earnings Dividend per ordinary share Per Share (AEPS) distributed cents to shareholders. Dividend per 33.3 34.3 share increased by 3% in line 27.5 30.3 with our progressive dividend policy, taking into account 2014 2015 2016 2017 cash flows and earnings. 60 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 and at a minimum compliant with 2017 Group Performance Introduction all applicable laws in the regions we Galion Lidar operate. Our internal management Total Revenue Wood’s Galion Lidar is a laser systems guide us to identify and control $6,169m our business risks whilst our sustainability based wind profiler device for strategy seeks to proactively shift our wind speed measurement & efforts from compliance to best practice directional data capture, providing where there is value in doing so. users simple & accurate means of (2016: $4,934m) 25% assessing wind speeds. At Wood we understand the role our people play in driving sustainable development and Galion wind speed Lidar Total EBITA technology represents a significant its long term impact on our profitability. advancement in the technical $372m We believe that by creating a culture that capabilities of capturing wind demonstrates commitment and care data, the use of which ensures towards our business, our society and optimal configuration of wind the environment around us will create People (2016: $363m) 2.5% turbines within the landscape & value for Wood as business and long term in relation to each other, resulting sustainable growth. in maximised energy generation & EBITA Margin minimal wear & tear on equipment. Investing in the future 6.0% Deployment of the technology At Wood we understand the need to continues to expand with the plan ahead; if our business is to be truly most recent deployment being to sustainable we need to proactively adapt install the first scanning lidar (light (2016: 7.4%) 1.4% detection and ranging) devices and respond to the challenges we face and evolve the service offerings we bring to on two floating wind turbines at the Hywind Scotland Pilot Park, the marketplace. The scale and diversity of located 25 km off the coast of Managing Change our business brings with it a far reaching Peterhead in Aberdeenshire, supply chain network; we believe that The flexibility of our asset light business Scotland. The 30MW project, which long term value can be found in working model has been crucial during the is the world’s first commercial Planet closely with our supply chain partners and floating wind farm, comprises downturn in the oil and gas market; by whilst it’s essential to remain competitive ensuring we minimise costs and focus on five floating turbines and has the in all areas of business we understand capacity to power approximately service delivery. The acquisition of Amec that longer term investment is sometimes 20,000 households. Foster Wheeler in October 2017 presented required to embed sustainable solutions. unique growth opportunities for Wood As the newly formed Wood we recognise As part of the scope of work, our and resulted in broader exposure the opportunity to assess our business clean energy team supplied and across energy and industrial markets processes and invest in streamlined installed two Galion Lidars and to further expand the group’s service solutions that will provide long term yield; motion compensation equipment, offering; managing the change that an whether through IT solutions, sustainable designed and manufactured inacquisition of this scale presents is crucial house specifically for the project. procurement practice or process delivery to delivering a successful integration. In addition to this, we are also our focus is on choosing the right solutions The Wood operating model was in place providing long-term operation and to meet our own and our customers’ needs and communicated on day one of the maintenance and data monitoring, now and in the future. acquisition; due in part to the groundwork processing and reporting services. done within legacy Wood Group’s We recognise that Wood is not the only Profit service defined organisational change business seeking to create sustainable “As the world’s first programme which began in 2016, focusing value; by sharing sustainability efforts commercial floating wind on simplicity and efficiency and resulting with our customers and suppliers we farm, Hywind Scotland is a in a structure that could accommodate believe we can work together to provide hugely exciting project and future business additions. Focusing on long term solutions to present and future one that we are extremely top level management rationalisation challenges. and property rationalisation, the work proud to be involved in. This project builds on started in 2016 allowed for only minor Creating new possibilities modification to the operating and our extensive experience reporting model with the introduction Through extensive internal and external operating Galion Lidar of Amec Foster Wheeler; a key factor in consultation, Woods vision is to inspire with ingenuity, partner with agility and on fixed offshore wind allowing a smooth transition from day one and easing stakeholder uncertainty. create new possibilities. Our passion for turbines.” creating new and unique approaches to Wood, senior product engineer Our business is continually evolving how we do business will differentiate us and at Wood we recognise the need as a company; through measured risk to manage that change responsibly to and innovative thinking we believe we ensure the operational risk we expose can generate sustainable value for our ourselves to is sufficiently managed business and industry as a whole. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 61 Profit Ethics & compliance Wood seeks to go beyond ‘tone from the top’ through the Wood is deeply committed to consistent application of our Leadership Framework and its values and aspires to deliver values. We recognize that effective leadership is critical to embedding a robust, ethical culture across our entire operation. excellent work to our clients with To this end, we ask all of our employees and business partners to demonstrate ethical leadership by abiding by the same high an unwavering focus on safety standards of ethical conduct no matter whom they are or and ethics. We are committed to where they are in the world. being a safe and ethical business Our ethical code can be broken down to five key elements: • Protecting our vision and values in every location where we • Caring for each other operate, implementing consistent • Protecting information and assets programmes, measuring our • Our commitment to honest and fair business dealings improvement, and reinforcing our • Supporting our global communities messages. 62 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Engaging with our supply Compliance within our supply chain is mandatory. When suppliers act Introduction chain responsibly, we reward them with We place high expectations of excellence greater business opportunities. Equally, and ethical conduct on our suppliers, when suppliers act in a noncompliant who are expected to act in a way that is manner, they may lose current work, consistent with our values. Further, we future opportunities and/or have their expect Wood employees to hold suppliers contract terminated. with whom they work accountable for We require our direct suppliers on acting in a manner that is consistent a global basis to also expect their with our Code of Conduct. direct suppliers to meet in-country In addition to our Code of Conduct, we environmental and safety standards, outline our expectations for supplier as well as quality standards. However, conduct in our Supply Chain Code visibility into supplier relationships, of Conduct, as well as our purchase especially at lower levels of the supply People contract terms and conditions, which chain, is difficult. We are working to clearly state our prohibition against better understand how to manage the any use of child labor or any other form risks associated with a multi-tiered of forced or involuntary labor, abusive supply chain as we align our business treatment of employees or corrupt operations. business practices in the supplying of goods and services to us. Ethical in our dealings with Planet clients We build and nurture strong relationships that are mutually beneficial, ensuring Protecting we deeply understand the people we our vision & deal with, so that we can anticipate values their needs and always aim to exceed their expectations. Everyone in our organisation contributes to the quality of Supporting Caring the relationships we build and we actively our global for each seek feedback. We aim to be a service communities other partner of choice for our clients, and Profit we recognise that a critical component Doing the of ensuring successful relationships right thing with our clients is our reputation for high standards of ethical conduct and dealings with clients. Our ability to generate predictable Our commitment Protecting results for every client, every time, in to honest & information every location is a key differentiator, fair business & assets and our focus on ethical and fair dealings negotiations is critical to our success and strengthens and protects our reputation in the industry. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 63 Further, our Code of Conduct and related policies include guidance on avoiding and declaring potential conflicts of interest, as well as guidance on the offer and acceptance of gifts and entertainment. As part of our efforts to continuously improve Wood’s business ethics and compliance program, the business ethics and compliance team conduct periodic, independent external assessments of our ethics and compliance program. The business ethics and compliance team also conduct internal risk assessments and regularly evaluates the effectiveness of our compliance program. We ensure that our anti-corruption policies, standards and procedures are communicated to all directors, officers, employees, and, where necessary and appropriate, to our commercial intermediaries and business partners. Empowering our people to speak up Finally, we encourage our employees and business partners to share any concerns they may have that our Code of Conduct or any other policies or procedures are being breached. The Wood Business Ethics Helpline is available 24 hours per day, 365 days per Combating Bribery and Short of this, it costs people their year, and in over 100 languages. Any freedom, health or finances. Corruption Corruption corrodes the social fabric of society, report, if so desired, and whether by phone or by using the email address, Our business ethics and compliance and undermines people's trust in the can be made anonymously. The system program is built on the essential political system, in its institutions and its also allows an individual to follow up to elements of an effective compliance leadership. determine what action has been taken program as defined by the Official with respect to a complaint through Moreover, we understand that Guidance – UK Bribery Act, US DOJ / the use of passwords related to an government, business and civil society FCPA Compliance Program Hallmarks, individual’s specific complaint. must work together to develop and the Good Practice program standards and procedures they all Wood widely publicizes the Helpline guidelines endorsed by the Organization support in order to combat corruption. through the Code of Conduct, the display for Economic Co-operation and However, we also know that corruption of helpline posters at all facilities, a link Development. can’t be rooted out in one big sweep. to the Helpline on both the intranet and Wood has a Corporate Ethics and Rather, fighting it is a step-by-step, internet sites, and in discussions about Compliance Officer (CECO) with direct project-by-project process. To this end, the Helpline in business ethics training access to the Executive Leadership Wood is doing its part to ensure that sessions. Team (ELT) and board of directors. its business ethics and compliance Working with the ELT and Board, the risks, including the risks of bribery and CECO is responsible for implementing corruption, are minimised. Ethical conduct reports raised in 2017: an ethical culture throughout the 127 We maintain a global anti-bribery and business and ensuring the continuous anti-corruption program that includes enhancement and development of the elements designed to prevent or detect global Ethics and Compliance program. and remediate potential violations. Wood realises that corruption impacts Our policy is clear: we do not tolerate societies politically, economically, socially the direct or indirect offer, payment, and environmentally. In the worst cases, solicitation or acceptance of bribes in it costs lives. any form. 64 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Ethics related Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) An example of some of the SDG targets relative to our business and ethics and compliance: 8.8 Protect labor rights and promote People safe and secure working environments of all workers, including migrant workers, particularly women migrants, and those in precarious employment 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms 16.B Promote and enforce nondiscriminatory laws and policies for sustainable development Training Amec Foster Wheeler conducted Anti-Bribery and Corruption In 2017, Wood appointed a full time Training through the course of 2017; training lead for our ethics and canvassing 18,635 employees this saw compliance programme responsible a 94% completion rate. Planet for developing and overseeing the implementation of a multi-year As Wood, in addition to computer business ethics and compliance based training, a further 15,000 site training and education plan. In based personnel are in the process of October 2017, we launched our receiving face to face ethics training annual business ethics online training as we progress through 2018. campaign covering practical ethics We launched our first annual business and data privacy issues; reaching ethics week campaign which included over 35,000 employees in its initial promotion of the Ethics Helpline launch. and business ethics reporting & anti-retaliation policy. Work will be Number of employees in scope: ongoing in 2018 to strengthen our training programme and promote 35,814 a strong business ethics culture throughout Wood. Profit Number of employees completing the full training module: 30,441 Percentage complete: 85% John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 65 Profit Driving innovation Sustainable Innovation has the potential to revolutionise the At Wood we understand that to way we do business ensuring we adapt and work towards a sustain our business we need to sustainable future. continually improve the way we In 2017 we continued to develop our eWorking concept; centred on connecting our people to the decision-making work, seek new ways to add value insights, knowledge and expertise where and when they need it most. This integrated system of remote working for our customers and focus on the technology enables our operational teams to make faster future, discovering new products and better quality decisions and perform tasks more efficiently and safely. and services that keep us ahead of the pack. 66 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 eWorkpack Introduction The traditional work pack process has remained largely unchanged since the early days of our industry. Digital technology reduced printing processes and some aspects of development however; the process is still hindered by paperwork. eWorkpack is a new and innovative work management system that provides you with a paperless construction work pack process and builds the work pack in a matter of minutes. Operating from a single People master document; items can be reviewed and edited in real time and revisions issued to all parties without reprints or new documents being compiled. Improves communication: • Clear work assignment • Digital P&ID mark-ups • Digital sign offs Current and proposed eWorkpack deployment • Removal of ‘paper wrangling’ Reduces cost: • No more printing hard copy work Planet packs • No more shipping of hard copy work packs to and from facilities – paper can also become damaged over time • No need for separate camera at facilities • Less work pack creation effort Maintains quality: • Structured data management ensures information is accurate Profit prior to being assigned to facility • Real time visibility of process status covering creation, assignment, execution and close eWorkpack deployed out eWorkpack planned • Work pack securely stored and retrievable – no risk of data being lost • Improved clarity of mark-up • Robust sign off and approval John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 67 eXpert Connecting discipline expertise, project managers, safety specialists and key Innovation related Sustainable Bringing the site to the office, The eXpert decision makers to the work site brings Development Goals (SDG) solution puts you right in front of the major benefits: An example of some of the SDG work site; a single operative using eXpert • Major cost savings and carbon targets relative to our business and can interface with anyone in the business our focus on innovation: through a dedicated hub so employees reduction through reduced logistics can connect directly with any situation and fewer personnel on board and easily engage the right resources to • Rapid resolution and decision making find a resolution. Multiple experts can now collaborate on the problem whilst • Immediate direction and support interacting with it in real time from • Improved connectivity and problem anywhere in the world, streamlining solving review and resolution. • Increased safety on site eXpert is a specially developed package 17.8 Enhance the use of enabling of hardware and software that allows • Greater understanding and technology, in particular information you to establish real time audio and familiarity with asset and work and communications technology visual communications with remote scope scenarios By 2030: locations; giving experts full access to • Improved accuracy of information 8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic site problems and the ability to work on to make crucial decisions productivity through diversification, solutions without the travel logistics and associated delays and costs. technological upgrading and innovation 9.4 Upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them Current and proposed eXpert deployment sustainable, with increased resourceuse efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities eXpert deployed eXpert planned 68 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Case study eWorking in action Bringing our eWorking solutions to the the opportunity for more client interaction, allowing a greater number Introduction worksite allows us to demonstrate the range of personnel take part in the testing, many of whom would not normally of benefits our technological solutions can have time within their schedules to bring to every day operations. attend an FAT. After the test the camera was remotely accessed to download Background What benefits did the technology bring? photos and videos, proving useful Month/Year: October 2017 Using eXpert, easy interaction between when the company laptops in question Function: Mechanical the site user and the client office enabled had restrictions on the use of USB the equipment operator to move the connections. WG Company: Asset Solutions EAAA camera around the site, alleviating client Client: Large scale operator concerns throughout the test period. The In the words of our people Location North Sea asset level of manoeuvrability eXpert provides People would not have been possible on a fixed “In a recent eXpert deployment Project Name: Client Asset Equipment recorded video and could have led to Factory Acceptance Test (FAT) I had five engineers in a room, costly repeat tests and subsequent cost and loss of time. trying to explain the complexity What did we do? of a valve replacement in the One of the main benefits using eXpert in Our eXpert solution was used to live this instance was a reduction in Travel, well bay of the shearwater stream factory acceptance testing back resulting in three key savings: jacket. This was highly useful to to a client office, avoiding mobilisation the team and quickly resolved of an additional one-two people to Cost Saving in hourly rates spent travelling, our issues at the time.” the asset through the use of eXpert technology. travel time each way in this case was at Wood maintenance engineer, least seven hours. August 2017 A FAT was required to confirm the design parameters of the package. Attendance Carbon “I recently had the pleasure at a FAT is mandatory by Wood and Environmental benefits associated with of using eXpert on two of my Planet normally attended by a number of client multiple journeys site visits. I found the device team members. Time very easy and simple to use. The live stream capability of eXpert The test went ahead at the earliest The fact it is intrinsically safe allowed questions to be asked in real opportunity, with less logistical administration and the video link gave means there was no need time with only one client team member needing to physically visit the site. to obtain a permit for the device when going on site, saving time. It’s also useable while wearing gloves, which is perfect to avoid removing PPE on site. Overall I think it’s a great bit of kit and I really Profit enjoyed using it.” Wood senior piping designer, July 2017 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 69 Profit Sustainability in projects At Wood we understand the impact we have on the Our sustainability strategy seeks environment around us; our wide-spread sector offering to provide a safe and sustainable means we have an ever increasing responsibility to ensuring we protect the environment and communities in which environment for our people as well we work. We place a focus on assessing and mitigating operational risk on all our projects in order to safeguard as the communities in which we our people, the environment and our business as a whole. operate; embedding sustainable Sustainable practice in what we do is vital to protecting our licence to operate, our reputation and maintaining our practice into our projects is a ability to build a strong, sustainable business. key component to achieving our sustainable development goals. 70 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability framework Social Environmental Economic Introduction Our sustainability framework breaks down impact impact impact what we mean by sustainability in relation to projects; using a three tiered approach Environmental to assessing the social, environmental and Health, safety & security Supply chain management economic impacts of our operations, the framework defines the areas of focus to Carbon Business conduct & be factored into project assessments. Human rights management ethics As part of driving awareness of Wood’s sustainability programme in 2018, we will Diversity & Anti-bribery & Resource efficiency look to develop how this framework is used inclusion corruption in the project lifecycle, from identifying to acquiring and into delivery and close out. Community / stakeholder Driving We believe that building sustainability Biodiversity engagement & investment innovation People considerations into every project is vital to how we win, retain work and successfully deliver to our customers. Building sustainability in projects Helping to address the Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Through our work in the renewables sector and our sustainability and climate resilience projects we are at the forefront of addressing some of the world’s sustainable development goals. We recognise the role business plays in helping to deliver the sustainable development goals and the opportunities for growth that this can bring. This section of the report looks at three main areas of focus for Wood: climate resilience, resilient cities and renewable energy; detailing how these relate to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Through case study examples we aim to demonstrate our work in these areas, our approach to each challenge faced and the key sustainability factors at play in Planet relation to our sustainability framework assessment. Climate resilience Resilient cities Renewable energy The sustainable development goal We are driven to provide safe and Our focus on renewable energy has relating to climate change action sustainable project solutions for our enabled Wood to become a leading is one area in which our expertise customers, many of which include cities force in the clean energy market, and innovative solutions can and municipalities world wide. bringing our expertise and passion for support the delivery of the targets innovation to help advance the global Profit associated. By 2030 energy shift. • Substantially increase the number By 2030 of urban settlements adopting and By 2030 • Strengthen resilience and implementing policies and plans • Increase substantially the share adaptive capacity to climate towards inclusion, resource efficiency, of renewable energy in the global related hazards and natural adaption and mitigation to climate energy mix disasters in all countries change, resilience to disasters and • Double the global rate of implement holistic disaster risk • Integrate climate change improvement in energy efficiency management at all levels. measures into national policies, • Ensure access to affordable, strategies and planning • Support lesser developed countries reliable and modern energy in building sustainable and resilient services buildings, utilising local materials John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 71 Case study Focus on resilient cities By 2030, 60 percent of the world’s population will live in cities, up from 50 percent today. Key sustainability factors: We recognise the role business needs to play Driving Innovation in sustainable development; we recognise our Introducing innovative approaches and ground breaking technology expertise and experience in climate resilience helps provide resilience against and infrastructure can help cities around the the effects of climate change and future sustainability. We provide world become more resilient to ever growing forecasting technology that social, environmental and economic challenges. empowers cities to plan in advance for extreme weather events and natural disasters; our forward thinking expertise helps bring Wood has been a partner of 100 Resilient Cities (100RC), pioneered by the to life our vision to create new Rockefeller Foundation, since 2015. 100RC is a global program aimed at possibilities. providing urban centres around the world with access to innovative tools that allow them to better plan for potentially destructive weather events. Through our work with 100RC we have been able to provide numerous safe Resource efficiency and sustainable project solutions around the globe that not only secure us work Through the introduction of contracts but also gives us a platform to best utilise our sustainability and advanced technology we are able climate resilience expertise; a growing part of our business model. to demonstrate real environmental benefits; whether from real time process automation or from increased awareness and effective use of resources. 72 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction People Supporting water and Clean soil bank What benefits did it bring to the city? flood resilience projects dashboard Introducing the online dashboard Location: River Seine, Paris Location: New York City allowed better tracking of soil exchange in the greater New York The challenge: area, helping in turn to: To establish a method to identifying green space with the • Replace manual paper capacity to mitigate flood events forms with an online, instant and then prioritise them according submission process to their potential to receive and • Map out identified soil and curb flooding events. material opportunities to Planet improve visibility How are we getting involved? Wood is working with the City • Improve associated logistics of Paris CRO and Resilience with soil transfer, which alone: team to introduce an online • Reduces transportation data portal that provides secure The challenge: impacts – 6,140 miles per access to analyse socio-economic How can the city of New York 1000 tons reused vulnerability, flood storage better track and manage clean soil • Reduces GHG emissions – potential and aid flood mitigation exchange to enable the recycling 10tons CO2 per 1000 tons decisions. of clean native soil in construction reused projects? What benefits did it bring to the • Improves air quality, reduces city? What did we do? noise impact and improves Allowing for the development of Wood developed a Clean Soil Bank pedestrian safety (CSB) dashboard and logistics Profit a natural flood prevention pilot With more than 60% of the clean study this system helps to address tool that tracks, manages, and soil in the city exchanging through flood protection in the region effectively deploys brownfieldthe NYC Clean Soil Bank the project and enhance smart-grid power related clean soils for New York has made NYC more resilient to redundancy to flood impacts. City projects. The dashboard went climate impacts and saved the live on April 22 2017, coinciding with city government $3.3 million in soil Earth Day. purchase costs to date. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 73 Case study Focus on renewables We provide engineering and technical advisory Key sustainability factors: solutions to onshore and offshore wind, solar, wave, tidal and hydro projects. Our focus on Community and stakeholder engagement growing our renewables capability has allowed Establishing dialogue and building us to be at the forefront of ground breaking strong and genuine relationships with local communities and other advances in the renewable sector. Our focus is stakeholders is a vital part of any on maximising renewable energy assets; from project; striking a balance between the protection of scenic and the early stages of site selection and feasibility, natural resources, with economic right through to operation and maintenance and market demands. to enhance production potential, safety and Driving innovation profitability. Ensuring renewable energy is efficient and reliable improves its economic feasibility; applying our innovative capabilities in the renewables space ensures sustainable development for both Wood and the planet. Biodiversity The assessment of renewable technology and its impact on the environment is a vital component of any project and a key consideration to our work in the renewable energy sector. 74 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction MeyGen tidal energy Senegal solar power plant Hywind Scotland floating project projects offshore wind farm Location: Caithness, Scotland Location: Africa Location: Aberdeenshire, Scotland People The challenge: The challenge: The challenge: With an ever growing demand for In a continent where the majority Floating offshore wind farms give clean electricity, tidal power provides remain off-grid, Senegal is working the potential to gain access to significant potential to become a towards a target of serving 20 stronger, more consistent wind, predictable source of renewable percent of its energy needs with advancing wind technologies and energy. Technological advances both renewables by the end of 2017. new possibilities in the renewables in design and turbine technology make sector. Showcasing the technology tidal power more environmentally and As the first large-scale projects of as commercially viable is key to their kind to be developed in Senegal, realising its vast potential. economically viable. each 30MWp site will consist of How are we involved? a ground-mounted photovoltaic “We are convinced that plant and will have the capacity to We are providing operational support supply electricity to the equivalent of additional similar projects for the development of four 1.5 MW can and will be built over the 200,000 people. Planet tidal turbines to be installed on the sea basin. Each foundation for the next few years, de-risking turbine weighs between 250 to 350 What did we do? floating wind and creating Our team acted as technical advisors, tonnes coupled with six ballast blocks providing site inspections, review attractive investments.” weighing 1,200 tonnes providing horizontal stability. The team is of equipment, plant design and key Principal Consultant, Wood acting as site operations contractor project participants, independent energy yield prediction, review of What did we do? initially, providing national grid control permits and authorisations. The We acted as technical advisor for point services, with the option for project also included review of the the investment in Hywind floating expanding services to include remote construction, maintenance and offshore wind farm; the world’s first operational monitoring, control and operation contracts, assistance multi-turbine floating offshore wind reporting, for the tidal turbines. during project testing and handover, farm. Our consultants and engineers What benefits will it bring? thermographic inspection of PV provided technical due diligence The project will demonstrate that modules and construction and services, reviewing the project Profit the development of tidal array operation monitoring phases of the design, construction contracts, projects is both commercially projects. project schedule, financial model viable and technically feasible. The and operations and maintenance invaluable lessons drawn from the What benefits will it bring? plan; during the consultation period construction, installation, operation These innovative projects will help we also provided an energy yield and maintenance of this phase (of the shape the next phase of solar assessment for the wind farm. project) fed into subsequent phases. projects in the country and help establish a focus on renewable What benefits will it bring? “MeyGen is a groundenergy in the region. This project is an important milestone between demonstration breaking 398MW tidal energy “With abundant renewable and full commercialisation of project that will generate floating wind. The project aims energy resources, Senegal is clean, predictable, green to prove that floating wind on a increasingly turning to solar pre-commercial scale is feasible electricity and position photovoltaics to bolster and profitable, leading the way for Scotland as the world leader energy security and support floating wind farms on a larger and in marine energy generation.” global scale. rapid economic growth in a Director of asset management, Wood sustainable manner.” Solar technical manager, Wood John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 75 Case study Focus on climate resilience Our current and future resilience to the Key sustainability factors: effects of climate change relies upon our collective ability to learn and adapt. Globally Environmental management Understanding the risks associated we are already seeing the effects of climate with climate change and providing change and the challenges this brings. pragmatic solutions to mitigate or manage those risks is key to In the next 50 years we will see increased sea ensuring a project is sustainable long term. Using environmental temperatures, fluctuations in temperature expertise to assess and identify and more frequent extreme weather bringing opportunities to better improve how we manage environmental droughts, floods and colder winters. risks helps to reduce our impact on the environment and preserve At Wood our climate, resilience and resources. sustainability experts aim to enhance and Carbon management protect the assets and investments of our With Carbon management being a major factor in reducing customers through faster, more efficient climate change and the increasing response and recovery during and after pressure upon society to reach global reduction targets carbon climate-related shocks and stresses. management is a key factor in any of our projects. Whether we are working towards minimising or reducing our carbon footprint, or creating more economically viable green energy solutions it all contributes to building a sustainable future. Health, safety & security The health, safety and security of our employees is a key component of any project we undertake whether onsite or remote working. The nature of our work often introduces potentially hazardous circumstances but our focus always remains on protecting ourselves, our colleagues and the communities in which we operate, maintaining sustainable operations 76 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 Introduction Uranium mining project Environmental To overcome these challenges, the team developed some best practice management support approaches to establishing the Location: People environmental performance of the Greenland Location: airport against the new EIA directive Manston Airport, UK in an infrastructure planning project The challenge: (climate change and resource Greenland’s rich source of minerals efficiency). This enabled us to meet has the potential to contribute to the client timescales and achieve the the new global green economy. required level of technical output. Wood’s consultants were asked by a client to advise on the climate risks For each topic, mitigation options associated with a uranium mining to take forward into the detailed project in Greenland, detailing risks design of the airport were provided. linked to both the environment and As climate change and resource the general population. efficiency are new topics within the EIA directive, Wood developed the What did we do? assessment techniques required for Planet Our team of experts undertook a climate risk assessment that The challenge: their successful implementation. focused on assessing critical areas Requiring a Development Consent What benefits did the project deliver? relating to: Order (DCO) for the re-development The project represents a significant of Manston Airport to re-open as • Climate risks of operation and success for both the client and a freight hub, our client required closure Wood as we were able to deliver a full environmental assessment • Potential climate likelihood of risk the development of environmental of the key climate considerations events guidance for a major infrastructure associated with the project in order • Controls to identify climate risk project on a demanding timescale, to satisfy the Environmental Impact and data gap analysis whilst developing a new approach to Assessment (EIA) Directive. carrying out the EIA. What benefits did the project deliver? What did we do? Using Wood’s wide range of With a challenging timescale for specialist skills, including engineers, delivery, alongside the resolution Profit ecologists, hydrologists and of a legal challenge to the original hydrogeologists we were able to planning submission our team had make a positive impact with the options considered following the a number of challenging aspects to risk assessment and help the client consider including: analyse a selection of strategic • Delivery of Environmental Impact opportunities to determine where Assessment (EIA) services adaptive actions were required. • Greenhouse Gas (GHG) “The client was extremely assessment satisfied with the Wood • Climate resilience assessment team and our consideration • Water resources assessment of future impacts of extreme • Development of circular economy weather events in the / resource efficiency approaches projects dam and tailing, • Waste management during planning, designing, operation and closure” Principal consultant, Wood John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 77 Looking to the future Developing communication How we communicate our sustainability programme is vital to ensuring we connect with our global business. In order for our projects and functions to truly drive sustainable action and awareness we need a robust two way method of communication. At the start of 2018, each of our business line CEOs nominated a sustainability champion to become ambassadors for sustainability in their businesses; this team will each form a regional network of sustainability champions within their business lines to help communicate our sustainability programme as we move through the course of the year. Each champion will act as key points of contact in their business for the wider sustainability team, employees, local groups and We are only at the start of our journey in building management. our sustainability programme. As a people Local sustainability action matrix business we believe real change comes from the Our ‘Think Global, Act Local’ programme, behaviours we all choose to display, behaviours aimed at driving sustainable action at a local level will be primarily driven by that ultimately safeguard our future. At Wood we our sustainability champions network, aim to provide a caring culture that is committed helping showcase the practical measures each office or site put in place to tackle to the future of our business, our people and our sustainability issues. A key tool in supporting our programme will be our planet; We recognise sustainability needs to live sustainability matrix; as we develop this in all our actions and be driven by the people that through the course of the year this will help demonstrate how, at a local level, make our business successful. the actions each office or site takes works towards making Wood a more sustainable business, demonstrating how Raising awareness We may be at the start of building our we live our values and help our business Raising awareness on what strategy but we are already starting meet it’s long term vision and goals. The sustainability means to our business to tackle some key components of our action matrix will help communicate will be a key focus over the coming sustainability programme. Here are sustainability locally and give line of sight year as we expand our sustainability just a few elements of our programme to our global social, environmental and programme. The term sustainability already in motion: economic objectives. is relatively unknown to many in our People Every employee has a responsibility to combined business and our work in 2018 protect, nurture and promote our people, Community investment: will focus on engaging with our people, planet and profit; we believe the key to a raising awareness on what sustainability • Launch of employee matched funding sustainable business comes from active means to Wood and gaining collective • Selection of our global cause employee engagement driven as much action on how we demonstrate we are a Wood modern slavery and human from our employees on the ground as sustainable business. trafficking statement from the leadership of our business. Developing our strategy Profit Our focus will always be on getting the Code of business conduct: basics right, ensuring stable consistent • Ethics code of business conduct operation for our customers, clients • Supply chain code of conduct and employees. As we continue to engage with our business and functions Planet over the course of the coming year our Carbon footprint: sustainability strategy will begin to develop. • Combined GHG reporting platform • 3 year strategy to align GHG reporting 78 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2018 John Wood Group PLC 15 Justice Mill Lane Aberdeen AB11 6EQ UK Tel +44 1224 851000 Visit our website at: www.woodplc.com
