Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016-2017 Contents 4 Chairperson Statement 32 In Practice: Strengthening Inclusion 5 CEO Statement 34 In Practice: Investing in the Talent Pipeline 6 Our Manifesto 39 Act for the planet. Together 8 Pathway to Lead. Together 41 Climate Change 11 Part of the bigger picture: delivering the UN Sustainable 42 Improving our Energy Efficiency Development Goals 43 Managing water risks 14 Grow the business. Together 44 In Practice: Addressing Climate Change Impacts 15 Digital Transformation 48 Strengthen communities. Together 17 In Practice: Transforming Business for the Digital Age 49 Gender Equality 19 Innovation 50 HeForShe 20 In Practice: EasyRoute 52 For My Country 22 In Practice: Open Platform for Start-up Collaboration 57 Making It Happen with Stakeholders 24 Suppliers and Distributors 60 Sustainability Governance across Koç Group: Inclusive, 26 Empower people. Together effective and dynamic 28 Future Talent 67 Performance Indicators 30 In Practice: Building Future Skills and Competencies 69 GRI Index 31 Diversity and Inclusion Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 2 About the Report As Koç Holding A.Ş. (Koç Holding), we prepared our 2016-2017 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Report to share our environmental, social and Standards: Core option. In this report, we have also linked our corporate governance performance with our stakeholders. The performance to United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and report covers the operations and sustainability performance Women Empowerment Principles (WEP) indicators. of Arçelik, Aygaz, Ford Otosan, Koç Information Group , Opet, * Otokar, Otokoç Otomotiv, Tat Gıda, Tofaș, Tüpraș, TürkTraktör The report mainly covers data from January 1, 2016 to and Yapı Kredi, which are companies referred as the Koç December 31, 2017. We have also shared performance from Group. The scope of this report covers 77% of Koç Group previous years, where necessary. We are committed to disclose employees, and 84% of the combined revenues. Our report our sustainability performance annually. highlights group-wide initiatives and some best practices implemented by Koç Group companies, more information on For your questions, feedback, and recommendations regarding each company’s sustainability performance can be found in this report, you may contact us via iletisim@koc.com.tr. their respective sustainability reports. 102-45 / 102-46 / 102-49 * Koç Information Group does not represent a legal entity, but a common name for KoçSistem and Bilkom all of which are Koç Group companies. Within this report, unless otherwise stated, all performance and practice related information disclosed regarding Koç Information Group consists of the shared data and practices of these three enterprises. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 3 Ömer M. Koç / Chairperson Statement Dear Stakeholders, We live in a time of swift and constant change that has Goals offer comprehensive guidance for the world, an impact on all aspects of our lifestyle and business developed and developing alike. This framework prompts models. The global agenda is shaped both by issues us to embrace responsibility to generate better solutions such as population growth, urbanization, and climate to global issues. As the Koç Group, we recognise the change, and opportunities offered by rapid advances crucial role of the private sector in driving sustainable in technology. Not everyone in the world has benefited growth thanks to our flexibility and dynamism. We reiterated our equally from the economic, social and technological globalization of recent years. There is a perception that As the Koç Group, we are committed to maintaining our commitment to the global boom has not been shared fairly and that traditional position as the vanguard of economic and sustainability as income inequality amongst populations, nations, regions social advancement. We shall take bold steps where Lead. Together, and countries is on the rise. What is indisputable is that required and continue to support the dissemination of which frames the inequalities exist in levels of access to affordable and UN Global Compact Principles within our Group and way we manage high quality education, technology and health services. our network. In 2017, we reiterated our commitment to More serious and frequent crises appear to loom in sustainability as Lead. Together, which frames the way sustainability the near future: regional conflicts, adverse impacts of we manage sustainability issues and crystallises our role issues and climate change, displaced populations, and ascendant as a leader in fostering change in collaboration with our crystallises our xenophobia. stakeholders. role as a leader in fostering change in That there is a growing need for a more innovative, I would like to take this opportunity to extend my sincere inclusive and collaborative growth model is thanks to all our shareholders, customers, dealers, collaboration with unquestionable. business partners, union members, and employees, our stakeholders. who make it possible to bring our promises to life. To this end, the United Nations Sustainable Development Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 4 Levent Çakıroğlu / CEO Statement Dear Stakeholders, Growing inequalities and climate change are the two major • Empower people. Together is how we champion challenges of our times. Rapid changes in technology diversity and inclusion, and prepare employees for cause a fundamental shift in the way we do business the future, and, at the same time, offer remarkable opportunities for • Act for the planet. Together is how we leverage economic growth. The world lags behind, however, firstly our scale and influence to address global climate in managing the uncertainty amongst economic, social challenges, and and technological changes, and secondly, in finding • Strengthen communities. Together is how we scalable solutions. create a ripple effect in society by partnering with our stakeholders. Lead. Together is The adoption of the UN Sustainable Development Goals has marked a potential turning point in addressing All four pillars are interconnected, and all four are of our approach for these burning challenges. Businesses can unlock many equal importance. To achieve our ambition for these sustainable and untapped opportunities by mobilizing their capacity for pillars, we have defined our strategic priorities as profitable growth. It innovation and technology for sustainable development. digital transformation, innovation, future talent, diversity means that we will We, as Koç Holding, recognise the evolving role of and inclusion, and climate change. We develop grow globally while business in delivering the SDG agenda and to that end, comprehensive programmes for each of these priorities, we support our global vision with the framework defined scrutinise the relationships between the issues, build putting people first, as Lead. Together. partnerships and spread good practices within and recognizing the beyond our Group. needs of the planet Lead. Together is our approach for sustainable and and investing in profitable growth. It means that we will grow globally while We acknowledge that our stakeholders expect us lead by putting people first, recognising the needs of the planet example. Lead. Together sets up a framework for making the communities and investing in the communities that we operate in. We collective progress, and helps us harness the power of our that we operate in. deliver Lead. Together across four pillars: business, network to drive positive change. We can only bring people, planet and communities. Lead. Together to life by working together with our employees, distributors, suppliers, business partners, • Grow the business. Together is how we deliver and local and global stakeholders. sustainable, profitable growth globally, Lead. Together is a journey. And our potential is huge. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 5 Our Manifesto Lead. Together is our approach for sustainable, profitable role model that drives change in society. It means we will act growth at Koç Group. It sets a framework for making collective bravely to transform our business for the better. progress and helps us harness the power of our network to drive positive change. We believe sustainability is directly Lead. Together reflects the difference we can make across Koç connected to our business growth, and to our unique role in Group and our commitment to partnership. The expectations society, which drives us to inspire others and develop every of our stakeholders inspire us to make a difference and the person and organization we engage with. diverse abilities of our people mean we can bring our promise to life. We are progressing collectively across the board. Lead. Together means we will innovate and collaborate to find solutions to big, complex issues. It means we will be a positive Lead. Together is a journey. And our potential is huge. Lead. Together is a journey. And our potential is huge. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 6 Our heritage, our future Our founder Vehbi Koç once said that our prosperity is connected to the prosperity of our country. Our aspiration to become a global leader means elevating Vehbi Koç’s vision on a global scale: We believe that our prosperity is connected to the prosperity of the world we live and work in. Grow the business. Together Empower people. Together Act for the planet. Together Strengthen communities. Together Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 7 Pathway to Lead. Together With Koç Group’s global vision and evolving sustainability In addition to the internal workshops and interviews, a agenda driven by UN Sustainable Development Goals qualitative external stakeholder research was conducted (SDGs), we revisited our material issues and started by an independent research organization*. The building our sustainability approach. Our main purpose stakeholders included government institutions, international is to maximize Koç Holding’s impact by focusing on organizations, NGO’s, business organizations, research cross-cutting issues, to manage sustainability risks and centers, opinion leaders, start-ups and universities both opportunities effectively, to guide Koç Group companies to at national and international level. The specific institutions Changing role of business lead sustainability in their respective business areas. and individuals were determined according to the stakeholder map developed for Koç Holding to ensure that The analysis of the stakeholder Lead. Together and its focus areas are a result of an economic, social and environmental issues were included, research showed that Koç Holding iterative process that includes cross-functional teams from such as climate change, biodiversity, water, innovation, was regarded as a corporation that Group companies, senior management across different digitalization, human and employee rights, transparency, can focus on the big picture with industries, external stakeholders and opinion leaders. OHS, gender equality and inclusion. its holistic approach to deliver long-term value. Stakeholders Stakeholders were asked to respond the following; expect us to cooperate, develop joint projects, actively share • Critical megatrends and sustainability issues at knowledge and experiences, global level, become a pioneer and take We launched the processes by organizing preliminary • Implications of megatrends and sustainability issues the lead, rather than working workshops with 12 Group companies that represent on emerging markets, solitarily for reaching our goals. the major operations of our business, to get a better • Prioritization of SDGs for Turkey, for private sector Our stakeholders recommend us understanding on the status of sustainability management and for Koç Group companies, to work more actively together across the Group. Different functions like human resources • The most material sustainability issues for Koç not only with NGOs, academy (HR), environment, corporate communications, supply Holding, and and government institutions but chain and innovation participated in these workshops. • Role of business and expectations from Koç Holding also with other private sector in managing sustainability issues. corporations and suppliers. We Following the workshops, we conducted 20 semi-structured are attributed a transformative interviews with Group companies’ General Managers and Specific questions based on each stakeholder’s area of role especially for SME’s, due other members of senior management to identify the most expertise were also included to discover respective action to our close business relations with suppliers and distributors, material sustainability topics for the top management. points. The key output from the research indicated that our to initiate a mobilization on stakeholders consider climate change, inclusion, gender sustainability. Initial findings revealed the need to have a holistic equality, transparency, digitalization and innovation among approach to manage sustainability issues since each the most significant issues for Koç Holding. function or department focused on their own expertise area. 102-40 / 102-42 / 102-43 / 102-44 * Sia Insight, Koç Holding Stakeholder Research, 2016. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 8 Pathway to Lead. Together Meanwhile, we developed the “Koç Group Sustainability the material issues and 5 focus areas for their respective Guide” to enable standardization of sustainability companies. Issues submitted by each Group company management across the Group, we developed the “Koç were assessed and recurrent themes were identified to be Group Sustainability Guide”. And to effectively implement integrated into the material issues of Koç Holding. More this guide, we developed workshops with participation of information on the Guide can be found under Sustainability a wide range of experts from the Group companies. The Governance and Stakeholder Engagement sections. Guide provides direction firstly on defining how to manage material issues and focus areas, stakeholder integration, As a result, each item covered in this section, were performance management as well as standards on best consolidated and presented to the final approval of Koç practices. Holding’s senior management. 5 key issues and their related SDGs were prioritized under 4 focus areas which In accordance with the Sustainability Guide, each Group formed our new sustainability framework, Lead. Together. company held cross-functional workshops to determine 102-42 / 102-43 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 9 Pathway to Lead. Together 102-47 / 102-49 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 10 Part of the Bigger Picture: Delivering the UN Sustainable Development Goals SDGs seek to mobilize global efforts around a common to deliver the SDGs through our sustainability agenda and set of goals and targets for 2030 that aim to end poverty, ambition. To seize the chances, we now embrace the SDGs protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all. At Koç as the framework of our sustainability model. Group, we recognize the business needs to understand and contribute to these goals as a driver for innovation and SDGs trigger the need for systematic change; present us generator of economic growth. Lead. Together ensures we with new untapped opportunities in the pursuit of collective are part of this bigger picture. resilience and prosperity. When we consider the diversity of our sectors we have the opportunity to contribute to We conducted extensive research and meetings to all 17 Goals. Our report The Sustainable Development understand the implications of SDGs on our business Goals and Their Implications on Business identifies all and our opportunities to contribute. This culminated in a these conveniences and contribution areas for each of our report on The Sustainable Development Goals and Their main sectors. It guides us in making the right connections Implications on Business. The report summarizes the key between different functions and discovering the ways mega-trends and their impacts on our main industries: in which we can find solutions to issues, innovate, and Financial Services, Energy, Durable Goods and Automotive, transform our business. It also sheds light on the relevant with the aim of discovering and inspiring our opportunities megatrends which shape today’s world and the future, and to do more. how they have a significant consequence on a number of SDGs. These megatrends also provide the basis for many In this Report, we highlight how Lead. Together enables us opportunities presented by Global Goals. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 11 Part of the Bigger Picture: Delivering the UN Sustainable Development Goals We need to ensure that all the Group companies and products and services to address those challenges. The employees have a common understanding on our approach aim is to better understand SDGs, how they are interrelated to SDGs and the implications for each of their sectors. By and how to better respond to them. We will continue to gathering teams across different industries and companies, develop new solutions during this journey; however we are we held an SDG workshop and discussed our sustainability aware that achieving SDGs depend on collaborative action. model based on the framework. By using design thinking We urge others to join this movement and aim to work with methodology, the workshop groups discussed challenges civil society, governments and peers in making SDGs a related to the SDGs and developed new business models, reality. Grow the business. Together Empower people. Together Act for the planet. Together Strengthen communities. Together Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 12 Grow the business. Together Grow the business. Together Aiming for sustainable, profitable growth Growth is good for us, and good for society Our aim is to create a business that delivers sustainable, We’ve always believed our prosperity is connected to the profitable growth. Our vision shows that this growth prosperity of the world; we only reach our goals if we align will come through expanding our global presence and with changes in society, the environment, technology and establishing brands that have a competitive edge, wherever business. Being sustainable means using our potential to its we do business. We will succeed by developing business fullest by developing products and services that meet the models that are flexible, efficient and focused on creating pressing needs and expectations of society. long-term value. Our stakeholders expect us to lead by example. When we Taking the lead with innovation, technology and our grow, others grow. When we innovate for the better, others brands follow. When we create more added value and respond to changes in technology, business and society, we start Our technology, innovation capability and brand assets a ripple effect that extends out to all our industries, our have long been key to our success and they will be business partners and the wider community. vital tools for the future. But our influence extends far beyond the businesses and brands we manage. We At Koç Group, we aim to maintain our pioneering position have an opportunity to drive positive change on a global by leading change. In this path, digital transformation scale – both as a role model and through our long-term and innovation are our strategic priorities to seize current relationships with employees, partners, investors, suppliers and potential opportunities and SDGs serve as a driver into and distributors. As an investor, we also create long-term inclusive economic growth. shared value through the decisions and investments we make. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 14 Digital Transformation Koç Digital Transformation Program We have set up a rigorous change management program designed to maximize opportunities offered by digital Being global players means going digital technologies. The program has the capacity to radically transform products, services, business processes We’ve always been good at reading the spirit of the time and business models, to create added value for our and it’s kept us in leading positions in our industries. Now, businesses. Making production safer and more efficient, we aspire to lead the digital transformation and expand our serving customers with a fully customized experience horizons to deliver resource efficiencies, connect people and implementing new business models will enhance the and create new business opportunities. pioneering position of our companies. To achieve these goals, we have identified and road mapped more than 300 Digital is changing lives – and redefining leadership digital initiatives focusing on digital marketing and customer experience, digital supply chain and operations, digital lean Digital has changed the way we interact with each other workplace and digital participation of employees. and with the world. With whole sectors being revolutionized by digital business models, the leaders of the digital world As a first step of the Program the each Group Company; will be the leaders of the future: those that successfully • conducted a digital maturity assessment evaluating integrate technology into their businesses will flourish. strategy, culture, organization and capabilities But the real success factor won’t be technological comparing with best cases. The gaps and related advancement, it will be the cultural change that recommendations and next steps were identified. accompanies it – change with people at its heart. This assessment has shown that there is a significant correlation between digital maturity, financial Faster, easier, more sustainable performance and shareholder value. • evaluated existing and future digital projects according Digital enables us to serve our customers better, faster, with to the company's strategic objectives and priorities. In a fully customized experience and personalized products line with best cases and gap analysis new ideas and and services. It means we can rethink products, make projects were offered. Accepted projects constituted best use of technological developments in production, the digital roadmap for the short term. make business processes leaner and more productive, • identified employee competencies and new capability encourage employee participation and creativity, and needs; accordingly, training and development implement business models which up until now seemed programs have been planned and rolled out. The aim technically impossible. is to provide employees the required skillsets to keep pace with the fast-changing digital era. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 15 Digital Transformation In addition to the initiatives and projects, key topics such The companies also create dedicated positions to further as big data and data analytics, Industry 4.0, information enhance the Digital Transformation Program and it is technologies competence and new digital business ideas becoming part of strategic planning while all companies are managed by Group companies individually or across commit to digital transformation targets. the Group. Koç Digital Transformation Program yielded in success Koç Group Companies manage the Program through stories in 2017, this report deep dives into an example of their Digital Transformation Leaders , teams and steering customer experience and more information on the Program committees. They also disseminate implementation of the can be found in Koç Holding Annual Report 2016 and Program at the company level. 2017. Digital Transformation Group-wide Enablers Cultural Transformation Themes Digital Marketing and Customer Data ve Analytics Awareness and Communications Experience Digital Supply Chain Industry 4.0 Competency Development and Operations Readiness in IT Teamwork Digital Lean Workplace Digital New Initiatives Governance Digital Participation of Employees Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 16 Digital Transformation In Practice: Transforming Business for the Digital Age Yapı Kredi, Turkey's fourth largest private bank, serves 23.5 million people each year, 13.3 million of whom are active customers. The company designs its products and services with the changing needs of customers in mind, therefore considers digital transformation an opportunity to explore new business opportunities. Yapı Kredi, with its motto of “Digital bank of Turkey”, aims to implement integrations that will add value for customers, increase customer satisfaction, and ensure long-term growth in customer acquisition and revenue. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 17 Digital Transformation In Practice: Transforming Business for the Digital Age Touch One Screen Experience Don’t Panic Button Mobile applications have become an essential part of In its efforts to innovate and improve customer experience, our daily lives and customers now have more touchpoint Yapı Kredi has also derived insights from customer calls options with the banks than ever. As a result, Yapı Kredi leveraged by data. The bank, which receives almost 1.5 positioned “mobile” as the remote control of the bank and million card cancellation requests annually, observed that make all touchpoints intercommunicate with each other many customers found their cards shortly after reporting under the same roof. They created the “Touch One Screen them lost. These customers had to wait unnecessarily for Experience”, to ultimately enhance customer experience. a new card and the bank had to deal with cost of printing The project aims to allow customers to manage all channels an extra card. The feedback also revealed that panicked from a single point. In line with this strategy, Yapı Kredi customers often had a hard time finding the number for the launched money withdrawal and deposit with QR code call center and expected a faster response in case of fraud. without touching the ATM, call forwarding without further Based on these results, the bank took action to provide authentication, branch density maps and priority queues, customers a better experience when they reported a lost mobile payments using NFC-featured Android phones, or stolen card. The bank designed a unique experience for money transfers from all Android messaging apps with this specific need and they called it as “Don't Panic Button”. “Banking Keyboard” and money transfers through Siri and Inspired by the behavior of people in panic situation, it has 7 iMessage. Additionally, One Pin was developed to spare been designed like an emergency button. This button can customers the inconvenience of remembering multiple be reached on Yapı Kredi Mobile login screen by touching million passwords. It therefore became possible to access Yapı profile photo and enabled customers to temporarily suspend users by the end of 2017 Kredi Mobile and Internet Banking and Customer Relation their card for 24 hours. It also allowed them to report Center with a single password. The bank also implemented stolen cards after this duration and request a new card as a progressive mobile application login feature called necessary. Customers had the ability to withdraw money using a QR code, make mobile payments and pay credit 800,000 Eyeprint-ID. Utilizing eye recognition technology for mobile banking login was the first of its kind in Europe. With One card debts without disrupting their daily lives. While many App strategy, individual and corporate mobile banking banks opted to bury their card suspension options in menus, monthly withdrawals with YapıKredi's Don't Panic Button has given customers a more applications were merged. The Eyeprint-ID feature alone the new QR code was used by more than 7 million users by the end of 2017. satisfying and efficient experience. Since the Don't Panic Almost 800,000 monthly withdrawals were made using Button was introduced in April 2017, nearly 200,000 cards Yapı Kredi Mobile's new QR Code feature, and almost 200 have been temporarily suspended on Yapı Kredi Mobile. thousand direct calls were made from Yapı Kredi Mobile to Only 10,000 of these requests resulted in card cancellations. the Customer Relation Center. In 2017, the number of active This process would take considerably longer if customers Yapı Kredi Mobile users rose 51 percent compared to the had to use call centers to resolve their card cancellation previous year. issues and printing unnecessary new cards is an avoidable expense for the bank. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 18 Innovation Koç Innovation Program Innovation is among the top strategic priorities for Koç Breakthrough innovation to improve lives and enhance Group companies to enhance competitiveness and achieve services profitable and sustainable growth. Koç Group Innovation Strategy concentrates on; We aim to grow our business with new business models, • cultivating corporate entrepreneurship across the products and services that improve lives in bold and Group and supporting our employees’ entrepreneurial innovative ways. Our customers are often the first to benefit spirit and efforts from our innovations but, by finding new ways of thinking • extending innovative endeavours not only across and working, we also support the wider society to become product and service development activities, but in all more sustainable, connected and prosperous. business units and operations • increasing partnerships with external stakeholders, an Keeping innovation on the agenda for sustainable important source of innovation, and managing these success collaborations more effectively • managing innovative operations via clear processes to To stay relevant and resilient, businesses need to develop ensure sustainability innovative processes and business models that are based Koç Innovation Program was launched in 2014 to build on creative and new ideas. Our stakeholders have a clear 7 a group-wide culture of innovation and intrapreneurship, view that innovative businesses are sustainable businesses. with the ultimate goal of integrating innovation into our We believe innovation and sustainability go hand in hand, core business processes. The Program adopts a unique especially when it comes to delivering business growth and innovation model that incorporates C-level sponsorship, solving complex sustainability challenges. Companies intrapreuneurship and open innovation. The key principles of the Program are rapid experimentation, learning by We frequently partner with other businesses including 100< doing, being flexible and adopting a long-term approach. start-ups and innovative small firms – to drive enthusiasm for innovation through our ecosystem. We also aim to gain As of end of 2017, 7 Group companies take part in the Koç competitive advantage by bringing a structured approach Innovation Program and since the start of the Program, to innovation and entrepreneurship in our own businesses. in-house initiatives a total of over 100 in-house initiatives have been turned into projects. 11 new products and services have been Innovation with a sustainability focus improves quality of 11 launched. life, protects the environment and serves communities. By looking for large-scale, transformative ideas and More information on the new products and services can taking calculated risks when we find them, we can make be found in Koç Holding Annual Report 2017. The below new products substantial contributions to all the SDGs and ensure our case study aims to inspire solutions on how innovation and services customers, society and our business thrive together. can be key to address sustainability challenges as well as building partnerships. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 19 Innovation In Practice: EasyRoute Automotive industry spots that changes in lifestyle and increasing urbanization are affecting people's quality of life more than ever. As stress, costs and emission levels rise, companies are taking greater responsibility to help drivers to get safely and comfortably from point A to B. Ford Otosan, joint-venture Ford Motor Company and Koç Holding, has chosen Istanbul, a city of 15 million people with approximately 30 million travels per day, as the pilot city for which to develop Smart Mobility solutions. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 20 Innovation In Practice: EasyRoute In 2016, Ford Otosan took its first step by launching app stands out from its peers with many features. It can a campaign called Innovative Mobility Solutions for display useful data like travel time, fuel consumption and a More Livable Megacity in its internal innovation costs associated with toll roads. It even flashes a driver's platform, Fikirhane. The company sought solutions from average speed upon entering a highway to reduce the its employees for smart mobility solution ideas that will risk of accidents. Users can display data about total contribute to Goal 11 Making Cities Inclusive, Safe, travel costs, travel times, time spent in traffic and total Resilient and Sustainable. One of the 8 business ideas that emission rates on a daily, monthly or annual basis. They Ford Otosan supported is EasyRoute. can also generate the three best routes according to traffic conditions by entering a proposed arrival time. The final product is a mobile app that can accurately 80,000 predict traffic conditions and provide navigational services. A team of six from three departments had to juggle The idea was firstly included in the intrapreneurship their regular roles and responsibilities while working program and various acceleration programs. It was on this project. They had just one day a week to work the project's ready-to-use subsequently approved by the Ford Otosan Innovation on it, but managed to complete it in four months. The application active users Committee and given the financial support needed to project's ready-to-use application has been available develop it into an official product. A team of six people from on Google Store and App Store since October 2017. 475,000 the Product Development, Information Technologies, and It has over 239,000 downloads and more than 80,000 Marketing, Sales and Aftersales departments developed active users. The team aims to reach 475,000 users by the project. the end of 2019 and has begun efforts to monetize the users aimed to reach by app through premium membership fees, advertising, the end of 2019 Initial research revealed that drivers in Istanbul had and collaborations with big data providers. The team has trouble making accurate traffic predictions and they were signed an agreement to use the app as a native ad space concerned about increases in travel time and costs, with Opet, another Koç Group company. They are also in especially as new toll roads come into use. These needs the final phase of integrating the application into vehicle and expectations formed the basis of the Easy Route multimedia systems through Ford's SYNC AppLink feature. software. Using its smart algorithm, Easy Route can make Development continues to improve as the team implements traffic predictions up to 24 hours in advance. Its predictions feedback from current users. The project will focus on are highly accurate as it considers parameters like peak offline maps, an exclusive navigation service for truck and congestion times, previous traffic data, weather conditions, lorry drivers, and fleet management application models. public holidays, social events and school hours. The Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 21 Innovation In Practice: Open Platform for Start-up Collaboration Arçelik Garage Arçelik has the most established R&D organization in Turkey and the company is the leader of the Turkey Innovation League and patent champion by far. Arçelik decided to position innovation as a more impacting competitive element, with the aim to increasing global competition environment in the industry and the acceleration of the transition from idea to product. To be successful in these challenging areas, the company acted in the second half of 2016, aiming to strengthen its ability to develop products that involve consumer insight. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 22 Innovation In Practice: Open Platform for Start-up Collaboration Arçelik Garage Arçelik determined the following areas for improvement: Representing the same culture outside, Garage opens Increasing the number of innovation-focused proposals its doors to stakeholders outside the company. A digital and ideas by strengthening the employees' cooperation platform, arcelikgarage.com, was established to manage culture within or outside the company, shortening the the high demand and to set a standard for relations with transition from idea to product period, recognizing start-ups. Thus, we have begun to accept the applications unsuccessful attempts early on by incorporating the of the entrepreneurs who have ideas. Co-operations customer into the entire innovation process. These were formed with seven of the start-ups creating different 5560 findings led Arçelik to the concept of an open innovation models that got in contact with Garage; thus, a serious environment . The company has decided to create the step was taken in Arçelik's goal of getting closer to the conditions for open innovation in an environment that start-up world. Garage continues to collaborate on original new ideas were allows cooperation of all stakeholders in the Arçelik models and aims to discover more start-ups it can partner developed in 2017. ecosystem, especially the employees of the company, with. subsidiary industries, the academic world, business partners and NGOs. In 2017, the year Garage launched, 5,660 new ideas were Since Arçelik Garage started its operations, R&D, developed. Of these ideas, 123 became prototypes of which seven were turned over to mass production project. 123 ideas became prototypes Production, Product Management and Marketing One of the products was selected as the Hero product at of which seven were departments have gathered around the same table which 2017 IFA and it represented Arçelik at this fair. Between turned over to mass were previously included gradually in the process after the 2009 and 2013, 627 ideas in total were proposed, the production emergence of a product idea. The novelties brought by ideas for which a project was conceptualized were 25, and 25 this groundbreaking working pattern generated resistance six of these became products. In 2017, we reached seven in the beginning. Continuous communication eliminated mass production projects, and Arçelik aims to triple this these shortcomings in a short time. The collaboration number to 25 by 2018. turned over massculture for innovation-focused projects eventually took produced products hold. aimed by 2018 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 23 Suppliers and Distributors Our vision to lead our industries forward means that The first step to improving our value chain is the diverse while we strive to transform our suppliers, distributors, trainings we give to our suppliers and distributors. In 2017, contractors, and all our business partners, along with our hours spent on supplier trainings totalled 6,000 hours. own operations. Our size and scale mean that we can Also, the Supplier Audit Program helps us to manage accelerate change and lead by example. As a role model our supply chain risks and ensure that our supply chain and through our long-term relationships with stakeholders complies with our standards. Beside quality and product in our value chain we have an opportunity to drive positive safety audits, suppliers are assessed according to riskchange. criteria on social, environmental and ethical issues and high-risk suppliers are audited accordingly in these areas. Our core values honesty, integrity, and business ethics This year 13.7% of our 1,929 suppliers, dealers and are the foundations of our business and we expect our service points were audited on social, environmental and business partners to act in line with these principles. ethical criteria. We aim to widen the coverage of our audits Complying with all laws and regulations, delivering every year and to go beyond business network, expanding products and services in accordance with international the reach of our sustainability initiatives to ultimately cover standards form the fundamentals our business relations. our entire value chain. We support our business partners to help boost their performance in business ethics, quality, environmental, human rights, and other social areas and we cooperate to achieve our goals. Training on Environmental Issues Training on Social Issues Trainings on Ethical Issues Supplier Training Hours in 2017 2215 1700 2146 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 24 Empower people. Together Empower people. Together Aiming for an equal, empowered workforce Empowering people drives sustainable development We want to create a community of empowered, engaged Today, we focus on giving people the skills they need and employees who have the knowledge and skills to reinvent building the most talented and inclusive workplace. In the business models of the future. In line with our vision to this way, we maximise our collective potential to develop grow globally, our aim is to attract, retain and develop multithe solutions of the future: solutions that will meet some of skilled talents and strengthen employee engagement in all society’s most pressing challenges. the countries where we operate. Across the Koç Group companies, employees are the Building on our people-first principles most valuable assets. We develop their skill sets and aim to maximize their performance by providing a productive, We’ve always put people first, empowered them and healthy and decent work environment in line with Koç Group helped them to thrive in an agile business environment. This Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, and the SDGs. approach has enabled Koç Group employees to reach their full potential and our companies to become viewed as role models in their industries Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 26 Koç Group Employees in 2017 Koç Group is the largest employer in Turkey with 94,111 people as of end of 2017. 99% of our employees work full time. This report covers 77% of total workforce representing 72,790 employees. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 27 Future Talent Finding, training and keeping the best Facing the skills shortage Considering the future of our industries, it’s important we Globally, there’s a shortage of some of the most skilled understand what kind of skillsets will best support our talent that businesses like ours need to grow and succeed. globally competitive businesses. We want our workplace Science, technology, engineering and maths skills are in to be more flexible, agile, dynamic, bold, collaborative and particular demand, as are multifaceted thinkers who can entrepreneurial – and, accordingly, be more attractive for use their minds to tackle the complex interdisciplinary the emerging talents. challenges facing business and society. The skills shortage in Turkey is a major issue for businesses and it is expected Developing talents and cultivating capabilities is our to emerge in the medium to long term. More than 60% business as usual of private firms are experiencing difficulties in finding employees with the required skills* thus this pressing issue We create opportunities for our people to grow their is crucial to overcome for private sector. potential. Enabling progress through trainings, we address Industry 4.0’s demand of ever more sophisticated skillsets. At Koç Group, we always seek to work with the most Advancing our human capital is our tradition and priority. qualified, highly competent, dynamic and proficient professionals to continue creating value in future’s Industry 4.0 has big implications for future talent competitive world. It is also crucial for our employees’ to have global vision to reflect our increasing global presence. Disruptive changes in business models will have deep By championing diversity and inclusion, we aim to provide implications for employment. The skills which are important solutions to tackle skills shortage and secure our successful today will not be the skills of the future and the workforce growth in the long term. will be expected to possess new expertise, especially the ability to integrate more to the technology and innovation. We provide with the opportunities to our employees to Tomorrow’s workplace will see people and machines enable them to go beyond their potential. This way they working more closely alongside each other than ever get ready for the future and keep pace with the change. before. Jobs and skills will change as processes become We design and implement talent management strategies ever more automated. We think this can be an opportunity which combine creativity, flexibility and technology with for all, but we must give people the skillsets they need to productivity and employee engagement. We regularly roll succeed in the new business world. Therefore, leveraging out new training programs to prepare our employees for human capabilities and skills, defining new global growing interdisciplinary challenges and help them build competencies are essential for our work environment. confidence in their knowledge and skills. * OECD, Getting Skills Right, Assessing and Anticipating Changing Skill Needs, https://read.oecd-ilibrary.org/employment/getting-skills-right-assessing-andanticipating-changing-skill-needs_9789264252073-en#page24 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 28 Future Talent Employees at all levels deliver career development companies are announced to employees giving a chance to plans at widely used Koç Akademi platform. Within the professionals to transfer into new jobs within the Group. This platform, there are online training modules, articles and practice equips employees with alternative perspectives other informative resources. The development planning and diverse set of competencies, prepares them for future process consists of assessment, goals, identification of roles, and increases synergy within the Group. areas improvement, and development plans. One-onone coaching, mentoring and project initiatives are also In 2016, we launched the LEAD platform to improve essential tools to effectively manage talents and skills. In professional skills for different management levels by 2017, 281 employees attended coaching programs and means of integrated programs incorporating online 340 employees took part in the various mentoring program. trainings, coaching and personal development. In addition, Beyond professional trainings, we also support their every year, 5 senior executives and 5 potential talents personal development to set goals in order to realize and attend to Harvard Business School. Female talents expand be motivated in the workplace. In addition, we introduce their influence by Columbia Business School’s Women in communication and collaboration platforms to share ideas Leadership Program. and best practice among Koç Group companies. The following cases demonstrate how we invest in future Rotation among Group companies is another method we talent through our flagship initiatives. More information on use in talent management. Through the KoçKariyerim other employee programs can be found at our Annual (My Koç Career) platform, open positions in Group Report 2017. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 29 Future Talent In Practice: Building Future Skills and Competencies Partnering with Udacity The PDP focuses on personal development and it is Building future competencies and skills is a considerable supported by online trainings and personal coaching. goal of Koç Group’s Digital Transformation Program. The program spreads over a six-month period and Highlighted as critical for driving change in WEF’s The comprises three phases in which senior executives take Future of Jobs Report*, the skills such as data analytics, part in groups of twenty-five. The first phase is a onemachine learning and artificial intelligence are also key week camp with a theme of Personal Awareness. This for making Koç Group a global company. From this point phase aims individual transformations through mental and of view, Koç Holding has collaborated with Udacity, physical awareness. In the interim period, the participants the world's most valuable online training company, to complete Harvard Business School's HBX Disruptive provide training programs on the critical capabilities Strategy program in smaller groups. The second and competencies of the future. These trainings help phase, which is also a one-week camp, has the theme professionals to internalize the future skills of digital of Change. During this phase, McKinsey instructors transformation and enable them to quickly apply what provide trainings on digital trends, design-thinking, digital they learn. With this partnership, we aim to offer training marketing, big data, agility and change management, programs for over 600 employees at different Group which are tailored to address leaders’ specific needs in companies in two years, starting from June 2017. Such as the digital age. The last camp period, carried out abroad today, 350 employees participated in online programs in and revolved around experience, features the theme of data analytics, digital marketing, machine learning, selfRenewal. This final phase aims to uncover the adaptability driving cars, coding and business analytics. and flexibility of senior executives in challenging natural conditions and and empower their adaptive leadership Personal Development Program skills. Besides upskilling employees in technical competencies, One of the most important components of the program it is essential to empower senior executives with future is that senior executives from different fields of ability, leadership competencies in the digital world. Covering functions and companies enjoy a common developmental all 300 senior executives in Koç Group, we designed the program together for the first time. Initial 71 participants Personal Development Program (PDP) in cooperation were asked about the benefits and the effects sparked off with Harvard University, McKinsey and Aberkyn. by the program, they gave it a score of 6,4 out of 7. * WEF, Future of Jobs 2016 (http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Future_ of_Jobs.pdf) Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 30 Diversity and Inclusion Creating an equal opportunity workplace respect and support employees’ collective bargaining right. None of the Koç Group companies employ child We work hard to cultivate a diverse and inclusive place labor or engage in forced or compulsory labor practices. to work where men and women feel valuable and valued, Our business partners are also expected to follow Koç whether they work in office or industrial roles. Our focus Group Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. is creating an inclusive culture for a more productive and We endeavor to address the needs of all genders, ages collaborative workplace across our industrial plants. and job categories to offer a decent work environment. Accordingly, we have reformulated training programs and Staying true to our progressive values updated our support systems to cover all job categories. Our values and track record for being a progressive We also provided enhanced and equal means of organisation have led us to champion diversity and communications for all of our employees. More information inclusion for many years. We continue to honour our on the initiatives are provided in the following case study. progressive values and show our commitment to international best practices. Since 2014, our company has a focus on gender and therefore we pioneered many initiatives within the Group. Staying true to our progressive values We firstly revisited our work environment with a gender lens so that all positions are more conducive to women, We recognise the value of adopting international 26% like mentoring during and after maternity leave, enhanced business norms where everyone’s contribution counts child care and workplace safety. In 2017, 1176 women and diversity is seen as strength. Diversity and inclusion went on maternity leave and 87% of them returned back cover many dimensions, but all are good for business. to work after their official leave. 3392 women benefits Diverse organisations outperform those that are less-well female employment from child care. In addition, we work with all the Group balanced. And organisations where everyone feels valued Companies to eliminate all kinds of discrimination and have higher employee engagement scores, which in turn biases through trainings on gender norms. 35% results in increased productivity. We also fundamentally believe that diverse and inclusive Over the course of last 3 years, we participated and led workplaces open up opportunities to drive sustainable initiatives on gender equality. behaviours. They are better governed, have richer under 30 years old • Signing the Declaration of Equality at Work, skillsets, encourage creative thinking and align better with • Publication of the Koç Group Equality Guidelines and the varied interests of customers and stakeholders. Implementation Principles, At Koç Group, we are committed to provide equal rights • Becoming HeForShe IMPACT Champion, to all employees regardless of their religion, sexual • Signing the Women's Empowerment Principles orientation, language, ethnicity, race, beliefs, faith, (WEPs) with 30 Group Companies disability or any other personal attribute protected by • Raising awareness among all employees and law. Our human rights principles also comply with the business partners’ through I Support Gender Equality international agreements issued by the International Labor for My Country initiative Organization (ILO) and its international equivalents. We Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 31 Diversity and Inclusion In Practice: Strengthening Inclusion Koç Group works hard to create a work environment where all employees feel valued and respected, regardless of their job category, gender or age. Following the 2015 labor movements in Turkey's metal industry, Koç Group has reviewed its practices and procedures concerning production workers, Koç Group's new approach complies with UN SDGs, Goal 8 Good Jobs and Economic Growth and Goal 10 Reducing Inequalities. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 32 Diversity and Inclusion In Practice: Embracing Diversity Koç Group is expected to pioneer this new direction Reviewing and comparing the production workers’ rights towards inclusion and model these new practices for other and benefits, due attention is paid to private health private sector companies. This is reflected in the 2016 insurance. Research revealed that production workers Stakeholder Research*, which centred on sustainability showed little interest in the existing practice, which had and the participation of nongovernmental organizations, required employees to affiliate with Koç Group Pension international organizations and academicians in and Support Fund Foundation and consent to a 6-percent sustainable practices. The participants expected salary cut. With these conditions the insurance rate Koç Group, with 66% of its employees covered in this among production workers was only 4%. To address this, unionized, to lead a transformation towards diversity and the Group issued a review of the Complementary Health inclusion. As a result, the Group decided to review existing Insurance System and offered affordable healthcare data and re-evaluate 500,000 open-ended questions opportunities to their families. As a result, Koç Group has given in the employee engagement surveys between achieved the most comprehensive corporate participation the years 2011 and 2015. Through this comprehensive in Complementary Health Insurance in Turkey. reading, the Group analyzed how an increasingly According to the initial survey conducted in 2016, the digitalized world changed work and lifestyle habits in the engagement rate of production workers was 50% lower industrial environment. It also identified factors that create than that of office workers. However, the survey carried out discrimination and prepared an action plan to eliminate at the end of 2017 showed that the engagement rate had these and increase employee engagement. increased and was now equal among the two groups for the first time. It all began with a change in terminology. A message from the Koç Group CEO emphasized the new focus towards Koç Group's practices in this area have drawn the equality in language. As a second step, corporate email attention of all players in the industrial world. The Group accounts were established for all production workers. have set a new standard with their last collective labor With these, production workers joined office workers in agreement in the metal industry and paved the way for receiving simultaneous and immediate access to all Koç 180,000 workers to gain access to Complementary Health Group employee content, including announcements and Insurance. The Group's successful practices has created online training programs. Revisions made to the Most momentum. Many more efforts are in progress, ranging Successful Koç Employees Competition to better reflect from redesigning cafeteria layouts and workers’ attires to a this new move towards equality at work. wider access to employee shuttle services. * Sia Insight, Koc Holding Stakeholder Research, 2016. 102-41 / 102-44 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 33 Diversity and Inclusion In Practice: Investing in the talent pipeline In Turkey, only three out ten people at workforce are female and only 15% of them work in industrial sectors*. To address this, Türk Traktör launched a comprehensive project that will change the landscape in the automotive industry, where female employee rates are even lower. TürkTraktör began with Filizlerin Mucizeleri (The Miracles of Sprouts), a project that aimed to raise awareness of gender equality and attract more female employees. The project was developed with intervention instruments that will cover the talent pipeline. * Women Facts and Figures, 2017. http://www.tuik.gov.tr/ PreHaberBultenleri.do?id=27594 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 34 Diversity and Inclusion In Practice: Investing in the talent pipeline The project was primarily inspired by the facts that the Attitudes Towards Gender-Based Profession Choices. company has had almost no female shop floor employees Within the scope of the Filizlerin Mucizesi Project, 92% of more since its foundation in 1954. Türk Traktör's project team first than 3,000 TürkTraktör employees undertook gender equality analysed that female applicants mainly did not apply for training. Efforts were made to promote a culture of gender these positions. While getting to the root of this challenge, the equality. These included the addition of education programs company realized that the rate of girls studying at vocational to train female managers and mentors. All female employees high schools for technicians was as low as 2%*. Thus, the underwent holistic leadership and inclusion training, and project adopted another goal: to encourage girls to attend the onboarding policy was revised to reflect this move vocational high schools for automotive and agricultural towards gender equality. All managers and hiring authorities technologies. Observing gender stereotypes as the main underwent training on discrimination and gender equality. cause of the disparity between the number of male and female Women have begun to be employed in traditionally male employees, the company decided that the best course of roles and this approach has been communicated through action was to conduct studies which would raise gender all communication channels. Furthermore, training seminars awareness and make workplaces more inclusive. focussing on mother and child development were introduced and a postpartum mentorship program has been established. As part of project’s talent pipeline pillar, TürkTraktör initiated a partnership with the Ministry of National Education, Ankara Thanks to these efforts, the number of female employees University Women Studies Center (KASAUM), the Turkish in production grew from one to 68 by the end of 2017. The Education Foundation (TEV) and the Turkish Family Health and company's female office employees also increased by Planning Foundation (TAPV). The company also mobilized 110 13% compared to January 2016 and the number of female volunteer employees and dealers. managers and supervisors rose 25% in the same period. In the next period, TürkTraktör aims to extend its training Vocational and technical high schools were visited and coverage to dealers and their employees, allowing it to shortlisted in several hubs of Turkish automotive industry. spread its learnings on gender equality to the whole Volunteer employees from TürkTraktör and TAPV trainers ecosystem. TürkTraktör continues to extend the impact of organized seminars to communicate the gender biases in the project by supporting female farmers and their families jobs. These seminars reached a total of 6,000 students in two to become entrepreneurs. Trainings and mentoring are years. To incentivize female students to study in the fields of provided on cooperative management, local production, machine and metal technology, motor vehicles, electricalgood agriculture practices and cultivating buckwheat. electronics technology, logistics and agricultural technology, This has been done so in collaboration with the Ministry of 100 students were given four-year scholarships. Scholarship Food, Agriculture and Livestock (GTHB), Ankara University holders were also given priority towards internships and Development Studies Application and Research Centre employment. TürkTraktör also prepared a research in (AKÇAM); and the Buckwheat Cultivators and Healthy Living collaboration with KASAUM on Vocational Students' Views and Centre (KARSADER). * Ministry of National Education, General Directorate of Vocational and Technical Education, 2017. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 35 Health and Safety With the aim of achieving zero accidents throughout our culture as a shared responsibility. Trainings play a major part operations, we strive to provide a healthy and safe work towards this goal. We provided 588,156 employee-hours environment for our employees. We manage occupational of training to Group employees in 2017, resulting in a 16% health and safety issues with a precautionary and risk-based increase compared to 2015 levels. Also, we gave 89,804 approach in accordance with regulations, globally accepted employee-hours of training to contractors, yielding a %34 standards and the Koç Group Code of Ethics and Business increase for the same years. Conduct. This mainly covers risk assessment activities, providing trainings and seminars, tracking occupational health Our work safety rules make up the core value of our work and safety performance systematically and implementing culture without compromise. Occupational health and safety new practices. As of 2017, 67 facilities owned by Koç Group indicators of contractors are also tracked periodically. companies were certified with OHSAS 18001 Occupational Despite this fact, we are deeply saddened by the loss of our Health and Safety Management System, covering four contactor employees due to the storage tank explosion approximately 83% of all facilities. incident that took place in Tupraş İzmir Refinery on October 11th, 2017. Following the incident, all the work processes, Koç Holding Occupational Health and Safety Coordination in line with international standards, have been reviewed and Board is responsible for reviewing practices and efforts on measures have been taken to further strengthen the safety of health and safety, with the goal to continuously improve our colleagues. Group performance, whereas Occupational Health and Safety Committees are responsible for managing health and safety Further information on our occupational health and safety issues at each Group company. management approach, practices and performance is available in our website and 2017 Koç Holding Annual At Koç Group, we seek to involve every employee in taking Report. occupational health and safety actions and aim to instil this 2015 2016 2017 Injury rate 0.82 0.82 0.88 Occupational illness rate 0.02 0.02 0.02 Lost working days rate 24.23 9.74 9.46 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 36 Performance Management Performance management is an integrated set of applications Performance management is also important for the Koç Group’s that enables effective deployment of the corporate goals set in Compensation Management System including benefit packages. accordance with strategies at all levels within the Companies. We manage employee performance objectively according to For details on performance management, remuneration and the process that serves to measure and reward employees’ bonuses, please refer to the Remuneration Policy for Members of accomplishments relative to their goals and skills. The goal of the Board of Directors and Senior Executives and Koç Holding's performance management is to ensure and reward sustainable 2017 Annual Report. value creation rather than short-term return. All office employees are evaluated annually relative to their previously set goals as part of performance management and promotions are made according to the results of performance evaluations. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 37 Act for the planet. Together Act for the planet. Together Aiming for a balanced approach to doing business Climate change, with its widespread, unprecedented impacts, is one of the greatest challenges of our times. Sustainable economic development will only happen when A changing climate has fundamental implications for protecting the environment is core to our decision making. businesses, governments and societies. As global Put another way, at Koç Group, we know our financial temperatures move towards internationally recognized wellbeing is worth very little without the human wellbeing limits of 2oC, the challenge of climate change is more that comes with a healthily functioning natural world. acute than ever. A connected, long-term perspective Global markets play an important role in responding to the goals set in the Paris Agreement and in addressing We’re in a strong position to act on complex global the challenges of adaptation to the changing climatic challenges with long time frames – like climate change. Our conditions in the most affected geographies. In order global scale and engagement present big opportunities to to raise the level of ambition, continued and enhanced contribute to the progressive climate agenda. In doing so, international collaboration is needed among developed we provide a role model for other businesses – both within and developing markets. A global shared vision needs our own ecosystem and beyond. to be embraced among all parties to accelerate the development of a global progressive climate agenda. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 39 Act for the planet. Together Koç Environment Committee operations, to engage in green procurement practices, to develop environment-friendly products and to certify Through Koç Environment Committee, which is a uniting facilities with internationally recognized environmental platform that brings together environment, energy and management systems such as ISO 14001. sustainability experts from all Koç Group companies, we aim to create a common understanding across all The progress against strategic plans is monitored through industries. The Committee is the highest level coordinating monthly meetings with participation of more than 20 body on issues related to environment and it is responsible Group Companies. The Committee is chaired by a senior for creating long-term environmental management executive who serves for at least two years. Annual strategies*. performance reports are prepared under key performance indicators determined by the Committee and reported In line with the long-term strategies, each Group company to Koç Holding’s senior management. The Audit Group develops its action plans in their respective industries. conducts both policy-and performance-based periodic The action plans are revised and updated in line with the audits and reports the results to the company senior national and international regulations of the countries where management. Apart from the audits carried out by the Audit Koç Group companies operate in. Group with the contribution of the Environment Committee, environmental policies and performance of the Group The long-term strategic plan, which will be effective until companies are also subject to internal and external audits. 2020, endorses Group companies to address climate Through its issue specific working groups, the Committee change challenges, to implement best practices in follows up the global agenda and aligns its strategies with energy and water efficiency, to work towards zero-waste initiatives such as UN Global Compact, SDGs and Paris * Koç Group Environmental Policy and Performance: https://www.koc.com. Agreement. tr/en-us/corporate-social-responsibility/environmentally-friendly-pratices/ environmental-management Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 40 Climate Change Climate change and its adverse economy and invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency. impacts are a key material issue for the majority of our industries. We Taking part for a better future… aim to demonstrate our commitment Koç Group represents Turkish business community on local to addressing this challenge, by and international climate change platforms since 2011. innovating and collaborating for the In the international arena, we follow the United Nations future, increasing our operational Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and participate in the Climate Change Conference of the Parties performance and taking adaptive (COP). Arcelik and Tupras shared their expertise and best measures to build a resilient practices on climate change, and their experiences at the business. COP23, at the panel organized by the Republic of Turkey Ministry of Environment and Urbanization. Arçelik became Adopting the best available technology to optimize a signatory to the Science Based Targets initiative, jointly our operations is essential for reducing emissions and launched by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), United improving energy efficiency, increasing our use of Nations Global Compact (UNGC), World Resources Institute renewable energy and adapting to the impacts of climate (WRI), and World Wildlife Foundation (WWF) and committed change across all our industries. to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. Developing effective solutions to environmental issues Additionally, since 2015, Turkish Industry and Business requires coordinated efforts between all related parties. Association (TÜSİAD), Turkey’s top business organization, We work with industry and sector peers, government Environment and Climate Change Working Group is led institutions, public bodies, academia and civil society to by a Koç Group senior executive. In 2017, we contributed drive forward the climate change agenda and support to the preparation of the “TÜSİAD Position Paper on policy development, both nationally and internationally. Addressing Climate Change”. * Our stakeholder research indicated that NGOs, universities, 102-44 opinion leaders and public institutions expect us to act on * https://tusiad.org/tr/cevre-iklim-degisikligi-cg/item/download/8919_06c373fb climate change, adapt to the shift towards a low carbon 91e8727cb4d8ae1361874416 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 41 Climate Change Improving our Energy Efficiency Climate change is an emerging risk that has short to long sector these figures stand at 1,168.5 GJ/TL million and 78.5 term implications for businesses. We act with the awareness tons CO2e/TL million. The Group companies operating in of the risks implied by climate change in maintaining our non-energy industries have an average energy intensity operations. of 103.07 GJ/TL million and an average greenhouse gas emission intensity of 5.19 tons CO2e/TL million. We are committed to do our share through our practices 21% and investments aimed at constant improvement that We focus on ways to reduce energy intensity that deliver minimize the environmental impacts of all our operational long-term benefits. Through the energy efficiency initiatives processes. We develop products that are less resource executed by Group companies in accordance with the dependent and energy efficient. The overall energy intensity Group’s long-term environment strategy, the energy of the Group companies in 2017 was 633.8 GJ/TL million efficiency projects implemented in 2017 saved 1.1 million decrease in energy intensity of net income while greenhouse gas emission intensity GJ of energy and reduced greenhouse gas emissions by was 41.7 tons CO2e/TL million of net income. In the energy 65,069 tons CO2e. 2015 2016 2017 Energy 1,472.7 1,647.9 1,168.5 Automotive 126.7 107.2 85.2 Consumer Durables 303.0 262.8 77.5 Finance 46.8 50.1 50.0 Koç Group 801.5 828.4 633.8 Koç Group Energy intensity (GJ/million TL) Energy intensity (GJ/million TL) Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 42 Climate Change Managing water risks Achieving SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation is essential to amount of generated wastewater; and to further improve the human health, environmental sustainability and economic quality of wastewater. All relevant indicators are measured prosperity.* In addition, water risk is a significant concern for annually and performance results are evaluated across many of the industries that we operate in. Recognizing the Group companies. importance of managing water risks across our operations, Koç Group Environment Committee prepared the “Koç In 2017, Group companies consumed approximately Group Water Risks Analysis” to examine the physical, 41.1 million m3 of freshwater, corresponding to water 20% regulatory and reputational risks in the river basins that we consumption intensity of 225.5 m3/TL million of net income. operate. The share of surface water and underground water resources in the Group’s total freshwater withdrawal went As a primary step to managing water risks, we aim to down from 59% last year to 55% in 2017. More than 105.8 decrease in water reduce freshwater withdrawals by boosting water efficiency million m3 water was recycled and reused. Hence, the share intensity in production, recycling and recovery; to lower the stress of water which is recovered in production stands as 72%. on resources through resource diversification; to cut the * https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdg6 Koç Group Water Intensity (m3/million TL) Water consumption by sectors (%) Total water withdrawal by source (%) Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 43 Climate Change In Practice: Addressing Climate Change Impacts Tüpraş, Turkey's largest company and Europe's seventh biggest refinery, started addressing climate change impacts more than a decade ago. Currently, Tüpraş concentrates on energy efficiency, adaptation to the climate change impacts and focusing on R&D. Tüpraş shares its experience on climate change with various stakeholders through partnerships and collaborations. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 44 Climate Change In Practice: Addressing Climate Change Impacts Energy Efficiency Research & Development Operating in the high energy-consuming refinery industry, Tüpraş concentrates on R&D efforts to develop solutions to Tüpraş prioritizes energy-efficiency projects in line with its mitigate climate change impacts. Tüpraş has also developed sustainability objectives. Thanks to company’s investment on a project partnerships within the scope of the Horizon 2020 energy efficiency, the company has decreased its Solomon program, while also promoting projects for energy efficiency, Energy Intensity Index (EII) to 102.2 from 105.2 in the past five converting waste CO2 into valuable products, developing years. The Index makes a comparison of the performance by advanced waste water treatment technologies, and Tüpraş possible. The decline represents an energy savings manufacturing materials that cut down energy consumption. of approximately 1,850,000 GCal. During the same period, The main objectives of the partnership involve projects that the company has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by are set to produce biosynthetic fuel with an eye for low-carbon 522,000 tons and have generated $75.9 million. development, foster innovative technologies aimed at the use of waste heat recycling, and achieve industrial sustainability. Adaptation to Climate Change Collaboration Tüpraş also works to adapt to the impacts of climate change. As such, it has taken action to mitigate water risks, a vital The company put an emphasis on sharing experience source for its operations, and support an effective use of and disseminating good practices within and beyond the natural resources. Tüpraş has launched the Urban Waste industry. Tüpraş presented the company's best practices and Water Recycling Project in collaboration with the Körfez experiences in monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse Municipality, the local authority closest to its facilities. As gas emissions at the Turkey Pavilion during the 23rd session part of the project, between 2014 and 2015, the company of the Conference of the Parties (COP 23) in Bonn, Germany. invested $24.8 million for the urban waste water recycling Tüpraş also made contributions to the reports prepared facilities at the Izmit Refinery. The total production capacity at as part of the Partnership for Carbon Market Readiness the facility is 1,500 m3/hour. Subsequently, 97 percent of the (PMR) conducted by the Ministry of Environment and Urban water used at the Izmit Refinery now comes from the waste Planning and to the TUSIAD Position Paper on Addressing water of the Körfez Municipality. In three years, 19.9 million Climate Change prepared by TUSIAD. Throughout the m3 of water have been recycled as a result of the project, Körfez Municipality Urban Wastewater Recycling Program, one of the very few initiatives around the world that aims to the company shared knowledge and experience with recycle urban waste water. This figure corresponds to annual local municipalities and the Ministry of Forest and Water water consumption of a city or town with a population of Management and presented the system to municipalities, almost 495,000. The Tüpraş Izmit and Izmir refineries are also NGOs, and universities. conducting work to recycle industrial waste water and reuse the processed waste water in the intermediate stages. In 2017, all Tüpraş refineries recycled 25.7 million m3 of water. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 45 Waste Biodiversity At Koç Holding, our environmental Globally, the combined effects of human activity have strategy encompasses investments had profound negative impacts on biodiversity and in waste reduction. In doing so, we ecosystems. We believe that, the sustainable use of contribute to a more sustainable world biodiversity and ecosystem services is not only the key by advancing technologies to reduce to economic development but is also of vital importance waste increasing recycling and reuse, to human development. Therefore, our environmental creating safer treatment and disposal, strategy includes a focus on conserving biodiversity and sharing the benefits of our learning evaluation and mitigation of our potential impact and innovation with our clients and on biodiversity is one of our priorities. We manage collaborators. Our practices to improve biodiversity under four main pillars: Policy and Strategy, waste management at our facilities in Planning, Operations and Implementation, and Capacity the previous year resulted in recovery of Development. 95.9% of the total waste in 2017. Between 2016 and 2017, Koç Holding Environmental Committee created a biodiversity action plan in cooperation with Nature Conservation Centre; an NGO specialized in biodiversity protection. In line with this plan, we aim to enhance remediation techniques and protect biodiversity at sites affected by our operations. Our action plan aims to provide effective land management and biodiversity conservation. The Plan incorporates ecosystem protection, habitat degradation, preservation all species and particularly those whose existences are under threat as well as endemic species in areas we operate in, and soil degradation. These actions also represent our contribute to the global effort to achieve the SDGs, particularly Life Below Water (Goal 14) and Life on Land (Goal 15). Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 46 Strengthen communities. Together Strengthen communities. Together Aiming for better, across society landscape. As an early adopter of global best practices in areas related to the SDGs, we create momentum with our employees At Koç Group, we believe that strong and stable communities are and partners, and use our scale and reach to trigger positive vital foundations for building successful business. Over the years, change. It all begins within our business networks before reaching we have been a first-mover in supporting community investment out to the suppliers and the wider community. initiatives. Today, we focus on driving large-scale programmes that target widespread change. Through the impact we have our It is important to think carefully about where we focus our business becomes stronger, our family lives become richer, future efforts. Through our community investments, we aim for wide generations have more opportunities, and everyone in society dissemination and lasting impact in the five focus areas of feels part of something that matters. Lead. Together digital transformation, innovation, future talent, diversity & inclusion and climate change. Focusing on the societal Leveraging our scale to drive change effects of complex issues material to Koç Group and partnering with stakeholders to increase the prosperity and equality of the Our scale means we have the potential to create a paradigm world we work in benefits society as well as our business. shift in the areas in which we invest. The collective power of our employees and distributors – combined with their families – is Diversity and inclusion is good for business and the society equivalent to more than half a million people. Engaging this many people in affecting change can start a movement that spreads At Koç Group, we aim to reflect diversity & inclusion in all through communities and beyond, creating a positive social areas of our business. For this goal, we undertake a number of transformation throughout society. Coupled with this, we work initiatives, including development of policy and principles, and the in a wide range of industries – from food processing to energy, dissemination of practices to transform workplace, and we engage consumer durables to finance. This means we can observe and in awareness-raising efforts for internal and collective action. make targeted interventions to scale prosperity in many highOur experience in the area shows that gender-equality is one of impact areas. the most prominent and complex issues of diversity & inclusion agenda. Therefore, we focus on the social transformation essential Our special role in society to gender equality. Our stakeholders recognize us as a driving force in society. We, too, see ourselves as a unique part of the socio-economic Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 48 Gender Equality Gender equality is vital to advance social progress, improve workplaces can only be overcome by removing gender human development and build more equitable societies. stereotypes in people’s minds. For that reason, Koç Group Yet, much remains to be done. The world faces genderworks to shift traditional norms and be a role model to related challenges. Turkey’s performance in the area falls improve this situation. below the world average.* The complexity of the problem calls for a joint action from We believe that innovation and creativity are two halves of diverse stakeholders. We feel privileged to be working with the single greatest factor in progress. These can only be international organizations on powerful platforms including fostered in a workplace that encourages the diversity of the HeForShe, and the Women Empowerment Principles voices. It is critical for us to create the right environment to (WEPs) that provide a roadmap towards our gender-equality foster gender equality in our workplace, among distributors objective. and suppliers, and in the wider community. Acknowledging that a society without women has no Koç Group companies operate in various industries tomorrow, we collected best practices in 2016 and 2017. including the energy, durable goods, automotive and This report concentrates on HeForShe movement and For finance sectors. These sectors are traditionally maleMy Country initiative, more information on Group company dominated; thus, Koç Group’s ratio of female employees investments can be found in their respective sustainability does not accelerate quickly. We see that barriers in equal reports. access to economic participation and gender-sensitive * Turkey ranked 131 among 144 countries in WEF Gender Gap Report, 2017. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 49 Gender Equality HeForShe The UN Women’s HeForShe movement plays a crucial role for gender equality, as it engages Head of States, global corporate leaders and university presidents to develop alliances and inspire others to create equal opportunities in every aspect of life. In 2014, under the partnership agreement signed with the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and Empowerment of Women (UN Women), Koç Group became the implementation partner in Turkey for the HeForShe campaign. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 50 Gender Equality HeForShe UN Women launched the IMPACT 10x10x10 Initiative For the first commitment, a dynamic communication in 2015 in order to engage key decision makers in strategy is developed and kick-started to create awareness governments, corporations, and universities around the around HeForShe in Turkey in collaboration with UN Women world to drive change from the top. IMPACT Champions Turkey. The communication campaign ranged from a highmake gender equality an institutional priority by developing level launch event to a campaign video where Turkey’s top three bold, game-changing commitments to advance and celebrities and opinion leaders spoke in support of gender achieve gender equality for all. equality. HeForShe Turkey’s social media accounts are still supported by Koç Holding. In addition, Koç Holding Mustafa V. Koç, former Chairperson of the Board of incorporates HeForShe into different events organized by Directors of Koç Holding, was also selected as an Impact Koç Holding and its affiliates. To shift gender norms across Champion. He supported the efforts personally and served Turkey, gender sensitization trainings are conducted by Koç as one of the ambassadors of the campaign. Holding and the Group companies separately. More detail on how we deliver our commitment can be found below. Koç Holding Chairperson Ömer M. Koç took on the leadership role after late Mustafa V. Koç and in September Successfully completing the first two commitments through 2017, he attended HeForShe IMPACT Summit on the sideHeForShe communication campaign and For My Country lines of the United Nations 72nd General Assembly in New trainings, now we focus on the transformation of our York. work environment. We monitor gender equality indicators annually and report them in our sustainability reports as well Koç Holding's three commitments to the HeForShe as in the HeForShe Parity Reports. movement are: 1. Fund implementation of the HeForShe campaign in Turkey and mobilize 4 million supporters by 2017. 2. Empower HeForShe mobilizers at Koç to shift gender norms across Turkey, reaching 100,000 people with gender sensitization training by 2020. 3. Strengthen gender sensitive work environment to drive towards parity. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 51 Gender Equality For My Country “For My Country” platform was launched as a social responsibility initiative in 2006 to mobilize Koç Group’s vast network of employees, suppliers and distributors around different fields of sustainable development. The focus area of the platform changes every three years. In 2015, Koç Group agreed to focus gender equality to be the theme of its long-term awareness program. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 52 Gender Equality For My Country “I Support Gender Equality for My Country” Creating an ecosystem of equality Gender-based discrimination is a massive social and Following the signature of WEPs by 30 Koç Group economic burden and it creates imbalances within the Companies, we organized “Equality Marketplace” in society. Explicit and implicit gender biases damage November 2017. The main purpose of the event was to peaceful and prosperous societies, and they can only be cultivate partnership opportunities between Koç Group 84,000 addressed through long-term and sustainable awarenesscompanies with stakeholders working on gender equality. building programs. More than 150 representatives from 40 companies operating in 9 different sectors,18 international and local reached via the Gender Equality seminars Since Koç Group’s foundation, we work to build NGOs, academicians and initiatives attended to the partnerships, develop long-term solutions and manage event. 19 expert speakers and 17 panellists shared their issues on participation and retention of women in the experiences in the parallel sessions. The event yielded 350 / 90 workforce as well as taking part in decision-making into several partnerships between Group companies and mechanisms. Our strategic and responsible approach to different organizations. To name a few, two of the Group employees distributors gender equality dates to 2013, when we signed the Equality companies initiated community investment programs that distributors took active at Work Declaration. In 2015, we signed WEPs, a joint text focus on empowering daughters of their employees on role for Ambassadors of UN Women and UN Global Compact. digital skills. Creating an ecosystem enables us to empower and trained by AÇEV to our Group companies to build their own roadmaps on be trainers In line with our focus on gender equality, For My Country gender equality. Platform targets at raising awareness on gender equality among employees, distributors, suppliers and the wider 200 community, and strengthening gender sensitive work environment to drive towards parity. senior and mid-level managers from Koç Group As part of the initiative, 350 employees and 90 distributors companies participated of the Koç Group participated in the project that witnessed in awareness seminars by cooperation between Koç Holding, the Mother and Child KOÇ-KAM Education Foundation (AÇEV), the Turkish Family Health and Planning Foundation (TAPV) and the Koç University Gender Studies Centre (Koç-KAM). The long-running program of awareness-raising seminars has been held at 32 Koç Group companies and has so far reached out to 84,000 people. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 53 Gender Equality Shifting Unconscious Biases At Koç Group, we also focused on developing diversity of the Guide. These organizations now, circulate the Guide and inclusion standards for marketing materials, especially among their members and implement the workshops to advertisements. Koç Group took a 2 phased approach to their teams and agencies. realize gender equality in communications. In each phase, there was research/report, training, dissemination, scale For March 8th, Koç Group developed a campaign video up and monitoring stages. To develop a gender equality also emphasizing this issue. The slogan of the campaign approach and standard for the communications at Koç was “Gender roles have already changed; why not Group, A Guide to Gender Equality in Communication is change what we watch on TV?” and the ad navigated the prepared. The Guide offers Principles to gender sensitive audience to the Guide via its micro-site. communications, a methodology and a checklist. We also designed and organized interactive workshops tailored Although a considerable number of communicators have to initiate questioning and find solutions to gender-based been reached through our efforts and the discussion on biases in communications. Sponsored by the C-suite, Koç gender–based biases has been started, to address the Group companies disseminated the Guide and workshops issue in mass communications it was needed to create a to the agencies they work with. major shift in TV series. Turkey sets a record worldwide with 5.5 hours average daily TV viewing time. The TV The impacts of the project spilled over to the Turkish viewing times of children and youth are 1.5 hours more Industry and Business Association (TUSIAD), Turkey’s compared to their peers in other countries. Among all top business organization. The Guide’s content and the programs, the drama/comedy series are the most watched workshop developed according to the needs of member in TV programming. Recognizing the impact of TV series, companies and published as a TUSIAD publication. they became the second area of intervention and a followBesides TUSIAD, major sectoral associations such up project has been initiated. This time, TUSIAD was as Advertisers Association, Advertising Foundation, positioned as the umbrella organization of the project, and Association of Communication Consulting Companies, representatives from UN Women Europe and Central Asia Public Relations Association of Turkey, and Association of Regional Office and UNFPA Turkey took part in the Advisory Corporate Communicators became dissemination partners Board, along with other national stakeholders. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 54 Gender Equality Shifting Unconscious Biases The first step was to create a baseline related to the current In the week of March 8, prominent sector representatives situation for building change upon. In order to enable all participated at a press conference and announced the stakeholders to have the same understanding on the issue, following statement: an academic research is conducted. The research aimed to identify how gender roles and stereotypes are portrayed “We, as the Association of Television in the popular Turkish TV shows broadcast on Turkish television networks.* and Cinema Producers, Screenwriters Association, Actors’ Union of Turkey, After the research, all stakeholders are brought together Advertisers Association, will work to around the issue and held a workshop to have an in-depth discussion on the individual roles and responsibilities of the develop TV series that will adhere with contributors, potential opportunities that might be captured the following five principles: together and possible problem-solving scenarios. Most important outcome of the day was the Gender Equality 1. Promote diverse male and female Principles in TV Series. characters and refrain from using stereotypes in appearance, character and occupation, 2. Illustrate the responsibilities for life, work and home in a balanced manner, 3. Stand against the normalization of violence, 4. Adopt a gender-mainstreamed discourse, 5. Ensure and increase the visibility of role models.” * Details can be found at: https://tusiad.org/tr/yayinlar/raporlar/item/9943televizyon-dizilerinde-toplumsal-cinsiyet-esitligi-arastirmasi Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 55 What is next? A digital future awaits us, where our daily lives, on our role in shaping the future for the better, and we will relationships, working environment, economic and social spark our vision through the new theme of For My Country lives are redefined by the increasing impact of digital project. technologies. In the new term of For My Country Project, we decided to focus on the emerging and intersecting topics of In the meanwhile, we also continue to create added value digital transformation, innovation and future talents. by organizing and supporting projects and events in the areas such as sports, culture, contemporary art, creativity The most critical element of any transformation is people. and education. We particularly aim to raise awareness in We imagine a world where all the members of the society these areas among youngsters. For more details on these have hope, ambition and courage for the digital future. As projects, please see our 2017 Annual Report and Vehbi Koç Group’s employees, suppliers and distributors, we rely Koç Foundation’s website. 102-43 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 56 Making It Happen with Stakeholders Lead. Together sets us a framework for It is crucial for us to listen to our stakeholders and understand their expectations from Koç Group companies making collective progress and helps since we believe that we can only accomplish our goals us harness the power of our network to through a sustainable, profitable business model, coupled drive positive change and develop every with transparent and accountable communication with stakeholders. We manage all our sustainability efforts in person and organization we engage with. a manner that is aligned with Sustainable Development Increasing partnerships with external Goal 17. Engaging stakeholders at different levels always stakeholders is crucial for progress and provide important input for us in creating sustainability strategies and practices. managing such collaborations in a more efficient way. To nourish our business and profit from this diverse stakeholder ecosystem, we created a comprehensive Our stakeholders expect us to lead by approach to identify expectations and opinions of our stakeholders on environment, human and employee rights, example. When we grow, others grow. transparency and ethics, innovation, diversity and inclusion. When we innovate for the better, others Stakeholder engagement is an essential input of follow. When we create more added the management and it is tracked via management performance targets. Group companies hold values and respond to changes in comprehensive communication tools in order to be in technology, business and society, we constant touch with stakeholders and to shape their start a ripple effect that extends out to performance targets. all our industries, our business partners and the wider community. 102-44 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 57 Making It Happen with Stakeholders Stakeholder Groups Engagement Platforms & Tools Why? General Assembly meeting, meetings upon requests in different Shareholders countries, road shows and conferences, quarterly webcasts, • To ensure sustainable and profitable growth investor relations bulletin, website, and the iPad app; e-mails, • To deliver the digital transformation and innovation agenda Investors teleconferences, financial (quarterly and annually) and sustainability • To become a role model that drives change in society reports, credible stock exchange indices Intranet, electronic communication tools, monthly internal magazine “News from Us”, meetings and organizations on regular basis, • To be more appealing to the best emerging talent Employees Website and the iPad apps, employee engagement surveys, • To create an inclusive culture for a collaborative workplace volunteering programs Internal meetings and workshops, issue, function and industry • To transform our business for the better Group Companies specific committees • To provide guidance on managing sustainability Anatolian Meetings (with the participation of CEO, Chairman of the • To support the transformation of SMEs Distributors Board and Executives), “News from Us” magazine, capacity building • To increase the standards related to sustainability issues trainings, workshops, Communication form on the website, phone or e-mail, call centers, • To serve our customers better, faster, with a fully Customers satisfaction surveys customised experience and personalised • To unify efforts in order to offer solutions to sustainability issues Memberships, cooperation and joint projects, workshops, project • To act in line with the expectations of beneficiaries and local Civil Society Organization partnerships, annual and sustainability reports. communities • To commit resources on areas that matter to stakeholders • To enable sustainability of impact Governmental Authorities Workshops, cooperation on joint projects • To develop scalable action in order to solve complex and Entities sustainability issues Multi-stakeholder initiatives and partnerships, cooperation and joint • To develop scalable action in order to solve complex International Organizations projects, roundtables, memberships sustainability issues • To initiate joint action in order to contribute to cross-industry Multi-stakeholder initiatives and partnerships, participation in issues Industry Associations management level, memberships • To initiate self-assessment, self-regulation tools for the transformation of the business world Partnerships, cooperation and joint projects, support for research • To collaborate and offer innovative solutions through Universities projects, know-how transfer through internship and courses research, design and project implementation Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 58 Making It Happen with Stakeholders The frequency of stakeholder communication activities according to the potential to create value, enable depends on the nature, expectations and needs of the further innovation, and foster creativity. This kind target audience. Koç Group companies mainly adopt three of two-way communication develops meaningful different levels of engagement with stakeholders regarding opportunities and results as partnerships lasting for a sustainability issues. These categories vary according to pre-determined period. the complexity of the issue, the role of the company in the issue, as well as the nature of the partnerships. 3. Multi-stakeholder Initiatives: Our stakeholders expect us to trigger the change reaching out to the whole 1. Supports: This level of engagement covers one community. With this in mind, we are ever-present in way and short-term engagement with stakeholders. local and international multi-stakeholder initiatives that It includes supporting events aiming to increase gather different parties such as private and public awareness or capacity building. Sponsorships, sector, international organizations, non-governmental scholarships, and donations are also within this bodies and universities to manage material topics category. in large scale. These initiatives are crucial for our sustainability leadership vision and to address all 2. Partnerships: We work together with external challenging material issues. As Lead. Together stakeholder partners such as private and public narrative outlines the value of stakeholder engagement, sector, international organizations, non-governmental Koç Holding takes part in multi-stakeholder initiatives bodies, universities to manage common and material where an issue has wider effects within the society and sustainability issues. We assess partnerships requires the presence of various stakeholders. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 59 Sustainability governance across Koç Group: Inclusive, effective and dynamic Managing sustainability across diverse industries Functionally, the Koç Holding Sustainability and CSR Unit: and structures can be challenging. Our tailor-made • provides guidance for Koç Group companies on crossapproach allows us to integrate sustainability into our cutting issues, business strategies by setting a framework centrally, • creates platforms to build a community of practice, and implementing through senior management in each • develops relationships with internal and external business. This distinctive way of managing sustainability stakeholders at different levels, and enhances our competitive advantage, enables a • acts as a hub for learning and development on continuously improving business environment and means managing sustainability priorities. we get the win-win of an overarching perspective that also reflects the specifics of the industries we work in. The Sustainability and CSR Unit works How we coordinate sustainability at Group level closely with Koç Holding Departments and Committees, and the executives At Koç Holding, the overall coordination of sustainability in the Koç Group Sustainability management is the responsibility of the Sustainability and CSR Unit within Corporate Communications and External Coordination Platform, who are also Affairs Department. This department is led by Koç Holding members of the Koç Group Sustainability Corporate Communications and External Affairs Director, Community, to manage material issues who reports directly to CEO. and oversees the Group sustainability strategy. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 60 Sustainability governance across Koç Group: Inclusive, effective and dynamic Koç Group Sustainability Coordination Platform The Sustainability Coordination Platform consists of members from Koç Group’s publicly listed companies and members report directly to General Managers or Assistant Koç Group Sustainability Community General Managers in their respective organizations. The Platform is managed by the Holding Company’s The Sustainability Coordination Platform is supported by Sustainability and CSR Coordinator and meets biannually a sustainability community representing diverse functions to exchange know-how, insights and trends, to discuss from Group companies. This wider network, known as the the key focus areas in sustainability, and to share each Koç Group Sustainability Community, operates closely company’s strategic priorities and best practices. with the Sustainability Coordination Platform to help implement sustainability strategies within relevant functions Members of the Platform are: of Group companies. The Community brings together • Arçelik Sustainability and Corporate Affairs Director mid-level managers from a wide range of expertise areas, • Aygaz Corporate Communications Manager including environment, human resources, innovation, digital • Ford Otosan Corporate Communications Manager transformation, audit, purchasing, legal and corporate • Otokar Finance Manager / Corporate Communications communications functions. The entire Community meets Manager biannually under the leadership of the Sustainability and • Tat HR Director / Product Development and Quality CSR Unit to share best practices, discuss industry-specific Manager issues, develop stakeholder engagement and highlight the • Tofaş External Relations Director contribution of each function within the overall sustainability • Tüpraş Corporate Communications Director journey. These meetings include, but are not limited to, • Yapı Kredi CSR and Sustainability Manager team members from companies represented in the Platform. The main responsibilities of the Sustainability Coordination Koç Group Committees Platform include: • reviewing sustainability trends and analyzing any The Sustainability and CSR Unit works closely with issuepotential impact on respective industries, based committees within the Group, which report directly • transferring Koç Holding’s sustainability agenda to the to Koç Holding C-level in their respective areas. Members companies, of the Unit attend committee meetings to ensure that the • contributing to the development of shared standards strategic direction and actions taken are in line with Koç among the Sustainability Community (described below) Holding’s sustainability agenda. • leading the work on issue management, stakeholder engagement, sustainability performance management and best practice development in line with Koç Group Sustainability Guide (described below) Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 61 Sustainability governance across Koç Group: Inclusive, effective and dynamic Koç Holding Departments Sustainability Coordination Platform Koç Group Issue-Based Committees Corporate Communications Koç Holding Corporate Communications and Environment and External Affairs External Relations Director Innovation and Technology Human Resources Koç Holding Sustainability and CSR Coordinator Industrial Relations and OHS Legal Counsel Arçelik Sustainability and Corporate Affairs Director Strategic Planning Aygaz Corporate Communications Manager Investor Relations Ford Otosan Corporate Communications Finance Manager Otokar Finance Manager / Corporate Communications Manager Tat HR Director / Product Development and Quality Manager Tofaş External Relations Director Tüpraş Corporate Communications Manager/ Environment Manager Yapı Kredi CSR and Sustainability Manager Koç Group Sustainability Community Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 62 Sustainability governance across Koç Group: Inclusive, effective and dynamic Koç Holding C-Level Koç Holding Corp. Comm. & External Koç Group Commities Affairs Koç Holding Departments* Sustainability & CSR Unit Koç Group Sustainability Coordination Platform Koç Group Sustainability Community *Refers to sustainability-related work led by various Koç Holding departments, including Human Resources, Strategic Planning, Finance, Audit and Investor Relations. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 63 Sustainability governance across Koç Group: Inclusive, effective and dynamic Guidance Mandate of Koç Holding Sustainability and CSR Unit The Sustainability and CSR Unit strives to create solutions to complex issues through collaboration, positions Providing thought leadership to facilitate collective Sustainable Development Goals as the framework for progress sustainability practices, and manages stakeholder outreach In order to reach the highest standards across Group and integration as a key driver for success. companies in sustainability management, Koç Holding Sustainability and CSR Unit develops guidelines, reviews The focus areas include building and nurturing a existing policies and tracks performance against pre-set community of practitioners, providing thought leadership to guidelines and KPIs. facilitate collective progress and developing engagement platforms to reach out to stakeholders and communities. Koç Group Sustainability Guide Building a community of practitioners Koç Group Sustainability Guide is a tool that enables consistency while managing sustainability across The Koç Group Sustainability Community represents businesses and industries. Through the Guide, we aim to: different functions such as environment, human resources, • Build group-wide sustainability leadership capacity innovation, digital transformation, audit, purchasing, legal • Develop an integrated approach for sustainability and and corporate communications. business strategies • Align sustainability practices such as issue The objective is to further develop the team culture that management, stakeholder engagement, setting up works coherently, have a common understanding on and monitoring key performance indicators (KPIs) and sustainability, share best practices, learn from each other, implementation and dissemination of best practices, and work together against cross-cutting challenges. In line across industries and companies with this objective, the Sustainability and CSR Unit develops • Create a shared understanding for sustainability within platforms to bring together sustainability professionals, Koç Group companies. establish the right environment for sharing and learning, bring external know-how to reach international standards and scale best practices. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 64 Sustainability governance across Koç Group: Inclusive, effective and dynamic In 2017, we organized a workshop for the implementation of issues in line with the megatrends and the SDGs. As a the Guide and additionally, at least 3 representatives from second step, the participants completed a stakeholder map each company were trained as facilitators. The facilitators in relation to their priority issues. The companies were also organized workshops in their respective companies with asked to share their sustainability performance and best participation of different departments. As a result of these practices according to the Guide. workshops, each company discussed in-depth their priority Issue Management What are the priority issues in sustainability? 1 Mega-trends & the SDGs Awareness/Collaboration/Partnerships Stakeholder Engagement Performance Management 2 Risks and opportunities What are the key sustainability indicators to track development? 3 Stakeholder expectations 4 Business strategy Best Practices What are the best practices that Strategic Approach can be disseminated? What is the strategic approach to manage key issues? Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 65 Ethics & Integrity Risk & Opportunity Management As Koç Group we stand for trust, continuity and Our risk management perspective is one that relies strongly on timeliness. We respect in the eyes of our stakeholders. We gained this know that our competitive edge is the result of our dynamism in addressing various reputation through our long-standing and demonstrable challenges that we encounter in the wide array of industries we operate. Being commitment to our corporate values and integrity. attentive to changes, listening to our stakeholders and following global development allows us to manage these risks and transform them into business opportunities. In every aspect of our work, we respect our corporate values of honesty, integrity and superior business ethics At Koç Group, we developed a bespoke and robust risk management approach to – which lay the foundations of our business conduct. address financial, strategic, operational and legal risks as well as non-financial risks At Koç Group we treat every business relationship that the company has a potential of exposure. Our systematic risk management with good intentions, fairness and a focus on mutual includes periodic reviews of risks and allows us to assess various investment and benefit. To adhere to the highest ethical standards, we business decisions from a risk perspective at all levels. ensure that all employees adopt and support our values in every interaction in the workplace. We inform each Risk assessments are carried out under the coordination of the Risk Management new employee on our principles and keep the Code of Committee, which is the highest body within the group and is led by the Finance Conduct within every employee’s reach on our intranet department. The committee operates on behalf of the Board of Directors and thus portal. Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and reports directly to it. The Board of Directors is periodically being informed regarding its Implementation Principles was published in 2010. the outputs of the work carried out in the Risk Management Committee, which meets These documents bring together our business principles at least 6 times each year. The Board of Directors is also responsible for setting the and guide how we should work with our employees, limits of risk and tolerance. shareholders, suppliers, distributors, subcontractors and other key stakeholders. In 2016, we updated and Non-financial risks related to climate change, talent management, biodiversity and expanded the scope of our Code of Ethics. In each occupational health and safety are also included in our risk management approach. company, a Board of Ethics monitors compliance The Sustainability and CSR Unit monitors the global trends and developments, with our Code of Ethics and proposes amendments regularly follows up with stakeholders and promotes improved sustainability or updates for the Code’s content; amendments are performance to manage these risks and address them in a pro-active manner. With approved by the Group Board. this approach, we can consider emerging stakeholder concerns and identify potential risk and impact areas in advance. The information that we gather through this process For more information about our Code of Ethics, please is then shared with companies and their relevant functions which will take necessary see our Annual Report. actions to mitigate and manage these risks and opportunities. More information on how we manage sustainability risks and opportunities can be found under “Empower people. Together” and “Act for the planet. Together” sections of this report, and our Annual Report. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 66 Performance Indicators Environmental Performance Indicators Energy Savings and Reduction in Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Year Water Consumption (m3) Waste by type (tons) Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 67 Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 68 GRI Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number(s) and/or URL(s) 102-48 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1 3 102-2 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/sectors https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/list-of-brands 102-3 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/about/headquarters 102-4 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/international-network-of-koc-group 102-5 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/corporate-overview-and-governance/shareholder-structure 102-6 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/financial-statements-and-statistics/annual-reports 2017 102-7 27, https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/financial-statements-and-statistics/annual-reports 2017 102-8 27 102-9 24 102-10 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/material-disclosures 102-11 8, 9, 24, 36, 41-43, 65, 66 102-12 3, 8, 9, 24, 36, 41-43, 54, 56, 58, 65, 66 102-13 31, 49, 53-54 Strategy 102-14 4, 5 Ethics and Integrity GRI 102: 102-16 66, https://www.koc.com.tr/tr-tr/hakkinda/Documents/Koc-Group-Code-of-Ethics-and-Business-Conduct.pdf General Disclosures 2016 Governance 102-18 60-63, https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/about/organization-chart Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 8 102-41 33 102-42 8, 9 102-43 8, 9, 56 102-44 8, 33, 41, 57 Reporting Practice 102-45 3 102-46 3 102-47 10 102-48 No such restatements were made in this report. 102-49 3, 10 102-50 3 102-51 3 102-52 3 102-53 3 102-54 3 102-55 69-70 102-56 Information and data presented in this report has not been independently verified. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 69 GRI Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Material Topics Climate Change 103-1 8, 9, 39-41, 60 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 39-41 103-3 39-41 GRI 302: 302-3 42, 67 Energy 2016 302-4 42, 67 GRI 305: 305-4 42, 67 Emissions 2016 305-5 42, 67 Diversity and Inclusion 103-1 8, 9, 26, 31-33, 60 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 26, 31-33 103-3 26, 31-33 GRI 401: 401-1 27, 68 Employment 2016 401-3 31 GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 68 and Inclusion 2016 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 31, 33, 35, 53 Future Talent 103-1 8, 9, 26, 28, 29, 60 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 28, 29, 60 103-3 28, 29, 60 404-1 29, 68 GRI 404: Training and Education 404-2 29, 30 404-3 37 Digital Transformation 103-1 8, 9, 14-16, 60 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 14-16 103-3 14-16 Innovation 103-1 8, 9, 14, 19, 60 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 14, 19 103-3 14, 19 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2016 2017 70 Acknowledgements We would like to thank following individuals and companies for their support and collaboration. Sustainability Narrative and Design: Radley Yeldar Sustainability Performance and Reporting: S360 Case Highlights: Nurten Yalçın Erüs Report Design: Caretta Communication & Consultancy Photography: Muhsin Ergün For more information Koç Holding Corporate Communications and External Affairs Sustainability and CSR Unit iletisim@koc.com.tr
