UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 REPORT CONTENT I. STATEMENT 03 V. OUR COMMUNITIES 18 Pro Bono 19 II. INTRODUCTION 05 Rule of law 19 III. OUR CLIENTS 08 Child rights 20 Trusted advisor 08 Displaced people 22 Environment and climate change 08 New Perimeter 23 Business and human rights 09 Working against corruption 09 Social mobility 24 The DLA Piper Foundation 24 IV. OUR PEOPLE 10 Head Start 24 Diversity and inclusion 10 DLA Piper Global Scholarships 25 Wellbeing 12 Sustainability 14 VI. FURTHER INFORMATION 26 Environment and climate change 14 Value chain 16 02 | UN Global Compact STATEMENT “No one left behind” is a phrase that appears throughout the Sustainable Development Goals. It is relevant to the ideals of equality, access to justice, rule of law, diversity and inclusion. These are all key priorities for DLA Piper and our commitment to these issues is detailed in this report, our annual Communication on Progress. Our goal is to exemplify the very highest ideals of our profession and to ensure we operate our business responsibly, so that we consistently meet and exceed the expectations of our stakeholders. This is a very significant commitment and it cannot be discharged through a set of programmes or by a single department within DLA Piper. Rather it is deeply rooted as part of our culture and can be seen in the way we do business everywhere in the world. Ultimately it is a strong and unifying culture that will underpin our continued growth and success. Since our last CoP, we have further strengthened our commitment to diversity and inclusion, environment and climate change and fighting corruption. We showcase some of our most recent work to promote the rule of law, children’s rights and access to justice for displaced people around the world. DLA Piper has an unparalleled commitment to Pro Bono work and we continue to be one of the largest providers of Pro Bono legal services, donating more than 200,000 hours globally in 2017. 2017 also saw the launch of Know Your Rights – a 12-week legal empowerment programme for young asylum seekers and refugees. The programme has been rolled out initially in Europe and Asia and will expand over the coming year to support the integration of newly arrived migrants. I am very proud to Co-Chair our Global Scholarships trustee board. Consistent with the goal that no one is left behind, the programme provides opportunities for promising law students from the world’s 50 Least Developed Countries. Our aim is for our Global Scholarship Fellows to become tomorrow’s leaders – working to strengthen the rule of law in their home countries and contribute to sustainable growth for some of the poorest communities around the world. Please get in touch if you would like further information regarding any of the topics covered in this report. Yours sincerely, ANDREW DARWIN Senior Partner, Global Co-Chairman www.dlapiper.com | 03 OUR VISION IS TO BE THE LEADING GLOBAL BUSINESS LAW FIRM ACHIEVED THROUGH OUR GLOBAL STRATEGY OUR VALUES OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR COMMUNITIES OUR CULTURE ■■ The interests of our clients ■■ We value diversity and ■■ We look for opportunities ■■ We promote an inclusive are at the very heart of our respect for the individual. as individuals and as culture in which everyone business, and we strive to a leading global business has the opportunity to ■■ We believe in teamwork achieve the best results in law firm to make a positive progress their career for the good of the firm everything we do for them. contribution to our local and where pathways to and our clients. and global communities. career progression are ■■ We believe in long-term ■■ We believe in developing all transparent. relationships with our ■■ We encourage our lawyers our people and rewarding clients based on openness and staff to participate in ■■ We celebrate and draw achievements fairly. and honesty. Corporate Responsibility on our strengths as and Pro Bono initiatives a diverse, multicultural, ■■ We respect and meet our that embody our values multi-jurisdictional obligations as professionals. and we create joint global firm. opportunities with clients ■■ We are ambitious and on Pro Bono initiatives. entrepreneurial and we strive for excellence and quality in everything we do for clients. 04 | UN Global Compact INTRODUCTION DLA Piper’s commitment to the highest standards of honesty, transparency and accountability is reflected in the firm’s vision to be a leading global business law firm and its values around clients, people, communities and culture. The legal profession is one of public service and, as proud guardians of the law, we assist those in need of legal and related services. Law is at the heart of many human interactions, be that between private clients, corporations, charitable organisations or the government. This central role provides us with a unique opportunity to use our expertise and resources to practice our vision of being a leading responsible business, support the rule of law, advance access to justice, protect human rights and promote environmental sustainability. Our global business is organised under a Swiss verein structure, with a Global Board appointed by and among its members. The effective implementation of the UNGC universal principles is driven by the senior leadership team and shared by every DLA Piper office across the world. With a global presence in over 40 countries and an international team of nearly 10,000, we are able to draw on a rich variety of talent, perspectives and experience. While our strength is in diversity, we maintain an unwavering respect for the individual. We proudly strive for excellence in everything we do and create a work environment that fosters innovation, empowers new ideas and promotes partnerships with our global and local communities. This has included providing technical support and vital resource to Unicef UK, which benefits UNICEF offices globally. www.dlapiper.com | 05 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT AND THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT 1  Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2  Not be complicit in human rights abuses 3  Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4  Support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5  Support the effective abolition of child labour 6  Support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7  Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8  Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9  Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 10  Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 06 | UN Global Compact 4 5 1 2 2 3 3 4 1 10 6 5 8 9 5 7 1 6 4 2 1 10 2 3 17 7 8 1 PARTNERSHIPS NO POVERTY 9 6 16 FOR THE GOALS 2 PEACE, JUSTICE ZERO HUNGER 1 AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS 6 2 9 3 7 8 15 3 4 LIFE ON LAND SHARED VALUES GOOD HEALTH 5 PRO BONO Client Collaboration AND WELLBEING 10 Promoting the Rule of Law on Community – Strengthening Civil Society Initiatives 1 – Capacity Building Client Intake 2 9 14 Access to Justice TRUSTED 4 8 TY OU NI LIFE BELOW – Children’s Rights ADVISER WATER QUALITY 7 U EHOLDE Responsible – Displaced People TAK EDUCATION R S GAGEMEN R OUR C – Technology and Advice EN T TS IEN Technology OM Innovation Investment and A CL Data Integrity M U REN 6 1 13 AR I N 5 S A F E G U AT TA C Y A N D 9 SOCIAL RESTORING 2 CLIMATE ACTION MOBILITY GENDER T PUBLIC TRUST BILIT Y EQUALITY REPU 8 Access to careers IN BUSINESS 3 D P 7 in the legal sector O IN G NS Business and Scholarships N TRA CCO Human Rights 4 A 5 OU DLA Piper made a formal commitment to the 12 R P E O PLE RESPONSIBLE DIVERSITY AND SUSTAINABILITY 6 UN Global Compact in February 2013 and we are CONSUMPTION INCLUSION Environment and CLEAN WATER 1 9 AND PRODUCTION Respectful WELLBEING Climate Change AND SANITATION 7 proud to be one of the first law firms subscribing Interactions Value Chain 2 8 Safe Working REWARDS 8 to the ten universal principles around human rights, Workplace Wellness AND BENEFITS labour, environment and anti-corruption. 11 7 Staff Development 9 7 and Engagement Living Wage Gender Pay Gap SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND AFFORDABLE AND We remain focused on further aligning our COMMUNITIES CLEAN ENERGY Responsible Business model (see the diagram) with 9 10 8 7 1 the nine Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 8 7 REDUCED INEQUALITIES 9 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC 9 8 2 as adopted by the firm. We also continue to actively INDUSTRY, GROWTH 2 INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE promote the UNGC universal principles in our 1 10 6 strategic and daily operations. 5 1 4 6 2 3 9 8 7 6 3 2 4 1 5 5 4 3 www.dlapiper.com | 07 OUR CLIENTS As a firm we continue providing leading ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE DLA Piper continues to be a global legal advisor on WIN WHAT IN-HOUSE LAWYERS NEED edge legal advice and related services climate change legislation and energy efficiency measures while promoting greater environmental such as the European Union Emissions Trading System, California’s AB32 cap-and-trade programme, ESOS and responsibility, sustainability and innovation. Climate Change Agreements and in advising clients engaged in transactions for carbon credits in compliance TRUSTED ADVISOR and voluntary markets. We continue to represent countries at international climate negotiations. For example, we represented a client at the UNFCCC 23rd Conference of the Parties in Bonn. A number of the firm’s lawyers from offices around the world worked in their own time to advise Our award-winning programme What In-house Lawyers our client on the work of the Conference and its Need (WIN) offers the tools, training and knowledge Committees relating to the Rules for Implementing the to in-house lawyers on a wide range of technical, Paris Rulebook. The team also helped our client accede commercial and personal aspects. In addition to bespoke to a country group. services, WIN offers interactive and practical training The firm also assists clients in sectors introducing new on topics that range from business and human rights, Our clients’ business structures, supply chains and technology which promotes sustainable energy use, such diversity and inclusion, employment law to health and relationships are complex and must be able to as recent work from a company promoting innovative safety, responsible sourcing and outsourcing. navigate multiple social, cultural, political, legal and power units for unmanned aircraft. regulatory landscapes. A failure to identify and manage In addition, the Women’s WIN initiative extends the responsible business conduct issues relating to human Our firm continues to be a thought leader by hosting excellence of our Global Leadership Alliance for Women rights, environmental, anti-bribery and corruption and and participating in seminars, both for clients and the (Global LAW) programme to our clients and provides a community engagement risks can create legal, regulatory wider community. Apart from the UN Global Compact unique platform for training, networking and sharing best and litigation risks, harm reputation and brand value and Sectors Summit in New York in June, highlights for 2017 practice for female lawyers. lead to a loss of commercial opportunities. included a global Business and Climate Summit in the City of London in June organised in partnership with the As trusted advisors we work with our clients to ensure WEF, ICC, the City of London and the UN; the Business that responsible business conduct is embedded across in the Community (BITC) Smart Growth Summit policy development and implementation, strategy and in April; the Greenstone Sustainable Supply Chains investment planning, governance, due diligence and risk Conference in London in July; and a seminar on “Brexit: management, supply chain management, transactional What does it mean for the Environment?” in September. and dispute resolution issues. 08 | UN Global Compact BUSINESS AND WORKING AGAINST HUMAN RIGHTS CORRUPTION DLA PIPER’S HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY IS ALIGNED WITH: DLA Piper adheres to the highest regulatory and professional standards DLA Piper is committed to respecting and supporting international human rights throughout our business in order to protect our business, our reputation and our clients. The International operations. Bill of Human Rights The risk of adverse human rights impacts is a key We are known as thought leaders on issues of anti-bribery Universal Declaration strategic concern for businesses. Businesses understand and corruption and we regularly host events for our clients of Human Rights the responsibility to respect human rights and the and other stakeholders outlining and promoting best practical imperative to identify and manage any human practice on this subject. rights impacts linked to their business operations, supply Our global Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy sets out the chains and business relationships. approach and expectations we place on our own people as We continue to play an active role in sector-wide well as on our business partners. The International discussions on implementing the UN Guiding Principles on This policy is an integral part of our risk management and Labour Organisation’s Business and Human Rights as a member of the Business compliance framework. The framework incorporates Declaration on and Human Rights Advisory Group of the UK Law Society. policies, procedures, guidelines and a Compliance Fundamental Handbook which covers a wide range of issues, including Our International Business and Human Rights team is Principles and Rights anti-money laundering, sanctions and ethics. working with a multi-jurisdictional, cross-practice team at Work of lawyers across the firm. They are providing clients Our Whistleblowing Policy and associated procedures with support to navigate increasingly complex and are used for reporting breaches on a confidential or interconnected challenges and opportunities presented anonymous basis. by the developing business and human rights agenda. Our publicly stated policy on anti-bribery and corruption is We advise clients across a range of governance, reinforced through Board sponsorship and commitment to transactional, risk management, compliance and dispute the policy and related procedures. The UN Guiding resolution issues related to human rights risks. This During 2017 we worked extensively to ensure that a Principles on Business includes human rights policy, strategy development consistent approach to anti-bribery and corruption is and Human Rights and implementation, investment decision making, due implemented not only in our own offices but also across all diligence and risk assessments and the design and our relationship firms – the community of independent law implementation of grievance mechanisms. firms who work together, and with DLA Piper, to provide a fully coordinated service delivery in countries, where our firm does not have its own offices. This programme is now near completion with on-going training sessions taking place. www.dlapiper.com | 9 OUR PEOPLE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION At DLA Piper we are firmly committed to diversity and inclusion. As a global business law firm, with a diverse client base, we know that our clients expect our people to represent the communities in which we work and value our ability to advise them on both local and global cultures and markets. In 2017, throughout our regions we pursued For us, diversity is not just about visible differences, it is the unique blend of talents, skills, experiences and strategies to retain, promote and develop our women lawyers and LGBT community. perspectives that makes each of us an individual and we We believe that our approach to diversity and inclusion enables us to attract the best strive to create an environment where these differences talent, build the most effective teams and deliver the highest level of client service. are valued and celebrated. As our organisation of nearly 10,000 employees We are proud of the external recognition we have bias can manifest and how the impacts of bias can be operates across more than 40 countries throughout received for our efforts in relation to gender parity. minimised. We have also developed a new module on the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe, Africa and the Cultural Awareness which has been incorporated into At the Euromoney LMG Europe Women in Business Middle East, our policies in each jurisdiction are tailored our career academy programme for non-partner lawyers Law Awards last year, the firm took home five awards to the legal, regulatory and cultural requirements of and business services professionals. This aims to provide in total, including the award for Best Gender Diversity each geography. participants with a framework of techniques and skills to Initiative in an International Firm for the fourth We promote a culture in which everyone feels operate and collaborate more effectively across cultures. consecutive year. respected, valued and included, where everyone has the We actively welcome and value the ideas and We have again been awarded the Employer of Choice for opportunity to grow their career and where pathways to contributions of all of our people. In some cases, Gender Equality citation by the Australian Government’s career progression are transparent. people with common interests or backgrounds wish Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA), having We have continued to implement our firm-wide strategy to form resource groups to share insights and different been a WGEA citation holder since the programme to secure the gender talent pipeline, with progress perspectives with each other and with the firm. Our two began. reviewed by the Board every six months. The strategy hallmark global resource groups – the Leadership We are continuing to roll out our Diversity and Inclusion Alliance for Women (LAW) and the Iris Network includes the moderation of all promotions to include training curriculum. Partner workshops focusing on (LGBT) – continue to grow and develop momentum. gender analysis, the requirement for at least one unconscious bias have continued and over 380 partners woman to be on the shortlist for all key management Following the success of LAW initiatives throughout have now been trained to date. We have also worked to appointments and a comprehensive review of our parental the UK, US and Australia, we have formed the Global ensure the key learnings from the training are integrated leave benefits and the introduction of parental coaching. Leadership Alliance for Women (Global LAW). in our people processes, performance management, The Global LAW harnesses expertise of colleagues promotions and compensation decisions. We have engaged in local initiatives around the firm and leverages developed ‘bite-sized’ guidance intended to be used best practices among existing local mentoring, skills by partners and managers in real time during these development and networking programmes to support processes to serve as a prompt and reminder of how 10 | UN Global Compact the advancement of our women lawyers worldwide. We are Stonewall diversity champions in the UK and The local chapters of the Global LAW are now members of Pride in Diversity in Australia and the established in France, Spain, Italy, Germany, Belgium, Hong Kong Gay and Lesbian Attorneys Network. The Netherlands, Luxembourg, the Nordics region, We have supported Pride in Hong Kong, Manchester, Hong Kong, Japan, New Zealand and the Middle East. Rome and Auckland. We continue to support ‘Wear it Purple’ day in Australia and recognised World AIDS Day The International Women’s Day was marked with in the UK. We also raised awareness of LGBT history the largest number of Global LAW events so far. month, Transgender Day of Visibility and International These included guest speaker events in London and Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia. Copenhagen, a panel event held jointly with client RBS in Edinburgh, a networking lunch for colleagues and clients We recognise that our diversity initiatives have a longin Brussels, an event in Saudi Arabia for colleagues and term time horizon, but we believe that we are on a clients and networking events in Germany. The focus of journey and whilst, like most law firms, we still have many of the events and discussions locally was engaging some distance to travel, with strategic approaches in our men – making gender equality everyone’s issue and not geographic regions, we are making great progress. just a women’s issue. Our LGBT network continues to make excellent progress. Last year’s re-launch of the network in London under the new name ‘Iris’ (the Greek goddess of the rainbow and messenger of the Gods) was followed up by local launch events in Sydney and Hong Kong. The group aims to promote an inclusive working environment by offering networking opportunities, raising awareness across the firm and partnering with clients on LGBT initiatives. The group now has over 100 members across the firm. www.dlapiper.com | 11 WELLBEING MENTAL HEALTH Across the world 25% of people will be affected by a mental health issue at some point in their lives. We will all be touched at some stage of our lives by mental ill health, either personally, in our family or in our workplace. We recognise that, as a firm, supporting our people to take better care of their mental health, and improving our workplace health and wellbeing overall, is extremely important. We recognised World Mental Health Day in October 2017 with events in every region and firm-wide communications, reminding people of the steps they can take to improve their health in general. We have also put in place a number of initiatives to provide ongoing support and to try to prevent issues arising. These include: ■■ The development of firm-specific awareness training in Australia, delivered by a psychologist and rolled out to each office. ■■ Training for local Mental Health Ambassadors which has been piloted in the UK. ■■ The introduction of a Resilience programme which was also included in the International Graduate Academy for the first time last year and at the Global Partners Conference in June 2018. ■■ A series of seminars/webinars throughout the year to educate people on different aspects of mental health and wellbeing. ■■ Access to free, confidential and independent support resources. In order to ensure that these important initiatives continue to progress and are made available to our people across the world, we have created an international mental health & wellbeing working group, chaired by Melinda Upton, Co-Country Managing Partner in Australia, with representatives from each region of the firm. Healthy workplaces are proven to improve workforce participation, deliver greater productivity and increase social inclusion. At DLA Piper, we know it is down to all of us to work together and support one another to improve our workplace health. 12 | UN Global Compact WORKPLACE WELLNESS OUR NEW LONDON OFFICE HAS BEEN DESIGNED Flexibility and agile working are seen by the firm as key FOR THE WELL-BEING OF THE MIND, BODY AND SOUL business tools to help drive individual, team and firm AND WITH OUR SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK IN MIND productivity, and are crucial to attracting and retaining talented staff. We are continuing to embed innovative SHOWERS, LOCKERS FOOD AND WELLNESS TECHNOLOGY technologies and flexible working practices within & CYCLE RACKS DRINK SPACE SUPPORT the business and are focusing on career development opportunities for agile workers. DRYING ROOM MULTI-PURPOSE TECH 8 CLIENT We are committed to providing our employees with a BUSINESS ROOM safe and secure working environment that safeguards 300 130 LOUNGE (FOR CLASSES SUCH AS YOGA) DECK 21-PERSON their health and promotes physical and mental wellbeing, regardless of where in the world they work. CYCLE RACKS* *Shared by building SEAT CAFÉ MULTIFIRST PROVIDING ON THE SPOT LIFTS To meet this commitment and to ensure a consistent FAITH AID IT ASSISTANCE approach across our offices and areas of operation, 34 HEALTHY AND NUTRITIOUS ROOM ROOM we maintain a robust health and safety management SHOWERS HOT AND CONSULTATION AND system on par with international codes of practice (10 Mezzanine, 21 Ground TREATMENT ROOM and industry requirements. Through the process of floor, 3 Level 1) COLD FOOD Our continuous improvement, we strive to uphold the interconnecting highest performance standards and promote a positive 230 EVENING FITNESS ROOM staircase runs throughout the health and safety culture throughout the organisation. LOCKERS FOOD WITH CARDIO building enabling us to connect with our (various sizes) PROVISION TO BE TRIALLED EQUIPMENT We also view our workplace environment as one colleagues more easily of the most important opportunities to achieve transformational change and to reflect on our pursuit WORKSTATION ENERGY USE WASTE DESIGN WATER USE of excellence. To support this strategic approach, we developed comprehensive and bespoke International 10 UNWANTED 800 75% W/m3 Design Guidelines for all our design and fit-out projects. FURNITURE MAXIMUM IS DISPOSED OF Whilst we initiated the process in 2016, our approach LIGHTING RESPONSIBLY LOAD IN (through reuse, donation continued to evolve reflecting the latest design concepts, ADJUSTABLE DESKS OFFICE AREAS or recycling) standards and related technologies. Among other (sit/stand positions) ALL WATER important aspects, the Guidelines provide particular focus on the quality of our workplace environment, USE OF DUAL SCREENS CONSUMING COMPONENTS LABELLED ALL LIGHTING INSTALLATIONS ARE DIMMABLE 95% 90% sustainability, innovative technologies, security and CONSTRUCTION AND TIMBER access control, amenity spaces and staff wellbeing. ACROSS OFFICES “GREEN” ENERGY STAR DEMOLITION WASTE DIVERTED FROM LANDFILL IS RECLAIMED OR RECYCLED (to encourage reduced RATING FOR ALL printing) UNDER THE OFFICE EQUIPMENT For example, our new office in London was designed in EUROPEAN (computers/laptops, NO PERSONAL CENTRALISED BINS FOR 2017 using these Guidelines and now, just a few months WATER LABEL monitors, printers, WASTE BINS AT SEGREGATED WASTE SCHEME servers, etc.) THE DESKS COLLECTION ON EACH FLOOR away from the move-in date, we can share the selected achievements with pride and determination to continue this approach in all future projects. www.dlapiper.com | 13 SUSTAINABILITY ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE For DLA Piper the management of environmental aspects of our activities is an integral and essential part of the way we conduct our business. We strive to be a leader in environmental sustainability, particularly when it comes to managing the environmental Our overall approach is reflected in the firm’s footprint of business activities and operations across our entire value chain – ie both environmental sustainability policy, which is jointly legal services and business support, including property and workplace management, championed by Simon Levine and Jay Rains, the Co-CEOs and Global Board members with events organising and procurement. responsibility for environmental challenges. The execution of our policy commitments is ensured by: In 2017 we successfully transitioned and certified our waste. Furthermore, firms have been able to reduce management system to the new ISO 14001:2015 standard. paper consumption by 14% from 2016 to 2017 and were ■■ The Global Sustainability Initiative (GSI) which is This accomplishment recognises our efforts towards able to increase the average recycling content of paper established by the Global Board and governed by environmental sustainability and continuous improvement. used from 16% to 26%. the two sponsoring partners and a cross-functional committee. Its main focus is on formulating a strategic DLA Piper, as a founding member of the Legal The Alliance has acknowledged that reduction of and integrated approach on managing environmental Sustainability Alliance, maintains its leadership role carbon footprint is by no means the only sustainability impacts and opportunities throughout our value chain. within the legal sector on addressing environmental issue and is moving to consider the overlap between The progress against long-term targets is reviewed issues and continues to support the work of the Alliance environmental and public health issues. The broader quarterly by the Global Board in promoting sustainability reporting and sharing of best scope of the Alliance’s focus is also reflected in the practice within the sector. charities it supports. In 2017 the Alliance supported ■■ The relevant functional groups (eg Operational Risk, the work of the Woodland Trust and in 2018 it will be Procurement, Property and Workplace) for the day-toIn 2017 the Alliance celebrated the 10th Anniversary supporting the Blue Marine Foundation, a charity which day implementation of its core requirements. of its foundation. In the same year, 57 firms reported aims to combat the surge of plastics in the world’s their carbon emissions and, on a like-for-like basis, Our management system has been ISO 14001 compliant oceans. reporting member firms managed to reduce total and independently certified across our global business carbon emissions by 12,400 t CO2e, representing a We continue to support this positive and mutually for the past ten years. It is shaped by the internal and 6% reduction. Similarly, per capita carbon emissions beneficial collaboration model in Australia through the external issues that are material to the firm and our have reduced by 6% to an average of 3.18 t CO2e per Australian Legal Sector Alliance and in the US through key stakeholders. It is integrated into the core business employee. Reporting now includes the carbon footprints a partner organisation, the Law Firm Sustainability practices and processes and is designed to achieve our associated with water consumption. Discharges and Network. objectives and targets. 14 | UN Global Compact OUR 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE TARGETS INCREASE USE OF 25% REDUCTION IN OFFSET EMISSIONS INCREASE USE OF COMMUNICATION ENERGY USE AGAINST ASSOCIATED WITH GREEN ENERGY TOOLS AS ALTERNATIVES 2012 BASELINE BUSINESS TRAVEL TO TRAVEL We are making good progress Renewable sources of energy continue Our business travel supports essential We continue to introduce innovative towards our strategic target. In 2018 to play an important role in our projects but remains a significant business technologies and online we plan to implement a certifiable electricity supply. Over 50% of our total contributor to the overall carbon footprint collaboration and communication tools energy management system across electricity consumption is sourced from of our operations. Having set up a robust as alternatives to travel. our international offices to help us make green energy providers. monitoring system in partnership with further improvements. our global travel service providers, we are now in a position to move forward with our carbon offsetting strategy for business travel emissions. 30% of our offices Use of video Energy use Travel emissions buy electricity conferencing decreased by 20% reduced by approx. from green energy increased by 63% since 2012 19% since 2012 providers since 2012 MONITOR ENCOURAGE REDUCTION IN YEAR-ON-YEAR PERFORMANCE OF RESPONSIBLE PAPER USE AGAINST INCREASE IN HIGH RISK STRATEGIC PRACTICE AMONG 2012 LEVELS RECYCLING SUPPLIERS SUPPLIERS As we continued improving our record We have maintained 100% recycling of We have substantially revised our definition We are now actively engaging with those management system (particularly matter our paper waste and improved across all of strategic suppliers to reflect potential contractors and suppliers that have management, document retention and other categories of “office recyclables”. risks and significant opportunities in the greatest potential to influence our digitisation) and introducing new legal Our waste management programme the areas of human and labour rights, sustainability performance and support technologies, including remote access to will be changing focus from recycling to environmental impact and anti-corruption. us in delivering strategic objectives. project files, the use of paper across our broader waste reduction initiatives. In 2017 we reviewed our pool of contractors offices reduced dramatically. across the key service areas – catering and vending, cleaning and security, couriers and Cardboard 96% taxis, travel, record management, stationary and print, utilities, confidential shredding and 60% of our strategic Use of paper Plastic/Glass 99% building maintenance. suppliers actively reduced by 30% 20 Printer toner 97% engaged in supporting per employee Strategic suppliers across Paper 100% our sustainability goals our key service areas www.dlapiper.com | 15 VALUE CHAIN safety and welfare of the people attending, the them achieve necessary experience, capability and impacts on the environment and the wellbeing of the financial viability to successfully undertake the work surrounding communities. whilst complying with our policy requirements. However, the greatest risks and opportunities We encourage our new strategic suppliers to subscribe underpinning the UNGC principles lie with the to and provide detailed sustainability information The value chain within DLA Piper, as in most sustainable management within our supply chain. through our Supplier Portal. The Portal allows us to professional services, consists of the various workflows Our supply chain is relatively straightforward and yet consistently monitor compliance and reduce exposure that drive profitability and competitiveness of the firm it cuts across many different national cultures, wide to business risks, safeguard our reputation and avoid by adding value to its core services and contributing to ranging business norms and traditions, bringing with complicity in human rights abuses. the wider sustainability of the firm. it a multitude of potential risks as well as rewarding We are committed to achieving the highest standards opportunities for businesses, the environment and For example, sustainability is one of the key of sustainable procurement together and in societies. considerations within our property governance partnership with our extended supply chain. Capturing framework and related guidelines. We initially started Our global Sustainable Procurement Policy provides performance data on key issues such as governance with the development of minimum environmental a high-level outline of our approach to ensuring that and environmental, social and economic impacts is a standards and requirements for office design and fit-out all suppliers and contractors act consistently with our fundamental part of understanding the potential risks projects. These have now evolved into an integrated values and commitments, particularly with respect to and opportunities for proactive engagement through framework incorporating workplace sustainability human rights, safe and fair working conditions and the our procurement and contract management processes. requirements (energy efficiency, wellbeing, use key principles and rights embedded in International As we increase the scope of our data capture and of ethical and sustainable materials, waste, use of Labour Organisation Declaration. dialogue across our supply chain we can make technologies, contractor management, etc.). While We actively encourage diversity throughout our supply a significant positive difference in minimising the process was initiated in 2016, the framework chain and seek to provide a level playing field for all environmentally detrimental practices and thus development and trials continued throughout 2017 with potential suppliers irrespective of their size, ethnicity, encourage a move towards more sustainable practices. the key requirements prioritised for implementation in ownership and location. all new offices and upcoming upgrades. We form partnerships with our more mature and Our event organisers are also guided by the principles advanced suppliers and service providers to achieve of sustainability. DLA Piper internal and external economies of scale and scope in mitigating the life cycle events come in a variety of formats – from corporate impacts. At the same time we are fully committed to conferences to office parties, from educational working closely with smaller local companies to help seminars to fundraising events. As a responsible business we always consider aspects such as health, 16 | UN Global Compact DUAL SCREEN TRIALS We tested the impact of replacing conventional PC monitors with dual screens for all users in our Manchester office and found that the daily number of printing jobs was cut in half and daily paper use was reduced by two thirds, thus saving over 3 tonnes of paper, approximately 40 trees per year. This approach will gradually be rolled out across all international offices before the end of 2018. PAPER QUALITY INITIATIVE Following a successful trial, we now procure the CATERING TRIALS Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified paper We are actively sourcing seasonal and locally roasted from one mill in Europe. The mill owns 1.5m coffee beans for the coffee machines in our offices. To hectares of managed forest and produces paper date, we are trialling this in four UK offices. The coffee from Eucalyptus globulus, using the process that grounds are made available to employees to take consumes less wood (18%), less water (14%), less home for composting. power (23%) and produces less waste (6%). STATIONERY MANAGEMENT CYCLING COURIERS INITIATIVE Through collaboration with our We pro-actively engaged with our London suppliers and by introducing strict stock courier provider (same day delivery service) management process, we successfully to identify opportunities for improvements. reduced office deliveries of stationery This collaboration is ongoing but over a by 66% across all UK locations, thus period of two years we have ensured that saving approximately 3 tonnes of CO2e 61% of our courier deliveries are completed per annum. Internationally, 50% of by bicycle thus significantly reducing the stationery items we procure are classed as carbon footprint of our operations without green stationery. negative effect on the quality of service. BOTTLED WATER PROJECT SINGLE USE PLASTIC INITIATIVES We were one of the first law firms to embrace the change in buying water. By introducing in-house refillable We have been running trials to reduce the use of water bottles we eliminated deliveries, reduced water plastic in our offices for a number of years. In 2017 losses by 30%, reduced packaging/glass waste by 80%, we stopped providing disposable plastic cutlery, hot created a branding opportunity and saved 70% of costs drink cups and plastic water cups in our offices. In on the contract lifecycle.This system is now in operation addition we have also eliminated polystyrene food in offices in Hong Kong, Johannesburg, Amsterdam, containers from our cafes and continue reviewing new Prague, Luxembourg and across the UK. opportunities in partnership with our key vendors. www.dlapiper.com | 17 OUR COMMUNITIES DLA Piper is a global leader in the access to justice community. Our Pro Bono and community programmes are a true differentiator for our firm. Our commitment to our communities around the world is demonstrated through our Pro Bono and community engagement programmes, exists at every level in every office within the firm and is ingrained as part of our culture. For the past two years, the firm devoted over 200,000 hours to Pro Bono and community work each year – making us one of the largest providers of Pro Bono legal services in the world. 18 | UN Global Compact PRO BONO We encourage our lawyers to do Pro Bono work, much of which focuses on access to justice, education, human rights, non-profits and charity law, juvenile justice as well as supporting refugees, statelessness and trafficking survivors. As one of the largest law firms in the world and a thought leader in the creation and delivery of Pro Bono services, we are able to develop, manage and deliver Pro Bono in size, scale and scope unlike any other global law firm. Our Pro Bono practice focuses on three global themes: the rule of law, child rights and upholding the rights of asylum seekers, refugees and stateless people. RULE OF LAW STRENGTHENING CIVIL SOCIETY Our rule of law work is designed to support just laws, fair and open courts and transparent and accountable governments. Many of our projects support upcoming law students to obtain the skills necessary to be the future guardians of the rule of law. Here are some examples of this work. ■■ In Tanzania, our DLA Piper Africa firm IMMMA provided ■■ In Asia, we are continuing to work on a law reform project support to clients in a number of high profile cases relating to to remove restrictive barriers to NGOs who want to employ freedom of expression and freedom of association. a solicitor. ■■ In Australia, we supported a client in a high court case ■■ In Europe, we are continuing to support fair and open trials on democratic freedoms and protest rights (Brown v by providing trial observation, preparing accessible letters of Government of Tasmania). rights and providing support amicus briefs on human rights issues. ■■ Our Australian lawyers are continuing to support the Government of Vanuatu. We have also established a new ■■ We continue to support NGOs with individual complaints partnership with the University of the South Pacific in Suva, to UN human rights bodies, and are providing short human to support their inaugural Law Clinic course. rights courses to high school students in the UK. www.dlapiper.com | 19 CHILD RIGHTS In 2013, UNICEF UK and DLA Piper launched a ground breaking partnership to support and develop UNICEF’s child justice work around the world. Over five years, DLA Piper has raised more than £1 million through corporate donations and employee fundraising to support a Justice for Children programme in Bangladesh, which aims to help ensure children coming into contact with the law are protected from violence, abuse, exploitation and treated fairly. From 2017, funds raised through our partnership will support UNICEF’s child protection work globally. To date, DLA Piper has provided over 18,000 hours of Pro Bono legal support for UNICEF’s work globally. This work includes: ■ Supporting the nationwide consultations on child ■ Reviewing national legislation on birth registration and of social service workers and also to assist in the friendly transitional justice processes with UNICEF in comparing legal frameworks across 23 jurisdictions. planning and implementation of effective programmes the Gambia, and providing technical support to help This work will help UNICEF advocate on behalf of the for children and families. integrate child protection as part of the process. 230 million children worldwide whose births are not ■ Supporting UNICEF Bangladesh on a law reform registered, protecting them from child labour, child ■ Preparing National Baseline Assessments for project to help align the Children’s Act with the marriage, trafficking and exploitation. UNICEF Japan, UNICEF Netherlands and UNICEF Convention on the Rights of the Child and other Chile, examining the extent to which the children’s ■ Providing Pro Bono advice to UNICEF Australia’s international human rights standards. convention has been implemented in domestic law. advocacy team on universal birth registration, intercountry adoption and opportunities around the AS PART OF OUR BROADER SUPPORT ■ Providing research on the power of the Dutch 25th anniversary of the Convention of the Rights of TO CHILDREN AROUND THE WORLD, government to protect children’s rights in the the Child. DLA Piper lawyers co-drafted UNICEF’s OUR WORK INCLUDES: Netherlands’ overseas territories in the Caribbean. submission to the Australian Government inquiry Research on the detention of children in connection ■ Completing legal and policy mapping reports on child ■ regarding inter-country adoption. with armed conflict. marriage in Bangladesh and Pakistan as part of the ■ Conducting a global comparative research project South Asian Association For Regional Co-operation ■ Supporting UNICEF’s Child Rights and Business team looking at legislative frameworks relating to the in Law intergovernmental project. to examine advertising and marketing standards in social service workforce for 29 jurisdictions around 37 countries and to research how countries hold ■ Providing support to the Australian National the world. This research will contribute to the first companies responsible for the sexual exploitation Children’s Commissioner in the development and annual State of the Social Service Workforce Report of children. This important work enables UNICEF research of child safe organisation principles. produced by the Global Social Service Workforce to advocate for greater corporate accountability for Alliance, with support from UNICEF and other violations of children’s rights. partners. This Report will support global, national and local advocacy around the protection of the rights 20 | UN Global Compact ■■ Conducting empirical research in 10 European ■■ Providing free legal services to children facing jurisdictions (interviews with lawyers, NGOs, expulsion from school in Northern California in an journalists and parents of children with disabilities) effort to reduce the number of students who are on the right to inclusive education. expelled from public schools. ■■ Continuing to have high success rates for our Coram ■■ Helping families who are seeking special education Children’s Nationality Project and the NDCS Welfare services for their children in public schools in the US. Benefits Project in the UK. ■■ Assisting families in the US with disabled children ■■ Supporting Defence for Children to enhance obtain guardianship which grants decision-making children’s rights during criminal proceedings among authority to the legal guardian who can then make European countries. decisions including living arrangements, day care or schooling, financial matters and health care. ■■ Providing a training for local Belgian lawyers and NGOs on how to provide legal support and conduct legal advocacy in support of children with mental disabilities. ■■ Working with our US lawyers in efforts to help end the practice of sentencing children to life without the possibility of parole. ■■ Taking on numerous emergency matters to assist children in Central America seeking to apply for immigration status in the US. www.dlapiper.com | 21 DISPLACED PEOPLE Safe and orderly migration continues to be one of the most critical issues facing the world. Some of the work done by our offices around the world is set out below. ■■ Our offices in Ethiopia and Mozambique conducted ■■ We undertook comparative research for UNHCR ■■ In the US, we have sent multiple teams of lawyers to research on the domestic and international laws on state practices related to the retention and volunteer at immigration detention centres located in affecting economic migrants in their jurisdictions. confiscation of refugee and asylum seekers’ passports. remote areas where it is difficult to access counsel. We also launched a report in Austria on ending ■■ In Thailand, we partnered with TrustLaw and the ■■ We represented immigrants who fled their home childhood statelessness. International Rescue Committee to prepare training countries with the hope of seeking asylum in the US. for migrant workers on their rights. ■■ We continued to provide legal support to organisations such as Refugee Action in the UK, ■■ Our Australian colleagues prepared a submission to and provided training on a range of issues, including the Australian Government Inquiry into Establishing a witness statement training for caseworkers. Modern Slavery Act in Australia. ■■ We held staff guardianship and family preparedness ■■ In Amsterdam, we launched a refugee internship clinics in the US so that immigrants can create programme, linked to the Know Your Rights Project, emergency plans for the care of their children. which provided in-depth training on key issues in Dutch law to 25 selected asylum seekers. 22 | UN Global Compact NEW PERIMETER Through New Perimeter, our non-profit affiliate, we provide long-term Pro Bono legal assistance in under-served regions around the world to support access to justice, social and economic development, In 2017 from participated in and sound legal institutions. We team with the National Centre for State Courts to 160 total lawyers 40 offices 39 projects deliver trial advocacy training to police prosecutors in Caribbean nations. We work with a global NGO to support its work to improve juvenile justice in under-served areas. We provide mentoring and training on ethics and commercial law topics to women lawyers in Nepal, in SOCIAL AND collaboration with an NGO and the Nepali Bar Association. ACCESS TO SOUND LEGAL WOMEN’S JUSTICE ECONOMIC INSTITUTIONS ADVANCEMENT We train government lawyers from East Africa on DEVELOPMENT negotiating complex agreements, in partnership with East African Development Bank. Provide: Support: Train: Assist: Courses on Pro Financial Inclusion Law Students Female Lawyers and Intellectual Property Legal Professionals Entrepreneurs Bono and Public Protection Anti-Human Trafficking Interest Law Judges and Initiatives Legislative Drafting Government Lawyers Legal Ethics Training Efforts to Combat Assistance to Legal Domestic Violence Service Providers www.dlapiper.com | 23 SOCIAL MOBILITY The DLA Piper Foundation is an extension of our former Break into Law programme ACCESS TO CAREERS IN THE LEGAL SECTOR and aims to support students through long term and high impact programmes designed to students’ individual needs. Through the Foundation, we invest significant resources in a number of young people each year who have the talent and ambition to study Law but who would benefit from access to quality mentoring, internships and the opportunity to build professional networks. These initiatives will support the development of talented law students, increase diversity in the legal profession and contribute to the rule of law globally. HEAD START to working with each student for at least three years Graduate Recruitment team who provide information and (more if useful) and offer mentoring, internships, support on applying for graduate roles at DLA Piper, if they Head Start programmes are concentrated in countries networking opportunities and a range of events to develop would like to do so. where we have DLA Piper offices and where there are their confidence and employability skills. After three years, significant barriers to entering the legal profession for some Head Start is not a pipeline programme and during the we link these students to our Graduate Recruitment team people in the community. Head Start is aligned with, and years we work with them, students are encouraged to who offer them learning opportunities and information complemented by, the firm’s broader goals to promote consider a wide range of options in the legal profession. and support on applying for vacation scheme places at diversity and inclusion internally. Head Start programmes Mentors help to expose students to the various DLA Piper, should they want to do so. run for between one and five years and participants receive opportunities and roles available to them. At the conclusion bespoke support based on their goals and requirements. Head Start Australia supports Indigenous students who of Head Start we will ensure that each student has are studying Law at university. This programme runs for at the confidence and skills required to pursue the right Head Start UK supports students from the age of 16, who least one year (more if required) and provides internships, opportunity for them. We keep in touch with Head Start attend state schools, are eligible for free school meals mentoring, learning and development opportunities and Alumni and track what they go on to achieve and how we and/or are the first generation in their family to attend peer and professional networking events. At the conclusion were able to help them reach their full potential. university and/or have been in community care. We commit of the programme we link these students with our 24 | UN Global Compact DLA Piper’s Global Scholarships Programme supports talented students from the world’s Least Developed Countries to enter the legal profession and reach their full potential. GLOBAL SCHOLARSHIPS PROGRAMME Targeting the world’s Least Developed Countries (LDCs) Bespoke 2 year programme DLA Piper’s Global Scholarship Programme was launched in June 2017. Through this initiative we support outstanding law students from the 50 Least Developed Countries, Legal education, internships, career known as Fellows, and help them achieve their personal development and networking goals. The Fellows will develop a range of skills and build their networks. The aim is that in the long term they Students in the top 10% of their class who will contribute to a strong and effective legal profession, enhancing the rule of law and the sustainable economic are studying Law or undertaking a Masters development of their countries. During the two year programme Fellows receive: financial support towards their tuition fees, mentoring, employability Mentoring circle providing broad skills workshops, legal education, legal ethics training, range of experience and support public interest lawyering, networking opportunities and a number of work experience placements. As Fellows graduate from the programme they will be included in Contributing to the the DLA Piper alumni programme and be recognised as advancement of the DLA Piper Fellows. We will keep in regular contact with rule of law globally them and understand what they go on to achieve after the conclusion of the programme. Evaluating long term impact www.dlapiper.com | 25 Using the scale of our business to develop the next generation of leaders globally. FURTHER INFORMATION For additional information about DLA Piper’s approach and activities related to the UN Global Compact Principles, please refer to the following: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS https://www.dlapiper.com/en/uk/aboutus/ DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION http://www.dlapiperdiversity.com/ ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY https://www.dlapiper.com/en/uk/aboutus/corporateresponsibilityfolder/aboutuscontentpagefolder/sustainability/ PRO BONO http://www.dlapiperprobono.com/ UNICEF PARTNERSHIP https://www.unicef.org.uk/corporate-partners/dla-piper/ We welcome any queries or comments you may have on this report. NICOLAS PATRICK Partner Head of Responsible Business 26 | UN Global Compact www.dlapiper.com DLA Piper is a global law firm operating through various separate and distinct legal entities. Further details of these entities can be found at www.dlapiper.com. This publication is intended as a general overview and discussion of the subjects dealt with, and does not create a lawyer-client relationship. It is not intended to be, and should not be used as, a substitute for taking legal advice in any specific situation. DLA Piper will accept no responsibility for any actions taken or not taken on the basis of this publication. This may qualify as “Lawyer Advertising” requiring notice in some jurisdictions. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. Copyright © 2018 DLA Piper. All rights reserved. | JUL18 | 3306764
