TELEKOM ROMANIA BUSINESS PERFORMANCE AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION Sustainability Report 2017 CONTENTS CEO STATEMENT 04 1. SETTING THE SCENE 06 1.1 Review of the year 07 1.2 Our purpose and operating context 08 1.3 Our way of working 13 1.4. Our sustainability strategy 15 1.5. Future trends and opportunities for Romania 19 2. TRANSFORMATION TO A DIGITAL SOCIETY. WHERE ARE WE? 23 2.1 Future requires simplicity. Better costumer experience 24 2.2 Cyber security 25 2.3 Innovative technologies with transformative impact 28 2.4 Our employees: transformation requires talented human capital 29 2.5 Digitial inclusion how we connect the unconnected 31 3. BEING A GOOD CITIZEN MATTERS 34 3.1. Social engagement 35 3.2. Environmental impact 40 3.3. Mobiles, masts and health. Monitoring our activities 42 4. RESPONSIBLE RISK MANAGEMENT 45 4.1 Managing risk 46 4.2 Managing ethics, operational risks and compliance 47 4.3 Transparency. Managing stakeholders and reputation 53 4.4 Managing structure 57 METHODOLOGY OF OUR REPORT 58 GRI CONTENT INDEX 60 GLOSSARY 69 Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 2 970.7 million Euros consolidated revenues 102-7 10 million approx. services contracts 2.6 million households covered by FTTx network 0.5 million clients for convergent services 98% from urban population and 85% of total population (rural and urban) covered by 4G network 0.8 million Euros social investments 173,000 beneficiaries social investment 5,500 beneficiaries with digital abilities 726 volunteers 6,373 employees 43% women employees 100% employees covered by collective labor agreements 224,376 hours of training for employees 271 GWh energy used 35.8% of total electricity from renewable energy 83,416 tons of CO2 direct and indirect emissions (scopes 1 ad 2) 1,177 tons of managed waste 10 ISO certifications 2017 in the integrated management system 11,113 respondents for the materiality survey 84.5% of our suppliers are from Romania Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 3 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX reached over 500,000 customers at the end of 2017. Telekom’s mobile network achieved the highest score for mobile data services as a result of the performance tests conducted by an independent auditor, P3 Communications, in August 2017 on all of the Romanian mobile networks. Under the #Netliberare and #Businessliber umbrellas we set out new commercial offers that shifted the local Telecom’s market paradigm, our clients welcoming and taking interest in these new offers, fact reflected through the outstanding sales results on both the residential and business segments. We also focused on extending the IoT and Smart City solutions, in-line and according to Deutsche Telekom’s group vision. This has been done by implementing Smart Miroslav Majoroš, Cities models in Constanța and Piatra Neamț as well Telekom Romania CEO as through digitalizing schools by implementing smart educational services in over 50% of Romania’s counties Dear readers, (interactive boards, electronic catalogue and virtual reality learning programs). As a telecom company, we are proud of supporting Romania Telekom Banking, the newest financial digital project in on its path to forming an information-based society. Digital Romania, developed and tailored in partnership with the 102-14 transformation is at the forefront of our activity, it is a main Polish Alior Bank offers individuals affordable banking priority of our work and thus we strongly believe in facilitating products and services online through www.telekombanking. technological access to the entire Romanian society. In ro and through Telekom’s network of stores, including recent years, Telekom Romania has initiated an extensive Telekom stores under the Germanos brand. transformation plan that focuses on the organizational Of course, there is room for improvement, especially structure, culture and processes of the company as to regarding client satisfaction levels. This quality enhancement support and enhance Telekom’s digital experience. and improvement process is of a permanent nature in order Therefore, we managed to succeed in achieving a couple to maintain and increase customer trust in our brand. of things that until last year seemed impossible: offers that The transformation process of our company is still played a role in changing the rules of the Romanian telecom undergoing. We will launch multiple initiatives based on market, the best mobile data network and overcoming a offer simplification, promoting online sales and adopting selfcomplex integration process. The organizational changes management mechanisms for customers. These initiatives were not an easy task but the result allows us to rely on a will be backed-up by network optimization, database more agile organization capable of coping with any possible consolidation, process review and automation, front-line industry determined challenges or any possible future ones. focus and bureaucracy reduction. From a technological point of view, we continued the In 2017, in order to integrate the expectations of the society process of expanding our FTTH and 4G networks whilst in which we carry out our business, we had a comprehensive simultaneously paving the way for the future 5G technology. dialogue with over 11,000 representatives from 9 interest Therefore, at the end of 2017, our high-speed fiber-optics groups of our company. These interest group representatives network was covering over 2.6 million households whereas ranged from customers and employees to public authorities the 4G network had expanded to 98% of the urban and community members. The most important topics population, its coverage on a national level reaching a that resulted from these dialogues were data security and percentage of 85%. Moreover, we have also seen a strong confidentiality, customer satisfaction, employment, business growth in the mobile and fixed convergent segment, where, performance and business continuity. All these topics are by combining the benefits of these two segments, we discussed at large in this sustainability report. Telekom Romania Sustainability report 2017 4 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX Recognizing the growing and changing needs of the We wish to become a recognized digital company where Romanian society, we come to meet them through tailorpeople love to perform and work. made and relevant programs addressed to its communities. Our integrated management system guides our day-to-day In 2017, Telekom Romania’s social contribution totaled 0.8 activities, and our efforts to remain in the upper sphere of million Euros, sum which helped finance projects aimed at a highly competitive environment are reflected through the improving the lives of vulnerable groups, developing digital certifications under ten ISO standards ranging from quality, skills, promoting health through sport and supporting the environment, occupational safety, information security up to development of local communities. Amongst these initiatives, compliance, risk and anticorruption management. we can also mention the annual scholarship program, which The 2017 Sustainability Report, the third communication so far supported over 100 Romanian students. on the progress made by our company as a member of Environmental protection is not optional; it became a the United Nations Global Compact, demonstrates that we necessity and a duty for us all to ensure a healthy and livable commit ourselves to preserving its principles and promoting environment for the future generations. In 2017 we managed it to both stakeholders and for the general public. We have 1,177 tons of waste generated as a result to our activities and also detailed our direct and indirect contribution to the UN’s managed to increase de efficiency of our operations with 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) through our approximately 20% in regards to energy consumption and sustainability strategy and activities. CO2 emissions (relative to the data traffic – TB). In 2018, we continue to roll out our new strategy on three None of what we have achieved so far would have been main pillars: convergence, digitization and growth mentality. possible without our colleagues, whose passion and At the same time, we continue to work on implementing professionalism support the development of the company. digitization initiatives and simplifying the experience offered Therefore, our priority as a company is to provide them with to customers through all of our contact points. We continue a safe and creative environment in which they can work, our sustainability actions, focusing on the needs of the grow and evolve. In order to support the ongoing digital society and the groups on which our company has a direct transformation, we promote new working patterns as well as impact. strive through different programs and initiatives to develop Finally, I proudly invite you to read Telekom Romania’s third their digital competencies. sustainability report and its ambitious commitments. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 5 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX 1 SETTING THE SCENE 100% employees 970.7 million Euros covered by consolidated revenues collective labor agreements 170 million Euros 6,373 employees approx. invested 10 million approx. 0.5 million clients services contracts for convergent services 98% from urban population 2.6 million households and 85% of total population covered by FTTx (rural and urban) covered network by 4G network 2017 43% of employees are women Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 6 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX Our efforts and technology investments have helped to strengthen our position on the market. Telekom’s mobile network achieved the highest score for mobile data services as a result of the P3 Communications independent auditor’s performance tests on all mobile networks in Romania in August 2017. In order to successfully run our new strategy, we will continue to focus on implementing digitization and offer simplification initiatives. At group level, we have great plans and ambitions for 2018, and so we will focus on three main pillars: convergence, digitization and a growth mentality.. We aim at supporting the sustainable development of the 1.1 REVIEW OF THE YEAR Romanian economy and society, especially by assisting it in its path towards digital transformation. As a company, we Telekom Romania is one of the largest telecommunications remain focused on operational improvements that will help companies in Romania in terms of revenues and a leading 102-1; 102-3, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 us secure our position on a challenging and dynamic market. player on the convergent fixed-mobile services market. The main challenge presented by the telecom industry in Our operations are managed from several hundred offices, Romania is to maintain high quality services and customer technical spaces and stores all over the country, with the care standards in a market, which remains price driven, with headquarters in Bucharest. low margins and a very aggressive competitive environment. However, the dynamic changes of the Romanian market generate exciting opportunities for innovative solutions and sustainable evolution. In line with the market’s dynamics, we can say that 2017 was a year that brought a bundle of new perspectives both for our clients, our business and our company. We implemented a series of commercial initiatives within the process and technology sphere, done in line with our strategy, which would allow for future growth. We shifted the local telecom’s market paradigm by launching new commercial offers. In the technology area, we continued expanding the FTTH and 4G networks, while preparing for the upcoming 5G technology approach. The expansion of both fixed and mobile networks has been a priority for us in recent years. Throughout 2017, we doubled LTE coverage, continued our initiatives to upgrade and optimize our mobile networks, and accelerated our expansion plans to provide our customers with an enhanced experience every day. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 7 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX Key 2017 financial and market figures1 1.2 OUR PURPOSE AND OPERATING 102-2; 102-4; 102-5, 102-10 CONTEXT Telekom Romania Telekom Romania Communications Mobile Communications WHO WE ARE 102-7 Revenue € 607.7 million € 464.9 million Telekom Romania is a dynamic brand that provides a complete and innovative array of fixed and mobile telecommunication EBITDA € 101.9 million € 58.2 million services specifically customized for a large community base of customers, which totals approximately 10 million service 2,098,052 contracts. fixed telephony subscribers 1,180,192 4.7 million mobile Our innovative solutions open an infinite world of SUBSCRIBERS services clients broadband subscribers opportunities that enables us to share the most beautiful and 1,470,341 TV subscribers emotional experiences with our family, friends, colleagues and all those around us. Our mission is to enrich people’s lives by providing them with fixed and mobile integrated services, state-of-the-art 4G technologies, fiber optics as well In 2017, Telekom Romania Communications S.A. revenues as Internet TV, thus bringing our users a new entertainment grew slightly by 0.9% to 607.7 million Euros. Adjusted 201-1 experience with exclusive and quality content access, on EBITDA had an upward trend throughout 2017, reaching all screens, and advanced interactive features. Telekom 101.9 million Euros, up 9% from 2016. Romania is the trusted partner of the companies, for which we offer complete communication and IT&C. Our network In the fourth quarter of 2017, the number of converged connects people, devices in order to ensure a better, safer subscribers continued to grow, exceeding the threshold of and simpler future. Telekom Romania is present on the 500,000 customers, up 36% over the same period last year. In Romanian market in 2014 after the joint rebranding of addition, the total number of TV service customers recorded Romtelecom and COSMOTE Romania. a slight increase (+ 0.4%) reaching 1.47 million users, while In addition, an important step for the transformation the number of broadband customers reached 1.18 million. program initiated in 2017 was the merger of Telekom Compared to the fourth quarter of 2016, revenues for fixed Romania’s mobile operations under one entity: voice services continued to decline (-15.1%), and revenue Germanos Telecom Romania SA, Sunlight Romania for broadband and TV services declined by 4.8% and 1.9%, Filiala București SRL and Telemobil SA were absorbed respectively. under Telekom Romania Mobile Communications S.A. Also in the fourth quarter of 2017, Telekom Romania Mobile Communications S.A. recorded revenues of 139.5 million Euros, up 14.4% over the same period last year due to the higher revenues generated by the subscription segment and higher revenues of the sale of equipment. Revenue from services also rose 13.1 percent, to 83.5 million Euros. Client base of Telekom Romania Mobile Communications S.A. totaled 4.7 million customers (of which 34.5% represent postpaid customers). In the fourth quarter of 2017, adjusted EBITDA decreased by 16.9% compared to the same period of the previous year to 14.7 million Euros. 1 As presented by OTE Group. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 8 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX Ownership Telekom Romania Communications S.A Deutsche Telekom, one of the world’s leading integrated Ministry of Communication and Information Society tele¬communications companies with approx. 168.4 million 45.99% mobile customers, 28 million fixed-network lines and more OTE International: 54.01% than 19 million broadband lines (as of December 31, 2017). Deutsche Telekom is present in more than 50 countries and Ownership Telekom Romania Mobile Communications hires around 218,300 employees worldwide. More informaS.A. tion on DT Investor Relations section. Cosmote Mobile Communications S.A. – 70% Telekom Romania Communication S.A. 30% Telekom belongs to Deutsche Telekom, one of the leading global telecommunication companies, which is a shareholder of the Hellenic Telecommunications Organization (OTE). Romanian market context According to “Europe’s Digital Progress Report 2017” a 102-6 report under the auspices of European Commission, the digitalization of Romania is still a challenge – the country ranks 28th out of the 28 EU Member States. The Romanian rate of digitalization of economy, including the public OTE Group is the largest telecommunications provider on services and digital skill is still low. On the positive side, the the Greek market and one of the leading telecom groups in report notes that “Romanians benefit from coverage of fast Southeast Europe with presence in Greece, Romania and broadband connections in urban areas, which translates Albania. OTE is among the largest listed on the Athens Stock into the highest share of subscriptions in the EU. The takeExchange and offers a full range of telecommunications up of mobile broadband is also accelerating”. services: from fixed-line and mobile telephony, broadband services, to paid TV and ICT solutions. In addition to its core telecommunications activities, OTE is also active in maritime communications, real estate and professional trainings. More information on OTE Investor Relations section. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 9 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX KEY INDUSTRY TRENDS IN ROMANIA Network improvements: increased infrastructure investments made by Romanian telecom operators; Growing consumer appetites: increased mobile data and smart devices usage; High-spec areas of technological innovation: top speed mobile Internet, IoT solutions, machine to machine services (M2M) and cloud OUR OFFERS computing; We are offering our customers fixed and mobile integrated Convergence of services: bundles including services, latest technologies like 4G, optical fiber, as well mobile, fixed and TV services in one package as Internet TV, which brings users a new entertainment gaining more and more ground; experience, typified by access to exclusive high quality content, on all screens, with an array of advanced interactive Price-driven market: demand for digital services features. Telekom Romania is the trusted partner for remained uneven and deeply heterogeneous, companies, providing them with complete communications defined largely by price sensitivity rather than and IT&C solutions. Our network is bringing together people, practical or utilitarian criteria. machines and content, connecting them for a better, safer, simpler future. Telekom Romania is one of the biggest players on the local COMPETITOR LANDSCAPE IT&C market, offering a wide variety of turnkey solutions for the B2B segment. Covering fixed, mobile, Internet and In the fixed line of business, Telekom is competing with TV markets, the company provides advanced solutions RDS&RCS and UPC Romania, both companies having large ranging from managed services to desktop virtualization, optical-fiber networks extending over significant portions of unified communications, and IT security. It also offers a host the country. Our main competitors in the mobile segment of cloud computing solutions for vertical markets such as are Orange and Vodafone, with great national coverage of retail, HoReCa, banking, healthcare, transport and logistics, LTE networks and fast speed access. industry, startups, education, and more. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 10 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX 4G unlimited Internet for all our clients at the price of only 5 Euros/month Continuing the #Netliberare promise to make the Internet as accessible as possible for all Romanians, Telekom Romania launched, for the residential customers, an unique offer – unlimited Internet for 5 Euros/month: • 4G UNLIMITED INTERNET for all mobile services subscriptions, which also have a fixed services subscription from Telekom, starting from 5 Euros/month (VAT included); • INTERNET for home through fiber optics, from 5 Euros/ month (VAT included), in a two fixed services bundle; TV SERVICES FOR ALL SCREENS • INTERNET TV from 5 Euros/month (VAT included), in a two fixed services bundle. With our Internet TV subscriptions, customers can enjoy exclusive and exclusive TV content, which they can access on any device at auspicious prices. Telekom Sport Channels provide customers with their favorite sports and access to the most important competitions, which they can watch live anywhere on TV, laptop, PC, smartphone or tablet, by using the Telekom TV Web & Mobile and Telekom TV features. With Internet TV and its advanced features such as Pause and Continue, users will be able to stop and start their favorite matches and competitions and resume them anytime they want. DIGITAL ERA 2017 • Increase by 50% of Telekom Mobile apps users > 100,000 active users per month. • 4% of the total number of smartphone users manage their accounts through mobile apps. • Stable number of customers using e-bill ~ 420.000 customers. DIGITAL BANKING • 1 in 60 sales are made through electronic order channels (e-channel). Telekom Banking, the newest digital financial project in • >4% of fixed services and >6% of mobile services Romania, developed in partnership with the Polish bank customers choose to pay their bill online. Alior Bank, offers individuals affordable banking products and services online through www.telekombanking.ro and through Telekom’s network of stores including Telekom stores under the Germanos brand. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 11 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX With the offer of Telekom Banking (current accounts, debit LEADING THE MARKET & SETTING NEW TECHNOLOGY cards, deposits), customers can carry out daily banking STANDARDS operations and transactions in the Online Currency Exchange platform. 2.6 million households’ footprint FTTx LEADING POSITION ON THE FIXED B2B SEGMENT 98% of the urban population and 85% of the We maintained our leading position in Managed Virtual total population (rural and urban) benefit from Private Networks, Fixed Internet and Cloud IaaS in the B2B the 4G network’s coverage. segment, with a 3.7% increase in revenues. Moreover, we extended the number of installed access points (AP) for Strong Fixed-Mobile Convergence growth, due the Managed Wi-Fi product dedicated to B2B, which offers to combination of mobile and fixed strengths up wireless routers, smart gateways and access points. At the to 500,000 customers; same time we focused on selling several cloud services, including Smart Office, Unified Communication, Smart Bill Consolidation of the market position as turn-key and Smart POS. IT&C solutions provider, leading position on the In addition, the Smart City solutions project piloted in business fixed segment and for VPN respectively Bucharest, Constanța and Piatra-Neamț contributed to the as well as significant growth in premium Internet; presence of Telekom Romania in all areas of operating ICT solutions. Focus on highly innovative IoT and Smart City solutions, in line with Deutsche Telekom vision; Digitalization of schools: several smart education services were introduced (interactive board, virtual reality learning and electronic catalogue) in a selected number of cities. WE ENABLE DATA DRIVEN SOLUTIONS In 2017 Telekom Romania mobile network has achieved the highest score in data services. • Telekom Romania mobile network has achieved highest score in data services by independent audit company P3 communications in August 2017. • The certificate is awarded following performance testing of all mobile networks in Romania conducted by P3 communications in August this year in several cities, towns, as well as on connecting roads; • This achievement confirms Telekom Romania’s commitment to offer its customers the best experience in using mobile broadband services, following efforts of modernization, expansion and optimization of its mobile networks. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 12 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX 1.3 OUR WAY OF WORKING Throughout our daily work we follow a set of specified rules or principles that manage our culture within the company as well as our interactions with third parties. These principles also serve as the basis for our Code of Conduct, explaining what they mean in our daily work as well as their tangible and practical impact. 102-16, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 OUR PRINCIPLES AND CODE OF CONDUCT INFOGRAPHIC CONTAINING SELECTED HR DATA I. Customer delight and simplicity drive our action 403-2 II. Respect and integrity guide our behavior 2015 2016 2017 III. Team together – Team apart Work-related fatal injuries 0 0 1 IV. Best place to perform and grow V. I am T – Count on me Work-related non-fatal injuries (lost days) 360 530 198 *Injury rate* (number of accidents/total number of working 0.12 0.16 0.12 hours by all employees) WHO ARE OUR EMPLOYEES? Lost days rate** (total number Our company would never be able to reach its success of lost days as a result of accidents / total number of working 11.72 9.7 3.4 without a qualified, open and ambitious staff. At the end days planned for the year in scope) of 2017, we were employing almost 6,373 people, the vast majority of which work full time (91%). A little more than half Lost days rate female n/a 3.26 1 of our employees are males (57%), compared to women, Lost days rate male 19.14 13.7 3.4 which represent 43% of our workforce. The majority (70%) are aged between 30 and 50 years. Almost half of our staff Number of occupational 0 0 0 works in the office, whereas another half conducts fieldwork diseases cases or other type of work. All our employees on indeterminateterm contracts are employed full-time. 2015 2016 2017 Our company rejects any form of discrimination at the Indefinite contract employees 5,828 5,586 5,813 102-8 workplace and declares itself in favor of the promotion of % of employees with contracts equal opportunities as well as diversity of all employees in 92 92 91 on an indefinite period terms of gender, age, culture, religion, abilities and sexual Definite contract employees 540 498 560 orientation, as per our Code of Human Rights and Social Principles. Full time employees 6,231 6,049 5,799 Part time employees 137 35 14 *Injury rate = (Total number of injuries / Total hours worked) x 200,000. The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 40 hours per 100 employees. The data includes all accidents resulted in injury, including first-aid injuries. **Lost day rate = (Total number of lost days / Total hours worked) x 200,000. The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 40 hours per 100 employees. Lost days are calculated as calendar days and their count begins on the day of the injury. ***Absentee rate = (Total number of missed absentee days / Total number of workforce days worked) x 25.000. The factor 25.000 is derived from 50 working weeks of 5 days per 100 employees. This rate is not monitored per gender. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 13 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX 2015 2016 2017 NON-DISCRIMINATORY COMPENSATION 103-1,103-2, 103-3, 405-2 Here at Telekom Romania (both fixed & mobile) no distinction % of employees under 30 y.o. 19 17 17 or differentiation on grounds of sex with regard to pay is practiced. The remuneration ratio between men and women % of employees over 30 y.o. 65 64 69 is 1-to-1. The wages of serving employees are determined by % of employees over 50 y.o. 16 19 14 their level of education, years of employment and the level of position they hold. The minimum (basic) wage is adjusted % of Female employees 39 39 43 according to the wage category the employee belongs to. % of Male employees 61 61 57 2015 2016 2017 % Turnover rate < 30 y.o. 27 35 43.17% 401-1 % Turnover rate >30 y.o. < 50 5 6 9.84% y.o. % Turnover rate >50 y.o. 0.8 0.3 0.59% New employees <30 y.o. 628 372 525 New employees >30 y.o. <50 321 157 397 y.o. HOW WE SUPPORT OUR STAFF New employees >50 y.o. 7 7 14 SUPPORT FROM THE FIRST DAY ON 2015 2016 2017 Our induction program for the new employees includes a Turnover rate for female em11.01% 12.35% 16.97% separate familiarization section on Compliance issues, on ployees the Code of Ethics, Sustainable Development, as well as on Turnover rate for male employees 7.06% 8.13% 12.30% internal policies of the Group. New female employees 397 275 479 LONG TERM CONTRACTS New male employees 559 321 457 Both the 2016 – 2018 Collective Labor Agreement of Telekom Romania Communications employees, signed in 2016 June 1st and valid until 2018 March 1st, and the Collective Labor Agreement for Telekom Romania Mobile Communications signed in 2016 June 1st and valid until 2018 March 1st, ensure their jobs and regulate payroll issues, leaves, benefits, compensation, employee working hours issues and health and safety issues. GENDER EQUALITY In Telekom Romania (both fixed and mobile branches), there is no distinction or differentiation on grounds of sex and gender when it comes to payment. The remuneration ratio between men and women is 1-to-1. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 14 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX 1.4. OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY THINKING GLOBALLY ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY 102-12 OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Telekom Romania believes that sustainability refers to Telekom Romania, as part of Deutsche Telekom and OTE creating economic value through responsible core business Group, as well as member of Global Compact Network practices and increasing its positive impact on society Romania aims to embed sustainability in its business and economy as well as reducing negative environmental strategy. We also aim to contribute to the achievement of the impacts. To achieve this vision we focus on material issues United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDG) presented in this report and we track our progress based and we are delivering our contribution here in Romania. on KPI’s. The core of Telekom Romania’s strategic thinking is consistent with the sustainability strategy of Deutsche Telekom Group as well as the OTE Group CR Policy. Strategy and Management Marketplace Employees 2017 GERMAN SUSTAINABILITY AWARD FOR TELEKOM ROMANIA’S PARENT COMPANY In 2017 Deutsche Telekom received the National Society Environment German Sustainability Award in the “Large Companies” category for its comprehensive, Group-wide sustainability management strategy. This award for environmental and social commitments honors top performance in sustainability. The “Large Company” category award is given to companies that develop new sustainable approaches characterized by innovative products and services, high environmental standards in production processes, and additional social In order to measure and steer our CR performance, Telekom responsibility measures in their value chain. Romania uses guidelines and indicators developed by either Deutsche Telekom or OTE Group. These indicators are of the essence as they help us to systematically and transparently optimize and improve our performance. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 15 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX 2017 SUSTAINABILITY KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Strategic Key Performance Indicator 2014 2015 2016 2017 area (kg CO2/Terabyte bzw. kWh / Carbon intensity n/a n/a 33.44 27.31 Terabyte) Energy intensity kg CO2/Terabyte bzw. kWh / Terabyte n/a n/a 111.97 87.09 CO2 emissions (Scope 1&2) (quantities emitted in t) 107,954 79,241 68,220 69,471 Planet Electricity consumed (electricity consumption in GWh) 218 215 205 199 (share of renewable energy in total Renewable Energy n/a 42 42 42 electricity consumption) (cell phones collected in thousands / Used Cell-Phone Collection 0.62* 0.62* 0.83* 0.37* customers in millions) Waste (total waste in t) 10,311 6,834 8,769 3,037 (involvement in the community either Community Investment financially or in-kind in thousands of 254 640 452 806 Euros) (difference between the assessment of the importance of social commitment Society Social Commitment and Telekom Romania’s social n/a -14 -10 -5 commitment activities (expressed in percentage points ) (% of people reached through Media Literacy programs addressing media literacy 0 0.17 8.07 5 from total number of beneficiaries) Employee Identification with (employees identification with Telekom n/a 78 n/a 67 CR Commitment Romania's CR commitment in %) People Work-related fatal injuries 0 0 0 1 (the number of people who benefited People supported from community activities in thousands 413 407 352 173 of people) * cases in which we do not have indicator in fixed but have in mobile Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 16 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX OUR LONG TERM VISION: TO LEAD THE at educating the market as well as providing DIGITALIZATION OF ROMANIA access to preventive information and/or remote diagnostics. Our corporate culture, a set of values serving as road signs for all our activities, is a key factor that will shape our way of working towards digitization. These road signs, reflected in Affordable and clean energy (#7) our Guiding Principles, define how we behave and act on our Business can accelerate the transition to an values in practice, both within and outside the organization. affordable, reliable and sustainable energy system by investing in renewable energy TELEKOM ROMANIA CONTRIBUTES TO UN resources, prioritizing energy efficient practices, SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS and adopting clean energy technologies and infrastructure. Providing ICT-enabled solutions The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), also known as such as smart grids, smart buildings, and the Global Goals, are a universal call to action to end poverty, smart logistics which can play a major role protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace towards an energy efficient future, reducing and prosperity. global GHG emissions. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (#9) Investment in infrastructure and innovation are crucial drivers of economic growth and development. ICT plays a crucial role in providing affordable and increased access to information through enabling research into new, sustainable technologies and solutions. No poverty (#1) Certain groups are disproportionately Sustainable cities and communities (#11) represented among the poor, and face additional By 2050, 70% of the world’s population will live constraints in escaping poverty. Businesses in cities, making cities critical in achieving a also have the opportunity to proactively take sustainable future for the world. ICTs can play a measures to address constraints faced by these significant role in reducing the carbon footprint groups, such as through inclusive business of cities by moving to a more intelligent use of models or innovative products. All the time we energy but also connecting various “smart” try to increase efficiency, competitiveness and realms of activities like electric mobility, market access for SMEs. e-Health, e-Care, and e-Governance. Good health and well-being (#3) Health is a fundamental human right and a key indicator of sustainable development. All actors, including the private sector need to collaborate to develop health care solutions that work for people, families, communities and nations. We support e-health policies and strategies that foster health education through a portfolio of smart health solutions aimed Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 17 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX Since we are a representative of the ICT sector, we have Responsible consumption and production indirect impact and influence in contributing to other (#12) SDG’s: ICTs have the potential to foster sustainable consumption and production through Zero hunger (#2) product-specific improvements, increased Facilitating access to timely information that dematerialization and virtualization, and the helps trigger rapid responses when battling implementation of smart technologies. hunger, managing the procurement, storage Life below water (#14) and distribution of essential food. ICT is already playing an important role in communicating water related scientific knowledge effectively. Geographic Information Quality education (#4) Systems and remote sensing provide Widening the access by reducing the physical opportunities for water monitoring and and social barriers to education, supporting the sustainable management of marine and improvement of the educational management coastal systems. and contributing to the modernization process of schools. Life on land (#15) Gender equality (#5) The protection, conservation, and restoration Providing mobile services that help fight of terrestrial ecosystems cannot be achieved violence against women. without real time and accurate information. Satellite-based monitoring delivers timely and Clean water and sanitation (#6) accurate data on a global basis, while local Support in mapping and monitoring water sensors deliver updates in real-time. infrastructure. Peace and justice, strong institutions (#16) Climate action (#13) ICTs can play an important role in crisis ICT plays a crucial role in sharing climate and management, humanitarian aid and restoring weather information and in forecasting and peace. For example, governments are starting early warning systems. to make more and more information readily available to the masses via the Internet/”ICT” Decent work and economic growth (#8) sphere, pieces of legislation posted online, Transforming traditional employment sectors digitalization of some processes (apply online and creating brand new employment for certain permits). opportunities in areas such as social media management, gaming and the mobile apps Partnerships for the goals (#17) economy, information technology outsourcing The spread of ICTs and global (ITO) or business process outsourcing (BPO). interconnectedness has great potential to bridge the digital divide by developing more knowledge-based economies and societies. . Reduced inequalities (#10) By facilitating a broad and easy access to Internet, ICT can address health, education and economic inequalities by focusing on most marginalized groups or regions. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 18 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX 1.5. FUTURE TRENDS AND 103-1, 103-2,103-3, 203-1; 203-2 OPPORTUNITIES FOR ROMANIA I.SMART CITIES & SMART HOMES We live in an era of profound technological transformation that links people, objects – and even houses and whole cities into a network of collective interaction and data exchange. ICT-based solutions help at leading this digital transformation by providing means for sharing, measuring and connecting resources. SMART CITY CONSTANȚA At Deutsche Telekom and Telekom Romania we believe that smart cities should form an ecosystem empowered by a After the successful implementation of the idea of a smart more efficient administration of public services through ICTcity in Bucharest in 2016, Telekom Romania moved on to based solutions, ultimately increasing the quality of life for implement another smart-city pilot project in Constanta on its citizens, attracting visitors and supporting the economic June 16th, 2017. The project includes solutions for smart development of the cities and their surrounding regions. parking and smart lighting, multifunctional lighting tower (with components like video surveillance, electric charging dock for cars, environment sensors, LED display), as well as free Wi-Fi. The solutions implemented by Telekom Romania in the area of Constanta’s Sports Hal consist in equipping a parking lot of 50 places with sensors connected to a platform, which processes data regarding parking spot availability in real time. In addition, five lighting poles using the LED technology, a multifunctional tower integrating nine functionalities and free Wi-Fi connectivity for the persons passing by are also part ADDED VALUE FOR CITIZENS of the smart solutions ensemble. The municipality will be able to monitor in real time, through a dedicated platform, ”The Smart City projects are the the level of occupancy. living proof that the public sector The multifunctional tower provides the urban security answers with openness to the need component, with 360 degrees surveillance cameras. of new services of public interest, In addition, it is fitted with temperature, wind, pressure which provide new benefits for and noise sensors, making information available on the citizens and decrease the operating costs for the City Hall. environment’s quality in the city, all in real time. Telekom Romania, as system integrator, acts as an interface These solutions are based on the IoT (Internet of Things) between the specific needs of the local administration and concept, according to which the sensors embedded in the citizens and as a provider of technological solutions that these systems communicate online through smart interfaces. can be integrated in order to meet these needs; together, we The project was implemented together with the technology manage to generate more added value for the citizens” provider ZTE. Ovidiu Ghiman, Chief Commercial Officer Business Segment, Telekom Romania Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 19 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX SMART CITY PIATRA NEAMȚ SMART PARKING After helping develop Bucharest and Constanta, we have • Lower carbon emissions launched our third smart-city project in December 2017. The • Fluid traffic, reduced congestion project includes smart street furniture, smart street lighting, • Efficiency in parking surveillance and charging station for electric cars, air quality monitoring • Reduced illegal parking system, smart video surveillance and free Wi-Fi in Piatra• Greater efficiency of traffic monitoring Neamț. SMART STREET LIGHTING The pilot project in Piatra Neamț foresees the implementation • Energy-efficient of several innovative components, amongst which “smart” • Flexible intensity depending on occupancy pieces of street furniture. Through the solar-powered energy• Alert in case of copper theft bank, the visitors of the park can charge their mobile devices • Real-time maintenance reports and they can connect to Wi-Fi Internet services. The intelligent • Detailed traffic analysis based on time intervals monitoring street lighting solution, installed in the same area, offers the ability to reduce the light output according to predefined WASTE MANAGEMENT scenarios, resulting in lower energy consumption levels. The • M2M solution for selective pick-up of garbage bins project also includes the implementation of a station that • Reduced costs of logistics due to fill-level sensors charges simultaneously two electric cars, through which • Innovative billing solutions enabling a more fair waste the owners of such vehicles can charge them within a management pricing reasonable time. • Garbage collectors able to notify the city authorities when containers are used improperly E-MOBILITY • Mapping the network charging stations for electric vehicle drivers • Integration of parking spaces with mobile consumer applications • Automated transaction tracking creating transparency on vehicle energy costs TELEMEDICINE • Connecting patients with adequate health care providers and specialists WHAT DOES THE MODEL OF “SMART CITY” CONSIST • Facilitating remote medical examination OF? • Health care cost reduction and optimization of medical PUBLIC TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT activity • Real-time information on public transport and traffic • Encouraging “second opinion” consultations • Efficient management of public transport (real-time information with regards to arrival times of busses, line information or route changes) • Citizens having remote access to traffic information (traffic density on a certain avenue at a certain time) • Bike-sharing systems (where are the “bike sharing depots” located and number of available bicycles). Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 20 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX INNOVATIVE COMMUNITIES ARE AT THE HEART OF Telekom Banking services are being launched gradually, SMART CITIES starting with two modern and intuitive pillars daily (primary) Smart cities and smart people are the opposite sides banking and a new solution on the Romanian market, online the equation. This is why; apart from supporting smart exchange platform. infrastructure, we do our best to support smart people. In 2018, Telekom Banking offer will also include deviceWe encourage innovation that can contribute to social and financing services for products in the Telekom Romania’s economic progress while protecting the environment. Besides offer, as well as unsecured personal loan and overdraft. the innovative solutions in our portfolio, we are an active supporter of the local tech and creative start-up community (read more below in chapter on Internet of Things). We encourage early stage start-ups to submit their proposals as to where they see room for collaboration. These innovative products and services are then assessed by our subject matter experts and, depending on the development stage, the start-up will be offered customized recommendations for its further development or a partnership. Among the piloted projects are: • SEMSEYE, which provides in-store analytics for retailers; • DeviceHub.net, an IoT-based project management EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF platform for manufacturers; CREATIVE FREEDOM • Omnipaste, an application, which allows desktop computers to connect to an Android device; ”Telekom Banking is the result of 203-1; 203-2 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 • SafeDrive, a mobile application rewarding drivers for not Telekom Romania’s promise to using their phones. support the creative freedom of its customers and partners in everything II. TELEKOM BANKING. YOUR BANK IN YOUR POCKET. they do. After liberating the Internet, it is time for the banking services. What we aim is to provide services fitted to the new The universe of financial services is in a continuous IT&C culture that we live in today. Setting you up with all innovative expansion. The new technologies in the the possibilities that new technologies offer means to exploit digitalization area are the ones that allow banks to offer new the today’s innovation, capable to shape the future of the services to those looking for simple and efficient solutions, Romanian financial and banking segment.” tailored to their expectations. Nowadays, technologies in the Internet of Things area offer financial companies the ability Miroslav Majoros, to gain a flexibility that can also become a benchmark for CEO Telekom Romania other business markets. Hence, the idea of Telekom Banking – the latest digital WE’RE THANKFUL FOR YOUR TRUST financial project in Romania, developed within the In 2017, Telekom Romania conducted recurrent surveys partnership between Telekom Romania and Alior Bank, one in order to measure customer satisfaction and loyalty of the largest banks in Poland. It aims to meet the needs and thus capture customers’ opinions. In 2017, Telekom of consumers for fast, easy-to-use products and services, Romania maintained scores on the TRI*M Loyalty Index: the available wherever and whenever. performance evaluation of Telekom Romania maintains at a total level of good scores (79%). Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 21 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX III.START UPS & INTERNET OF THINGS How? Deutsche Telekom’s start-up incubator hub:raum, offers various programs and formats that aim to create business opportunities between the innovative start-up eco-system and Deutsche Telekom. In addition hub:raum selectively invests in early-stage start-ups that have a strategic fit to Deutsche Telekom’s business and innovation priorities. Many of these start-ups are related to the Internet of Things. In 2017 hub:raum cooperated with approximately 80 startups during our hub:raum programs: NB-IoT, Empower 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 203-1; 203-2 Spaces, Future Communication, hub:raum Low Latency Prototyping and Go Ignite. Therefore, the range of areas was wide and depended on the type of program. In general, the investment limit for one startup was 300,000 Euros. Many of these start-ups are from Romania. Throughout the years, hub:raum programs empowered Romanian startups, such as DeviceHub and Omnipaste, CTF, TypingDna, Flashnet or Agritel. What is interesting, there is no single country that would stand out from others in a special way in terms of the count of supported start-ups. We observe a stable progress in developing countries of CEE region, which The times of the traditional Internet are almost gone. The is similar to the situation in Western European countries. Internet, which started as a network accessible only from computers and then for mobile devices constantly keeps KNOW-HOW. HOW TO GET ADMITTED FOR HUB:RAUM spreading into new levels, dimensions and devices. Soon PROGRAMS? the majority of devices, starting from a vacuum cleaner through a fridge up to your AI (artificial intelligence) assistant Three key factors decide whether the startup has potential will be connected and entangled in a seamless web of to develop or not. The team should always put development interactions. This is how the Internet of Things comes into rather than sales goals first. Execution is also crucial – reality. According to the McKinsey Global Institute, the conscientious implementation of plans and realization of Internet of Things could have an annual economic impact milestones. If the startup focuses on development, it will of $3.9 trillion to $11.1 trillion worldwide by 2025. What’s be diligent, and if a well-knit team will do all of this, the more, it is predicted that the IoT installed base will increase success will be much closer. by about 15 to 20 percent annually through 2020. We are It would also be great to have a strong, trustful, balanced tapping into this fascinating and promising trend. team in the group, the skills that allow for understanding of DT stakeholders & customer needs as well as fast & agile execution. If these conditions are met, then we can say one possesses a recipe to success. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 22 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX 2 TRANSFORMATION TO A DIGITAL SOCIETY. WHERE ARE WE? • 25 measures to enhance children online safety • 222 safety visits in different company locations • 33 students in internship • 224,376 training hours for employees • 32,867 online training hours • 50% of Romanian counties with modern learning technologies 2017 • 130 children participated in CoderDojo programming courses Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 23 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX The ongoing digital transformation gets more rapid from Beside digital exclusion, another problem that keeps year to year. With the times of traditional Internet almost plaguing the modern world – and will keep doing so in the gone, the global web keeps encompassing more and more centuries to come – is insufficient security. From the digital dimensions of reality – not only our computers and mobiles, trace you leave while surfing the web, to online check-ins, but also everyday items we use the vehicles we drive, the and up to digital banking operations you leave a trail of houses we live in, the offices we work in and the cities we vulnerable data that could be exploited and used against roam. With the rising number of items capable of supporting you. Telekom Romania has both knowledge about security a Wi-Fi transmitter, the complexity of networks we interact threats as well as the tools that combat them, to make a safer with grows rapidly to form a tangled web. They all share world amid the unpredictable ocean of data. information with one another – mostly for the benefit of humanity, by speeding up social and economic progress as well as offering more opportunities for knowledge gathering and exchange. Telekom Romania proudly takes part in this technological transformation of the world by offering smart solutions to those who prioritize efficient connection and smooth data exchange. We ensure great customer experience with our cloud solutions and transfer offers, as we know that together with the rising complexity of the world, the joyful simplicity of experience is what really matters. 2.1 FUTURE REQUIRES SIMPLICITY. BETTER CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE We need telecommunication technologies because we want to simplify the complexity of information exchange, and thus a proper technological solution and a proper service is crucial. In a mature and saturated market like Romania’s, Unfortunately, apart from those who thrive thanks to global those who offer more functionality, simplicity for a better interconnectedness, there are still some who struggle to plug price land ahead of the competition. into digital dimension of opportunities. We are aware of this This is why in 2017, our customers witnessed the fact, hence our programs that raise social inclusion through simplification of our current offers and the introduction of coding workshops or virtual lessons. Thanks to our projects a new portfolio of products and services for both B2C and that connect the unconnected, the young generations can business customers. learn to use the digital tools for their personal fulfillment and Throughour#Netliberare(forresidential)and#BusinessLiber professional advantage. (for companies) campaigns, we’ve expanded our customer communication benefits by introducing bids that revolutionized the local telecoms market. Telekom was the first operator in the Romanian market to introduce unlimited 4G subscriptions to the subscriber segment as well as unlimited free streaming video traffic for card users from just 5 Euros per month. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 24 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX Also, in October 2017, Telekom Romania introduced Freedom 2.2 CYBER SECURITY subscriptions through the #BusinessLiber campaign, which unveiled for the first time in the business segment unlimited Without security there is no good customer experience. It is 4G Internet, voice and unlimited messaging from 5 Euros 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 203-1; 203-2 worth noting, that the majority of people nowadays seem to per month. #BUSINESSLIBER has radically changed the have trust in the security of the digital products and services services offered to entrepreneurs by eliminating for the first they use. time in the Romanian communications services market the Significant trust in the security level could be determined by minimum contractual period and the termination fee. many factors. This on one hand could stem from the lack of awareness regarding the security issue and on the other, from the trust in the provider of such services and belief in the professional approach regarding the problem. HAI #NETLIBERARE! Telekom Romania does its best to provide top-notch level of cyber-security. We constantly invest in security of the services and products we provide. Thanks to our complex routine procedures and surveillance, all data and information is protected against misuse and gets processed solely for the purpose for which it is intended. To raise the security level even further, the information is encoded and the companies do not store the content of customer communications on the companies’ systems. #NetLiberare Campaign #BusinessLiber Campaign Client: residential Client: business (B2B) For the first time on the market, A unique debut on the business Telekom introduced 4G unlimited segment of the Romanian telecoms mobile Internet, starting from 5 Euros market. Unlimited 4G Internet in /month: addition to unlimited voice and messaging services, from 5 Euros/ Mobile services with unlimited 4G month, with Freedom subscriptions, Internet starting from 5 Euros / month without a minimum contract period and no cancellation fee. Internet TV in a bundle with fixed Internet starting from 5 Euros / month Throughout 2017, Telekom Romania continued to focus on the fixed-mobile converged services segment, bringing customers more simplicity and convenience in using all 2014 2015 2016 2017 communications services fixed and mobile telephony, fixed Data privacy for internal 1,560 632 3,296 926 employees and mobile Internet services as well as services TV. Information security N/A 4,176 2,685 2,459 Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 25 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ENSURE BEST Reviewing 150 and performing 31 new Physical SECURITY POSSIBLE: Security Risk Assessments (due to legal obligation); • Information Security & Data Protection Policy (it defines standards for an adequate level of security to protect information and all data, including personal data). Upgrading security systems in 47 retail shops; • Privacy Code of Conduct. • Binding Policy for Privacy of Personal Data Privacy within the DT Group. Performing 222 Physical Security on-site visits. In 2017, the main focus was on closing the gap analysis for the GDPR project and starting the process of updating existing privacy practices. Policies cover areas such as: MORE SECURITY THROUGH MORE COMPETITION -Security of IT systems; -Corporate information and data security for personal data; Just as hackers compete in order to get better, those -Security of human resources; who protect your data develop their skills to prevent and -Processing personal data of clients / employees; counteract. This is why, in 2017 Deutsche Telekom launched -Collection of customer consent; a worldwide competition it called on participants to create -Privacy and security policy; a privacy bot an intelligent, digital data protection tool. The -Data breach policy. bot had to be useful for all sorts of web services, not just In 2017, Telekom Romania registered 43 customer aimed at individual providers such as Facebook or travel complaints related to data privacy issues for Telekom portals. Romania Communications S.A. and 41 customer complaints A team from Germany won by developing a privacy bot that regarding data privacy issues for Telekom Romania Mobile automatically verifies the Privacy Notices of Internet services Communications. In addition, in the same year, Data based on individual preferences specified by the user. 418-1 Protection Authority performed two investigations one of The privacy bot also provides a variety of other information which ended with a fine of 3,000 RON for incorrect personal relating to data privacy, such the number of data privacy data and contacting the customer without prior consent. incidents affecting the relevant Internet provider in the past. Telekom Romania continues to work hard in order to prevent Such bots will be gradually more popular in our digitalized such issues from occurring in the future. future. ENSURING SECURITY THROUGHOUT TELEKOM ROMANIA 23 physical security incidents recorded and successfully managed; About 4,800 access requests managed by Security Dispatch; Providing event and close protection services for 32 events; Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 26 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX YOUR CHILDREN NEED SAFETY. WEB SECURITY AND • autonomous actions by Telekom Romania, which – in MINORS accordance with its policy – can restrict or eliminate the Telekom Romania offers content suitable for all age groups. information as well as shut down or block the access to any In order to make the access to this content more manageable website that does not follow the policy; and secure, we make sure the content offered by the third • constant updates of relevant information – in our contractual parties is based on and in-line with the Romanian law. In agreements the providers have the obligation not to change addition, we make use of the categorization tools, which the nature and classification of their content without prior means that adult only suitable content is provided only notice to Telekom. on request. We also offer parental control tools that filter content. This service is available on both IPTV as well as DVBC platforms. CEOS FOR KIDS In many cases, children adapt faster than their parents to technology and this is the reason why their parents need Telekom Romania is a member of Deutsche Telekom Group, to be well informed about the services enabled by the which is part of the “CEO Coalition to Make the Internet technological progress (such as voice and SMS calls, image a Better Place for Kids”. This self-regulatory platform was sharing, Internet access and social networks). The need launched by the European Commission in December 2011 is urgent, especially that according to UNESCO the vast and aims at making the Internet a safer place for children. majority of children surf the web unattended and almost a half of them shares vulnerable personal data via the In January 2013, Deutsche Telekom has committed itself to Internet. By acknowledging the threats, parents could apply adopting a set of 25 measures to further increase child safety technological measures and teach their children about the online. These apply to each company within the Deutsche responsible use of technology. Telekom Group, including Telekom Romania companies. EVERY HELP STARTS FROM SOMEONE’S ACTION You can learn more about preventing online abuse by contacting 116 111, the European children’s telephone line, managed by Telekom and Children’s Phone Association in Romania. Via 116 111, you can also report digital abuse, such as cyberbullying, online grooming, children’s exposure to illegal content on the Internet, exploitation of children online. You can also request free legal counselling offered by the specialists in the organization. Information can also be sent to the e-mail address: telefonulcopilului@telefonulcopilului. ro. Visit also www.1116111.ro for relevant information regarding bullying. Moreover, information can also be found on the OradeNet online portal (http://oradenet. To facilitate this process, Telekom Romania offers many salvaticopiii.ro/). This portal is part of a European program tools, such as: whose goal is to promote safe, secure and creative usage of • special third party program for content filtering; the Internet by children and teenagers. • service called “PRS restrictions” which allows for restriction of access to SMS and chat for adult content offered by third parties; Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 27 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX Telekom Romania also employs other means to rise the nationwide security level. In case of possible complaints to be received by Telekom Romania through various channels (call centers 1234, email, sesizari@telekom.ro, contact form from company website), the relevant structures within organization follows the NTD procedure and direct the complaining customers to the reporting application of the national hotline organization OradeNet. 2.3 INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGIES WITH TRANSFORMATIVE IMPACT Constant transformation is one of the central conditions of our postmodern, technological era. This transformation must be done with responsibility, which is at the heart of Telekom Romania helps consumers and business customers everything we do. Our products and services are comfortable effectively lower their energy consumption and reduce CO2 and secure for the length of their lifetime. In every case we emissions with our growing offer of green products and care about appropriate and informative labelling as well innovative ICT solutions. We have been offering services as about the confidentiality of our clients’ personal data. to dematerialize business processes such as online billing, We take responsibility very seriously, which allows us for digitized workflows and cloud computing for several years. standardizing and embedding good practices into our daily Each year we invest to further grow and develop these routine. Thanks to this, we make sure all our products and solutions, offering our business customers the competitive services are certified and carry all mandatory markings edge they need to succeed whilst helping them grow in required by EU legislation, directives and regulations sustainable ways. regarding safe use, hazardous substances restrictions and By moving common business applications like email, CRM the reduction of electronic waste. software and bundled productivity software (spread sheets, file sharing, word processing, etc.) from local computer What is more, we are investing in developing products and systems to centralized cloud services one can cut IT services that address the current social, economic and electricity consumption at the company level and directly environmental challenges. Our product and service strategy contribute to CO2 emissions reduction. aims to achieve the following goals: Our One Drive cloud service enables enterprises to minimize • Enable sustainable growth of our company; also the traditional high logistics and maintenance costs • Support the transition to a low carbon society; (hardware/ software). • Facilitate access to education and health services for as many people as possible; • Support the sustainable development of Romanian communities; • Enable customers to achieve their own sustainability goals. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 28 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX Another useful service in this sense is teleconferencing, 2.4 OUR EMPLOYEES: which provides substantial sustainability benefits, such TRANSFORMATION REQUIRES as fuel, time and costs reduction associated with the TALENTED HUMAN CAPITAL decreased need to travel in order to interact with others. This teleconferencing application allows business customers No company would grow without a dedicated support of to make video conferences from anywhere and using any its employees. Without our staff’s creativity, valuable insight 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 device. and willingness to reshape their local community Telekom Romania would not be successful. We support the talented SMART OFFICE: AUTOMATION, SECURITY AND… youth and offer them valuable opportunities within the NIGHT VISION company as well as support to our employees from their first day at work, by offering induction programs; we want Turning ITC technological innovations into specific solutions them to feel economically stable with us, and hence we offer means offering services that meet a range of needs to long-term contracts. We care about both their personal and businesses of different profiles and sizes. When it comes professional development by offering trainings, maternal to Romania, it is essential that we help small and medium leaves and opportunities to expand their knowledge. companies manage their resources more efficiently and We also care about those who could one day think of changing identify new opportunities for developing their own business. the course of their lives – by offering contract termination compensation. The relationship we establish with our staff Our machine-to-machine (M2M) packages, Security is not limited to their time with Telekom Romania. This is Package and Comfort Package, allow companies to because we are deeply convinced that what is technically control, monitor and automatize their offices remotely. Both referred to as “human capital” – that is to say the skills packages, available for free in AppStore and Google Market, and the skills, experience and valuable knowledge of our are managed through mydlink Home application which employees is the best capital Romania has ever had. intuitively connects and coordinates all the equipment using the office Wi-Fi. Through user-friendly functionalities, customers can then tailor the settings to fit their needs and add other smart devices to the package such as water sensors, sirens, IP cameras or Wi-Fi audio extender. The Comfort Package includes a Smart Plug, a motion sensor and a HD camera with built-in night vision function, allowing thus the human eye to see up to 5 meters in complete darkness. For those who are looking for a more secure environment, the Security Package includes a connecting hub, a 3-in-1 sensor for door and window opening, temperature and light, a siren and a HD camera monitor. Connected Home Hub ensures the connection between the Wi-Fi network and the other devices, while users can control and monitor the office remotely through the mydlink Home application. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 29 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX EMPLOYEE BENEFITS & TRAINING SUPPORT FOR MOTHERS. Telekom Romania provides pregnancy leave and maternity leave to care for children. We provide a range of benefits and programs to employees, supporting them and their families in their day-to-day lives, INSURANCE. Life insurance (Risks covered – death, total promoting a healthy work and life balance and helping them and partial permanent disability by any cause, hospitalization through personal emergencies. by any cause, allowance for temporary disability due to hospitalization) and Private Pension Pillar 3 are assured. OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUNG TALENTS • In 2017, we had 33 student interns in the Technology ATHLETICS. Telekom Romania offers its employees Sport and Information Division and 5 employees in Management Club – 7Card and World Class. Trainee Program in the Strategy, Transformation and 401-2 Wholesales Division. The Management Trainee program GROUP PRODUCTS AND SERIVECES. Fixed line phones, started in 2016 with recruitment and was under development Internet and TV packages up to a maximum limit are offered in 2017. only for employees in Telekom Romania Communications • We created The New Management Trainee Program, which (fixed business). is an initiative aimed at creating a new professional team within the Strategy Division – Transformation Management FAMILY. The families of our employees are very important Office. They will embark upon a critical mission: to maximize to us. Therefore, in our offer of benefits we have: Christmas the value of our strategic projects and to ensure a higher money gift for children, Easter money gift for children, “1st of 404-1; 404-2; 404-3 efficiency of our core processes. June” children money gift, Gift voucher. PROFESSIONAL AND PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT FREE TIME. Holiday bonus, Christmas bonus, Easter bonus, “8th of March” money gift for women, settlement of expenses All Telekom Romania employees participated in trainings for tourism and/or treatment will make moments enjoyable during 2017, both in classroom and online on the company during free time. e-learning platform. • 2,711 (unique participants) participated in the classroom OTHER BENEFITS. We can include other benefits such in one or more trainings, in the following areas: F2F as: provision of special prices for goods and services of trainings Coaching & feedback, VUCA training (Volatility, other companies, meal tickets, settlement of expenses for Uncertainty, Complexity & Ambiguity), Sales, Negotiation transport home – work – home, on site chair massage, and Client Relations; Black-belt negotiation; Leadership; fuel card, medical services for employees and dependents Efficient Communication; Growth Mindset; e-Learning based on subscription. training (Softskills, Global English); Technical trainings from IT&C area etc. Each participant benefited on average of four The benefits are the same for all categories, the differences training days. are as follows: • In total, our employees took part in 224,376 training hours, For employees with a part-time contract, the benefits were both in classroom and online, on average 35 training hours granted in proportion to the actual time worked per employee and 9,5 hours per participation. For employees with fixed-term contracts, the benefits were • The employees benefited of 32,867 online training hours granted in proportion to the duration of the contract. in 2017. PROFESSIONAL ADVICE. 100% of the Telekom Romania employees evaluated as to their performance. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 30 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX 2.5DIGITAL INCLUSION HOW WE CONNECT THE UNCONNECTED 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 203-1; 203-2 At Telekom Romania we believe in a better world for all. We try to accomplish this goal by focusing on digital inclusion and helping the unconnected benefit from the ongoing global transformation. Nowadays, many people who live in technologically advanced societies forget that connectivity in itself is one of the most important facilitators of global change and civilizational progress. In recognition of this fact, the General Assembly of the United Nations claimed in June 2016 that access to the Internet is a human right. This means that those deprived of this access should be perceived as seriously disadvantaged. Even though the lack of digitalization constitutes a more In 2017, Telekom Romania, together with its technology burning problem in the global South, some Western countries partner Ericsson, organized the first live demonstration of also have to deal with an insufficient level of digitalization. the 5G network capabilities in Southeastern Europe. The live To fight digital exclusion in Romania we prepare various demonstration highlighted the capabilities of 5G technology programs that connect the unconnected. through a prototype testing platform, including speed testing, latitude and directional beamforming, reaching aggregate speeds of up to 24 Gbps, that is, over 60 times higher than today’s 4G local high-speed business, with an approximate latency of at least half of that of today’s mobile networks. Once this technology becomes commercially available in 2020, according to the current international agenda, it is expected that its new capabilities, features and solutions will accelerate the process of digital transformation of industries and the transition to interconnected society. Affordable Prices for All. We also strive to provide services and products at different prices and offers in order to make them affordable for everyone. These tailored offers influence the dynamics of digitalization. WHAT WE DO TO CREATE MORE INCLUSIVE WORLD In 2017, Telekom Romania simplified the portfolio FOR ALL for B2C and B2B customers regarding their products and services. The company, through #Netliberare • We invest in the upgrade and expansion of infrastructure (residential) and #BusinessLiber (B2B) campaigns and increase the opportunities of citizens’ network offered Internet access and extended communication connectivity; benefits for residential and business customers, at • We offer products and services at affordable prices, to a starting price of 5 Euros per month. The offer had make more people join in; immediate results on the B2B segment, Telekom • We give access to new technologies to a gradually rising doubling its sales and recorded an increase of the number of people, thus helping them to unpack the number of business customers. benefits of technology for their own betterment. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 31 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX Access to All.Telekom Romania actively supports equal DIGITAL LITERACY – KEY TO THE FUTURE access to new technologies for all, promoting the countries’ transition to the new digital era. A country’s youth is a stakeholder of its future. This is why Telekom Romania focuses on improving technological A current priority in Romania is Internet coverage and the conditions of Romanian children in schools and other expansion of communication networks in isolated areas. educational institutions throughout the country. An example of this is the RoNet project, which aims to expand broadband infrastructure (fiber optic) to cover and Here are some of the projects we proudly participate in: implicitly provide electronic communications services in disadvantaged rural areas which are not yet enjoying access to a high-speed Internet network. The ultimate goal of this project is to facilitate the development of these areas by offering access to information for the inhabitants, provide them with a connection to digital news and knowledge sources, and ultimately pave the way towards economic growth and employment through the development of local businesses. Telekom Romania is the group of companies that won the tender organized by the Ministry of Communications in 2014 for the RoNet project, which aims to build a communications network in deprived areas, in a number of 662 localities. DIGITALIZATION OF ROMANIAN SCHOOLS – ELECTRONIC CATALOGUE Telekom offers modern learning technologies in over 50% of Romanian counties, both in urban and rural areas. To support the digitization of schools in Romania, Telekom has launched the Smart Education project, which provides Romanian schools with the Adservio educational management platform, which contains an online schoolbook, Internet and electronic equipment useful for the teaching and for the learning process such as laptops, tablets, projectors, smartboards, etc. The Smart Education Package contributes to the effective organization of the educational process in Romania, improving the quality of the teaching process, diminishing bureaucratic related actions and increasing the interaction between teachers, pupils and parents. Schools that had the platform introduced have shown up to 63% fewer absences and improvement in test results. Other research shows that children prefer to use technology in the learning process (in comparison to traditional pen-andpaper approach) which suggests the value of technological transition in the schools will yield even more benefits in the future. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 32 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX Virtual lessons – the promise of telepresence Distance learning can be as effective as traditional teaching procedures. Having this in mind, Telekom Romania in partnership with Cisco and Webhit, provides modern technologies for distance education/long-distance learning in 36 schools throughout Romania. The project, launched in 2015, offers 10,000 pupils a variety of resources ranging from digital learning to live virtual lessons. Children can follow the class content and interact with it in real time, which gives them an opportunity to learn from teachers based in other schools. This often allows for a unique interaction between schools in rural and urban areas. The schools participating Developing early programming skills – Coder Dojo in the program recorded a significant rise in attendance rates together as well as an improvement in performance. Telekom Romania acknowledges that digital era requires digital literacy which should be taught alongside the Technologies for the future traditionally understood literacy. This is why, since 2011, we have been the host of Coder Dojo workshops that offer We are proud to have provided equipment for the children aged 7-16 free lessons in computer programming in International Center for Research and Education in an informal environment. More than 130 children attended Creative Technologies (CINETic), the first international the workshops during the school year 2016-2017 to study center specialized in the study of digital interaction. Telekom programming and computer-assisted electronics based on Romania handled the supply and configuration of CINETic the Arduino development platform; 10 volunteer mentors laboratories, as well as the equipment, software as well as coordinated the participants. data and voice network in the CINETic building. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 33 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX 3 BEING A GOOD CITIZEN MATTERS 3 mi 5.8% ren x co in ew me the ab s f el le rom ec so tric urc ity es 3 com to noi plaints re se an f d waserring iaries of te benefic ilities tons aste 0 5,50 digital ab 77 w with 1,1 aged n ma iaries 173,000 beneficents 50,000 people from of social investm 21 cities in Romania 726 volu participated in sport ticipated nteers paractivities investme in the social nt initiati ves 83,416 tons from direct a of CO2 emissions nd indirect ros 27 million Eu ibution 0.806 ocial cont r con 1 GW sum h o total s ed f ene rgy 100 students from scholars benefited hips 315,209 Euro managing w s for aste 272 tons of materials consumed 2017 Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 34 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX Telekom Romania does its best to support societal undertakings, helping school children develop their skills, supporting those in need or helping create a healthier lifestyle through sport. We strive to make this world a better place not only as a company, but also on an individual level with the help of our employees. Our staff participates in engagement programs and volunteering actions that help create new, or tighten existing relationships. Starting with financial support for the underprivileged children, through supporting those who suffer from grave medical conditions, up to supporting the victim of natural disasters, Telekom Romania Foundation alleviates suffering and creates a valuable societal contribution that changes the lives of many giving them a spark of hope. Telekom Romania Foundation We design and develop products and services that aim to Telekom Romania Foundation is a non-profit organization, reduce CO2 emissions, thus lowering humanity’s carbon which acts as the link between Telekom Romania and footprint. In our socially responsible undertakings, we are various local communities. It advances, develops and driven by the ideal of a circular economy, building and continues the socially responsibly initiatives of Romtelecom rebuilding the overall health of the system by recovering, Foundation for Romanians that was launched in 2008. For re-using and re-introducing back in the economic cycle as nearly 10 years Telekom Romania Foundation has been many things as possible. supporting causes such as helping severely ill children and adults as well as people facing life-threatening emergencies. The foundation organizes various social, humanitarian, educational, environmental and disaster related response projects and campaigns. The annual campaign encourages our employees and third parties to contribute 2% of their annual income tax to support our Foundation’s activities. How do we choose our causes? We identify the areas and the social categories that require more focus and support through direct interaction with our employees and local communities alike. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 203-1, 203-2 3.1 SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT Telekom Romania Foundation has a special place in our organization. It was founded to support a wide variety of causes. Among others, the Foundation supports people in difficult situations, social causes, children and adults diagnosed with serious illnesses, talented young students and humanitarian fund raising campaigns for victims of floods or other natural disasters. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 35 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX CONTRIBUTION THAT LASTS. HOW WE HELP TELEKOM ROMANIA From 2010 on our program “You choose and we help Telekom Romania together”, has been continuously supporting 70 children Societal contribution 2017 and adults from the disadvantaged backgrounds across Romania. 1.1% 0.6% In 2017 the program was a laureate of one of the most important competitions dedicated to corporate social Sport 7.5% responsibility, Romanian CSR Award. Competing with 7.9% Education over 120 projects, it ranked as second best program in “supporting employees” category. Vulnerablevulnerabile Grupuri social groups 13.0% 53.3% Copii Children “With <<You choose and we help together!>> we constantly try to find Community all sorts of initiatives to raise funds. 16.6% Antreprenoriat Entreprenourship This award is for all those who helped this project, by support, by personal Culture donations, by acting as ambassadors, or by actively participating in raising funds”. € 0.806 million total social contribution Ionela Păunică, Our main areas of social contribution are: Executive Director Telekom Romania Foundation education, the support of children and vulnerable social groups, sport. We support a range of medical institutions and initiatives 95% financial support (monetary contributions) assisting those in need. Together with the Red Cross we collected food and clothes in the aid of disadvantaged families. In 2017 we helped especially those people in the 5% support in kind (non-monetary contributions/ Romanian countryside who were affected by harsh weather materials) conditions and heavy snow. Telkom Romania delivered 200 tons of wood, 1.2 tons of food and more than 200 blankets. 64 organizations 173,000 beneficiaries 5,500 beneficiaries developing digital skills 726 volunteers Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 36 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX “We support local communities and 1. “Virtual Children’s Integration and Social Interaction we want to do more, as there are still Oculus Rift” a project developed with the support of the too many people in the country who Black Sea Therapy Association for Autism in partnership suffer due to harsh living conditions. with the Constanta County School Inspectorate. With the help of a team of Telekom 2. “Designing the multifunctional hall in the Darko Jeno volunteers’ we managed to reach out Secondary School in Dalnic” operated by the Step by Step to people who were out of food or Parents’ Association. materials to keep themselves warm. Together, we showed 3. Edulier the online community support platform for that we care and that we can deliver our support at the right children with specific learning disabilities (TSI) The Edulier time and place” Association in partnership with the Fairy Carpet. 4. “Wildlife Help” Association for the Conservation of Ruxandra Vodă, Biological Diversity in partnership with the Center for Wildlife Corporate Communications Director Telekom Romania Rehabilitation. 5. “MIRA Play Therapy for People with Neuro motor Telekom Romania has been cooperating together with the Disabilities” through the Maltese Help Service Association in Telekom Romania Foundation and the P.A.V.E.L. Association Romania in partnership with the DOG ASSIST Association. to spread joy among children with cancer for the 9th 6. “My Voice My Space” app The Children’s Phone consecutive year, at Christmas. The volunteers of the two Association in partnership with the IGPR (General organizations shared fruits, sweets, and gifts with a total Inspectorate for Child Protection) and the Ministry of National of 220 patients at the pediatric oncology and hematology Education and departments of the Oncological Institute Prof. Dr. Al. 7. “Sensory room for long-term hospitalized babies” the Trestioreanu, Fundeni Clinical Institute, M. Curie Children project of One and One Association. Emergency Hospital and Prof. Dr. Grigore Alexandrescu 8. “Tourist connectivity through the development of a mobile Emergency Hospital for Children. application in the Transylvanian Hills” –WWF Association for COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS the Danube Carpathians Program Romania in partnership with the Mioritics Association. Teimplici.ro was launched in 2014 and focuses on identifying 9. “Virtual meetings for my future” The PACT Foundation needs in communities where new information technologies in partnership with the Romanian Business Leaders bring benefits in the fields of education, health, environment, Foundation. innovation, development, and social protection. The strategy 10. “Internet in the Village” The project of Merci Charity is to identify partners that are promoting beneficial IT&C Boutique, in partnership with nurseries and schools in technology applications throughout Romanian communities. Gogan, Bernadea and Daia. In 2017, 10 projects were implemented with the help of 10 NGO partners. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 37 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX TELEKOM SCHOLARSHIPS International sponsorship strategy. In 2017, Telekom Romania again granted ten scholarships SKATING each worth 11,250 lei (equivalent to more than 2,500 Euros) Another project exerting a major impact on Romanian to young people with outstanding academic results. In society is the Telekom Skating Arena operated by the Ion addition to the scholarships, we also offered five special Țiriac Foundation. The company financed the establishment awards consisting of a Samsung Galaxy tablet to five of the only existing skating rink in the Bucharest Ilfov district students. Since 2002, Telekom Romania has developed with the aim of promoting sport among children, young several initiatives to support talented and ambitious young people and offer support to local sports teams. students in laying the foundations for a successful career in the future. So far, more than a 100 young people have MARATHONS received support. In January 2017, the company financed the 7th edition of Gerar Half Marathon organized at the campus of Bucharest’s Polytechnic University. The project is intended to promote outdoor running in any weather. Approximately 700 runners took part in the two sections of cross-country (10 km) and the half marathon (21 km). Telekom Romania’s employees had the opportunity to participate as runners, or as volunteers in the organizing team of the event. In May 2017, Telekom Romania organized Brașov International Marathon, in the Sports is Good campaign. 2,700 runners from Romania and abroad competed in the marathon (with 26% more than in 2016). “The <<Telekom Scholarship>> program orientation to support students in Sciences creates future professionals and innovators in the field of information and communication technology. We are glad that we can consolidate the tradition of excellence in IT&C, a field that sustainably contributes to the development of all industries in Romania.” Florina Șerban, Corporate Responsibility Expert Telekom Romania SPORT FOOTBALL In 2017, Telekom Romania continued its support for the Romanian National Football Team being its main sponsor. This initiative is in line with Telekom’s strategic commercial direction of offering customers top sports content and experiences, and, is in line with the Deutsche Telekom Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 38 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX BIGGEST SPORT HOUR VOLUNTEERING During June and July 2017, Telekom Romania in partnership In Telekom Romania the development and promotion of with Smart Athletic organized the 7th edition of the sports corporate volunteering programs and social contribution event “The Biggest Sports Hour” in Bucharest, Brașov, and activities has been giving the employees an opportunity to Mamaia. actively express their solidarity with others. • The Blood Donation Program. The program has become The event was a genuine multidimensional show that a part of the Telekom culture, volunteers from Telekom involved around 35 fitness classes, coordinated by 118 Romania being active participants in the program – 40 instructors, and 18 sport disciplines, involving cycling, people in 2017. street workout, freewheel, table tennis, football, handball, Up&Down or cross. In addition, 3 (there) medical areas offered over 500 ECG tests for possibly detecting the sudden death syndrome and for medical aesthetic sessions. The Red Cross, offered first aid and resuscitation courses for 100 children and adults; And the Leventer Foundation, offered tests for skin cancer. More than 50,000 people in 21 cities in Romania attended the event. In addition, during the event, Telekom Romania Foundation supported two charitable causes throughout the event: 40 families without income from Giurgiu County received non• Other voluntary activities of Telekom Romania were part perishable food and the Casa Speranţei Hospice for children of other different socially responsible projects mentioned and adults with incurable diseases received financial in this report, amongst which: supporting the poor and the donations gathered through the “Sport is good” cross, part underprivileged by engaging into personal interaction and of “The Biggest Hour of Sport” event in Brașov. bringing support to the households in need. • In 2017, 726 volunteers participated in social contribution initiatives. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 39 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX 3.2 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT IMPLEMENTING THE ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY IN 3 STEPS HOW WE SUPPORT CIRCULAR ECONOMY Energy Raw materials Instead of using resources and designing technologies without planning, we, as humanity, start to perceive 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Energy and Circular Waste management civilizational development as an endeavor that must be Emissions climate change economy sustainable. As our knowledge on various ecosystems and Products and Products and Services Services environmental dynamics expands, we realize that both Electromagnetic technological and industrial policies influence the whole fields planet. The idea of a circular economy assumes economic systems could be transformed into systems that are recycling Operations within safe exposure limits and reusing as much matter as possible – and where this is Continous mesurements impossible, it should at least aim at reducing the negative impact on the environment. RECYCLING FOR CLEAR ENVIRONMENT We developed a campaign related to recycling in partnership with the ECOTIC Association. It was a pilot-project for the recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) in 10 offices in Bucharest. The purpose of the campaign is to raise awareness of the separate collection and recycling of WEEE. SHARING MAY BE BETTER THAN OWING The sharing economy has been more than just an attitude for some time now and has become a significant part of our industry. Its core idea is a conviction that many items (such as cars) do not have to be owned to remain useful. They can be effectively shared, which contributes to resource conservation. What is more, such an attitude entails cost STRAIGHT PATH TO CIRCULAR ECONOMY savings, waste reduction and increased environmental protection. Telekom Romania follows Deutsche Telecom’s Circular Economy Strategy, which strives to minimize the environmental impact of operations and to raise awareness GOLD FROM THE OLD? MATERIALS THAT CAN of our employees and stakeholders with regards to BE EXTRACTED FROM OLD TECHNOLOGY AND environmental protection and environmentally responsible AFTERWARDS RECYCLED actions. This is why Telekom Romania is: • Applying the principle “Reduce – Reuse – Recycle” to all A good example is a cooper cable. Such cables have been its activities. a main component in our telephone lines for decades. To • Expanding the lifetime and overall utilization of the a certain extent, these are now being replaced with fiberequipment provided to customers, and facilitating optic cables within the scope of broadband build-out. The recycling services of their discarded equipment. old cables are processed in accordance with environmental • Informing and encouraging citizens to adopt recycling standards at certified waste disposal facilities, making it practices. possible to recycle up to 90 percent of the material. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 40 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX CO2 EMISSIONS Tone CO2-echiv. 2016 2017 Total CO2 emis582,386 743,797 sions Direct emissions 13,627 13,934 (scope 1) Indirect emissions 68,220 69,482 (scope 2 ) Other indirect emissions (scope 500,539 660,381 3) FIGHTING CLIMATE CHANGE ENERGY CONSUMPTION MAKING OFFICES SUSTAINABLE GWh 2016 2017 302-1; 302 – 4; 305-2; 305-5 Sustainability is also important when it comes to everyday Electricity 205.2 199.7 life at the office. Our workstations are designed to be enviconsumption ronmentally friendly, using energy-efficient equipment. District heating and fuel We share a vision of a low carbon society and we act towards consumption in 29.7 35.5 buildings making it a reality. We act directly, by reducing our own CO2 emissions and indirectly, by providing services and prodFuel consumption (fleet) 39.1 36.5 ucts with a low carbon footprint. Simply speaking, a carbon footprint is a total amount of carbon dioxide emission by an Total 274 271 entity. By keeping it low over our service and product life cycle, we reduce our customers’ CO2 footprint. Our goal in this regard is defined by Deutsche Telekom Group’s Climate “Digitization is a continuous and Protection strategy, which aims for 20% less CO2 emissions accelerated process and, to meet by 2020. the needs of society, the company improves service quality by developing the network and at the same time gradually reducing energy FOUR PILLARS OF OUR ENVIRONMENTAL consumption and greenhouse gas STRATEGY emissions. Consequently, starting in 2017, we monitor two indicators relevant to IT & C: “carbon intensity” and “energy I. Lower energy consumption through efficiency measures intensity”, representing our impact on energy consumption II. Increased share of renewable in used energy sources and CO2 emissions per unit of product (TB). ” III. Reduction of direct CO2 emissions IV. Expanding our sustainable products portfolio Alin Anton, Environmental Protection Coordinator Telekom Romania ESG KPI “CARBON INTENSITY” ESG KPI “ENERGY INTENSITY” kg CO2 /Terabyte 2016 2017 kWh /Terabyte 2016 2017 Telekom Romania 33.44 27.34 Telekom Romania 111.97 87.83 Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 41 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX WATER CONSUMPTION mobile antennas. In terms of wave transmission, radio and Water consumption television antennas are similar to mobile phone ones, the 2016 2017 m3 electromagnetic fields certainly not being radioactive, as Total Water Consimilar fields are also generated by many other electrical 101,893 81,183 sumption appliances, which we use on a daily basis: radios, TVs, hair dryers, computer screens, wireless fixed telephones, washing machines or refrigerators. 3.3 MOBILES, MASTS AND HEALTH. MONITORING OUR ACTIVITIES ELECTROMAGENTIC FIELDS POLICY Technology is a blessing that must be managed properly in Telekom Romania is aware of the interest the public has in order to maximize its benefits for the society. We continuously mobile communications technology, mobile phones and monitor various key aspects related to our activities that base stations (telecom masts). Focusing on the responsibility may have an impact on the environment as well as on the for the millions of clients, users of mobile telephony, as well health and wellbeing of a society. We recognize the need as on the interest of those stakeholders who have a base to acknowledge and map out mobile-related challenges station in their neighborhood, Telekom Romania addresses such as maintaining low noise levels, preserving natural public participation, environmental protection and customer landscapes and measuring the impact of electromagnetic needs in an open, honest and constructive manner. fields. At the same time, cooperating with relevant authorities and ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELDS the scientific community, Telekom Romania encourages The impact of electromagnetic fields (EMF) is a topic that is scientific studies in the electromagnetic fields and health under scrutiny for more than 40 years. Aware of the concerns area. related to EMF Radiation, we adopted the EMF Policy that addresses these concerns by means of transparency, and To answer the public interest and to ensure transparency, by raising awareness and taking on a participatory, scientific openness and constructive collaboration regarding approach. Following our EMF Policy we have adopted a electromagnetic fields, Telekom Romania commits itself to number of practices, which help us monitor, analyze and the following ten principles: publicly communicate all aspects related to EMF. Based on these practices, we are confident that the levels of Transparency electromagnetic fields in all our Base Stations are significantly 1. Telekom Romania has set up internal responsibilities and lower than the national imposed limits, enforced through the workflows to answer any questions and complaints about Order no. 1193/2006 of the Minister of Public Health. This technology, health, and other related issues. Order transposes Recommendation 1999/519/EC on the 2. Telekom Romania, aware of the public interest in mobile limitation of exposure of the public to electromagnetic fields communications, supports the creation of a national (0 Hz to 300 GHz), being a reference document for all the EU database on electromagnetic fields. Member States; the Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation 3. All Telekom Romania base stations comply with national Protection (ICNIRP), a non-governmental organization legislation on safe exposure to electromagnetic fields as formally recognized by the World Health Organization, well as with ICNIRP International Commission on Nonendorsing it. In 2017, 39 measurements were carried out in Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) guidelines. In order our networks. to improve transparency, Telekom Romania may provide Mobile networks function based on the emission of necessary data demonstrating compliance with the safety electromagnetic waves, which mostly come from the recommendations. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 42 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX Information 4. Telekom Romania strives to cooperate with all stakeholders in order to inform the public. It also encourages local authorities to cooperate with the mobile industry and to create their own programs for informing the general public. 5. Telekom Romania offers public information about the specific absorption rates (so called SAR) for mobile phones sold through its website and its stores. Participation 6. Telekom Romania cooperates with local authorities on questions and complaints from their citizens regarding the development of the network, as much as possible. In order to facilitate the efforts of local authorities, Telekom Romania provides relevant information on its core stations as well as on the protection of public health. CARING ABOUT BIODIVERSITY 7. Telekom Romania promotes cooperation with local Telekom Romania recognizes the close relationship 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 307-1; 416-2 authorities. Our goal is to reach an agreement with local between biodiversity, sustainable development and authorities on the location of base stations. human well-being. We operate a large network of 8. Telekom Romania aims to minimize the visual impact of telecommunication installations (such as base stations and its base stations and minimize the impact the entire network wireless communication stations). Some of these inevitably has on the environment. end up being operated in protected natural habitats or ecosystems. In 2017, 31 base stations and one building was situated in terrestrial ecosystems protected areas in Promoting science the following counties: Alba, Bihor, Brăila, Brașov, Caraș 9. Telekom Romania fully supports the advancement of Severin, Giurgiu, Gorj, Harghita, Mehedinţi, Mureș, Sibiu, scientific knowledge about any effects of electromagnetic Tulcea, Valcea, Neamţ, covering a total area of 0.017 km2. fields on public health. All “protected area operational sites” are developed, installed 10. Telekom Romania firmly believes that the limit values and operated based on Environmental Impact Assessment for exposure to electromagnetic fields in safe conditions studies approved by designated authorities, and in line with must be based on consistent and substantiated research. the national legislation. Telekom Romania is also continuously monitoring such scientific data. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 43 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS We are classifying the waste generated by our fixed and mobile operations in main categories, according to specific We closely follow legal regulations. We are maintaining the criteria. 307-1; 416-2 noise level of our equipment below legal thresholds through • Hazardous waste (lead batteries, lamps, portable maintenance programs and by replacing old equipment. In batteries); the same vein, the levels of electromagnetic fields in all our • Technical waste generated during technical operations on Base Stations are significantly lower than the national limits. our networks and systems (e.g. cables, metals, electronic and telecommunication equipment) and used products In 2017, our company s environmental department registered (e.g. phones and related accessories, etc.); 3 complaints regarding noise and waste. Following these, • Others (waste categories not included in the previous measures relevant authorities started an investigation. No categories, such as residual waste). monetary sanctions were received. MATERIALS CONSUMPTION HOW WE MANAGE OUR RESOURCES AND WASTE Tone 2016 2017 Through our environmental policy and objectives, we are Total tons of materials con658.14 271.77 committed to managing and reducing the environmental sumed 301-1; 306-2 impacts of our operations. Thus, we have established a Paper and cardboard 355.16 227.74 monitoring system for all materials and resources we use. This enables us to identify the potential for improvement and Plastic 25.01 1.18 set out specific measures to tackle those aspects, which are within our control. Wood 67.65 42.84 To advance our material efficiency and waste management we developed our strategy around 7 key principles: WASTE MANAGED • Monitoring materials consumption associated with our Tone 2016 2017 operations; • Reduce the usage of materials with high environmental Total tons of waste managed 6,988.48 3,115.56 impacts in their production phase; Recycled waste 2,321.82 1,177.36 • Prevent waste generation whenever is possible; • Reuse whenever possible the materials or recycle them Non-recycled waste 4,666.66 1,938.20 through specialized companies; • Manage all electric and electronic waste to prevent environmental impact; WASTE DISPOSAL COSTS • Develop products and services which contribute to Euro 2016 2017 dematerialization; Waste disposal, • Enhance environmental awareness, internally and packaging, WEEE, 268,883.5 315,209 externally, to increase participation in recycling practices. batteries and accumulators Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 44 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX 4 RESPONSIBLE RISK MANAGEMENT 11,113 respondents for the materiality survey 1,583 employees trained for compliance, anticorruption and anti-money laundering 10 ISO certifications for the integrated management system 0 incidents of nonconformity with the regulation regarding anticorruption and anti-money laundering 84.5% of our suppliers are from Romania 100% of our new suppliers from 2017 had included in their contracts provisions regarding occupational health and safety, anticorruption, security and confidentiality, environment protection 2017 Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 45 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX In Telekom Romania we have worked out advanced and efficient procedures and creative ways to harness the risks and avoid uncertainties. 4.1 MANAGING RISK As one of the leading players on the competitive telecommunications and information technology market of Romania, we are subject to all kinds of uncertainties and changes. In order to effectively operate in this volatile environment, we need to timely anticipate, identify, assess Due to technological progress, the pace of global evolution and manage any resulting risks. has been gradually increasing. As the world becomes more connected, the interactions between people, objects and ideas get more intricate – which generate both great advantages and some serious costs. As the events and interactions become too dynamic to be analyzed on time, spheres of uncertainty and risks emerge together with painful lack of information. To an extent, we are all victims of this perpetual speed-up of the world and – as a society – we are only starting to adjust ourselves to this permanent condition of humanity. RISK VERSUS UNCERTAINTY In order to do this, we have created the Enterprise Risk – QUITE A DIFFERENCE Management System. It is a central, value-oriented and value-adding element of our corporate governance, which Contrary to popular understanding, technically speaking, covers all strategic, operational, financial, compliance risk and uncertainty are two different things. and reputational risks. Through such a system, risks and/ or opportunities are identified early on, monitored and Uncertainty is a lack of certainty stemming from the lack managed appropriately. of necessary information. In condition of uncertainty, an outcome of an event is unknown, and – what is more – it WHEN IT COMES TO RISK WE FOCUS ON BEST cannot be measured or guessed. When there is uncertainty, PRACTICES there is no relevant information available. Since March 2013 Telekom Romania has implemented Risk is a known unknown. It is a probability that some the ERM framework comprising of Risk and Insurance conditions may occur. In a risky condition once can still Management Policy and the Enterprise Risk Management & make educated guesses as to the chain of events that Corporate Governance Committee. This framework observes could probably unfold, but has to be prepared for the the provisions of ISO 31000 Risk Management Principles low probability events, which affect the process in either and Guidelines, COSO framework and COBIT. In 2016, the positive or negative ways. When there is a risk, there is some company has obtained the ISO31000:2009 attestation on information available. the implemented Risk Management System. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 46 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX The Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) function of SYSTEM MANAGEMENT CERTIFICATIONS Telekom Romania designed and implemented a unified, TELEKOM ROMANIA in-line with both ISO 31000 & Romanian Legislation Telekom Romania Communications and Telekom Romania requirements methodology for performing company-wide Mobile Communications: risk assessments. • ISO 9001: 2015| Quality Management System – Requirements • ISO 14001: 2004|Environmental Management System – Requirements with guidance for use • ISO 18001: 2007| Health & Safety Management System – Requirements • ISO 27001: 2013|Information Technology – Security Techniques – Information Security Management System – Requirements • ISO 22301: 2012|Business Continuity Management System – Requirements • ISO/IEC 20000-1: 2011|Information Technology Service Management System • ISO 31000 : 2009| Risk Management System – Principles and Guidelines (attestation)) HOW WE COMMUNICATE RISK • ISO 37001:2016| Anti-bribery Management Systems – Requirements with guidance for use The responsibility for specific risks management lays • ISO 19600:2014|Compliance Management Systems – primarily with our operational managers, while the ERM Guidelines team is responsible to align with them, to provide an integrated framework for risk assessment and to report the Telekom Romania Communications: enterprise risks that meet the predefined set of criteria. In • Anti-corruption conformance to IDW PS 980 standard order to ensure a timely capture of potential new risks and • Antitrust Compliance Certification according to the AssS to stay up to date with the evolution of current risks and their 980 standard mitigation measures, we communicate quarterly and ad-hoc with a network of key people from different business areas. 4.2 MANAGING ETHICS, OPERATIONAL In addition to this, we also consult management, financial RISKS AND COMPLIANCE and industry reports, macro-economic indicators or progress reports of ongoing/planned strategic initiatives. OUR CULTURE OF COMPLIANCE AND INTEGRITY To increase awareness regarding our ERM methodology and to ensure alignment concerning risk management related At Telekom Romania “Compliance” defines the way we processes, we have organized dedicated workshops with “want” to act, not the way we are “obliged” to act. A culture of key business managers and representatives of all functions personal ethics and integrity is at the core of our compliance tasked with performing risk assessments in the company. programs thus a key driver and supporting element for our 102-11 performance. The ERM team identifies and records risks and assesses their impact and probability based on models agreed with In fact, we have integrated the compliance principle in all our risk owners. ERM risks exceeding Euros 500,000 EBITDA activities under the umbrella of the Compliance Management impact are included in the Quarterly ERM Report, validated System and combined it with the goal of supporting and by the ERM & Corporate Governance Committee. strengthening our core operational principles: transparency, justice, professionalism, integrity and respect for the rule of law and ethical principles. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 47 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX In our day-to-day work, we focus on: Our compliance management system is based on the set of • Raising awareness about the risks of non-compliance best practices, as its general framework is derived from the • Building a compliance culture; internationally recognized principles and standards, such as • Prevention of misconduct; the German audit standard PS 980 issued by the German • Detection and treatment of compliance issues; Public Audit Institute. • Providing necessary compliance consultancy. COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM In 2017 Telekom Romania: Governance • Was not part of any incidents of non-compliance with 205-3; 406-1 Compliance Risk Assessment regulations regarding corruption; Awareness & Prevention Detection Response • Was not part of any incidents of non-compliance with Policies Tip-Off-Portal – Tell Me! Case Mangement regulations regarding money laundering. Certification Consultation Compliance Checks Consequence Management • Receive two discrimination complaints which were found Trainings Remediation non-plausible. Third Party Due Diligence Reporting Communication WE HAVE GUIDANCE IN EVERYTHING WE DO 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Our compliance guidelines and compliance policies include all dimensions of interaction we are participating in. They include: • Code of Conduct; • Policy to combat corruption and other conflicts of interest; • Program for preventing and combating money laundering and terrorist financing; • Supplier Code of Conduct; • Ethical Code of Conduct for Financial Directors in Managerial positions; COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AS STRENGTH • Acceptance and Benefit Policy; OF OUR BUSINESS • Event Policy; • Donation Policy; We can intuitively feel that the concept of compliance, • Sponsorship Policy; understood as conforming to just and proper rules, stands • Fraud Policy; for clear procedures, always doing the right thing and • Competition law Policy; adhering to the company’s internal policies as well as the • Integrity Warning Policy; ethical principles or external legal provisions. • Sexual harassment Policy; Every employee or member of Telekom Romania is called • Corporate Responsibility Policy. upon to act according to these principles. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 48 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX Fairness first of all FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE LABOR 102-41; 403-1 AGREEMENTS Non-discrimination, fairness and integrity in the workplace are fundamental values at Telekom Romania. The framework We fully comply with the Romanian regulations on labor, of our fair labor policy, based on respect for human rights, is freedom of association and collective labor agreements. in accordance with the following: Our employees are organized within representative unions, covered 100% by collective labor agreements. Within • The regulatory framework in Romania and the EU, which Telekom Romania Mobile Communications, a union has prohibits the use of child labor and forced labor; been formed in 2015 and a collective working agreement • The United Nations Global Compact, signed by Telekom was concluded in 2016. Romania in 2015; The Collective Labor Agreements within Telekom Romania • The Telekom Romania Code of Conduct and The CR Policy regulate health and safety topics, rights and obligations, and Social Charter, recognizing explicitly the basic freedom working time, remuneration and other monetary rights, of association and the right to participate in collective vacations, individual labor agreements, evaluation procedure agreements under national legislation, and expressly in case of professional under performance, social protection, prohibit unlawful discrimination or harassment based on labor discipline, and union rights. The current CLAs cover age, sex, religion, ability, background or sexual orientation; the period 01/03/2016 – 01/03/2018 for fixed operations • The management of personal data is realized in accordance and 01/06/2016 – 01/03/2018 for mobile operations. with internal policies, developed in accordance with the existing national legal framework. WE CODIFY ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR The core principle of our HR management is as follows: all decisions and actions relating to matters such as Our Code of Conduct is the framework guiding the behavior recruitment, wages, growth and employee development of all employees of Telekom Romania. It reiterates and and termination of contracts must be characterized by reaffirms our strong commitment to comply with laws and 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 meritocracy, transparency and non-discrimination. regulations, as well as our commitment to comply with the specific obligations relating to ethical behavior. It is precisely this behavior, together with other ideals we share, that support us in our work. Our non-discrimination principle covers not only gender, age or religion, but also ability, origin and sexual orientation. What is more, we have established internal reporting mechanism for all questions, concerns or complaints related to non-discrimination and all Code of Conduct principles. The Compliance Department can be contacted on the following channels: • By mail: Compliance Department, 3-5 Piața Presei Libere, City Gate (North Tower), 18th Floor, Sector 1, 013702, Bucharest, Romania • By e-mail: whistleblowing@telekom.ro and raportare. nereguli@telekom.ro • Phone: 0800 800488 • Through the Electronic Irregular Reporting Form (available on the company’s web page and on the company’s intranet). Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 49 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX Corruption risks and compliance sphere trainings 1. Active Corruption reflected through the following potential scenarios: NO CORRUPTION, NO UNFAIR COMPETITION: • A benefit is granted to an employee or representative of a OUR CERTIFICATES partnering business for a biased business decision, which results in an unfair competitive advantage of the giver. At organizational level we make sure that we conduct our • A benefit is granted to a member of the public sector for behavior according to best practices. a non-transparent impact on the decision-making process. Sales agents/advisors use part of their fees to win a contract Telekom Romania Communications S.A: through bribery -Anti-Corruption Certification according to the German IDW PS 980 standard -Anti-Trust certification according to the AssS 980 standard 2. Passive Corruption reflected through the following potential scenarios: Telekom Romania Communication S.A. and Telekom • An employee/buyer deliberately puts forward the terms, Romania Mobile Communications S.A: which are to the disadvantage of DTAG or a Telekom entity -ISO 37001:2016 Anti-Bribery Management System when awarding contracts for services in return for money or Certification other benefits. • Employees place lucrative orders to retailer IDs and accept money in return. Every business activity is related to a risk of corruption – on • Accepting the benefit in connection with a specific every level of operations. As we assessed the types of risks, business decision. 205-1 the following corruption related risks have been identified in • An employee formulates selection criteria, which deliberately the company: favor a selected supplier/consultant. In turn procurement is obliged to include this supplier/consultant in its selection. PASSIVE VS. ACTIVE CORRUPTION Alternatively, an employee influences an auction/tender in favor of one bidder. In return, the employee receives a The act of active corruption is committed by those who are benefit from the supplier/consultant. initiating the corrupt process, whereas passive corruption refers to the party that is accepting, or contributing to the corruptive process. How we maintain compliance 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 205-2 Our Compliance training program is based on internal guidelines and policies, which are updated annually as part of continuous improvement of the Compliance Management System and Anti-corruption Management System. In number of trained 2014 2015 2016 2017 employees Induction on Compliance 135 268 215 213 Anti-Corruption 5,849 1,647 1,144 672 Anti-Trust 141 495 38 0 Anti-Money Laundering n/a 73 1,069 698 Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 50 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX TELEKOM ROMANIA – A RESPONSIBLE PLAYER OPERATING AS A RESPONSIBLE PLAYER ON THE MARKET In Romania, all companies are to abide by the Romanian 206-1; 417-3; 307-1 Advertising Council’s (RAC) Code of Conduct on advertising Telekom Romania supports a fair regulatory environment and communication. In 2017, in case of the “Netliberare” with equal rules of competition and regulatory predictability advertising campaign, RAC claimed that code’s instructions for investments, as well as the creation of a positive climate were not adhered to by Telekom Romania. No changes in and the development of trusting relationships. the promotional materials were required in the end. Telekom Romania is registered in the EU Transparency RegIn 2017 there were no legal actions against Telekom Romania ister meaning that the company has signed the for anti-competitive behavior or non-compliance with laws. Transparency Register Code of Conduct. In 2017, our company’s environmental department registered 3 complaints regarding noise and waste. Following these, measures were received and implemented from relevant authorities, but no monetary sanctions. TRANSPARENCY IN PRICING Telekom Romania is committed to clear, simple and transparent communication of pricing issues, which is done in accordance with the current regulatory framework and as well as to provide a high level of service to its customers. The National Authority for Management and Regulation in Communications (ANCOM) regulates Telekom’s product pricing or its services in order to promote effective and fair RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR SUPPLY competition for the benefit of consumers. The transparency 102-9, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CHAIN of these pricing policies includes the disclosure of billing information within the set deadlines as defined by the As the leading telecommunication company in Romania regulatory framework. Furthermore, the pricing information is we focus on stimulating Romania’s economy throughout available on the websites of both entities of Telekom Romania our entire supply chain. We believe that ensuring the (mobile and fixed), and is available through the customer opportunities for sustainable growth on every level creates service centers and the brochures of the companies. a positive feedback loop, which ultimately brings benefits to all of the involved parties. Such a holistic understanding of sustainability prompts fair collaboration and at the same time ensures opportunities for everyone. What is more, through our development program, we help strategic suppliers introduce or improve good business practices, which result in greater social impact, better protection of the environment and more economic efficiency. The program, developed around the four key components, results in a mutually beneficial outcome that guarantees respectful interaction. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 51 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX In the spirit of these principles, we create our Supplier THE SUPPLIERS OF TELEKOM ROMANIA Assessment Framework that helps to ingrain best practices 204-1 into everyday activity of all parties involved. Our suppliers operate within the following dimensions of economic activity: consulting services, contractors, licenses, companies selling telecommunications equipment and services, companies developing computer hardware and software, licenses usage of content rights, building/facilities managed services, marketing services, HR services, print services, mail services. 84.5% of our suppliers are from Romania, the rest being from Asia and North America. 2016 2017 Local Suppliers 1,123 1,006 environment protection. External Suppliers 216 185 100% of new suppliers in 2017 have included contracts clauses on health and safety at work, anti-corruption, security and confidentiality, environmental protection. 308-1; 414-1 Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 52 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX HOW WE SELECT OUR SUPPLIERS 4.3. TRANSPARENCY. MANAGING STAKEHOLDERS AND REPUTATION We select our suppliers based on the purchase orders (POs) issued via SAP-ERP systems, within a 12-month period. After Our stakeholders are crucial to our operations. Thanks to the initial selection, the business units involved carefully their creative insight regarding both local and global issues, evaluate the suppliers and their performance. What is more, Telekom Romania receives valuable information, which the suppliers are also obliged to fill in a self-assessment would not be obtainable otherwise. Our stakeholders are questionnaire. the people and organizations, which are capable of shaping Ultimately, the selection criteria is based on various our policy – in fact, they can affect our business and they important factors ranging from technical specification, price can choose to be affected by it. We have identified groups or commercial terms, through CR specific requirements up of stakeholders based on the strength of the impact our to purely contractual issues. What is more, the contracts company has on them and their related interest. include specific clauses or annexes on health and safety, anticorruption, security, environment protection, confidentiality and compliance with Telekom Romania Supplier Code of Conduct. All suppliers, without exceptions, accept these clauses and annexes. In 2017 we conducted a stakeholder update process with the OTE Group, and identified 9 stakeholder / stakeholder groups in the process. 102-40; 102-42 HOW WE RATE OUR SUPPLIERS 1. Customers and prospective customers 2. Business In order to rate our suppliers we have introduced a dedicated 3. Analysts and investors Supplier Evaluation System. Whereas certain rating 4. Media processes are conducted by the involved business units 5. Scientific, research and education organizations of our companies or by the suppliers themselves thanks to 6. State / Government entities self-assessment. The Supplier Evaluation System allows for 7. Suppliers quantifying and comparing suppliers’ performance. 8.Employees, prospective employees and their representatives 9. NGOs and interest groups Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 53 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX KEY 2017 ENGAGEMENT TOPICS AND CONCERNS WITH ENGAGEMENT TYPE AND FREQUENCY (DAILY, 102-43; 102-44 THE STAKEHOLDERS (EXAMPLES) WEEKLY, MONTHLY, BIANNUAL, ANNUAL) CUSTOMERS AND PROSPECTIVE CUSTOMERS Activation of products, quality of services (in relation to costs) Customer satisfaction surveys monthly Technical Support (e.g. web hosting, DNS services, IPVPN) CR Surveys biannually Commercial and Billing Issues Tracking studies monthly Telephony Operations Call centers daily Improving the way customer complaints are handled Customer account managers daily Safe use of services Social media daily Electromagnetic Fields Sales network daily Responsible Marketing (e.g. consumer rights) Introduction of new technologies Data security and privacy MASS-MEDIA Timely Response Corporate announcements (press releases) and systematic contacts with media representatives weekly Management Press conferences and events monthly Commercial Answers to media enquiries on CR topics weekly Technology Financial Environment Labor Sustainability SUPPLIERS Tender criteria and competitions Consultation and dialogue on procurement procedure issues (relevant laws, telecom market issues etc.) monthly Communication on supplies issues Meetings daily Transparency CR surveys biannually Market policy Suppliers’ evaluation annually Economic growth Partnerships daily Inserting CR criteria, including environmental criteria NGOS AND INTEREST GROUPS Importance of sustainability Systematic liaison with central and local authorities bimonthly Internet Safety public education Meetings with NGOs weekly Support for vulnerable groups and charities CR surveys biannually Social contribution Community projects weekly Meetings and electronic communication preferred Sponsorships weekly Electromagnetic fields Biodiversity Environmental performance Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 54 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX KEY 2017 ENGAGEMENT TOPICS AND CONCERNS WITH ENGAGEMENT TYPE AND FREQUENCY (DAILY, THE STAKEHOLDERS (EXAMPLES) WEEKLY, MONTHLY, BIANNUAL, ANNUAL) EMPLOYEES, PROSPECTIVE EMPLOYEES AND THEIR REPRESENTATIVES Rationalization and reduction of labor costs in agreement, to the greatest extent Intranet daily possible Fair work (diversity, work–life balance) Newsletters on all important company decisions weekly Planning and conduct of training programs Meetings with employees biannually Professional development Negotiations with labor unions monthly Health and safety Employee satisfaction biannually Protection of personal data Pulse surveys annually CR surveys biannually Organization of internal events monthly Appraisal system annually Trainings daily BUSINESS, INVESTORS AND ANALYSTS Company strategy and results Corporate Responsibility Reports annually Outlook on labor relations, regulatory decisions Participation in Corporate Responsibility ratings annually Climate change policy Private Meetings annually Conference Calls annually Meetings of Executives weekly STATE / GOVERNMENT ENTITIES Implementation of regulatory measures Consultations on proposed laws and regulatory frameworks for telecommunication markets monthly Issues of effective regulatory adjustment Written or verbal communication with regulatory and public sector bodies weekly Specialized national goals for European digital agenda Dialogue with representatives of national and local authorities weekly Transparency Governance Economic Growth SCIENTIFIC, RESEARCH AND EDUCATION ORGANIZATIONS Electromagnetic fields Workshops, conferences, annually New technologies Telephone conferences, emails, monthly Products and services Questionnaires, annually Sustainability report, annually Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 55 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX OUR MEMBERSHIPS 102-12; 102-13 For Telekom Romania, the stakeholder engagement is not a one off process but of a continuous nature, allowing us to develop long-standing partnerships with various stakeholder groups, including NGOs, local communities, suppliers and business sector. Organization Company Participation Type NATIONAL LEVEL United Nations Global Compact Global Compact Partner since 2015, Vice-President in the Steering Telekom Romania Mobile Communications Network Romania Committee Romanian Advertising Council Telekom Romania Members since 2015 The American Chamber of Commerce in Romania Telekom Romania Communications Member since 2015 German-Romanian Chamber of Commerce Telekom Romania Communications Partner since 2010 Foreign Investors Council Telekom Romania Communications Partner since 2010 Transparency International Romania Telekom Romania Communications Partner since 2014 Association of Mobile Operators in Romania Telekom Romania Mobile Communications Partner since 2008 Association of Romanian Telecommunications Telekom Romania Communications Partner since 2010 Operators INTERNATIONAL LEVEL International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Telekom Romania Partner since 2015 European Telecommunications Network Operators' Telekom Romania Communications Member Association (ETNO) GSM Association (GSMA) Telekom Romania Mobile Communications Full Member Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 56 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX 4.4 MANAGING STRUCTURE BREAKDOWN OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BODIES 405-1 102-18, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 2016 2017 The main decision maker is our Boards of Directors. They are responsible for the adoption of business strategic plans % of people from governance bodies <30 y.o. 0 0 and for the monitoring of operational performance and % of people from governance bodies >30 management; they are responsible for the development of y.o.<50 57 66 appropriate and effective risk management policies and % of people from governance bodies > 50 y.o. 43 34 related processes. The selection process of the members of these strategic authoritative bodies is based solely on the Females in governance bodies 5 8 qualifications and expertise of the members. Males in governance bodies 21 19 Telekom Romania Communications S.A. Minorities in governance bodies 0 0 Board of Directors at December 31, 2017 Mr. Michail Tsamaz President We have connected the Corporate Responsibility Strategy with the Boards of Directors through our Corporate Mr. Miroslav Majoroš Executive member Communication functions. Thanks to this, we remain sure that our commitments are efficiently transformed Mr. Charalampos Mazarakis Non-executive member into specified actions and results. With such a structure of governance, Telekom Romania ensures that topics related to Mrs. Eirini Nikolaidi Non-executive member sustainability are translated into key business processes. The Mr. Nicholaos Stamboulis Non-executive member process is managed as follows: (1) The Boards of Directors grants overall responsibility for Corporate Responsibility to Mr. Robert Hauber Non-executive member the CEO; (2) CEO keeps BoDs up to date; (3) the Corporate Communications Director is responsible for the strategic Mr. Corneliu Ioan Dumitru Non-executive member design and implementation of relevant actions. Mr. Catalin Panaite Non-executive member Mrs. Adriana Kalapis Non-executive member Telekom Romania Mobile Communications S.A. Board of Directors at December 31, 2017 Mr. Charalampos Mazarakis President Mr. Miroslav Majoroš Executive member Mrs. Daniela Bujic Non-executive member Mr. Konstantinos Liamidis Non-executive member Mr. Anastasios Tzoulas Non-executive member Mr. Dimitrios Tzelepis Non-executive member Mr. Florin Vodiță Non-executive member Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 57 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX METHODOLOGY OF OUR REPORT Bucuresti SRL and Telemobil SA that were absorbed under PROMOTING TRANSPARENCY Telekom Romania Mobile Communications SA. The merger As a continuation of our regular 1-year reporting cycle, process became effective as of December 1, 2017, thus no we are happy to present you our third Telekom Romania restatements were made. 102-52; 102-53 Sustainability Report. As we constantly strive to improve the An external independent auditing company has not verified quality of our corporate responsibility reporting, we are open the GRI disclosures but the financial data used throughout for any of your feedback or input. Please feel free to send the report was taken from the company’s financial your suggestions or questions at csr@telekom.ro. statements, hence it was externally assured. In addition, the information concerning the “Social Contributions” made by Telekom Romania that was reported to OTE is also externally assured through an independent audit. REPORTING GUIDELINES This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards “Core Option”. The GRI Index synthesizes the way we have addressed all requirements concerning disclosures. In defining the content of the report, we have addressed all requirements concerning disclosures. REPORTING SCOPE The scope of our report encompasses the operations of Telekom Romania Communications S.A. (“Fixed Operations”) and Telekom Romania Mobile Communications S.A (“Mobile 102-45; 102-48; 102-50; 102-51 102-56 Operations”) in an integrated, unified approach. Throughout the present report, the terms „TELEKOM ROMANIA”, „TELEKOM ROMANIA companies”, „We” or „Our companies” refer to both Telekom Romania Communications S.A. and Telekom Romania Mobile Communications S.A., the usage of plural being made as a reference to TELEKOM ROMANIA as a whole. Where possible, we presented data or facts separately for the two business entities as well made comparisons with the information from the previous years. MATERIALITY ANALYSIS The report as a whole presents the company’s actions, In order to ensure that all relevant sustainability aspects are challenges, results and achievements during the period covered throughout our reporting process, we followed the January – December 2017. three steps recommended by GRI: 102-46 Throughout this report, there were no restatements I. Identification (of the aspects and boundaries that might be of previously reported information due to mergers or considered for inclusion), acquisitions, change of base years/periods or changes in the II. Prioritization (of the previously identified aspects and nature of the business. Telekom Romania, as an important topics), step to consolidate its position on the Romanian telecom III. Validation (of the prioritized aspects or topics). The results market, announced the merger of all its mobile entities: of this three-step process were used to define the structure Germanos Telecom Romania SA, Sunlight Romania Filiala and content of our report as well as to filter and list the applicable and relevant GRI disclosures. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 58 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX For the 2017 reporting cycle, we have: business performance and resilience. Gained feedback to our previous report from external Defined sustainability aspects connected with our services, experts in order to understand what the main areas for products and operations basing on external sources, SDG’s, improvement are. as well as strategic priorities in DT and OTE Group. Prioritizing together with the top management 49 topics, The topic or concept of “Materiality” shows an organization through an assessment process based on Risk Methodology the activities, impacts and achievements it should of our group, to obtain the most important aspects. communicate; it helps define and determine the business, Carried an extensive dialogue process with stakeholders. A social and environmental topics that matter most to a survey of 26 questions, resulted from the topics above (rated business and its stakeholders. Through the “Materiality on a 4-tier scale from not important to very important), has Assessment”, process a triage of what is of high importance/ been conducted with over 11,113 respondents among the less importance to be reported and emphasized on is made; following 9 groups: customers and prospective customers; in the case of Telekom Romania, the table below illustrates 102-47 business; analysts and investors; media; scientific, research this process: and education organizations; state / government entities; suppliers; employees, prospective employees and their representatives; NGOs and interest groups. The most important topics for stakeholders were: data security and privacy, customer satisfaction, employment, Strategic topics Primary Very Important topics Important topics – AREA OF TOPIC material topics Secondary material topics Third rate topics • Data security and privacy • Responsible communication with • Customer service and satisfaction customers • Business resilience (including • Research & innovation business transformation, continuous • Business enterprising MARKET& CLIENTS mobile& Internet access) • Economic performance & impact • Support education on ICT • Digital inclusion • Managing impacts to society and the SOCIAL IMPACT • Child safety local community (volunteerism, social engagement, sponsorship) ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT • EMF, noise, etc. • Products & services for sustainability (ICT solutions for a low carbon economy) • Energy efficiency and climate change mitigation • Materials& Waste management • Circular economy HUMAN CAPITAL • Employment (including employee satisfaction, involvement & motivation) • Fair employment (including Employees’ compliance and grievance • Equal opportunities • Employee training& skill development mechanisms) • Employee health& safety, wellness COMPLIANCE, ETHICS & • Responsible competition • Corporate compliance policies (including ethics& • Governance & management GOVERNANCE anticorruption) • Human rights Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 59 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX During our materiality assessment process, we have security and privacy”). In addition to these changes, we have identified the aspect boundaries based on the following decided to drop the disclosure 419-1. 102-49; 103-1 criteria: Material aspect relevance within Telekom Romania; Material aspect relevance outside Telekom Romania Material aspects for which the impacts can occur within material aspects for which the impacts can occur outside the boundaries of Telekom Romania, respectively during the the boundaries of Telekom Romania (operations not under operations directly managed by Telekom Romania (fixed & direct control of Telekom Romania) at the level of contractors, mobile operations). suppliers, distributors and customers: A comprehensive analysis, prioritization and triage of the • Network maintenance and development contractors (A) most relevant material topics that are to be reported was • Administrative services contractors (B) made during the drafting process of the 2016 CSR Report. • Facility maintenance contractors (C) For the current 2017 Sustainability Report we decide to • Hardware suppliers (D) keep all of the previously used topics, the only changes • Software suppliers (E) occurring when it comes to their ranking and to the level of • Distributors / commercial partners (F) scrutiny being put on them (e.g. both industry changes and • Business customers (G) the digitalization of society prompted a shift towards “data • Private customers (H) GRI CONTENT INDEX In order to ensure that our report is in-line with the GRI requirements and that clear references to all materialityrelated disclosures are made, we applied for and successfully completed the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service. GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-55 GRI Standard Page Title of the disclosure Status/Comment SDG/UN Global Compact GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 p.7 The name of the organization Fully implemented The primary brands, products, and services including an explanation of any 102-2 p.8 Fully implemented products or services that are banned in certain markets. The location of the organization’s head102-3 p.7 Fully implemented quarters The number of countries where the organization operates and names of countries where either the organization 102-4 p.8 Fully implemented has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report 102-5 p.8 Ownership and legal form Fully implemented The markets served (including geograph102-6 p.9 ic breakdown, sectors served, and types Fully implemented of customers and beneficiaries) 102-7 p.3, p.8 The scale of the organization Fully implemented The total number of employees by employment contract and gender, the total number of permanent employees by UNGC Principle 6 102-8 p.13 employment type and gender, the total Fully implemented workforce by employees and supervised SDG 8 workers and by gender, the total workforce by region and gender Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 60 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI Standard Page Title of the disclosure Status/Comment SDG/UN Global Compact ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-9 p.51 The organization’s supply chain Fully implemented Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organiza102-10 p.8 Fully implemented tion’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. Whether and how the precautionary 102-11 p.47 approach or principle is addressed by Fully implemented the organization The list externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, 102-12 p.15, p.56 principles, or other initiatives to which Fully implemented the organization subscribes or which it endorses The list memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and 102-13 p.56 Fully implemented national or international advocacy organizations. STRATEGY A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the 102-14 p.4 relevance of sustainability to the organiFully implemented zation and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Description of the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of UNGC Principle 10 102-16 p.13 Fully implemented behavior such as codes of conduct and SDG 16 codes of ethics GOVERNANCE The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any commit102-18 p.57 Fully implemented tees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Provide a list of stakeholder groups 102-40 p.53 Fully implemented engaged by the organization The percentage of total employees covOur employees are organized UNGC Principle 3 102-41 p.49 ered by collective bargaining agreements within representative unions, SDG 8 Report the basis for identification and 102-42 p.53 selection of stakeholders with whom to Fully implemented engage Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and 102-43 p.54 by stakeholder group, and an indication Fully implemented of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization 102-44 p.54 has responded to those key topics and Fully implemented concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 61 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI Standard Page Title of the disclosure Status/Comment SDG/UN Global Compact REPORTING PRACTICE List all entities included in the organiza102-45 p.58 tion’s consolidated financial statements Fully implemented or equivalent documents Explain the process for defining the re102-46 p.58 Fully implemented port content and the Aspect Boundaries List all the material Aspects identified in 102-47 p.59 Fully implemented the process for defining report content The effect of any restatements of informa102-48 p.58 tion provided in previous reports, and the Fully implemented reasons for such restatements. The significant changes from previous re102-49 p.60 porting periods in the Scope and Aspect Fully implemented Boundaries Period (such as fiscal or calendar year) 102-50 p.58 Fully implemented for information provided Date of most recent previous report (if 102-51 p.58 Fully implemented any) Reporting cycle (such as annual, 102-52 p.58 Fully implemented biennial) Provide the contact point for questions 102-53 p.58 Fully implemented regarding the report or its contents Claims of reporting in accordance with 102-54 p.58 Fully implemented the GRI Standards 102-55 p.60 GRI content index Fully implemented Report the organization’s policy and 102-56 p.58 current practice with regard to seeking Fully implemented external assurance for the report GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Material Aspects Covered by this Disclosure are: Economic Performance; Indirect Economic Impacts; Procurement Practices; Anti-Corruption; Anti-Competitive Behavior; Materials; Energy; Emissions; p.7; p.13; p.14; Effluents and Waste; Environmental p.19; p.21; p.22; Compliance; Supplier Environp.25; p.29; p.31; For each material Aspect, report the 103-1 mental Assessment; Employment; p.35; p.40; p.44; Aspect Boundary within the organization Labor/ Management Relations; p.49; p.50; p.51; Occupational Health and Safety; p.57; p.60 Training and Education; Diversity and Equal Opportunity; Supplier Social Assessment; Non-Discrimination; Public Policy; Customer Health and Safety; Marketing and Labeling; Customer Privacy Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 62 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI Standard Page Title of the disclosure Status/Comment SDG/UN Global Compact Material Aspects Covered by this Disclosure are: Economic Performance; Indirect Economic Impacts; Procurement Practices; Anti-Corruption; Anti-Competitive Behavior; Materials; Energy; Emissions; p.7; p.13; p.14; Effluents and Waste; Environmental p.19; p.21; p.22; For each material Aspect, report the Compliance; Supplier Environmental p.25; p.29; p.31; 103-2 management approach and its compoAssessment; Employment; Labor/ p.35; p.40; p.44; nents Management Relations; Occupap.49; p.50; p.51; tional Health and Safety; Training p.57 and Education; Diversity and Equal Opportunity; Supplier Social Assessment; Non-Discrimination; Public Policy; Customer Health and Safety; Marketing and Labeling; Customer Privacyclienților. Material Aspects Covered by this Disclosure are: Economic Performance; Indirect Economic Impacts; Procurement Practices; Anti-Corruption; Anti-Competitive Behavior; Materials; p.7; p.13; p.14; Energy; Emissions; Effluents and p.19; p.21; p.22; Waste; Environmental Compliance; p.25; p.29; p.31; For each material Aspect, report the Supplier Environmental Assessment; 103-3 p.35; p.40; p.44; evaluation of the management approach Employment; Labor/ Management p.49; p.50; p.51; Relations; Occupational Health and p.57 Safety; Training and Education; Diversity and Equal Opportunity; Supplier Social Assessment; Non-Discrimination; Public Policy; Customer Health and Safety; Marketing and Labeling; Customer Privacy MATERIAL TOPICS GRI Disclosure Page Omissions Title of Disclosure Status/Comment SDG/UN Global Compact GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, 201-1 p.8 Fully implemented SDG 2,7,8,9 donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. The total monetary value of financial assistance received No financial assistance has been 201-4 by the organization received from the Government in from governments 2017. during the reporting period. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 63 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX MATERIAL TOPICS GRI Disclosure Page Omissions Title of Disclosure Status/Comment SDG/UN Global Compact GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 2016 p.19, p.21, p.22, Development and impact of 203-1 Infrastructure Investments Fully implemented SDG 9 p.25, p.31, p.35 and Services Supported Significant Indirect p.19, p.21, p.22, Economic Impacts, 203-2 Fully implemented SDG 8,10,17 p.25, p.31, p.35 including the extent of impacts GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 2016 Proportion of spending on 204-1 p.52 local suppliers at significant Fully implemented SDG 12 locations of operations GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 Total number and percentage of operations UNGC Principle 10 205-1 p.50 assessed for risks related Fully implemented SDG 16 to corruption and the significant risks identified Communication and training UNGC Principle 10 205-2 p.50 of anti-corruption policies Fully implemented SDG 16 and procedures Confirmed incidents of UNGC Principle 10 205-3 p.48 corruption and actions Fully implemented SDG 16 taken GRI 206: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 2016 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive 206-1 p.51 behavior, anti-trust, and Fully implemented monopoly practices and their outcomes. GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 Materials used by weight or UNGC Principle 7,8,9 301-1 p.44 Fully implemented volume. SDG 7,12,13 GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 Energy consumption within UNGC Principle 7,8,9 302-1 p.41 Fully implemented the organization SDG 7, 8, 12,13 Energy consumption within UNGC Principle 8,9 SDG 302-4 p.41 Fully implemented the organization 7, 8,12,13 Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 64 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX MATERIAL TOPICS GRI Disclosure Page Omissions Title of Disclosure Status/Comment SDG/UN Global Compact GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 Energy indirect greenhouse UNGC Principle 7,8,9 305-2 p.41 gas (GHG) emissions Fully implemented SDG 3,12,13 (Scope 2) UNGC Principle 8,9 Reduction of greenhouse 305-5 p.41 Fully implemented SDG 13 gas (GHG) emissions GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 UNGC Principle 7,8,9 Total weight of waste by 306-2 p.44 Fully implemented SDG 3,6,12 type and disposal method. GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 2016 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions UNGC Principle 8 SDG 307-1 p.44, p.51 Fully implemented for non-compliance with 8,16 environmental laws and regulations GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016 Percentage of new suppliers 308-1 p.52 that were screened using Fully implemented UNGC Principle 7, 8 environmental criteria GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 Total number and rate of UNGC Principle 6 401-1 p.14 employee turnover by age Fully implemented SDG 5,8 group, gender, and region. Benefits provided to fulltime employees that are not provided to temporary UNGC Principle 68 401-2 p.30 Fully implemented or part-time employees, SDG 8 by significant locations of operation GRI 402: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 2016 The collective agreement for fixed operations stipulates consultations with unions Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant regarding reorganization operational changes, processes, when these UNGC Principle 3 402-1 including whether it is processes result in the SDG 8 specified in collective reduction of the number of agreements. employees, with 20 calendar days before they become effective. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 65 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX MATERIAL TOPICS GRI Disclosure Page Omissions Title of Disclosure Status/Comment SDG/UN Global Compact GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint managementworker health and safety UNGC Principle 3 403-1 p.49 Fully implemented committees that help SDG 3, 8 monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programs. Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 403-2 p.13 absenteeism, and total Fully implemented SDG 3,8 number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender 100% coverage of health and safety topics within agreements with trade unions, respectively: personal protective equipment, joint management-employee Health and safety health and safety UNGC Principle 3 topics covered in formal 403-4 committees, participation SDG 3, 8 agreements with trade of worker representatives unions. in health and safety inspections, audits, and accident investigations, training and education, complaints mechanism, right to refuse unsafe work, periodic inspections. GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 Average hours of training per year per employee by UNGC Principle 6 404-1 p.30 Fully implemented employee category and by SDG 5, 8 gender Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the 404-2 p.30 continued employability Fully implemented SDG 8 of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular UNGC Principle 6 404-3 p.30 Fully implemented performance and career SDG 5,8 development reviews. GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category UNGC Principle 6 405-1 p.57 according to gender, age Fully implemented SDG 5,8 group, minority group membership, and other disclosures of diversity. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to UNGC Principle 6 405-2 p.14 men by employee category, Fully implemented SDG 5, 8 by significant locations of operation Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 66 CEO SETTING THE DIGITAL GOOD RISK METHODOLOGY GRI CONTENT STATEMENT SCENE SOCIETY CITIZEN MANAGEMENT INDEX MATERIAL TOPICS GRI Disclosure Page Omissions Title of Disclosure Status/Comment SDG/UN Global Compact GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 2016 Percentage of new suppliers UNGC Principle 1,2,10 414-1 p.52 that were screened using Fully implemented SDG 8, 16 social criteria. GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION 2016 No incidents of Total number of incidents of UNGC Principle 6 discrimination have been 406-1 p.48 discrimination and actions SDG 5,8 recorded during the taken. reporting period. GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY 2016 Telekom Romania was not Total value of political involved in any political UNGC Principle 10 415-1 contributions by country aspects and did not have SDG 16 and recipient/beneficiary any political contribution during the reporting period. GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health 416-2 p.44 Fully implemented SDG 3 and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. GRI 417: MARKETING AND LABELING 2016 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing 417-3 p.51 Fully implemented communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 2016 Total number of substantiated complaints 418-1 p.26 regarding breaches of Fully implemented customer privacy and losses of customer data. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 67 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION “Best CEO” and “Best Mobile Technology” awards for Telekom at Comunic@tii Mobile Gala. Miroslav Majoros, CEO of Telekom Romania, was awarded “Best CEO” at the fourteenth edition of the Comunic@tii Comunic@tii Mobile Gala Mobile Gala. In addition, the “Best Mobile Technology” award went to Telekom and Ericsson for the first 5G trial in Romania. HR Innovation Forum 2017 Carmen Dumitrache, Chief Human Resources Officer, awarded for best TedEx format speech structure. Telekom Romania Foundation won second place in the category “Supporting employees” for the “You choose and CSR Awards 2017 we help together!” project launched to offer financial support to employees and collaborators of the Telekom Group, in the CSR Awards 2017 Gala. Ruxandra Voda, President of the Telekom Romania Foundation won 2nd place for the best CSR manager who had Gala Capital Awards a significant involvement in social responsibility projects, competing with dozens of top management companies in Romania. According to the study made for the first time by Adrenallina Sport PR and The Azores, Telekom Romania ranks Top company involved in sports second in the Top of Companies involved in sports. 1. Allianz Asigurari Țiriac; 2. Telekom Romania; 3. BCR Business Woman Gala Telekom Romania awarded for Excellence in Brand Communication 2017 Telekom Banking awarded at the Piața Together with Alior Bank, we received the award for the best digital banking project in 2017. Financiară Awards Gala Telekom ranked 8th amongst 8 companies with a score over 50% in transparency and involvement in the CR field Telekom in top 10 CSR Index 2017 out of the 100 analyzed in a study made by The Azores. Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 68 GLOSSARY 4G Fourth generation of mobile technology, sometimes called LTE (Long Term Evolution) B2C Business to customer B2B Business to business BPO Business process outsourcing CSR/CR Corporate social responsibility/Corporate responsibility DNS Domain name system DVBC Digital video broadcasting cable (European consortium standard for the broadcast transmission of ERM digital television over cable) EBITDA Enterprise risk management Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization FTTH Fiber to the home GHG Greenhouse gas GBPS Gigabits per second GB Gigabits IaaS IaaS is a form of cloud computing that provides virtualized computing resources over the Internet IPVPN Internet Protocol Virtual private network (networking technology that allows users to connect over a public Internet connection to their main network remotely) IPTV Internet protocol television IOT Internet of things (a system of interrelated computing devices, mechanical and digital machines, objects, animals or people that are provided with unique identifiers and the ability to transfer data over a network without requiring human-to-human or human-to computer interaction) KPI Key performance indicator MBPS Megabits per second NGO Non-governmental organization RMS Risk Management System SAP-ERP Systemsenterprise resource planning software SME Small and medium enterprises SDG Sustainable development goals TB Terabyte TIC Information and communication technology TKR Telekom Romania Communication TKRM Telekom Romania Mobile Communication Telekom Romania Sustainability Report 2017 69
