PROGRESS REPORT GLOBAL COMPACT COP – Communication on Progress 2017 st st (1 of January 2017 to 31 December 2017) November 2018 PROGRESS REPORT GLOBAL COMPACT COP – Communication on Progress 2017 st st (1 of January 2017 to 31 December 2017) November 2018 1 Table of contents 1. STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT 3 2. GRUPO VISABEIRA 5 3. COMMITMENT TOWARDS THE COMMUNITY 9 3.1 PEOPLE 10 3.2 QUALITY, ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY 12 3.3 SOCIAL RESPONSABILITY 14 3.4 COMMUNICATION 16 4. THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT 19 4.1 HUMAN RIGHTS 19 4.2 LABOUR PRACTICES 21 4.3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 24 4.4 ANTICORRUPTION 27 2 1. STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT In 2017, the global economic activity confirmed the desired positive evolution of growth, having even exceeded expectations, both in the European Union and in the Euro zone. The Grupo Visabeira, driven by this favourable scenario and leveraged by its own dynamics, registered record highs in most of the main indicators These results show that the internationalisation strategy that the Group has been consolidating for several years now, which has enabled it to attain 64% of its turnover in the external market this year, is correct and will be vital for the future. In the year 2017, in addition to the reinforcing of Group’s position in the main countries where it is present, was marked by our entry into the Italian market, within our strategy of continually consolidating our presence in European markets, in countries such as France, Belgium, Germany and Denmark, where we already have an important presence, with our quality and excellence being recognised by the main operators in these countries. Every day, all around the world, approximately ten thousand highly qualified employees work to provide products and services that meet the highest standards of quality and rigour, thus honouring the Visabeira brand and demonstrating the capacity for achievement that characterises the group. Its Values – Innovation, Dynamism, Creativity, Ambition and Competitiveness – are transversal to all professionals working in the different areas of the organisation, which are Grupo Visabeira's most valuable asset. The many and varied distinctions that our companies and products have garnered fill us with pride but are also, and foremost, mainly, a testimony of the added value they represent in their markets. Grupo Visabeira also continues to focus its efforts on the development of a more just, people-centred, integrity-based, and innovative society, supported by transparency, committed to support, disclosure and following the Millennium Development Goals, respecting and promoting the human rights of all citizens, reducing social inequalities and environmental imbalances in the regions where it operates. 3 As an active member, we reinforce once again our commitment to further promoting the Global Compact and its principles as an important part of the company's strategy, culture and day-to-day operations, and would like to thank public this commitment of all our stakeholders, with them, we shall continue to follow the paths of the future, based on the competitive advantages of our brand, the training and expertise of our people and the partnerships we have been strengthening or expanding. We will continue to support the accountability and transparency of information, and therefore we commit ourselves to submitting an annual report on ongoing progress achieved, describing our effort to implement the 10 principles, according to the Global Compact Progress Report policy. Sincerely, Fernando Campos Nunes Chairman of the Board of Directors 4 2. GRUPO VISABEIRA 5 6 7 8 3. COMMITMENT TOWARDS THE COMMUNITY Our Commitment towards Sustainability Financial Sustainability Commitment to transparency, ethics and dialogue with shareholders Financial Sustainability Commitment to creating value and Economic delivering profitability to shareholders Dimension Communication Generating a flow of information content with which we share the activity with the stakeholders Involvement with society Commitment to a more just and equal society, promoting and supporting social causes Environment Social Dimension Dimension Excellent service Environment Commitment to service provision quality, Commitment to a balanced management trying to anticipate and exceed customer between conscious consumption and environmental preservation expectations People Important success factor in the Group's business activities Commitment to its employees’ health, safety as well as personal and professional development 9 3.1 The People Grupo Visabeira recognises that it favours as the fundamental vectors of its position, the virtuous triangle that comprises the quality of its services and products, the geographic expansion of its activities and the dynamics and rigour of its performance. The people, their skills, their professional growth and their abilities, flexibility, mobility and adaptability are key pieces, which come together around rigour and high standards as an individual attitude. Within this framework, the Group's human resource policy is geared towards a permanent continuous improvement of productivity and customer satisfaction. The cornerstone of this performance is the constant enhancing of our Employees' qualifications, their professional growth and the development of their skills. The number of employees working for the Grupo Visabeira grew from 9,674 in 2016 to 10,073 on 31 December 2017: PEOPLE 2017 2016 2015 2014 Visabeira Global 5.285 4.945 4.932 4.826 Visabeira Indústria 2.611 2.444 2.442 2.504 Visabeira Turismo 914 889 883 845 Visabeira Imobiliária 494 593 594 616 Visabeira Participações Financeiras 769 803 801 762 TOTAL 10.073 9.674 9.652 9.553 10 Vocational Training In a constantly changing professional context, training, in its various aspects, is a necessity more and more felt by professionals and fostered by the Group's companies, with a view to increasing their skills and abilities. We are faced with new and increasingly diversified and flexible needs in order to respond to the issues identified by Visabeira Potencial Humano and submitted by the various companies. The prospect of deepening knowledge and expertise in certain subjects is a growing concern and a key added value in today's competitive markets. The organisation's main goal is to promote innovative, quality and sustainable value training projects, which can contribute efficiently to maximise human potential, so as to underpin an unequivocal strategy to maximise service and product quality standards. In this context, 2017 was once again a year of consolidation of the training dedicated to the various areas of the companies of the Grupo Visabeira, which is viewed as a fundamental pillar for the success of each of its activities. Out of the set of achievements accomplished in 2017, highlight goes to 297 training actions, involving 2,409 trainees, mostly held at the Training Academy in Viseu. In this context, certifications were attributed to 99% of participants (2,385), segmented by the various areas of training provided by Visabeira Pro. Nearly 6,501 hours of training were administered, representing a training volume of 55,628 hours, corresponding to an average of 1.25 certified training sessions, involving 10 trainees per day. 11 3.2 Environment, Quality and Safety The sustainability of the business is a concern that has consistently guided the performance of the Grupo Visabeira; especially at a time when globalisation takes on a growing and determining role in the creation and affirmation of values. The current economic context is characterised by customers' expectations of interacting with organisations that are ethical, that have a good institutional image in the market and that act in an ecologically responsible manner. In this context, the Grupo Visabeira's management relies on a set of procedures, standards and practices that make Quality the ultimate goal throughout the organisation, while privileging the use of natural resources in an environmentally responsible way, avoiding irreversible impacts. This concept entails a concern with the use of clean technologies, minimisation of waste and the sustainable management of natural resources. Also within the scope of Occupational Health and Safety, its focus on obtaining certification for the companies' main Management Systems, combined with various actions to prevent accidents and with the continuous commitment to awareness raising and training of employees, allowed optimising working conditions and professional performance, which significantly improved indices in these areas. As a result of these guidelines, in 2017, a set of activities stand out within the scope of continuous improvement in the areas of quality, environment and safety, summarised below: ! Maintenance of the programme aimed at monitoring the flora (phytoplankton) and water quality in the Aguieira berth area, with the purpose of assessing the impact of docking activities on the reservoir's phytoplankton community; ! Continuous monitoring of good hygiene and food safety practices, in compliance with a control and audit programme that included, among other actions, over 250 microbiological analyses at the various units of Visabeira Turismo; ! Strengthening of continuous monitoring of best practices in terms of environment, quality and safety, namely through EQS visits and inspections in the telecommunications and energy sectors. 560 visits and/or inspections were held, involving over 2000 employees. In line with its strategic guidelines, the Grupo Visabeira, as an active member of the United Nations Global Compact, prepared its fifth Communication on Progress (COP) report, restating once again its commitment to further promoting the Global Compact and its principles as an important part of the company's strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. 12 Management Systems Grupo Visabeira defines the Environment, Quality and Security as permanent and priority goals. Proper management of the three components within the company strengthens this policy to ensure the greatest degree of satisfaction of its stakeholders. With its Environmental, Quality and Safety Policy, promoted among its main stakeholders, Grupo Visabeira is committed to take the necessary measures to: ♦ Comply with law applicable to the companies’ activity, customer requirements and regulation regarding the services provided; ♦ Comply with environmental, quality and safety procedures by the company in order to prevent pollution, technical failures, accidents and occupational diseases; ♦ Promote continuous improvement of the environment, quality and safety management system in order to meet stakeholder expectations; ♦ Establish and periodically review environmental, quality and security goals; ♦ Plan prevention and assess risk as well as the respective preventive measures for all levels and for all company activities; ♦ Train, inform and engage all employees in the management and development of the environment, quality and safety management system; ♦ Prevent and minimise environmental accidents; ♦ Ensure the protection of all employees, services providers as well as third parties, who directly or indirectly may be affected by our activities; ♦ Identify and minimize risks for the safety and health of employees, for facilities and for the work place; ♦ Promote communication and cooperation with interested parties; ♦ Promote and enforce this policy among service providers. 13 3.3 Social Responsibility In a proactive attitude, the Grupo Visabeira and all its companies have, for many years, continuously adopted a position of permanent and firm support to relevant initiatives in the field of social responsibility. Initiatives undertaken were aimed at supporting cultural, educational, social, recreational, leisure, wellness and sporting activities, and the company maintains a strong connection with the promoters. In 2017, the Grupo Visabeira continued to sponsor and support its two kindergartens and preschool nursery (Infantinhos da Vilabeira and Infantinhos da Quinta do Bosque), the management of which is entrusted to the Visabeira Foundation, which also carries out a social function, supporting the families of employees of Group companies and welcoming several children from the two geographical areas of the city. Internally, the Grupo Visabeira has once again carried out a set of initiatives aimed at supporting its employees. Summer and holiday season gatherings bring together thousands of employees from all companies of the Group in Portugal, in Mozambique and across all countries where the company is present. In terms of external operations, the first line of collaborations and partnerships in carrying out important actions included APPACDM – Association of Parents and Friends of the Mentally Handicapped Citizens of Viseu, the Volunteer Firefighters of Viseu, the Infantry Regiment No. 14, the Polytechnic Institute of Viseu, the Portuguese Catholic University, AIRV – Business Association of the Viseu Region and the Portuguese Red Cross, among others. Another initiative supported by the Grupo Visabeira is the “Viver a Vida” Gala, promoted by newspaper Correio da Manhã (CM) and CMTV, which was held in Viseu for the fifth time. On the social plane, as has been the case for several years now, the Grupo Visabeira has once again expressed its support to the International Bazaar of the Diplomatic Corps, an initiative promoted by the Portuguese Diplomats' Families Association. The proceeds of this year's bazaar, which included Bordallo Pinheiro and Vista Alegre pieces in porcelain and crystal, reverted to private social solidarity institutions. In terms of culture, the Grupo Visabeira continued to collaborate with the Grão Vasco National Museum and the Viriato Theatre, an institution that keeps a gallery for temporary st exhibitions on the 1 floor of the Palácio do Gelo Shopping, where it promotes its activities through photographs, posters, videos, documentaries and performances. Regarding the health sector, the Grupo Visabeira, through Montebelo Hotels & Resorts, maintains its connection with the humanitarian missions that have been, for several years th now, carried out by Portuguese NGO Health4Moz in Mozambique, in the field of preand post-graduate training. The 10 mission, organised by a group of doctors, nurses and other health technicians, took place in several Mozambican cities, especially Nampula and Beira. It mainly addressed oral health and maternal and child health. In 2017, another mission was also held in Maputo and in the city of Beira, this time addressing the issue of diabetes. This Learn4Moz mission integrated Portuguese voluntary physicians Paula Freitas and André Carvalho, who provided training to 35 Mozambican physicians. The training sessions took place at the Montebelo Indy Maputo Congress Hotel. 14 In the area of leisure and wellness, following its social responsibility policy, the ForLife health club promoted the Schwinn Cycling marathon, entitled Schwinn for Alzeimer's: Pedalling to Remember . The event brought together 90 athletes, who pedalled with the goal of raising awareness to the challenges of Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia in the community, as well as to raise funds for the Alzheimer's Support Centre in Viseu, to support the association, as well as families and caregivers. As it has done for several years now, the ForLife health club continued to promote several Open Days throughout the year, providing free access to some of the modalities available. With regard to actions aimed at informing and attracting the population to healthy practices, highlight goes to the Health Fair, an initiative that included workshops, risk assessments regarding various pathologies and initiatives to promote awareness and early diagnosis. The purpose of the event was to bring the CUF Viseu Hospital closer to the surrounding community, providing free demonstrations and assessments carried out by a multidisciplinary team of nurses, nutritionists and health technicians, who put themselves at the service of the population to give advice and clarify doubts. Also noteworthy at Palácio do Gelo Shopping was the celebration of the National Cerebral Palsy Day, with a musical concert titled “Consertar para a Vida” (Performing for Life) and a photographic exhibition under the theme “From Emotion to Rehabilitation”. In terms of exhibitions, the Palácio do Gelo Shopping continued to welcome several entities throughout the year, with several exhibitions, such as the annual exhibition by the Viseu Infantry Regiment, this year dedicated to Pieces and Shatters of the Great War – 1914-1918 . Highlight goes also to the exhibition of antique vehicles that, each year, take part in the tour organised by the House of Staff of the S. Teotónio de Viseu Hospital, paintings and ultralight airplane exhibitions (Aeroclube de Viseu), among others. In 2017, the Grupo Visabeira, through the Palácio do Gelo Shopping and the Montebelo Hotels & Resorts chain renewed its sponsorship for Académico de Viseu and Clube Desportivo de Tondela, two of the most important football clubs in the district. The Palácio do Gelo logo is printed on the front of the shirts of the professional football team Académico de Viseu, currently playing in the Ledman league, and is also visible in static advertising signs at the Fontelo Municipal Stadium. In turn, Clube Desportivo de Tondela, which plays in the first league, advertises the Group's brands at the João Cardoso Stadium, as well as on the background panel during press conferences. Vista Alegre has supported a number of cultural, sporting and social initiatives, for instance, offering trophies and pieces from its portfolio. These include the trophies for the Car of the Year/ Essilor Crystal Wheel Trophy, an initiative by Expresso and Sic Notícias, the Azores Ladies Open women's golf competition, held on the island of São Miguel, and the Taça Portugal Solidário , an initiative by Golfcom with the high sponsorship of the President of the Republic. Still in this area, we should also note that Vista Alegre was invited to design and manufacture the crystal trophy for the 2018 RTP Song Contest. 15 3.4 Communication The Grupo Visabeira and its companies are responsible for several achievements throughout the year, and communication is a fundamental corollary of their strategy, as it takes on an important role in the sustained development of all their business areas, in the consolidation and strengthening of their brands' notoriety and in their affirmation in the domestic and foreign markets. Visabeira Turismo, which had regular and sustained visibility over these months, managed to raise its level of notoriety and perception in the markets, anchored not only in the characteristics of its hotel, catering and leisure heritage, but also in the innovative initiatives that it implemented throughout the year. One of the most striking examples of this differentiating position was the charity event The Day After, intended to help the Central Portugal region, which was flogged by the fires of October 2017. The event, which mobilised civil society in the region and raised over 66,000 euros for the community, was the subject of wide media coverage, which greatly surpassed one hundred news items. General media, social magazines and television channels, such as TVI, Porto Canal and Correio da Manhã have repeatedly publicised the success of this initiative, which reopened, for one single exceptional day, one of the country's most mythical nightclubs. A few public figures, such as Catarina Furtado, Diogo Infante and Rui Reininho, joined this initiative, publicising the event through their social media profiles. In terms of events, highlight goes also to the ceremony of the “World Paddle Awards”, considered the Oscars of canoeing, held for the first time in Portugal, at the Montebelo Aguieira Lake Resort & Spa. This prestigious event, which distinguishes individualities connected to the sport, thus honouring the excellence efforts developed throughout the year, captured the attention of the media and was subject to extensive coverage by CMTV. Montebelo Aguieira was, along with Parador Casa da Ínsua, one of the most publicised units during 2017, not only for the events held there, such as the Schwinn Cycling Experience Ride, but also for the unique characteristics of the resort and the nautical activities it offers, which have been highlighted several times over the years, in magazines Evasões, Visão and Time Out, among other lifestyle and tourism media outlets. The show Imagens de Marca, on SIC Notícias and general interest TV channel SIC also gave wide media coverage to this five-star unit. During the year 2017 Visabeira Turismo assumed a clear and unequivocal position, aimed at promoting its facilities associated with the territory, as a choice destination for tourists. In this context, the campaign ICE + ICE Baby , which, as part of the 2017, Official Year to Visit Viseu initiative, intended to promote the Bar de Gelo and the Ice Rink at Palácio do Gelo Shopping, was launched at the Bolsa de Turismo de Lisboa trade fair and deserved particular attention from the media. Still within this philosophy, integrated with regional marketing, a few actions were promoted around the endogenous products of the region, such as Dão wines (medals earned by Casa da Ínsua wines) and Serra da Estrela cheese, both available at Parador Casa da Ínsua. This charm unit is one of the most appealing, in editorial terms, to the media, having, more than once, made the cover of magazines Evasões and Visão. 16 Visabeira Turismo units, particularly those boasting five stars, are a frequent presence on the pages of Portuguese newspapers, namely through the promotion of accommodation campaigns associated with festive dates or thematic initiatives. Visits by journalists and bloggers to the units have also provided some media return, such as the prominence given by Elle magazine and blog “Viaje Comigo” to Montebelo Vista Alegre Ílhavo Hotel or by Up Magazine to Montebelo Viseu Congress Hotel and Hotel Palácio dos Melos. The “Boa Cama Boa Mesa” Guide continues to be a regular communication partner for Visabeira Turismo, in which the Montebelo Hotels & Resorts chain has maintained its presence, with an excellent rating. The Palácio do Gelo Shopping also recorded a high flow of news, with particular emphasis to the celebration of its ninth anniversary, which was celebrated with a great fashion show that mobilised the country's general interest press and social magazines. This event stood out as the biggest fashion event in Central Portugal, once again presented by Catarina Furtado, with the presence of models and socialites, a performance by the band D.A.M.A., and full coverage by the main magazines and newspapers. The show “Fama Show”, on SIC, covered the fashion show, as did CMTV, Porto Canal and regional channel Viseu Now. The renewal of the Shopping Center store mix, with the opening of new and attractive stores, made news in the main regional media and in speciality and lifestyle publications. The 21st edition of the festival “Os Melhores Anos” [The Best Years] once again attracted the media's attention, with coverage reaching more than two dozen news items in local and regional media and in CMTV. With regard to companies in closer contact with the final consumer, Vista Alegre was among those that had the most impact on the media. The disclosure of the results for the first semester deserved the attention of the media, as the company presented historical figures. The 1.3 million euros in profits were reported in various print and online media outlets, such as Jornal Económico, Dinheiro Vivo, Negócios, Público, RTP Online and Correio da Manhã, among others. An ongoing presence that culminated in the month of December, with several references to Vista Alegre, such as the inauguration of the Christmas Tables Exhibition and the Vista Alegre Christmas Tree at the Museu da Misericórdia, in Porto, which generated over 50 news items. Also during this month, monthly and weekly publications included Vista Alegre and Bordallo Pinheiro items in their lists of Christmas gift suggestions. Also noteworthy was the broadcasting of RTP afternoon show, “Aqui Portugal” from the “Terreiro da Vista Alegre”, in Ílhavo, in which the background was the mythical Vista Alegre borough, which integrates the Vista Alegre porcelain factory, the Nossa Senhora da Penha de França chapel, the Theatre, the Museum, the former nursery – currently the Museum's educational services, the brand's shops and the Montebelo Vista Alegre Ílhavo Hotel. During this six-hour long show, several employees of the century-old company were interviewed live, and spectators got a close look at each stage involved in the manufacturing of Vista Alegre pieces, from modelling to painting, its almost 200-year-old history and the strength of a worldwide brand. The show also showcased the five-star unit integrated into the complex and presented a gastronomic suggestion signed by the team of chefs of the Montebelo Vista Alegre Ílhavo Hotel. The initiatives carried out by Bordallo Pinheiro also deserved special attention from the media, with highlight to the publication of a large number of news items concerning the piece Figo , created in partnership with artist Paula Rego. 17 In 2017, the brands Vista Alegre and Bordallo Pinheiro began to explore and invest in e-influencers, establishing partnerships with bloggers with a large number of followers who, by sharing the brand's products, reach a wide audience. An example of such actions was the presentation of the new catalogue of the century-old brand, the launch of a piece by Mestre Martins Correia and the inauguration of the Christmas tables exhibition and the Christmas Tree, which featured Vista Alegre plates and platters. Highlight goes also to the presence of Bordallo Pinheiro and Vista Alegre in the Brazilian market, where the posting of news about their products and news concerning the two brands by speciality bloggers is a growing trend. Another event that aroused the interest of the media was the consortium formed by Constructel France and Orange (France Telecom) to build an FTTH network in the French overseas territory of Martinique. The project, appraised at more than 100 million euros was disclosed in Jornal Económico, Jornal de Negócios and Diário de Notícias, among others. The inauguration of the new Mob store at Avenida da República, in Lisbon, and the commemoration of the 25 years of the Cerutil plant also made the headlines in various media outlets. In summary, during the year 2017, the activities of the Grupo Visabeira, as well as of the dozens of companies that make up its sub-holdings, were regularly publicised in media outlets such as Jornal de Notícias, Diário de Notícias, Público, Expresso, Jornal de Economia, Negócios, SIC, TVI, Porto Canal, CMTV, Regional daily newspapers of Viseu, Aveiro, Coimbra and Leiria, Jornal do Centro, and Fast Track, Flash, VIP, Visão and Sábado magazines, among other national, regional and local publications. INTERNAL COMMUNICATION Newsletter The MyVisabeira newsletter is distributed in digital format to all Group employees in Portugal and in all countries where Visabeira companies are based. In existence for several years, this newsletter guarantees access to news about the Group's activities, and has proven an excellent vehicle for internal dissemination. In 2017, its image and layout were renewed to give it a more current and appealing design. Intranet The Grupo Visabeira's Intranet continues to be a space intended for direct communication with employees, incorporating several platforms that integrate an online operational management policy. The Intranet disseminates knowledge on several internal programs, benefits for employees and protocols, among other information and work tools. 18 4. THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF GLOBAL COMPACT 4.1 Human Rights Human rights are international principles which serve to protect, guarantee and respect the human being. They should ensure people the right to live a dignified life, i.e. with access to freedom, work, land, health, housing, education, among other things. At Grupo Visabeira, respect for Human Rights is a fundamental practice, translating in everyday life into the adoption of the rights and freedoms in the Portuguese Constitution and in the countries where it develops its activities. Accepting these principles by all those who cooperate with Grupo Visabeira has been fundamental in ensuring conformity with the standards in force, thus allowing for maintaining the company’s image and for establishing solid and long-lasting partnerships with its shareholders. PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our Commitment towards Human Rights: ♦ Grupo Visabeira does not tolerate any form of abuse of human rights in the business activities developed by its companies; ♦ Grupo Visabeira ensures that it does not participate, does not facilitate nor does it benefit from human rights violations committed by any entity; ♦ Grupo Visabeira does not supply goods or services to any entity which may use them to carry out human rights violations; ♦ Grupo Visabeira ensures that none of its commercial partners commit or are complicit in human rights violations; ♦ Grupo Visabeira cooperates with civil society organisations and supports initiatives that aim to improve social conditions initiatives that aim to improve social conditions and provides support for society and the members of the communities where the Group’s companies are located. 19 Our Contribution in 2017: Over the years, Grupo Visabeira has been incorporating the Social Responsibility aspect in all of its business activities, intervening directly and indirectly with the community. Its constant goal is to support and associate with hubs that foster culture, leisure, education, sports, health and wellness. In this regard, the Group and its sub-holdings maintained a proactive and consistent attitude in 2017, implementing this goal in several actions and initiatives: ♦ The Group sought to create bonds with charitable causes and institutions, establishing partnership and supporting relationships. In this context, the Association of Parents and Friends of the Mentally Disabled Citizen of Viseu (APPACDM), the Volunteer Firefighters of Viseu, the Infantry Regiment 14, the Polytechnic Institute of Viseu and the Portuguese Catholic University, the Viseu Regional Business Association (AIRV), and other organisations have again given their contribution; ♦ The fifth Viver a Vida gala, promoted by the newspaper Correio da Manhã (CM) and CMTV, was sponsored by Grupo Visabeira, which was once again involved in organising the party; ♦ The Grupo Visabeira, through Montebelo Hotels & Resorts, maintains its connection with the humanitarian missions that have been, for several years now, carried out by Portuguese NGO Health4Moz in Mozambique, in the field of preand post-graduate training; ♦ In Mozambique, a partnership agreement was signed with law firm VdA Partners, which will allow transforming educational establishments and consequently improving study conditions for children and youths attending school. The schools are located in the so-called Human Development Zone of the Gorongosa National Park, which also serves to raise awareness to environmental sustainability and to the importance of preserving the park, where the Montebelo Gorongosa Lodge & Safari is located ♦ TV Cabo Moçambique, as part of one of its initiatives, donated 500 school folders to the Amílcar Cabral Primary School, located in the outskirts of Maputo; ♦ In a joint action with the Portuguese Red Cross, Palácio do Gelo promoted a solidarity campaign to collect supplies (clothing, furniture, appliances, non-perishable food...) to aid the victims of the massive fires that ravaged Central Portugal; ♦ The Day After reopened its doors for one night only charging an entry fee of 10 euros, which reverted to this cause. Nearly 4,600 people attended the events, generating a revenue of 66,084 euros, divided into fractions, as follows: 20,000 euros donated by Associação Mutualista Montepio were delivered directly to Cáritas Diocesana de Viseu, 37,854 euros were deposited in the solidarity account in benefit of the Viseu Dão Lafões Intermunicipal Community and the remaining 8,230 euros were paid to the state as VAT generated in the ticket sale. 20 4.2 Labour Practices Grupo Visabeira has always continued with a strategic investment in employee qualifications. In 2017, maintaining its strategy, which was mainly reinforced by investment in training focused on the international market, for greater business growth in the external activity of the Group. The labour practices at Grupo Visabeira are oriented by the Portuguese legislation and by the legislation of the countries where it develops its activities, and are based on the fundamental principles of the International Labour Organization (ILO). As an employer, the Group is aware that it contributes to one of the company's more widely accepted goals, in particular the improvement of living standards through full employment, employment security and suitable work. PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labour PRINCIPLE 6: Elimination of employment discrimination 21 Our Commitments to the Labour Practices: ♦ Grupo Visabeira recognises the importance of social dialogue and appropriate collective bargaining structures. Thus, the right of workers to constitute or join organizations to promote their interests or to bargain collectively is always respected and defended; ♦ At Grupo Visabeira safeguarding human rights is a fundamental practice. Thus, based on the laws of the countries in which it develops its activities, the Group recognises and requires of all representatives the total repudiation of all forms of work undermining fundamental human rights; ♦ Grupo Visabeira promotes health and safety in workplace, by providing safe and healthy workplace conditions, and enforcing the relevant legislation on occupational health; ♦ Grupo Visabeira do not discriminate against anyone on the basis of their gender, race, religion or any other characteristics or differences; ♦ Grupo Visabeira fully respects the fundamental rights at work identified by the International Labour Organization (ILO) (which is also included in the legislation) and it is not involved in nor does it benefit from any use of child labour; ♦ The Group also undertakes to report any situations it might come across, in order to promote global commitment to the effective abolition of child labour internationally; ♦ Grupo Visabeira positions itself as a plural and open entity, recognizing and actively respecting diversity, whatever its origin; ♦ Grupo Visabeira promotes lifelong learning, both inside and outside the company. 22 Our contribution during 2017: Grupo Visabeira continues to consider people as the key driver for success. In 2017 several initiatives in the area of labour practices were developed, among which we highlight the following: ♦ The company’s continuous focus on training, which involved in 2017 a total of 2409 employees, of which it is important to highlight occupational safety and health and firstcare, representing 66% and 9% of the trainees, respectively. This trend is expected to continue during 2018; ♦ In France, Constructel continues to base its growth strategy on recruiting young people and the unemployed, providing them with the necessary training, which allows them to enter or return to the labour market. The recruitment of these employees has been achieved through establishing partnerships with various institutions, namely Pôle Emploi , Mission Locale and Conseil Régional”; ♦ In Germany, Constructel GmbH implemented a safety and health management system at work, obtaining its certification according to OHSAS 18001 in December 2017. Also Constructel France and Constructel ApS in Denmark initiated the implementation of occupational health and safety management systems to obtain a certification up to 2019. The implementation of this system aims to promote the improvement of safety conditions at work through the effective management of risks in the workplace; ♦ In the industries, namely Cerutil, Bordallo Pinheiro and Vista Alegre Atlantis, the implementation of the Kaizen methodology has allowed greater involvement of employees within the company's procedures. This methodology allows, in addition to productivity gains, to improve employee well-being, since it allows for improving their place of work; ♦ With a view to strengthening team spirit and consolidating interpersonal relationships, Grupo Visabeira has promoted various initiatives for its employees, such as summer meetings before holidays, and traditional Christmas dinners, which involve several thousand employees; ♦ At the level of the promotion of equal opportunities, Fénix programme continues to be the internal tool for voluntary applications of employee and/or in consensus with the organisation. This is a structured program of voluntary applications from employees and/or under an agreement with the company, setting out to provide temporary or lasting professional experiences, properly framed and predictably advantageous for both parties, in order to render their performance more effective and efficient. 23 4.3 Environmental Protection Environmental protection is influenced by three interrelated factors: environmental legislation, ethics and education. Each of these factors plays a role in influencing environmental decisions at the national level and environmental values and behaviours on a personal level. For protecting the environment to become a reality, it is important that societies develop each of these areas that, together, will inform and manage environmental decisions. Taking on this challenge, Grupo Visabeira adopts and motivates the implementation of best environmental practices, promoting an eco-efficient management that minimizes environmental impacts arising from the activity of the units of the company. Thus, the responsible natural resource use, which is a common practice within Grupo Visabeira, increasingly imposes itself as a must for the organization. We thus take up the dual responsibility of staying focused on contributing towards preserving and improving the environment, while also providing products and services that customers can value and recognize as being the result of decisive actions towards environmental enhancement. The minimisation of environmental impacts and the involvement of all employees, both internal and external, has been instrumental in promoting the spreading of a growing environmental responsibility within the Group. PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and spreading of environmentally friendly technologies 24 Our Commitment to Environmental Protection: ♦ To adopt and promote the implementation of the best environmental practices, fostering an eco-efficient management that minimizes environmental impacts resulting from the activity of the Group’s business units and makes a rational use of natural resources; ♦ To encourage the adoption of sustainable lifestyles and correct environmental practices among clients and the community in general; ♦ Comply with environmental legislation applicable to the company’s activity, customer requirements and regulation applicable to services provided; ♦ Comply with environmental procedures established by the company in order to prevent all forms of environmental pollution; ♦ Grupo Visabeira is committed to preventing and minimising environmental accidents that may result from its companies’ activities; ♦ We are committed as well to train, inform and engage all employees in the management and development of Grupo Visabeira environmental management system; ♦ Grupo Visabeira also seeks to develop and adopt sustainable technologies, best suited to its companies’ activities. 25 Our contribution during 2017: Minimising environmental impacts and involving key stakeholders is a predominant factor in the disclosure of increased environmental accountability in the Group's business activities. Thus, in 2017 a number of measures to minimise and mitigate environmental impacts were implemented and reinforced, such as: ♦ Pinewells obtained in 2017 the certification of SBP (Sustainable Biomass Partnership) allows for ensuring that biomass used in production is legal and sustainable. This system develops tools to demonstrate that the biomass used in pellet production is economically, environmentally and socially sustainable and that it contributes to low carbon consumption. SBP also provides means for collecting data, enabling the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the production process; ♦ Constructel France continued its project of renewing its vehicles equipped with a system of upgrade, which consists of using electrical systems over those fed by fossil fuels. This is a project that has already allowed a significant reduction in fuel consumption during 2014, which was reinforced in 2015, 2016 and 2017 and will continue in 2018; ♦ The implementation of the Geolocation system in vehicles, has allowed for optimising the movements of technicians in different daily interventions, allowing for knowing who is closer to the urgent interventions in real time. This system marks an important step in regards to sustainability of the company, since it monitors consumption and kilometres, allowing the continuous improvement of eco-conduction procedures adopted by drivers, with gains either in the economic aspect, and especially in the environmental aspect; ♦ Maintenance and optimisation of Energy Rationalization Plans covering the largest vehicles fleets of the Group's companies, namely Viatel and Visabeira; ♦ In Germany, Constructel GmbH implemented an environmental management system, obtaining its certification according to the standard ISO 14001 in December 2017. Also Constructel France and Constructel ApS in Denmark initiated the implementation of environmental management systems, to obtain a certification up to 2019. The implementation of these systems aims to create a balance between profitability and the reduction of the environmental impact from the companies; ♦ In the area of tourism, with a unique national project in this kind of reservoirs, the monitoring of the flora (zooplankton) and of water quality in the Aguieira Anchorage area, aims to continuously assess the impact of the anchorage's activities on the reservoir's zooplankton community. 26 4.4 Anticorruption One of the main guidelines of the Group's compliance with all applicable laws, rules and internal and external regulation, involving all employees in the priority of implementation and dissemination of practices, bearing in mind the commitment to achieving personal and company goals. The Group is also oriented so that its actions are guided by ethics and awareness of all towards preventing activities and conduct that may denigrate or cause harm to or damage its image. Grupo expects all employees to act with honesty, transparency and integrity and repudiates their involvement in any irregular or fraudulent acts. Promote equal opportunities for personal and professional development, promote rotation and flexibility and reward merit and achieve goals in a healthy team spirit, which are the pillars of the Organization. Assuming legal compliance, respect for the others, the environment and the society, as a way to achieve success, is the practice that should guide the daily lives of each one of us. PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 27 Our Anti-Corruption Commitments: ♦ Act with professionalism, responsibility and rigor, ensuring the continuation of conduct that continuously safeguards the interests of the Group; ♦ Adopt a responsible and balanced stance and promote civil conduct aware of and respectful of others and of oneself under any circumstances; ♦ Not tolerate any form of harassment or behaviour that undermines the dignity of employees or third parties; ♦ Grupo Visabeira, SGPS, SA and its employees are committed to conducting business in a legal, ethical and professional manner. This is the behaviour adopted during the conduct of business and before anti-corruption laws, enforcing a proactive attitude in order to combat corruption in all its settings, including bribery, embezzlement, extortion or other forms of illegal acts in its relations with third parties; ♦ Grupo Visabeira ensures its total independence and its companies vis-à-vis public institutions, partisan organizations and related entities, without prejudice to business relationships related to the sale of products or services; ♦ Grupo Visabeira will not allow any corrupt practices by its representatives; ♦ Grupo Visabeira's policy is to do business only with reputable, honest and qualified third parties. Our contribution during 2017: Creativity, innovation, competitiveness, dynamism and ambition: these are the Group’s core values in its entire doings. These values, associated to the Visabeira brand, are the stepping stone for the Group’s positioning. They also guide the actions of every single employee in the organization. The mission of our entire team is to continuously improve and innovate the products and services that make up the Group’s global portfolio. In order to achieve these objectives, in 2017, the code of conduct of Grupo Visabeira was elaborated and disclosed to the collaborators. The purpose of this document is to summarize the main principles and rules that govern the internal and external relations of the Group’s business units, companies and other bodies, its employees, managers and partners. 28
