SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 2 3 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report INDEX A message to our stakeholders 4 1. B&B Italia 6 2. Timeless innovation 19 3. Timeless quality 27 4. Timeless responsibility 37 Methodological note 45 Appendix environmental data 48 GRI Content Index 51 B&B ITALIA the reason for form (advertising page 1979) The reason for form: the oldest question of man, attempting to understand the universe around him, becomes a rational necessity when he invents form. Especially in contemporary interior design, many seek the reason in a technical or functional direction. We seek it in the vastness of the human senses. 4 5 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report A message to our stakeholders Since 1966, B&B Italia has made the history of the Italian manufacturing and culture, introducing a series of innovations that have revolutionised the furnishing sector at a global level. After over five decades, our Company is still considered as a pioneer in this sector, constantly pushing the frontier of research to produce “timeless design” that survives both physically and aesthetically to the passing of time. As every important celebration, 2016 was a crucial milestone. Our first 50th anniversary was not only an opportunity to celebrate the achievements that made B&B Italia what it is today – a vibrant Company that continues to grow and invest in spite of markets uncertainties and international competition – but represented also the ideal backdrop against which to think about our future, starting from our heritage and legacy. In a context of increasingly scarce resources and heightened social pressures, at B&B Italia, we are committed to make sustainability part of the next pages of our corporate history. Design companies face many challenges: from the choice of materials, to the mitigation of environmental and social impacts along the value chain and products lifecycle. B&B Italia aims to explore these realms in the next few years with the same spirit of avant-gardism and constant curiosity that has always characterized our Company. Indeed, sustainable development is inherently linked to our long-term vision, a concept that – as shown in the next pages – can be connected to our vocation to innovate, to our product quality and durability, to our quest of operational excellence and to our long-term responsibility to act with integrity with all our stakeholders. In order to put this commitment into practice, in 2016, we subscribed to the United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) initiative and we started to collect and monitor data and information to produce this first Sustainability Report. The non-financial reporting process has been helping us to work on our internal awareness on sustainability issues and to identify the most important improvement areas, which are the starting point to identify ESG targets and objectives for the future. Furthermore, this document is a tool to communicate externally our commitment to the ten principles of the Global Compact, with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, making them part of the Company’s culture and day by day operations, and measuring our results while aiming a continuous improvement. Passion, determination and innovation are the pillars on which we want to leverage all along this new path, to continue to improve and to achieve increasingly positive results, thanks to the collaboration with the community of our stakeholders, to whom I take the occasion to address my warmest thanks. Giorgio Busnelli Chairman photography by Valerio Vincenzo for Surface Media 6 7 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report 1. B&B Italia “The world is changing because of design; on the other hand, design Established in 1975, Maxalto presents a distinctive know-how in the keeps changing shape, importance, meaning. In this context, a business processing of the highest quality materials, especially wood. Initially run cannot stand still; it must find ways to operate in this new world. This by Afra and Tobia Scarpa, Maxalto inherited the craft traditions of Italian involves financial partnerships, collaborations. The view of the world must woodworking. Since 1993, Antonio Citterio has coordinated Maxalto’s change and evolve.” collections and has facilitated the widening of the products offer, currently (Dejan Sudjic, Director of the London Design Museum) covering a range of fittings for the living room and the bedroom. Besides its Home Division segment, B&B Italia operates through the 1.1 B&B at a glance B&B Italia S.p.A. (hereinafter also referred to as “B&B Italia”) is a leading Contract Division, which is dedicated to complete turnkey projects in Italian design furnishings Company. Established in 1966 as the result of the hospitality, corporate, marine and retail sectors and is specialized in the entrepreneurial vision of Piero Ambrogio Busnelli, B&B Italia has built the management and coordination of the most complex interior projects, its success on the ability to represent contemporary culture through defrom design to installation. The Contract Division integrates design, prosign and to anticipate trends, constantly seeking to respond to changes duction, project management and logistics, with a constant pursuit of in taste and living needs. technical and service excellence. The materials, finishes, fabrics, leathers and coatings are conceived to meet the demands of the contract sector, both in terms of function and in terms of aesthetics, which means B&B Italia S.p.A. considering each project as unique, while ensuring the use of advanced technology, strict quality controls, and optimized logistics. B&B Italia’s attention to details and passion for excellence allows the Contract Division to participate in ambitious and renowned projects. Recent jobs range from the Bulgari Hotel by Antonio Citterio in London to the Aman Canal Grande Resort Hotel in Venice, the Excelsior Hotel Gallia in Milan, the Peninsula Hotel in Paris, the executive offices of the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company and a series of prestigious international projects in the cruising and office sectors. With registered revenues of approximately Euro 190 million in 2016, B&B is currently present in more than 80 Countries worldwide and employs 510 people, mainly located in its Novedrate and Misinto sites. Over the years, B&B has created an exclusive network of 900 highly professional 100% B&B Italia 100% B&B Contract B&B Asia 100% 100% Thea 1958 S.r.l. dealers and approximately 40 mono-brand stores1, cementing its interUSA Inc. France sas Pacific Ltd. national presence with the opening of wholly owned flagship stores in leading capital cities around the world. Today, 7 B&B Italia flagship stores 70% can be found in major design hotspots in Milan, London, Paris, Munich, New York (2 owned and managed stores) and Washington DC. 100% B&B Italia 100% B&B Italia Contract London Ltd. Projects S.r.l. Arclinea S.p.A. In 2015, Investindustrial acquired a majority stake of B&B Italia, with the goal of supporting the Company in preserving the continuity of its unique corporate history, at the same time marking a new phase of expansion. Against this backdrop, in September 2016, B&B Italia signed an agreement to become the majority partner of Arclinea2, an Italian 100% B&B Italia 49% B&B Italia Company leader in high-end designer kitchens. This strategic partnerMiddle East Design Excluding the 7 flagship stores 1 München GmBH cited on the following. ship aims at enhancing the complementary nature of B&B and Arclinea and Forniture LLC Due to its recent acquisition, 2 products by building on their shared ability to merge design, tradition and Arclinea is not included in this report innovation through their industrial production approach. 100% B&B Italia Paris SARL Arclinea Founded in 1925 by Silvio Fortuna, Arclinea began as an artisanal workshop specializing in wood processing. Within a few decades, the Company acquired the expertise that allowed it in the late Fifties to emerge as an industrial reality. The Company is present on the residential furniture market with both the Since those early times, the evolution of Arclinea is the story of a pioneer proposing brave ideas and B&B Italia and Maxalto Collections. The two collections have unique gaining the authority to dictate new trends in home environments, an aspect that strongly resonates with brands and individual identities, yet express the same philosophy, namely B&B Italia’s own history. In 1958, as an example, the Company presented the first modular kitchen made a balanced blend of innovation and design to create products, whose from natural wood (Thea), followed by Claudia (1963) the first Italian kitchen with integrated appliances, unique style and elegance are unmistakable. an absolute novelty on the market. Additional innovation continued to spark in the following decades, also thanks to the collaborations with numerous designers among whom – starting from the Eighties – Starting from its 50-year-long tradition in upholstered furniture, the B&B Antonio Citterio, who became in the Nineties the sole reference designer. Italia collection has progressively widened the number of solutions it proChoosing to produce strictly in Italy, Arclinea has created a special and unique method to imagine, design, vides from home environments, to outdoor spaces, offices and public and build the best kitchens. The Company today employees approximately 100 people and operates in areas, with its product range progressively including chairs, tables, desks over 40 countries, through a distribution network that includes 19 flagship stores, and more than 200 storage units, wardrobes, wall-systems and furnishing complements. multi-brand stores operated by Arclinea partners. 8 9 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report B&B Italia international presence B&B Italia STORES Maxalto STORES Europe Americas Asia Middle East / Africa B&B Italia Milano B&B Italia Wien B&B Italia New York B&B Italia Seattle B&B Italia Tokyo B&B Italia Busan B&B Italia Dubai Maxalto is a B&B Italia brand. Via Durini 14, Milano Franz-Josefs Kai 45 1010 Wien 150 East 58th Street 1300 Western Avenue 1, 3F Aoyama OMSquare 2-5-8, 454, Jwadong Sunhwan-Ro, Jumeirah Beach Road Jumeirah 3 For additional information T. 02 76 44 41 T. +43 (0) 1 533 55 00 New York, NY 10155 Seattle, WA 98101 Kita Aoyama, Haeundae-Gu, Busan, next to Dubai offshore Sailing Club on the Maxalto collection please visit store.milano@bebitalia.it Info@bebitalia-wien.at T. 212 758 4046 T. 206 287 9992 Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-0061 T. +82 (0)51 731 3470 Dubai UAE T. 971 43466932 our Maxalto or B&B Italia Stores. info.usa@bebitalia.com seattle@divafurniture.com T. 03 3478 3837 infini@infini.co.kr baituti@baituti.com B&B Italia “Scalo Milano” B&B Italia Athens info@bebitalia.co.jp Via Milano 5, Locate Triulzi (MI) 358 Kifisias Ave, B&B Italia Madison Avenue B&B Italia Sun Valley www.bebitalia.co.jp B&B Italia Bangkok B&B Italia Abu Dhabi T. +39 328 5905162 15233 Halandri Athens 135 Madison Avenue 350 Walnut Avenue 523 Mahaprutharam Road Shop 1 Al Ain Tower, Khalidiya Americas scalomilano@internionline.it T. 0030 210 6847720 New York, NY 10016 Ketchum, ID 83340 B&B Italia Beijing 10500 Bangkok, Thailand Abu Dhabi UAE http://scalomilano.bebitalia.it info@deloudis.gr T. +1 212 889 9606 T. 208 928 6379 1st floor, International Hall 5, T. +66 2 237 6999 T. + 971 2 2222 566 info.usa@bebitalia.com rob@arsunvalley.com Easyhome at North badipol.ch@yipjacks.com bebitalia@livinginteriors.ae Maxalto Los Angeles B&B Italia Genova B&B Italia Istanbul 4th Ring Road, Beijing, China 8811 Beverly Blvd. Via Macaggi 41 R, 16121 Genova Dereboyu Cd. No. 78, B&B Italia Washington DC B&B Italia Mexico City T. 0086 10 84648161 B&B Italia Ho Chi Minh City B&B Italia Beirut Los Angeles, CA 90048 T. 010 8446734 Ortaköy Istanbul 3320 M Street Northwest Avenida Presidente Masaryk 275, beb@designspace.com.cn 1st Floor Times Square Building An Nahar Building. T. 310 986 6448 bebitalia@fedesign.it T. +90 212 327 0595 Washington DC 20007 Esquina con Temístocles, Colonia Polanco, 22-36 Nguyen Hue Boulevard & 57-69F Martyrs Sqaure, Dowtown info@divafurniture.com http://genova.bebitalia.it info@mozaikdesign.com T. 202 337 7700 Delegación Miguel Hidalgo, C.P. 11560, B&B Italia Shanghai Dong Khoi Street, Ben Nghe Ward, T. +961 1971444 info.usa@bebitalia.com Ciudad De Mexico, Local B Unit L1-W10, No. 168 Hubin Rd., District 1, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam bebitalia@cercle.me Maxalto Miami B&B Italia London B&B Italia Cyprus bebitalia@piso18casa.com Huangpu District, Shanghai 200021 T. 0084-8 66 840 333 30 NE 39th St, Miami, FL 33137 250 Brompton Road 50 Limassol Avenue B&B Italia Los Angeles T. (+86) 21 60751000 bebitalia@eurasia-concept.com B&B Italia Tel Aviv Tel: 305-572-2900 London SW3 2AS 2014 Nicosia Cyprus 8801 Beverly Boulevard B&B Italia Sao Paulo info@arealiving.cn 3 Hatarucha Street info@maxaltomiami.com T. 020 7591 8111 T. 00357 22758788 Los Angeles, CA 90048 Avenida Brasil 1653 Jardim America B&B Italia Manila 63509, Tel Aviv, Israel store.london@bebitalia.it furn-art@spidernet.com.cy T. 310 278 3191 CEP: 01431-001 São Paulo (SP) Brasil B&B Italia Hong Kong Twenty-four Seven McKinley T. 972 3 7449935 info@divafurniture.com T. +55 11 3368-6033 31st floor. China Online Center Corner of Seventh Avenue, studio3@bebitalia.co.il B&B Italia Paris bebitalia@casualmoveis.com.br 333 Lockhart Road, Wanchai 24th Street & McKinley Parkway, www.theboxfurniture.co.il Asia 35, Rue du Bac B&B Italia Miami Hong Kong Bonifacio Global City Philippines 75007 Paris 2331 Ponce de Leon Boulevard B&B Italia Belo Horizonte T. +852 2295 6263 T. +63 2 634 85 87 B&B Italia Accra T. 01 55 35 14 35 Coral Gables, FL 33134 Rua Andaluzita, 125 Carmo Sion, bebitalia@colourliving.com corporate@focusglobalinc.com No. 6,7, 9 Liberation Road Maxalto Hong Kong info@bebitalia.fr T. 305 448 7367 Belo Horizonte (MG) www.bebitaliamanila.com Accra, Ghana C/O Déntro Shop C, info@luminaire.com T. +55 31 3281 4882 B&B Italia Kaohsiung T. 0023.244656566 Lg/F, Ruttonjee Centre, B&B Italia Saint-Tropez www.luminaire.com contato@casualmoveis.com.br 67, Minquan 1st Rd., B&B Italia Jakarta bebitalia@forbghana.com 11 Duddell Street, Central Avenue Maréchal Foch Kaohsiung, Taiwan 80251 Jl. Kemang Raya No. 17 Hong Kong, China quartier Saint Roch B&B Italia Dallas T. +886 7 332 7676 Jakarta 12730 Indonesia T. 00852 28668829 83992 Saint-Tropez 1707 Oak Lawn Avenue, service@bonmaison.co T. +62 21 7180349 info@dentro.com.hk Tel. 0033.494457720 Dallas, TX 75207 bebitalia@magran.co.id contact@bebsttropez.fr T. 214 389 9513 B&B Italia Taipei Maxalto Ho Chi Minh City bebdallas@internum.com 39, Sec. 2, Dunhua S. Rd., B&B Italia New Delhi 1st Floor Times Square Building B&B Italia Lyon Taipei, Taiwan 10681 DLF Chattarpur Farms 2, North Drive 22-36 Nguyen Hue Boulevard & 57-69F 22 Rue Auguste Comte B&B Italia Houston T. +886 2 2755 5855 110074 Chattarpur, New Delhi Dong Khoi Street, Ben Nghe Ward, 69002 Lyon 3303 Kirby Drive, service@bonmaison.co Tel. +91 999 969 3093 District 1, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Tel. 0033 09 86 56 21 53 Houston, TX 77098 bebitalia@latendenza.com T. 0084-8 66 840 333 bebitalia@maisonhomedesign.fr T. 832 242 9470 B&B Italia Taichung bebitalia@eurasia-concept.com bebhouston@internum.com 211, Chaofu Rd., B&B Italia Berlin Taichung, Taiwan 40757 Torstrasse 140 B&B Italia Austin T. +886 4 2258 5632 10119 Berlin temporary address service@bonmaison.co T. 0049 3024 0477377 1009 West 6th Street, Suite 120 info@minimum.de Austin, TX 78703 B&B Italia Seoul T. 512 617 7460 6-15 Chungdam-dong B&B Italia München bebaustin@internum.com Gangnam-gu, Seoul Maximiliansplatz 21 T. + 82 2 3447 6000 80333 München B&B Italia San Francisco infini@infini.co.kr T. 089 461 368 0 2211 Alameda Street, info@bebitalia.de San Francisco, CA 94103 T. 415 565 0900 sales@arksf.com B&B Italia Flagshipstore 10 11 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report >90 % 2016 in figures 1.2 A history of craftsmanship B&B Italia’s history highlights the substantial contribution of the Company 510 and industrial capabilities to the development of the Italian design industry. Since the Sixties, B&B Italia has blended the traditional abilities of Italian artisans together with solid industrial capabilities and a vocation for avant-garde. This mix has Employees allowed the Company to establish itself as one of the most renown and disruptive innovators in the furniture and upholstery sector. with permanent contract Founded in Novedrate in 1966 as C&B (Cassina and Busnelli) and headquartered – starting from 1972 – in one of the first iconic building de190 People signed by Renzo Piano and Richard Rogers, the Company was named “B&B Italia” in 1973, when Piero Ambrogio Busnelli acquired its full shareholding from the Cassina family. In 1975, the acquisition of the craft chairmaker Maspero, re-named as “Maxalto”, led to the completion of the 63.5 Company’s product range, as we know it today. % In 1987, B&B Italia changed the rules of the game in upholstered furniture, putting a modular system of sofa components on the market for the first time, and making the sofa the natural place to lounge. In early 2000s, B&B Italia was among the first Italian design companies to bet on interEmployees nationalization, with the progressive opening of stores in London, Paris, Million Milan, New York, Beijing, Taipei, Monaco. living within 15 km Value generated After over a decade on international expansion and continuous innovation, in 2015, Investindustrial acquired a majority stake of B&B Italia: the new set-up, with Giorgio Busnelli as CEO, was designed to preserve the continuity of a unique corporate history and it marked a new phase for the firm and its brands. 50 years of B&B Italia In 2016, B&B Italia celebrated its 50th anniversary. To promote this important milestone, the Company launched a strategic and integrated communication project – “R-evolution Communication” – with a strong The 50th anniversary advertising campaign published in seven countries (Italy, Germany, focus on culture as a way to highlight the importance and persistence of UK, USA, France, Belgium and Switzerland). B&B values to the outside world. 2.44 4,234 Million 7 R&D investments 8 tCO2eq GHG Emissions Extensions of product range New products 12 13 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report To this end, B&B Italia launched three special projects: 1.3 Governance and integrity B&B S.p.A. has implemented a control and governance system based The book, The Long Life of Design in Italy: B&B Italia 50 Years and on: Beyond, published by Skira, encompasses the Company's strategies, A Board of Directors, comprising seven members3, which is encollaborations with leading international architects and designers (intrusted with all the powers to ensure the ordinary and extraordinary cluding significant contributions from Renzo Piano, Ferruccio De Bortoli management of the Company. and Deyan Sudjic), the history, the products and the places that have A Board of Statutory Auditors, comprising a Chair, two titular membuilt B&B Italia’s success story; bers and two alternate members. The Company also appointed an in-T  he film B&B Italia: Poetry in the Shape. When Design meets Industry, dependent auditing firm. made by Sky Art and previewed at the Milan Design Film Festival; -T  he installation B&B Italia/The Perfect Density at the Milan Triennale. Company boards and officers Board of Directors President and CEO Giorgio Busnelli 50 years of B&B Italia: the result of the media campaign Directors Antonio CItterio Gabriele Del Torchio Alessandro Fogo Media Rolando Gorla Roberto Maestroni Press articles Link to press releases: http://www.dmr.st/book/beb/best50/press.html Dante Razzano Board of Auditors Chair Mara Vanzetta Titular members Maurizio Maffeis Giovanni Tedeschi offline 27countries 145 articles 298 pages online 45 articles Alternate members Giovanna Canta Carlotta Veneziani External auditors KPMG SpA Social media Corporate Governance Panel Chair Gabriele Faggioli 20,000 62,000 1,700,000 new fans interactions contacts worldwide Mario Introzzi 1,400 mention organic growth Compliance to the law, transparency, loyalty, fairness, impartiality, good #50bebitalia faith and the development of human resources are the ethical values and principles that have guided B&B Italia since the Company was first established. They are encompassed in the Code of Ethics, the official document and primary tool aimed at creating the premises for the manageThe Perfect Density exhibition ment of relationships with the market and all of its counterparts. Through The Perfect Density exhibition, designed by Migliore and Servetto Architects, is an unexpected interpreits Code, B&B Italia S.p.A. interprets the concept of integrity not only as a tation of the path of B&B Italia through creativity, technology and innovation. Spreading B&B Italia history set of rules to follow, but as an integral part of its business conduct. This and future vision, the exhibition attracts a wide range of visitors. means considering ethics as the skill to combine the Company’s busi“Density” relates to B&B Italia in a broad sense from the product physical and material nature to the ness activities with the respect and protection of the interests of all stakeconceptual one: density of ideas and projects, always projecting the Company into the future, through holders and the conservation of environmental resources. The objective a continuous drive for innovation. By mixing stories of people, products and processes, the installation, is to ensure that the fundamental values of the Company are constant set up in April 2016 at the Triennial Exhibition in Milan, provides a symbolic representation of the pulsatreference points for everybody in the execution of his/her job. ing brain of B&B Italia. Eight high vertical cages pulsate with images, words and videos. Like the synapses of a large brain, As part of their several functions and responsibilities, B&B Italia’s direcshaken by light inputs, ideas run on moving ribbons, wrapping the visitor in a continuous immersion. Two tors, senior managers, suppliers, employees, freelance workers and aucontinuous bands project a suggestive environmental video that generates infinite reflections in a play ditors must comply with the Code’s general principles and must ensure of mirrors: a fusion of micro-stories that relate to corporate identity through images, graphics, products that others comply with them likewise. Compliance with the Code is also and people. explicitly required to all outside parties, which have dealings with the Furthermore, B&B Italia organized a series of roadshows, events and initiatives (i.e. conferences, exhibiCompany and/or act on its behalf for any reason, and to anyone undertions and installations) in museums, public spaces and in B&B Italia’s stores. The Company arranged taking actions related to B&B Italia. three special evenings at the Morgan Library & Museum in New York, the Tate Modern in London and at the Triennale in Milan. Internationally renowned architects and designers, as well as representatives of Furthermore, the Code is one of the tools to guarantee the effective the cultural and institutional worlds, took part to these celebrations, opening the way to the diffusion of prevention, detection of and contrast to the infringements of the laws the same format in Barcelona, Dallas, New York, and Singapore. and the regulations applicable to its operation. In particular, the Code is an integral part of the Model of Organization, Management and Control adopted by B&B Italia to prevent the execution, on its behalf and/or to its benefit, of the crimes for which there is an administrative liability, as provided by the Italian Legislative Decree 231/01 (hereinafter called “Model 231”). The design of the Model 231 has included the analysis of the main risks and the mapping of operating areas potentially subject to those risks. As foreseen by the Model 231 and applicable legislation, the Board of DirecAmong them, two board members are 3 between 30 and 50 years old, while the tors appointed a Supervisory Body (Organismo di Vigilanza) with the task remaining five members are more than 50 of controlling the implementation and compliance with the Model 231 years old. All the board members are men. and its updating process. The Supervisory Board comprises two external 14 15 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report members, who fulfill the regulatory requirements in terms of autonomy, 1.5 Timeless design for “Things that stand the test of time” has been the payoff of B&B Italia independence and continuity and a secretary. sustainability advertising for over forty years. Today, as yesterday, these words enThanks to the correct functioning of its compliance and ethics system, capsulate the Company corporate philosophy: products that are flawless B&B did not incur in any significant monetary and non-monetary sancin terms of functionality, materials, quality of construction, usability and tions, including anti-corruption ones, during reporting years 2014-2016. design; products made to last. Durability is an unmistakable mark of the identity of B&B Italia. It describes not only the Company’s business approach, but also its interpretation of 1.4 Strategy and value creation Inspired by the dynamism and insight of its founder, in the last few years sustainable development, as demonstrated, firstly and foremost, by the B&B Italia has worked to respond to the trends and challenges that durability of B&B Italia’s products. Long product lifecycles indeed lead to characterize the furniture and upholstered sectors. Internationalization conservation of natural resources and to reduced environmental impact, has been a key element in these regards: foreign markets account towhich represents a key element for manufacturing firms especially in the day for over 84% of the Company’s revenues. The firm's most important furniture sector. markets, in order of total sales, are the United States, Italy, Germany, In this context, Timeless design, the formula that describes B&B Italia’s the UK and France; Middle East and Far East markets have also grown overall vision, is inherently linked to sustainability and to the Company’s remarkably in the last few years. Greater China leads the way in this part commitments in three major domains: innovation, quality and community of the World, a performance destined to become even stronger after the relations. opening of a mono-brand store in Shanghai in 2016. Thanks to its strategy centered on products’ quality and durability, and by constantly investing into innovation and research, the Company has achieved important economic performances in the last few years. This Timeless innovation: resulted into a 17.9% increase in the economic value distributed to major throughout its history, B&B Italia has been at the forefront of research and has initiated several “silent stakeholders between 2014 and 2016, from Euro 142.1 to 166.4 Million. revolutions” that have profoundly influenced the upholstery and furnishing sectors. The company intends to continue to introduce new ideas in Timeless Timeless Value generated and distributed (all data are expressed in k€) 2014 2015 2016 response to changing living needs, with a focus on innovation quality discovering innovative materials and developing Direct economic value generated* 162,354 165,746 190,621 production processes increasingly respectful to the environment. Direct economic value distributed* 142,103 141,263 166,483 Operating costs 109,339 105,054 120,979 Timeless quality: B&B Italia aims at offering products that will Employee wages and benefits 27,318 28,606 30,927 endure not only aesthetically but also in quality and function. The company’s stronghold on industrial Payments to providers of capital 473 43 7,055 processes, its quest for excellence and passion for details across all the phases of the value Timeless design Payments to government 4,935 7,495 7,450 chain (from raw materials selection to the sale of finished products) as well as its care in managing Community investment 38 65 72 the environmental impact of its operations are all Economic value retained* 20,251 24,483 24,138 part of a quality-driven approach to sustainable development. (*)The calculation of value generated and distributed includes all the entities of which the Group is composed, excluding Arclinea. Timeless responsibility: for B&B Italia, sustainability means building relations with all stakeholders based on trust, Timeless mutual respect, ethics and honesty. The company Direct Economic Value Distributed Euro K aims at being a trusted employer and promotes responsibility a constant dialogue with the community both internally and externally. 166,483 142,103 141,263 To confirm its commitment to sustainable development, in November 2016, B&B subscribed to the United Nations Global Compact initiative (UNGC). The Global Compact represents a call to companies to align voluntarily their operations and strategies to ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, 2014 2015 2016 and to take actions in support of UN goals, including the Sustainable Development Goals. Participants to the UNGC are required to communiThe increase in economic value distributed to the different categories of cate annually on progresses made in implementing the ten principles in stakeholders is mainly due to an increase in operating costs; an increase order to inform Company stakeholders (i.e., investors, consumers, civil in employees’ wages and benefits and in payments to providers of capital society, governments, etc.). This Sustainability Report represents B&B the latter relates to the increase in the Company’s debt for financing B&B Italia's first Communication on Progress. Italia expansion and corporate development plan. 16 17 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report 1.6 Stakeholders Through an internal CSR working group, B&B Italia has identified and By matching these evaluations into a 2-axis matrix, a list of material isand material issues mapped key stakeholders, taking into account both their dependence sues has been identified, as reported below. from and their influence on the Company. The table below reports an overview of the results of the stakeholder’s prioritization process. For B&B Italia 2016 Materiality Matrix each key stakeholder category, a description of existing engagement activities is provided. From this starting point, B&B Italia aims at improving its stakeholder engagement approach, and will evaluate the establishProduct durability, functionality and quality HIGH ment of additional tools in the future. Product safety Stakeholder mapping and engagement Stakeholder category Engagement tools and activities Employees Continous dialogue with employees (i. e. internal communications, intranet, newsletter) Suppliers Continuous dialogue and periodical meeting Responsible sourcing and Dealers Continuous dialogue and periodical meeting supply chain management Local communities Website, press releases, social media Creativity and innovation Significance for stakeholders Customers Website, catalogue, advertising campaign, exhibitions and installations Human rights along Occupational Health and Safety the value chain Ethics and transparency Clients Website, catalogue, fairs, advertising campaign, exhibitions and installations, training sessions Designers, architects and interior decorators Continuous cooperation on research and development of new products Employee care Providers of financial capitals Formal meeting and periodical management reports Waste Energy efficiency Training and development management and climate change In accordance with the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Standards, B&B Eco-design and product Italia performed a materiality analysis to map the significant topics which Chemical & Safety Diversity and equal opportunities environmental impacts Hazard of products reflect B&B Italia’s economic, environmental and social impacts and the issues that influence the decisions of its key stakeholders. The first Community social and cultural development identification of potentially relevant issues was based on two activities: a Internationalisation benchmarking analysis on sustainability reporting and a sector specific and growth strategy media analysis, which allowed B&B Italia to discover the topics identified Sustainable Reducing as relevant both by the Company’s peers and at the industry level. transport packaging Water The prioritization of the issues was carried out both through individual management Material interviews with the management team, who had the chance of evaluatissues ing issues’ signficance for the Company in terms of their social, environmental and economic impact, and through a desk analysis concerning the significance of the issues for the stakeholders. The evaluation of Non material LOW sustainability topics by the management was decided upon considering issues the commitment and the policies adopted by B&B Italia regarding each issue and the top management’s point of view, as well as the potential impacts of each issue outside B&B Italia‘s reporting scope, i.e. along its LOW Significance for B&B Italia HIGH value chain. Environmental issues Social issues Business and governance issues The “Significance for stakeholders” parameter is the result of the evaluation of: The perceptions of the top management in relation to stakeholders priorities; The main results obtained through the materiality analysis can be sumMedia and public opinion attention on each sustainability issue; marized as follows: The relevance of each issue for B&B Italia specific industry sector. The most relevant sustainability issues for both B&B Italia and its stakeholders all relate to the “product responsibility” area and include “product durability, functionality and quality”, “product safety” and “creativity and innovation”; The “business area” (“internationalization and growth strategy” and “ethics and transparency”) resulted as particularly relevant together with specific issues in the environmental (energy efficiency and climate change) and the people and community domain (“human rights along the value chain”); Other relevant issues relate to human capital management (“employee care”, “occupational health and safety”, “training and development”, “diversity and equal opportunities”) and to sector specific issues (“eco-design and product environmental impacts”). 18 19 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report 2.Timeless innovation “People of R&D Center really feel like they are co-authors with you in creating something. We work side by side at the same project” (Patricia Urquiola, designer) 2.1 Creativity One of the success factor of B&B Italia is the cooperation and strong reas a shared culture lationships with leading Italian and international designers and architects. Over the years, B&B Italia has collaborated with the most talented and innovative professional of its time, including Afra and Tobia Scarpa, Marco Zanuso, Vico Magistretti, Mario Bellini, Gaetano Pesce, Antonio Citterio, Patricia Urquiola, Naoto Fukasawa, Zaha Hadid, Jeffrey Bernett, Paolo Piva, Studio Kairos, Vincent Van Duysen, Barber&Osgerby, David Chipperfield and many others. Designers and architects involved in B&B projects from 2014 to 2016 2014 2015 2016 Antonio Citterio Antonio Citterio Antonio Citterio B&B Italia B&B Italia B&B Italia Beverly ’14 Michel effe Richard Solo ’14 Michel club Èdouard Eileen Charlotte Eucalipto Mirto Cosy Gabriele e Oscar Buratti Doshi Levien Doshi Levien Alys Almora Do-Maru Naoto Fukasawa Maru Patricia Urquiola Tabour Papilio shell Husk-sofa Jasper Morrison Tabano Patricia Urquiola Bankside Jeffrey Bernett Tufty-time ’15 Antonio Citterio Metropolitan ’14 Vincent Van Duysen Outdoor Gio Barber&Osgrby Oskar Erica Surface Ginestra Tobi-ishi rett Ray natural Button tables Patricia Urquiola Ray fabric Outdoor Fat-sofa Antonio Citterio (coordinator) Antonio Citterio (coordinator) Butterfly MAXALTO MAXALTO Dives Eracle Alcor Antonio Citterio (coordinator) Fulgens MAXALTO Recipio Solatium Convivium B&B Italia, indeed, recognizes the extraordinary value of the external vision of designers and architects and blends it with its own tradition of excellence in manufacturing. The Company stimulates, interprets and guides these creative energies and offers them room for self-expression, at the same time providing them with the technological knowhow needed to conceiving innovative products and making them a reality. The Company seeks to create long-lasting partnerships and promotes the constant dialogue between architects designers and B&B Italia’s Research and Development Center, which accompanies the process from idea generation to product planning. Preliminary drawings of Naoto Fukasawa, designer of the Papilio armchair. 20 21 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report From ideas to engineering: how B&B Italia and designers work together In recent years, the creative excellence of B&B Italia has continued to be recognized through a series of awards all over the world. In 2016 Every product is a result of teamwork: the first steps of synergic cooperation with B&B Italia was awarded the German Design Award – one of the most designers and architects are sketches, drawings and renderings. The extensive prestigious international design prizes conferred by the German Design The design idea experience and critical skills of the R&D Center guides each project to represent B&B's Council – for the Papilio Shell chair, and the Red Dot Award, the highest personality in an ever-innovative key, through the designer's and architect's talents. award given in Communication design for Design Exhibitions, received for B&B Italia 50th anniversary celebrations. Prizes awarded to B&B Italia in 2014-2016 A prototype is an early full-scale model of the idea designed. Prototypes, based on wooden 2014 models, allow B&B Italia to test how the idea will work or improve it. The R&D Center Award Product / Person Prototyping controls the prototyping process by drawing on expert artisians’s competences to achieve industrial solutions. After several prototypes, not all of the projects are sent for production. Interior innovation award Winner Hive Wallpaper design awards Best wardrobe Backstage Compasso d'oro Honorable Mention Husk Pro Meda Award Winner Piero Ambrogio Busnelli 2015 Product planning is the process that defines product’s technical features and that Award Product / Company leads to proper industrialisation. The planning phase involves both the Quality and Planning the Purchasing Departments and implies the definition of products’ sourcing criteria, Milan design festival Film B&B Italia: Poetry in the Shape. When Design meets Industry production methods and economic/technical feasibility. Interior innovation award Best of Best Almora German design award Special mention Hive; Mirto Elle decoration Russia Best furniture Butterfly sofa 100 Italian excellence Award B&B Italia The capacity to put new ideas into practice has led B&B Italia to win 2016 several awards, including four Compasso D‘Oro prizes, the most prestigious honor in the field of Italian industrial design, created by the AssoAward Product / Company ciation for Industrial Design (ADI). Reddot Award Communication Design Exhibition B&B Italia: The Perfect Density Compasso d'oro Honorable mention Mirto loungers German design award Winner Papilio shell The four Compasso d'Oro German design award Special mention Charlotte chair Cerved Company to watch B&B Italia Le bambole With a new shape for upholstered furniture: Le Bambole never age. What makes them special is the apparent absence of a load bearing structure, the extreme naturalness of their shape, and the combination of comfort, softness and elasticity that their appearance 2.2 A vocation to innovation Innovation is an intrinsic characteristic of B&B Italia industrial and technoconveys. The series turned out to be an icon for the 1970s. logical vocation. The choice of setting up a dedicated R&D Center has been a key factor in the Company's development strategy, as demon1979 strated by the yearly investment in research, which between 2014 and 2016 amounted to roughly 1.4% per year of B&B Italia’s turnover. Sisamo Investments in research Euro Million It was designed as a container closely linked with concepts of function and rationality, aimed to fuse with the walls of the room without any loss of continuity. The patented door opening and closign mechanism, with aligned sliding doors, has been the peculiar 2.44 element of this system. A wardrobe that becomes invisible after use, transforming itself 2.37 into a polished and refined wall with perfectly flush doors. 1984 2.26 Sity A courageous step forward in the search for a seating system, Sity has been conceived as a flexible and disjointable structure, able to restructure the new complexity of the living space. A substantial characteristic has been that all the elements, as well as preserving their own formal and functional autonomy, are conceived as parts of a modular game. 1987 2014 2015 2016 In line with these investments, B&B Italia has always paid attention to B&B Italia has been the first Company to be recognized with a Compasso d’Oro directly awarded to a design manufacturing Company. the protection of intellectual property, considered a strategic element for ensuring business continuity and as protection of B&B Italia’s creativity from counterfeiting. On this point B&B Italia has also collaborated with the Alta Gamma Foundation. In order to safeguard its knowhow, since 1989 2011, the Company has filed over 60 design models registrations and, in 2015, was granted three patents for a technological solution applying to the “Backstage” wardrobe’s doors. 22 23 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report Bringing together design, business, technology and production, the R&D The ”silent revolutions of B&B Italia in the furniture sector Center is a repository of the Company's history and a steadily evolving creative laboratory where ideas take shape, from experimentation of new Upholstered furniture Systems materials, to innovation in production processes, providing new levels of efficiency to the end customer in the form of quality and ease of use. 1966 1970 Metal structures in upholstered furniture, substituting Polyester systems “100 gloss” to increase brightness Olinto Ongoing research has traditionally been a driver of B&B Italia, both wood for increasing flexibility and resistance at the product and at the industrial process levels. The partnerships with world-renowned designers and the contribution of R&D Center and reducing weight Coronado 1980 have allowed B&B Italia to launch several innovations, which represent Use of polyurethane for potentiating durability also Use of cast iron structures to potentiate stability “silent revolutions” that have contributed to the transformation of the in terms of shapes Coronado and holding Dape B&B Italia R&D Center, Novedrate. furniture sector. Removable structures for increasing transportability 1983 and reducing volumes Coronado Coplanar sliding doors for wardrobes reducing Insertion of leaf springs into structures, to increase the encumbrance Sisamo comfort and flexibility Coronado Use of fiberglass into structures to increase 1989 resistance Amanta Use of extruded PVC 240 cm shelves allowing exceptional capacity and integration with lighting Domus 1969 Vertical openings of 240 cm shutters reducing the Vacuum packed chair to achieve maximum encumbrance Domus contraction Up 10-year guarantee for padded structures 1990 Fire-retardant HSC panel for marine 1970 environments B&B marine Use of integral polyurethane Bonanza 1996 1976 Introduction of wengè finishings Maxalto Rigid polyhuretane structures Lauriana 1998 1980 PVC panels substituting office walls Abak Mechanisms to increase sofas comfort and modify seats’ height Alanda 2008 Aluminum modular library to increase lightness 1984 and stability Flat.C Use of fiberglass tubulars for enhancing folding properties Nena 2012 Roto-shifting opening for wardrobes Backstage One of the main examples of this avant-garde approach, at the very 1986 beginning of B&B Italia’s history, is the introduction of the revolutionary Multiple seating typology to enhance flexibility 2014 technology of injection molding with cold shaped polyurethane foam. of the seating systems Sity Shellac finishing Maxalto Piero Ambrogio Busnelli, B&B Italia co-founder, firstly conceived this technique in the Sixties. While in London for a business trip, a minor de1995 tail that might have seemed unimportant to many aroused his curiosity: a Use of die-cast pegs for increasing lightness Harry machine that created and “spat out” rubber ducks injecting cold moulded polyurethane. The shift from “ducks” to sofas was not easy, but it led to the implementation of a unique industrial process as well as to the crea1997 tion of custom-made icons, which are now worldwide recognized. Introduction of peninsulas and chaiselongues Charles Additional examples of these “revolutions”, as shown on the next page, 2003 include the introduction of removable covers for sofas, the use of fiberUse of preformed printed leather Mart glass pre-impregnated with synthetic resins in the 80’s (in collaboration with Bayer), the introduction of chaises longue peninsulas in the 90’s, the 2007 use of weavings in polyethylene for outdoor furniture in the early 2000’s and the introduction of lightweight aluminum fusions for frames after 2010. Weavings in polyethylene for outdoor Canasta 2016 Use of lightweight aluminum fusions Charlotte 24 25 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report The Home Division and Contract Division equally share this approach to In order to continue to improve the partnership with retailers, in 2016 B&B innovation. For the Home Division, innovating means to push the market Italia conducted a satisfaction survey among its global dealers to undertowards new solutions that are increasingly functional and aesthetically stand how to improve their experience. The response rate amounted to aligned with contemporary taste. The results of B&B Italia’s incessant 37% (251 respondents out of 671 questionnaires sent) and highlighted a work are demonstrated by the constant evolution of the Company’s generally positive impression of B&B Italia. The Company received parproduct range: between 2014 and 2016, the Company has launched ticularly high scores in the customer service dimension, as well as in the over 36 new products and 17 extensions of product range. relationship management (courtesy, listening skills and competences), sales & marketing management (i.e. received sales support materials) New products developed and launched from 2014 to 2016 and digital spheres. Areas for improvement include order and delivery 2014 2015 2016 management (i.e. complaints/requests for support and contact for clarifications) and the support provided on marketing activities both at the New products 17 11 8 store and at business development level. Extension of products range 6 4 7 The Contract Division, on the other hand, interprets B&B Italia vocation Advertising campaigns to the development of new ideas in a customer-centric way. The Division In the first forty years of the Company, leading figures in the world of graphic design and photography indeed conceives each single detail to satisfy the specific customers’ have animated ever-new stories by interpreting B&B Italia's identity with ironical and unconventional needs and invests in liaising with the customer and architects, at the advertising campaigns that have marked the history of B&B Italia. same time combining research, testing and engineering of each project Enrico Trabacchi conceived the first advertising campaigns in the 1960s to describe the factory’s goals element. recorded by C&B. Then, to photographer Klaus Zaugg was entrusted the advertising campaign to present the innovative strength of the UP Series of Gaetano Pesce. The campaign for Mario Bellini's Le Sustainable development is also a component of B&B Italia innovation Bambole made history with sensational Donna Jordan photographed by Oliviero Toscani. In the latter history, from the use of sustainable materials to the upgrade industrial part of the 1970s, the young photographer Luciano Svegliado interpreted the quality of details and maprocesses in order to lower their environmental impact. The Company terials of Mario Bellini's sofa Le Bambole with a highly personal style. has already achieved some progress in these areas. As an example, it promoted the elimination of freon in the polyurethane formula, the use of Exhibitions and Installations recycled and recyclable techno-polymer coats (Husk, 2011) the transition Miscellaneous projects that create absorbing and exciting user experiences have always been at the to water-based solvents for wooden products (completed in 2015 at the core of B&B Italia approach. The typical trait of the Company communication strategy is the remarkable Misinto site), the fabrication of coatings from recovered leather scraps consistency between 2D communication (advertisements and catalogues) and 3D communications (Hive Pouf, 2013) and the elimination of formaldehyde from chipboards. (installations, exhibitions). The R&D Center is often the creator, in collaboration with designers and architects, of the concepts for installations that becomes genuine attractions for visitors. Examples over the years include the artistic installation of Enrico Trabacchi proposed at the MoMA, New York, 2.3 Providing the best For B&B Italia, innovation lies also in building unique design experiences. for “Italy: The New Domestic Landscape” (1972), the installation created by the photographer Luciano design experiences Both B&B Italia Home and Contract Divisions start from a careful study of Svegliado for the 1981 Paris Furniture Fair and the recent creations of B&B Italia R&D Center with their clients and customers’ needs and, leveraging the accredited experistyling by Studio Collage. ence of their professionals. The central pillar of the Company’s approach is making the purchase of B&B Italia products and services as “something valuable in time” that remains etched in the memory. The Company uses different channels to express this concept and its culture of contemporary design, encouraging an open conversation with its clients and customers. Indeed, inside its own stores, B&B Italia welcomes the visitor to follow a journey where design encounters emotion, involving all the senses. A sequence of thematic areas designed with extreme care highlights the story that surrounds products in a scene of perfect harmony between products and the surrounding environment. Color combinations, contrasts that enhance details, tactile materials and a wealth of nuances please the eye, generating curiosity and inviting visitors to touch and feel the products. B&B Italia also benefits from the experience of its partners, capable of keeping up with the firm quest for excellence. The Company works closely with them to guarantee its high-level product quality as well as first-class purchasing experiences. These aspects are managed through a specific policy of thorough after-sales support, which includes proper training for dealers' staff: in 2014, B&B Italia trained 374 people at its own headquarters, and the numbers have grown to 417 in 2015 and to 499 in 2016. 26 27 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report 3.Timeless quality “The path to duration is loyalty, loyalty to form, which is aesthetics to form; we always belittle aesthetics, though aesthetics is but the application of ethics”. (Peter Handke, novelist, play writer and translator) Quality lies at the heart of B&B Italia’s vision: it encapsulates the Company’s mission to provide long-lasting value for clients; it represents a commitment to excellence all along the value chain; it drives B&B Italia’s approach to suppliers’ relations, inspired by trust, collaboration and innovation. Since 1997, B&B Italia has put in place an ISO 9001 Quality Management System, certified by independent third parties and applied to both Novedrate and Misinto sites. This Management System is a fundamental element of B&B Italia’s way of working, especially for setting the rules and boundaries that regulate quality control at all levels. B&B Italia’s capacity to produce “products that last through time , also relates to the Company’s attention to its environmental impacts, as demonstrated not only by its long products life cycles, but also by the Company’s commitment to reduce its footprint from sourcing to production. 3.1 From ideas to icons B&B Italia’s attention to quality and sustainability starts from the Company’s four operation centers, two manufacturing sites and two storage warehouses. The Novedrate (25,000 m2) site houses the head office, the upholstered furniture production, the R&D Center and the showroom. It is the plant where the polyurethane moulding line is located, a technological production center equipped with two robots capable of changing in real-time the characteristics of the foams by dosing their density and resilience. In 2016, an important investment for a new machine for leather cutting added further value to this plant. The Misinto plant (22,500 m2) produces the Maxalto collections, with a particular focus on wooden products. Since 2011, the plant produces also wall systems and wardrobes. Misinto is endowed with the most modern technological equipment, ranging from modern trusses to cut panels to paintbrushes and assembly lines. In 2016, an additional investment was made by introducing new numerical control machines in order to improve process automation. The production organization is complemented by two storage sites: in Carugo, an area of 8,000 m2 houses semi-finished products, raw materials and components of outdoor products to be assembled; whereas Arosio (5,500 m2) hosts the storage of raw materials, semi-finished products and finished products. B&B Italia industrial process encompasses various phases, which represent the ideal continuation of the three preliminary stages (design, prototyping, planning) described in §2.1. Fine-tuning a prototype. Naoto Fukasawa at work in the B&B Italia R&D Center. 28 29 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report Validation Innovation in leather cutting at Novedrate Industrialisation Delivery In order to reach constantly higher qualitative standards, increasing both its production capacity and & Production efficiency, B&B Italia has invested in the innovation of its leather cutting room. The Company has always worked in total collaboration with Lectra, the world leader in integrated technological solutions, to optimize leather consumption and standardize quality. Products in the making: from industralisation to delivery. Production begins with the industrialisation phase, which analyses all Thanks to this collaboration, an entirely automated leather inspection and cutting system, called “Versathe possible technologies to be applied, in order to choose the perfect lis off line”, was introduced in 2016. Versalis represents a new generation high-precision digital system, mix between quality and design requirements, cost optimisation and enabling the separation of the three leather production phases: digiting, nesting and cutting. The new technical solutions. The final aim is to ensure that the product can be system results in an increase of the yield related to work orders and allows the quick detection of leather realised on a large scale, by ensuring the same features and performance defects, improving the timing of the cutting phase and ensuring production data collection and full for which it was planned. traceability. In 2016, the new process allowed B&B Italia to save about 3-4% of leather and an increase of 30% in productivity. Additional benefits in terms of work orders management are expected in 2017 For example, when the “cold-molded polyurethane foam” technology thanks to the system integration with B&B Italia’s ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning). is used for creating sofas, the industrialisation step chooses the metal load-bearing frame that guarantees the best results in terms of product durability and resistance. Then, the frames are integrated with various elements (elastic straps, springs, reinforcing, etc.) that enhance product performance in terms of comfort and functionality. Subsequently, frames are sunk in polyurethane injected into the mould, which allows reproducing the exact shape of the chosen model. During the industrialisation phase, the Purchasing Department is involved for raw materials and components sourcing. For example, materials used for the internal structure are chosen (i.e. iron, steel, magnesium), as well as for external coating (i.e. type of leather or tissue, etc.) or finishing (i.e. type of basement, possible accessories, etc.). Various assessments are also performed both by the Technical Office in charge of production and by the Quality Department, in order to provide suggestions and prevent 3.2 The importance B&B Italia operates thanks to the collaboration with a network of roughly possible issues in terms of products’ technical features as well as quality, of sourcing 230 suppliers of materials, finished and semi-finished products and consafety and durability. tractors assembling finished products. A partnership for excellence The validation & production phase ensures, first, that the product Over 90% of these partners are based in Europe, and most of them in meets planned requirements and specifications, and that all the industrial the Monza and Brianza District: an element that ensures to B&B Italia, aspects are consistent with them. Indeed, B&B Italia executes further artisanal expertise for complex high-quality works and the possibility to quality assessment through several tests and checks, so that the final have a continuous dialogue. product fulfills its intended purpose and it is ready for delivery. Ethics, transparency and innovation are the core values that regulate The results of all these controls and technical documentation are inserted these relations, which, in most cases, are long lasting and built on a into a product fact sheet, which is a sort of ID card of the product itself. strong sense of partnership and mutual trust. Suppliers are involved from The product is now ready to be produced; in particular, the production the first phase of product design, speaking with the R&D Center and the starts either to create a stock in the two storage wharehouses, and when Quality Department to select and apply the most up-to-date technical a specific order has been commissioned from a client. solutions. Finally, the production chain ends with the delivery: sofas, furniture and The Purchasing Department has set out specific procedures for suppliall the other systems are assembled, tested and then sent to retailers or ers’ qualification and management, including the mandate to respect clients. strict technical criteria. When selecting new suppliers, the Purchasing Department conducts an assessment based on business performance, clients served and quality standards in order to make sure that qualifyFocus: leather and fabrics ing suppliers fully meet all B&B Italia’s needs and requirements. If the After their purchase, fabrics and leathers undergo a quality conoutcome of the assessment is positive, the supplier is included in the trol and visual analysis to identify possible defects at B&B Italia’s qualified vendors list. Novedrate sites (for further details please refer to §3.2). Then, fabrics and leathers covers are cut and sent to external supWhen signing a contract with B&B Italia, suppliers have to accept the pliers for stitching, mainly in Hungary and Italy. The processed Company’s Code of Ethics. B&B Italia also defines specific quality checks materials are finally sent back to B&B Italia, which verifies that throughout the procurement relationship, depending on the specificities they meet the necessary quality requirements. of the various items purchased, from raw materials to finished products: the vendor list is updated every year with a thorough assessment of suppliers’ technical, ethical and quality performance. In case of critical findings, these results lead to specific action plans that vendors must put into practice in order to continue their partnership with the Company. 30 31 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report Quality and sustainability in The careful selection of materials is at the center of B&B Italia commitMoreover, for some semi-finished components (i.e. aluminum compothe choice of materials ment to quality, both when it comes to the purchase of raw materials and nents from Asia), the Company carries out pre-shipment inspections semi-finished products to be used in internal production processes (such through specialized local service providers. For outdoor finished products, as frames, metallic components, lining and cushions), and in relation to whose production is mainly located in Bosnia, Indonesia, China and the the purchase of finished products from suppliers and contractors. Philippines, instead, precise tender specifications are provided: suppliers must comply with them and, every time an additional line of production In 2016, B&B Italia purchased a wide variety of materials, the main ones is set up, B&B Italia emissaries take the occasion to conduct specific being fabrics, leather, wood, marble, metal, and mixtures of foams for controls on the lines previously opened. padding. Furthermore, B&B Italia implements additional controls for what concerns high quality raw materials such as leather and fabrics. Leathers indeed Materials (ton) 2016 are checked both when dispatched to the Company’s facilities and, when Iron/steel 758.0 particularly prestigious, through specific visits at suppliers’ plants, beFabric 268.6 sides the digital quality controls already mentioned above. Wood 231.9 Fabrics undergo a series of additional quality tests in the vendor qualificaChemicals 203.7 tion phase, which evaluate their resistance to possible external conditions Marble 195.7 such as abrasion, traction, pilling, light, tear and rubbing. Subsequently, Aluminum 150.0 suppliers that have the responsibility to stitch them, mainly located in Italy Leather 32.8 and Hungary, test their quality again following the specific dispositions of B&B Italia, who trains suppliers’ quality personnel directly. Paints 80.7 Total 1,921.3 Raw materials are one of the major points of contact where quality and 2016 has been the first year for a preliminary estimation of the quantities sustainability considerations converge. For B&B Italia this means proof materials used by B&B Italia. gressively reducing the use of materials and adopting the most sustainable solutions from the start, avoiding the use of materials that are hazThe following issues on materials can be highlighted: ardous for the environment, and always encouraging, when feasible, the use of natural, nontoxic and recyclable inputs. Aluminum, iron and steel represent half of B&B Italia purchases in terms of quantities. This is linked to the various uses made of these metals Examples of this approach include B&B Italia purchase of wood mainly for cast die metal structures, molds and frames, mainly produced in from trees at the end of their lifecycle, as well as the experimentation of Italy, as well as other components – such as chair feet – frequently innovative materials such as the Cristalplant Outdoor®: a new generation purchased in China. fully-recyclable thermoplastic material with remarkable resistance properFabrics account for nearly 14% of B&B Italia purchases in terms of ties and low environmental impact. Also materials reuse is an important quantity and mainly come from 30 suppliers in the Monza and Brianza aspect of B&B Italia’s operations: as an example leathers and fabrics’ area. The Company has a long history in the search for natural and synscraps are sold to other companies that use them in their own producthetic yarns, which led it to develop exclusive agreements with its textile tion cycles. suppliers on specific fabrics produced only for B&B Italia. -L  eather, while less significant in terms of quantity (it amounts to only 1.7% of B&B Italia purchases), is sourced mainly from 3 suppliers in the 3.3 The commitment to safety The continuous and full implementation of B&B Italia’s Quality ManageDistrict of Arzignano, one of the most renowned Italian producersin the and durability ment System is the key instrument to meet all statutory and regulatory tannery sector. requirements and standards applying in the Company’s export destinaWood and marbles are also important materials for B&B Italia furniture tions. B&B Italia products meet all relevant legal requirements, including production. Wooden materials, sourced from an European network European and US laws and regulations. of wood wholesaler, account for 12.1% of the materials purchased in 2016, whereas marbles (10.2%) are sourced from a series of Italian Across the product life cycle, all categories are assessed with respect traders and can have Italian, Spanish or Tunisian origins. to health and safety impacts and in terms of compliance with applica-C  hemicals, mainly in the form of glues, additives and polyurethane ble regulations. The absence of non-compliance issues with regulations foams for padding, represent 10.6% of total purchases, whereas paints concerning the health and safety impacts of products is a proof of B&B – used in large part for the treatment of woods and furniture – account Italia's Quality Management System effectiveness. for less than 4.2% of overall purchases. Both materials are purchased from big multinational producers, selected for their international credibility Furthermore, the Company believes in the value of offering consumers a and quality. product as a long-term investment and always works to ensure durability. In this context, B&B Italia products include a product identification In order to preserve quality at all levels, B&B Italia Quality Department code, which allows B&B Italia and the customer to trace all the technical implements specific control activities on the various types of suppliers. documentation and product standards for each item sold. Considering In specific cases, in addition to quality checks at the reception, both ancustomer growing interest and relative sensitivity on the product safety nounced and unannounced visits to supplier plants can be organized, and durability, beyond mere compliance, B&B Italia monitors these pawhich allow the Company to get to know its partners’ operating practices rameters through specific activities and tests, in accordance with numerin depth. ous voluntary codes – as detailed in the following table – that can be applied, depending on national laws of intended markets and clients’ specific needs. 32 33 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report B&B Italia voluntary certifications Furthermore, an authenticity document, the Product data sheet-Guarantee states the product originality and uniqueness, informing the cusFire resistance certifications Departmental Order of 26/06/84. tomer about the materials, the maintenance instructions, the warranty, Classification of fire resistance and approval of materials for fire preventhe manufacturer and the designer of the product. tion purposes (I). Finally, B&B Italia demonstrates its commitment to quality through its 10-year warranty for the frames of its padded furniture (sofas, armchairs, chairs and beds). The warranty covers original defects in manufacturing of the structural parts, providing replacement or repair, free of California Technical Bulletin 117 USA. charge, of the unusable or defective component ascertained and acknowledged as such by B&B Italia. The attention to quality control is rewarded by facts: between 2014 and 2016, B&B Italia registered only one case of product reclaim, relating to The Furniture and Furnishings (Fire) (Safety) Regulations 1988 UK. the Metropolitan chairs. One of the chair production lots, indeed, showed some cases of breakage / failure of the frame. B&B Italia’s response was prompt and centered on the prevention of any further damage to customers: the Company reclaimed 100 pieces of the product and executed Product certification ANSI/UL 48 Portable electrical apparatus (Lamps). several tests aimed at avoiding similar episodes in the future. B&B Italia certifies that its low-voltage electrical equipment is safe and complies with current applicable laws, standards and regulations. Data on complaints and communications from consumers also show positive trends in comparison with the increase of volumes produced. In spite of a growth in invoiced orders of 12.6% between 2014 and 2016, the overall number of complaints increased only by roughly 5% from 1,678 to 1,783. Furthermore complaints recognized as consistent remained relatively stable (around 1,116 complaints were recognized as Directive 2014/35/EU actual complaints in 2016, from 1,118 in 2014) and rejected complaints on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the increased by over 100 units from 560 to 667. Consequently, the ratio making available on the market of electrical equipment designed for use between overall complaints and invoiced orders decreased from 4.9% to within certain voltage limits. 4.6%: a remarkable result in light of the Company’s growth. Directive 2014/30/EU on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to elecOverall complaints tromagnetic compatibility (recast). Rejected complaints Actual complaints Overall complaints/Invoiced orders 1,753 1,783 1,678 UNI EN 16139. 1,149 1,116 Furniture Strength, durability and safety requirements for chairs. 1,118 UNI EN 15372. 4.9% 4.7% Furniture Strength, durability and safety requirements for tables. 4.6% UNI EN 581. Outdoor furniture. UNI EN 16121. Furniture – safety, strength and durability requirements for storage furniture. 667 B&B Italia products are validated by conducting strength and durability 560 604 tests on the product family’s most significant or representative article, and/or the one that is most critical in terms of construction technique. The tests are carried out according to the principal methods applied in the furniture industry, in particular under the standards listed above. 2014 2015 2016 3.4 The attention to the B&B Italia interprets quality not only as an intrinsic feature of its products, Product test reports are issued by leading Italian and international environment but also as the pursuit of excellence in all its operations. The Company test labs. pursues this approach also at the environmental level, seeking the correct management of the environmental impacts of its industrial sites, in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Because of this approach, no incident of non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations was recorded between 2014 and 2016. The environmental aspects currently monitored and managed by B&B ANSI-BIFMA X5.1 Chairs. Italia include the Company’s most relevant environmental impacts such Selected products are also tested in accordance with the voluntary codes as the use of raw materials and components (as already highlighted of particular markets, such as the United States. in §3.2), energy consumption and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. 34 35 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report Furthermore, B&B Italia monitors its footprint in terms of waste, polluting Looking forward, at Misinto the Company is evaluating the installation emissions, water and packaging. Though limited in scope, the Company of thermostatic valves to regulate temperatures and the substitution of considers the disclosure on these aspects as a first step to align its susthe factory’s manual connecting doors with more modern models to retainability reporting to recent trends in terms of non-financial disclosure duce energy dissipation. Similar efforts are currently under study for the at European level, and as a tool to continuously monitor and improve its Novedrate factory: measures include the installation of double-glaze side overall environmental performance. Details are provided in the Appendix. windows with low-emission units (this intervention will be implemented between 2017 and 2018) and the application UV/IR-reflective coatings to the building roof and skylights to limit overheating. Energy consumption B&B Italia’s total energy consumption is directly attributable to different vectors: natural gas (representing 64.6% of overall consumption in 2016), electricity (27.0%) and diesel consumed by corporate vehicles (3.9%). GHG emissions In accordance to the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and ReportSince spring 2015, at the Misinto Site, these sources have been suping Standard, B&B Italia identified and monitored all relevant direct GHG plemented by a re-commissioned biomass boiler, which burns the Comemissions (scope 1) and those resulting from energy purchase (scope 2). pany’s offcuts of wood to provide heating to the building and energy for As required by the GHG Protocol, emissions from biomass combustion automated paint ovens and paint booth ovens (thus partially replacing (wood offcuts for heating in Misinto) are separately reported. natural gas consumptions). This renewable source of energy currently Moreover, whereas data were available and reliable, the Company started covers 4.5% of B&B Italia’s overall consumption. to estimate its indirect emissions occurring outside of the Company, in particular those resulting from the business travel, as shown in the table Between 2014 and 2016, total energy consumption increased by roughly below. 13.9%, from 52,302.0 GJ to 59,587.7 GJ, with the major part of this growth occurring between 2014 and 2015 biennium (+12.0%) due to the GHG EMISSIONS (*) Unit 2014 2015 2016 extension of the Misinto production facility and of the Arosio and Carugo Direct Emissions (Scope 1) tCO2 eq 2,126.2 2,472.7 2,351.9 sites, and the increase in production. This increase resulted into a 10.9% Emission resulting from natural gas heating growth in natural gas consumption between 2014 and 2016, followed tCO2 1,961.8 2,224.8 2,149.7 and diesel emergency generators by electricity (+7%) and diesel for the Company leased vehicles (+4.7%). Emission resulting from biomass (N2O and CH4 emissions which are not absorbed during tCO2 eq 0 2.7 8.4 B&B Italia energy consumption and energy intensity index growth) – wood offcuts for heating in Misinto Fuel Unit 2014 2015 2016 Emissions resulting from fuel used tCO2 164.4 165.4 172.2 for Company's car fleet Natural gas GJ 34,723.3 39,845.3 38,507.6 Emissions of refrigerant gases resulting from Wood offcuts GJ 858.9 2,670.5 tCO2 eq 79.9 21.6 leakages of air-conditioning systems Electricity GJ 15,020.7 15,635.1 16,065.9 Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) tCO2 1,497.9 1,559.2 1,602.1 Diesel (emergency generators) GJ 323.7 Emissions resulting from electricity purchased tCO2 1,497.9 1,559.2 1,602.1 Diesel (vehicles owned and leased) GJ 2,234.3 2,247.7 2,339.7 from national grid Total energy consumption GJ 52,302.0 58,587.0 59,583.7 Other indirect Emissions (Scope 3) tCO2 eq (**) 274.7 279.7 Energy intensity index (energy/revenues) (GJ/€ *1000) 322.1 353.5 312.6 Emissions resulting from business travels (air) tCO2 eq (**) 274.7 279.7 Total (Scope 1 + 2 + 3) tCO2 eq 3,624.1 (***) 4,306.6 4,233.7 While there has been marked growth in absolute terms, the situation is Outside of scopes: emissions resulting different if considered in light of the Company’s revenues 17.4% increase from biomass combustion – wood offcuts tCO2 0 75.5 227.9 between 2014 and 2016, from Euros 162.4 to 190.6 million. Indeed, B&B for heating in Misinto Italia’s Energy Intensity Index, measured as the ratio between energy (*) Data do not include overseas shops (**) Data not monitored (***) Only Scope 1 and 2 figures available consumption and revenues multiplied by a 1,000 factor, shows a declining trend – from 322.1 to 312.6 – in the considered period. Coherently with energy consumption trends, B&B Italia’s scope 1 and 2 emissions increased by 9% from 2014 to 2016, mainly due to the aboveThis trend has also been influenced by B&B Italia’s commitment to operate mentioned rise of electricity and fossil fuels consumption. In 2016 overall a rationalization of its energy consumption through specific energy efemissions decreased by 2% compared to 2015, from 4,307 tCO2 eq ficiency initiatives. Among the most relevant projects is the substitution to 4,233 tCO2 eq. The largest contribution to this decrease came from of halogen lamps with LED-lighting started in 2014 from the production direct emissions (scope 1), with a 3% reduction of emissions from heatarea of the Misinto site and extended in 2016 in the dispatch area and ing (thanks to the Company’s energy efficiency initiatives and the above R&D Center car park at Novedrate plant. Furthermore, thanks to the indescribed fuel switch, from natural gas to biomass, at Misinto) and a 73% troduction of a new software, the Company achieved an optimization decrease of emissions of refrigerant gas from leakages of air-conditioning of the turning on/off of lights; in 2014 an oil-fired boiler in Carugo was systems. In the same period, indirect emissions (scope 2 and 3) remained scrapped and, in 2016, the Company installed fixed energy consumpstable with a small increase of emissions resulting from the increase in tion monitoring system in the production areas of Novedrate, leading to electricity consumption (+3%). important savings. 36 37 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report 4.Timeless “Until yesterday, I thought that making furniture in the Brianza district of responsibility Italy was a matter of glue, wood, paints and money. Now I think I know it is something else entirely: it is about new-frontier figures, rough on the outside but brimming with imagination; people who are alive, eager for adventure and risk.” (Giorgio Bocca, journalist) The attention to the creation of a positive and trustful working environment and the strong relations with the Monza and Brianza territory are key elements of B&B Italia’s history. The capacity to build and maintain these ties over time relate to the Company’s commitment to integrity and dialogue with its employees and to its contribution to the social and economic wealth of the area where B&B Italia is traditionally located: a “timeless responsibility” which is deeply rooted into the Company’s corporate identity. 4.1 B&B Italia’s people: At the end of 2016, B&B Italia employed 510 people, 91.8% of which a value in time works in its Italian sites. Employment recorded an increase of 7% between 2014 and 2016, due to the increase in production and revenues. Employees abroad represented a stable share of 7-8% in the reporting period and were mainly concentrated in the flagship stores directly owned and managed by the Company, with an increase of five units between 2015 and 2016. Total Employees by employment relation B&B Italia Workforce Unit 2014 2015 2016 Employees n. 474 487 510 of which in Italy n. 439 452 468 of which in foreign countries n. 37 37 42 Interns* n. 1 0 0 Contract workers* n. 0 2 0 Project workers* n. 1 0 0 Total workforce n. 476 489 510 (*) none of these categories were present in foreign countries. The strong roots of B&B Italia in the Monza and Brianza District are demonstrated by the percentage of local people hired by the Company: over 90% of the Italian working population in 2016, indeed, resided at less than 30 kilometers from the Company’s sites. Local employees by provenance 2016 (%) Within 15 kilometres 63.5 From 15 to 30 kilometres 28.4 More than 30 kilometres 8.1 The contractual forms in place witness B&B Italia’s commitment to building stable and positive relations with its employees. Indeed, in 2016, the Company did not employ any Contract or Project workers, and 92% of employees had a permanent contract, with very little change compared to previous years. This trend is visible both in Italy and in foreign countries, where no additional workers were involved from outside the Company and 100% of employees had a permanent contract in all the reported years. The same consideration is valid also for what concerns full-time contracts, which overall represent over 99% of contract signed by the Company. Grande Papilio armchair, one of B&B Italia's iconic products. Limited edition for the 50th anniversary. 38 39 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report Employees by type of contract Unit 2014 2015 2016 Employees by gender and age range Permanent Contracts total n. 452 456 470 Employee diversity Unit 2014 2015 2016 Women n. 168 175 176 Executives Total n. 20 22 23 Men n. 284 281 294 < 30 years n. 0 0 0 Temporary Contracts total n. 22 31 40 30 < x < 50 years n. 3 4 3 Women Women n. 9 12 7 > 50 years n. 3 3 4 Men n. 13 19 33 Total n. 6 7 7 Full-time Contracts n. 468 481 504 < 30 years n. 0 0 0 Part-time Contracts n. 6 6 6 30 < x < 50 years n. 7 6 5 Men > 50 years n. 7 9 11 In the last three years, B&B Italia presented a relatively stable workforce Total n. 14 15 16 in terms of gender diversity, with a majority of male workers mainly relatManagers Total n. 13 15 14 ed to men preponderance in manufacturing activities (representing over < 30 years n. 0 0 0 64% of total workers in 2016). Between 2014 and 2016, the number of 30 < x < 50 years n. 3 3 2 women slightly grew from 177 to 183, representing a share of roughly Women 36% of the overall workforce. Over the same time span, male presence > 50 years n. 1 1 1 increased by 10%, from 297 to 327 individuals. Female representation in Total n. 4 4 3 the reporting period varied depending on workforce categories: in 2016, < 30 years n. 0 0 0 women represented 30.4% of Executives, 21.4% of Managers, 60.5% of 30 < x < 50 years n. 7 7 7 Office staff and 8.9% of Factory staff. Men > 50 years n. 2 4 4 Employees, by category (%) Total n. 9 11 11 Office staff Total n. 174 182 185 5% Executives 3% Managers < 30 years n. 8 8 11 30 < x < 50 years n. 81 86 81 Women > 50 years n. 18 17 20 48% Factory staff Total n. 107 111 112 < 30 years n. 5 5 4 30 < x < 50 years n. 49 52 53 Men > 50 years n. 13 14 16 Total n. 67 71 73 Factory staffTotal n. 230 231 246 < 30 years n. 2 1 1 30 < x < 50 years n. 26 23 18 44% Office staff Women > 50 years n. 11 12 15 B&B Italia R&D Center, offices. Total n. 39 36 34 < 30 years n. 16 13 22 30 < x < 50 years n. 120 124 127 Men > 50 years n. 55 58 63 Total n. 191 195 212 Against this backdrop, B&B Italia works to ensure the respect of diversity and equal opportunities and rejects any discriminatory practice. The Company has an inclusive approach to legally protected status – represented by 13 employees in 2016 – and is committed to promote gender parity. Salary discrepancies between men and women show a stable outlook and a differentiation between major employee categories: the ratio between female and male wages in 2016 ranged from 0.84 for Executives to basic parity (0.99) for what concerns Factory staff. Ratio Between Female and Male wages Unit 2014 2015 2016 Executives € 0.84 0.82 0.84 Managers € 1.09 0.93 0.95 Office staff € 0.90 0.89 0.88 Factory staff € 0.95 0,96 0.99 40 41 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report B&B Italia’s integrity and attention to its employees resulted into relatively Training by gender and employee categories, 2014-2016 low turnover rates between 2014 and 2016. In Italy, turnover values – Training per employee Unit 2014 2015 2016 measured as the ratio between total leavers and employees – have been Total hours h 705 1,151 1,804 more or less constant over the years (around 6%). On the contrary, the hiring rate – measured as the ratio between the number of new hires and Women h 185 445 658 total employees – slightly increased from 9% in 2015 to 11% in 2016, Men h 520 706 1,146 also driven by the Company’s business growth. Average hours h/employee 1.6 2.6 3.9 Women h/employee 1.2 2.8 4.2 Employees hiring and turnover rates Italy Men h/employee 1.9 2.4 3.7 Employees Turnover Rate Hiring Rate Training by category Unit 2015 2016 Training provided to Executives h/employee 0 1.6 1.0 Training provided to Managers h/employee 2.2 3.2 3.3 475 15% Training provided to Office staff h/employee 2.5 4.0 4.4 Training provided to Factory staff h/employee 1.0 1.4 3.7 10% The award of employees’ efforts is also an important aspect for B&B Italia. In 2016, B&B Italia renegotiated its collective bonus policy; this 425 process is currently based on three parameters: quality, punctuality and efficiency. 5% Furthermore, in order to facilitate young people’ access into the Company, since 2003, B&B Italia collaborates with the Jean Monnet Technical & Commercial Institute at Mariano Comense, promoting an internship program to accompany final year students in their first work experience. 375 0% 2014 2015 2016 4.3 Health and wellbeing The protection of employees’ health and safety is at the center of B&B Italia’s corporate culture. Workers’ awareness is a key issue in this sense: thanks to the Company’s focus on risks mitigation on the most critical Hirings (n.) 2014 2015 2016 Terminations (n.) 2014 2015 2016 activities, B&B Italia achieved several positive results in 2016. Total 38 40 50 Total 23 27 32 As an example, the number of injuries in Italy decreased by two units, Women 11 14 10 Women 8 12 12 from 10 to 8, between 2015 and 2016, after an increase between 2014 and 2015. Furthermore Carugo, Arosio and the Milan store did not record Men 27 26 40 Men 15 15 20 any injuries in 2016 and the severity of injuries – measured as the ratio Less than 30 years old 6 9 19 Less than 30 years old 3 3 1 between total lost days due to accidents and the total number of hours From 30 to 50 years old 31 26 28 From 30 to 50 years old 13 13 22 scheduled to be worked by the workforce – decreased as demonstrated More than 50 years old 1 5 3 More than 50 years old 7 11 9 by the difference in lost-day rate between 2015 and 2016 (-59%). Health and safety indexes Unit 2014 2015 2016 4.2 Training activities B&B Italia considers the enhancement of its employees’ skills as imporNumber of injuries n. 4 10 8 tant to continue to be up to date and provide clients with “timeless quality” Injury rate (number of injuries/hours worked x 1,000,000) n. 5.5 13.3 10.1 and innovative solutions. Each year the Company conducts a series of Lost day rate (number of lost days for injuries/hours worked x 1,000) n. 0.08 0.45 0.19 training activities, from purely technical (i.e. technical applications and design software, regulatory updating on national and international comAbsentee rate (number of lost days for illness/ workable days) % 3.16 3.81 4.03 merce practices, etc.) to soft skills courses for what concerns, for examOccupational diseases n. ple, foreign languages or public speaking techniques. (*) No injury occurred to workers other than B&B Italia employees. In the last three years, in Italy, the total amount of training hours has grown These achievements are linked to B&B Italia’s Safety Management Sysby 151%, from 705 total hours in 2015 to 1,804 in 2016, which led to an tem, that, as requested by Legislative Decree n. 105/15 on the Prevenincrease in training hours per capita from 1.6 hours in 2014 to 3.9 in 2016. tion of Relevant Accidents (in which both Novedrate and Misinto sites The increase was evenly distributed between male and female employees fall), establishes the framework of internal rules and risk mitigation acand among the various employees’ categories with the exception of tion plans. To comply with this regulation, every year the Company conExecutives, which recorded a fluctuating trend in the considered period. ducts a specific analysis related to the risk of relevant accidents related to polyurethane inflammability, with the support of specialized external staff. The focus on polyurethane is also due to the fact that, when burnt at high temperatures, it releases dangerous substances. For this reason, B&B Italia adopts strict preventive safety, storage and disposal measures (i.e. automatic and safety shutdown systems, containment tanks, fire barriers and precise measures in case of accidental release). 42 43 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report In order to increase employees’ awareness and provide them with spe4.5 An active member of B&B Italia is member of several industry associations: cific information on the functioning of the overall safety system, B&B Italia industry associations has set up an internal info-point on safety procedures at the Misinto facility Altagamma Foundation gathers High-End Italian Cultural and Creaand, every four months, arranges a meeting with the Safety Representative Companies, recognized as ambassadors of Italian style, operating tive for Workplace Safety supported by a training program. in multiple sectors such as fashion, design, jewellery, food, hospitality, automotive, yachts and wellness. Altagamma main mission is to increase As a proof that health and safety represents for the Company one of the the competitiveness of the High-End industry, contributing to Italy’s ecocentral pillars of its vision, B&B Italia will start in 2018 the monitoring of nears nomic growth. misses at Novedrate and Misinto sites, in order to further reduce such events. Promoting employees’ wellbeing for B&B Italia means also implementing ADI Associazione per il Disegno Industriale (Association for the Ininitiatives aimed at improving workers’ quality of life and sense of cordustrial Design), since 1956, brings together professionals, researchers, porate belonging. For achieving this goal, over the years, the Company teachers, critics, journalists around the main topics of design to promote has implemented a series of additional benefits for employees and their and implement the most conducive conditions to the design for goods family. As an example, B&B Italia has signed an agreement with Monza and services. Analysis Center (CAM), covering the staff for medical diagnosis and treatments and has provided its employees with the possibility to draw from their workers severance pay in case of need (such as the purchase of a Unindustria Como represents and safeguards the interests of the ashouse or special sanitary expense). sociated industrial companies both in relation to local instances and at national and international level, through the Italian industrial confederation Finally, B&B Italia aims at promoting a solid corporate identity and culture Confindustria. among its employees. Among the initiatives aimed at building employees awareness on B&B Italia’s heritage, in 2016, the Company organized an internal session on its 50th anniversary with a private screening of the film FederlegnoArredo, the ambassador of the Italian taste of living world“B&B Italia: Poetry in the Shape. When Design meets Industry”. wide, represents the Italian wood and furniture sector to support their business, by developing new opportunities. 4.4 Contributing to social and B&B Italia is determined not only to continue to put into practice the values cultural progress of integrity and mutual trust that it promotes towards its employees, but Active in Italy and internationally, INDICAM (Centromarca Anti-Counalso to keep on promoting philanthropic initiatives. terfeiting Institution) represents nearly 180 companies, industry associations, law and IP firms, security consultants and other organizations daily Since 2015, the Company has supported charities such as Primo Aiuto engaged against counterfeiting activities that hit branded products. and Il Mantello and has established the Matteo Riboldi study bursary for young hematologists, funding the Paolo Belli leukemia treatment association. Moreover, it has contributed to the Holiday Project of the Italian A non-profit entrepreneurial association, Aice (Italian Foreign Trade AssoMultiple Sclerosis Association (Como branch). ciation), for 70 years, has represented Italian companies that are committed to commercial activities abroad: trading, export, import, countertrade, Furthermore, B&B Italia promotes important charity actions through the buying-offices, export management, small and medium enterprises, etc; donation of design items. Worthy of mentions are the participation to as well as the services related to such activities. the Love Design auctions, an event that supports the Italian Cancer Research Association (AIRC), and Charity Stars, promoted by Oxfam Italia and The Circle Italia. The National Wool Trade Association represents a wide number of companies active in the supply of textile raw materials, enabling it to grow In 2016, B&B Italia has supported the London Design Museum by donatand develop offering consistent supplies from qualified sources. ing a Camaleonda sofa by Mario Bellini and an Up3 armchair by Gaetano Pesce to the philantropic auction Time for design. In collaboration with the auction house Phillips and the Director of the Museum, B&B Italia contributed to a fund raising for the Design Museum’s ambitious project of creating a new exhibition space at Holland Park. The protection of the Italia cultural heritage is an ethical principle that the Company puts into practice as a Corporate Golden Donor of FAI (Fondo Ambiente Italiano), with the goal of protecting and promoting the country’s artistic, wildlife and landscape heritage. Finally, considering the location of Misinto facility (close to a protected environmental area, the Parco delle Groane), the Company has developed a particular sensibility for the protection of farmland and woodland. The current goals is to ensure that a well-developed industrial undertaking can coexist with the forests of the Brianza district; within this context a specific initiative, aiming at tackling the decline in bee populations, has been started. In collaboration with two bee-keepers, 4000 m2 within the Misinto production site and part of wooden area belonging to the firm have been loaned for use to these partners, so that they can re-establish the bee population. 44 45 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report Methodological note This document has been prepared in conformity with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards for the In accordance Core option. Reporting principles and As described in the paragraph “Stakeholders and material issues” (§1.6), Criteria coherently with the GRI Standards, the contents of this report respects the results of B&B Italia materiality analysis. Compasso d’Oro As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Initiative from 2016, this report represents B&B Italia's first Communication on Progress – a public disclosure providing valuable information to stakeholders in implementing the 10 principles of the UNGC (for further information, please refer to §1.5). For this reason, the UNGC principles are clearly mapped versus the GRI indicators in the GRI Content Index on page 51. With regard to Human Rights, B&B Italia’s 2016 Sustainability Report does not directly address the UNGC issues and principles, since the major part of the Company’s direct activities and suppliers are located where laws ensures the regulation of human rights. Nevertheless, B&B Italia includes clauses on labor conditions and on the respect of human rights in its Code of Ethics in order to reduce risks in its value chain. Moreover, relevant human rights issues related to B&B Italia’s activities, such as the protection of worker’s occupational health and safety is an issue on which the Company is continuously committed to report on. Scope of reporting This first Sustainability Report provides information on initiatives, activities and the related key performance indicators and refers to the period from January 1st, to December 31st 2016 and, where available, as well as presented for the three years 2014, 2015 and 2016. The information refer to B&B Italia S.p.A. (excluding Arclinea) and, when applicable, comprises data related to commercial branches. Exceptions to such scope are explicitly reported in the text. This Sustainability Report represents the first step for B&B Italia to monitor and optimize its sustainability performance and strenghten its activities in the social and environmental domains. With this document, the Company aims not only at complying with social expectations and at reinforcing the communication to stakeholders on the results achieved, but also at improving internal awareness on sustainable development. B&B ITALIA Thank you! (advertising page 2010) to those who have chosen or will chose us; to the designers for their creativity; to the retailers and interior decorators who contribute to our success worldwide; to the companies that have helped us develop new technologies; to the newspapers that have written about us. Thank you even to those who copy us. 46 47 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report Material issues The following table outlines the connections between B&B Italia’s material Calculation methodologies Below, methodologies and assumptions used to calculate performance issues (as described in detail in Chapter 1) and the corresponding GRI indicators included in the Report are reported. guidelines topics (Topic-specific Disclosures). In addition, the table provides the impacts generated by each material topic, both within and outThe following table shows the conversion factors used: side the organization, named as reporting “boundaries”. The table also reports any potential reporting limitation due to the current unavailability Fuel density DEFRA (Department of Environment, Food & Rural Affairs), of data and information relating to the external perimeter. Conversion factors 2016 Full set, 2016 MATTM (Ministero dell’Ambiente e della Tutela del Territorio e del Mare), LCV (Lower Calorific Value) LIMITATIONS OF REPORTING Tabella parametri standard nazionali, 2016 ASPECT BOUNDARY B&B ITALIA'S MATERIAL ON BOUNDARY GRI MATERIAL TOPICS ASPECTS Within the Outside the Within the Outside the Greenhouse gases emissions have been calculated basing on the princiorganization organization organization organization ples included in the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Designers, Designers, Standard, as explained below: B&B Italia Creativity and innovation architects and architects and S.p.A. interior decorators interior decorators GHG EMISSIONS SCOPE 1 Eco-design and product B&B Italia Clients Clients Source Activity data Emission factor Gwp environmental impacts S.p.A. Suppliers Suppliers Natural gas for heating; MATTM (Ministero dell’Ambiente e della Diversity and Diversity and Equal B&B Italia Fuel Diesel for emergency generators Tutela del Territorio e del Mare), Tabella Only CO2 emissions were considered equal opportunities Opportunities S.p.A. consumption parametri standard nazionali, 2016 Employment Biomass (N2O and CH4 emissions CH4: GWP = 25; B&B Italia DEFRA (Department of Environment, Employee care Occupational which are not absorbed during Fuel N2O: GWP = 298. S.p.A. Food & Rural Affairs), Conversion factors Health and Safety growth) – wood offcuts for heating consumption GWPs are taken from IPCC Fourth 2016 Full set, 2016, 2015 in Misinto Assessment Report (AR4). Energy efficiency Emissions B&B Italia Suppliers Suppliers MATTM (Ministero dell’Ambiente e della and climate change Energy S.p.A. Fuel Only CO2 emissions B&B Italia’s car fleet Tutela del Territorio e del Mare), Tabella consumptions were considered parametri standard nazionali, 2016 B&B Italia Supplier Ethics and transparency Anti-corruption S.p.A. Dealers Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) Leakages from air-conditioning Leakages (kg) are taken from IPCC Fifth Assessment Human rights along systems of refrigerant gases Human rights assessment Suppliers Suppliers Report (AR5). the value chain GHG EMISSIONS SCOPE 2 Internationalization B&B Italia and growth strategy S.p.A. Source Activity data Emission factor Gwp Occupational Health Occupational Health B&B Italia Suppliers Suppliers Electricity purchased Electricity Terna, Confronti internazionali, 2015 Only CO2 emissions were considered and Safety and Safety S.p.A. Dealers Dealers from national grid consumptions Clients Clients GHG EMISSIONS SCOPE 3 Product durability, Customer health B&B Italia Customers Customers functionality and quality and safety S.p.A. Source Activity data Emission factor Gwp Dealers Dealers CH4: GWP = 25; Customer health B&B Italia Clients Clients DEFRA (Department of Environment, Product safety N2O: GWP = 298. and safety S.p.A. Customers Customers Business travels by air Kilometers Food & Rural Affairs), Conversion factors GWPs are taken from IPCC Fourth 2016 Full set, 2016, 2015, 2014 Training B&B Italia Assessment Report (AR4). Training and Education Dealers Dealers and development S.p.A. OUTSIDE OF SCOPE EMISSIONS Responsible sourcing B&B Italia Source Activity data Emission factor Gwp Materials Suppliers Suppliers and supply chain management S.p.A. CH4: GWP = 25; DEFRA (Department of Environment, Biomass combustion Fuel N2O: GWP = 298. Food & Rural Affairs), Conversion factors wood offcuts for heating in Misinto consumption GWPs are taken from IPCC Fourth 2016 Full set, 2016, 2015 Assessment Report (AR4). Quality reporting principles The drafting of B&B Italia's Sustainability Report is conducted in accordance with the principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability, as defined by the GRI Standards. This document is Air emissions are calculated taking into account all pollutants relating to a tool that allows the identification of not only strengths and weaknesses, industrial process (for more information, see the Appendix), with excepbut also possible areas of improvements for the Company. tion to those deriving from biomass and natural gas boiler used to provide heating. The calculation is based on detection of pollutants concentraThe data collection and reporting process is structured in order to guartions, multiplied by estimated annual flows. antee the comparability over the reporting years and the clearly interpretation of information by the key stakeholders. EY Italian Climate Change All data related to injuries are referred to B&B Italia employees (excludand Sustainability Services team supported B&B Italia in the drafting of ing contractors). Commuting injuries and first-aids are not included. Lost its 2016 Sustainability Report. B&B Italia’s Sustainability Report is not days and absentee days are calculated as working days. For injuries, lost subject to external assurance. days are calculated starting from the day of the injury. Injury rate and lost day rate are calculated taking into account only work-related accidents. 48 49 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report Waste In addition to the information required by the GRI Standard with respect to each indicator linked to B&B Italia material topics, the Company closeAPPENDIX ly monitors other environmental aspects connected to its industrial process, in a perspective of regulation compliance. Total waste production ENVIRONMENTAL DATA tons (*) Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste 931 45 833 69 886 561 33 764 528 2014 2015 2016 (*) In 2015, data included also waste coming from the Ascoli plant (0.78 ton of hazardous wastes and 215 ton of non-hazardous ones), definitively dismissed during that year. The percentage of recycled waste decreased from 74% in 2015 to 62% in 2016, with a reduction of recycle in non-hazardous waste (-30%) but an increase in hazardous ones (53%). Even if not considering the amount of waste generated by the Ascoli plant in 2015, definitively dismissed (extraordinary event), the trend shows an increase in total waste production (from 561 t in 2014, to 715 t in 2015, to 833 t in 2016). This was mainly due to two factors: An increase in production; An important upgrade of product packaging entering the B&B Italia plants (improved during last years in order to ensure high quality standards, but with a larger use of packaging materials). Total waste production by disposal method Waste by disposal method Unit 2014 2015 2016 Non-hazardous waste t 528.0 885.6 763.7 Recycled t (*) 692.9 500.6 Incinerated t (*) 71.2 180.2 Landfilled t (*) 121.5 82.9 Hazardous waste t 32.9 45.0 68.8 Recycled t 32.9 45.0 68.8 Total t 560.9 930.6 832.5 (*) Data not available. 50 51 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report Air emissions Moreover, every year, B&B Italia carries out an analysis on its air emisGRI Content Index sions, as requested by environmental authorizations in accordance with Legislative Decree n. 152/06. In 2016, the values recorded in all the emisGRI Standard Disclosure Page sions examined and in all the sampling performed were lower than the GRI 101: Foundation 2016 limits. B&B Italia's air emissions from industrial processes of the NoveGeneral Disclosures drate and Misinto sites mainly relate to the polyurethane foaming phase GRI 102: General Organizational profile and to wood processing, which implies 0.5 and 11.9 tons of particulate Disclosures 2016 matter and T.O.C. – Total Organic Carbon, respectively. 102-1 Name of the organization 6 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6-7 Air emissions from the industrial process Unit 2016 102-3 Location of headquarters 27 Particulate matter t 0.5 102-4 Location of operations 27 T.O.C. t 11.9 102-5 Ownership and legal form 13 Ammonia t 0 102-6 Markets served 14 Aliphatic amines (triethylamine) t 0 102-7 Scale of the organization 7 Isocyanate t 0 102-8 Information on employees UN 37 and other workers GC 102-9 Supply chain 29 Materials for packaging Another impact measured by B&B Italia is the consumption of materi102-10 Significant changes to the organization 37; 29 als for packaging. The use of these materials increased in 2016, with a and its supply chain similar percentage increase of both paper (+9%) and polystyrene (+7%), 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach As of today, B&B Italia does not formally adhere or mainly as a consequence of the increase in production. adapt its decision-making approach in accordance to the precautionary principle. Packaging materials employed in the industrial process Unit 2015 2016 102-12 External initiatives 42 Paper t 594.5 649.1 102-13 Membership of associations 14 Polystyrene t 33.0 35.3 Strategy Total t 627.5 684.4 UN 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker § A message to our stakeholders . GC Ethics and integrity Water Water consumptions are reported on the following table. Increase in 102-16 Values, principles, standards, 13-14 consumptions are due to a malfunctioning in air conditioning processes and norms of behavior (Milano showroom), now under control, and to unspecified reasons. FurGovernance ther analyses will be carried out during the next years in order to investi102-18 Governance structure 13 gate these trends. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 16 Water withdrawal by source Unit 2014 2015 2016 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements UN All Italian B&B Italia's employees are covered Total m3 26,024(*) 32,628 56,056 GC by collection bargaining agreements in Italy, (*) In 2014, data included also 241 m3 from the Ascoli plant as required by national laws. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 16 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 16 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 16-17 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 45; 13 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content 36; 16-17 and topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 17 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable. This is the first Sustainability Report. 102-49 Changes in reporting Not applicable. This is the first Sustainability Report. 102-50 Reporting period 45 102-51 Date of most recent report Not applicable. This is the first Sustainability Report. 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions 56 regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 45 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 51-55 102-56 External assurance This report is not subject to external assurance. 52 53 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Material Topics GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series GRI 200 Economic Standard Series Materials Economic Performance GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic UN Approach 2016 29-31 and its Boundary GC GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Approach 2016 14 topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and UN 29-31 its components GC 103-2 The management approach 14 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management UN 29-31 approach GC 103-3 Evaluation of the management 14 approach GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or UN 29-31 Information unavailable: 2016 volume GC data regarding finished GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated 14 goods/products are not Performance 2016 and distributed collected and reported. Procurement Practices Energy GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material 29-31 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material UN Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary 34-35 Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary GC 103-2 The management approach 29-31 103-2 The management approach UN and its components 34-35 and its components GC 103-3 Evaluation of the management 29-31 103-3 Evaluation of the management UN approach 34-35 approach GC GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending 29-31 Information unavailable. GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within UN Practices 2016 on local suppliers B&B Italia is committed to 34-35 the organization GC collect the information for the future. UN 302-3 Energy intensity 34-35 GC Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Emissions UN Approach 2016 13-14 topic and its Boundary GC GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material UN Approach 2016 35 topic and its Boundary GC 103-2 The management approach UN 13-14 and its components GC 103-2 The management approach UN 35 and its components GC 103-3 Evaluation of the management UN 13-14 approach GC 103-3 Evaluation of the management UN 35 approach GC GRI 205: 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption UN 13-14 Anti-corruption 2016 and actions taken GC GRI 305: Emissions UN During the reporting period, the 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 35 GC Company did not register any confirmed incident: 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) UN 35 of corruption; GHG emissions GC in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption; 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) UN 35 when contracts with business GHG emissions GC partners were terminated or not Environmental Compliance renewed due to violations related to corruption. GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material UN Approach 2016 33 The Company did also not register topic and its Boundary GC any public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the 103-2 The management approach UN 33 organization or its employees and its components GC 103-3 Evaluation of the management UN 33 approach GC GRI 307: Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with UN Compliance 2016 33 environmental laws and regulations GC 54 55 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission GRI 400 Social Standards Series GRI 400 Social Standards Series Employment Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material UN GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Approach 2016 37-40 Approach 2016 31-33 topic and its Boundary GC topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach UN 103-2 The management approach 37-40 31-33 and its components GC and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management UN 103-3 Evaluation of the management 37-40 31-33 approach GC approach GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires UN 40 Information unavailable: GRI 416: Customer 416-1 Assessment of the health and 31-33 Employment 2016 and employee turnover GC geographical breakdown is Health and Safety 2016 safety impacts of product and service not collected because this categories division is not considered to be relevant. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance 31-33 concerning the health and safety impacts Occupational Health and Safety of products and services GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic UN Socioeconomic Compliance Approach 2016 41-42 and its Boundary GC GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Approach 2016 13-14 103-2 The management approach and UN and its Boundary 41-42 its components GC 103-2 The management approach and 13-14 103-3 Evaluation of the management UN its components 41-42 approach GC 103-3 Evaluation of the management GRI 403: 403-2 Types of injury and rates UN 41-42 Information unavailable: 13-14 approach Occupational Health of injury, occupational diseases, GC geographical breakdown is and Safety 2016 lost days, and absenteeism, and number not collected because this GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws 13-14 of work-related fatalities division is not considered Socioeconomic and regulations in the social to be relevant. Compliance 2016 and economic area Information unavailable: Internationalization and growth strategy gender split. GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Training and Education Approach 2016 14 topic and its Boundary GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material UN 40-41 103-2 The management approach Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary GC 14 and its components 103-2 The management approach UN 103-3 Evaluation of the management 40-41 14 and its components GC approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management UN Creativity and innovation 40-41 approach GC GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material GRI 404: Training and 404-1 Average hours of training UN Approach 2016 19-21 40-41 topic and its Boundary Education 2016 per year per employee GC 103-2 The management approach Diversity and Equal Opportunity 19-21 and its components GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material UN 37-40 103-3 Evaluation of the management Approach 2016 topic and its Boundary GC 19-21 approach 103-2 The management approach UN Eco-design and product environmental impacts 37-40 and its components GC GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material 103-3 Evaluation of the management UN Approach 2016 21-24 37-40 topic and its Boundary approach GC 103-2 The management approach GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies UN 21-24 13; 37-40 and its components and Equal Opportunity and employees GC 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management 405-2 Ratio of basic salary UN 21-24 39 approach and remuneration of women to men GC Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material UN Approach 2016 29-31 topic and its Boundary GC 103-2 The management approach UN 29-31 and its components GC 103-3 Evaluation of the management UN 29-31 approach GC GRI 412: Human 412-1 Operations that have been UN 29-31 Information unavailable. Rights Assessment subject to human rights reviews GC To cover the indicator 2016 or impact assessments (aspect boundary outside the organization). For further information about this Sustainability Report, please contact: B&B Italia S.p.A. Strada Provinciale 32, 15 22060 Novedrate (CO) Italy Tel. +39 031795111 e-mail: sustainability@bebitalia.com WWW.BEBITALIA.COM
