December 2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Louis Berger reaffirms its support of the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress report, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. By enhancing policies and procedures, augmenting business partner due diligence, improving the efficiency of our Compliance and Ethics organization, and maintaining a focus on ethics in every meeting, Louis Berger has emerged as a truly progressive company with the highest ethical standards. Louis Berger is committed to doing business with the highest integrity. Maintaining a reputation for integrity depends on all of us at Louis Berger. Our goal is to exceed minimum compliance levels and demonstrate, to ourselves, our industry and the world, how to do things the right way. As we look to the future, we aim to share our knowledge and best practices with business partners to ensure that, together, we are leading the way. Sincerely yours, Jim Stamatis, Chief Executive Officer, Louis Berger 412 Mount Kemble Avenue PO Box 1946 | Morristown | NJ | 07962 | USA | Tel +1.973.407.1000 louisberger.com UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES LOUIS BERGER’S PROGRESS Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and • The Louis Berger Code of Business Conduct upholds the protection of human rights. respect the protection of • We published the Louis Berger Anti-Slavery and Anti-Trafficking Statement on the Louis Berger public website. internationally proclaimed human • We adopted a Human Rights policy and published the policy on the corporate intranet. rights. • We participated in the International Development Ethics Professionals organization industry events as participant, host and presenter. 2. Businesses should make sure • We maintained an Ethics Helpline for reporting possible abuses. There were no helpline reports of human rights they are not complicit in human abuses during fiscal year 2018. rights abuses. • We vetted all prospective business partners and intermediaries through a mandatory due diligence review process prior to establishing contractual business relationships. Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the • The Louis Berger Code of Business Conduct states that the company respects employees’ rights to free association freedom of association and the and collective bargaining. effective recognition of the right • We respected the terms of collective bargaining agreements with respect to training during fiscal year 2018. to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the • The Louis Berger Anti-Slavery and Anti-Trafficking Statement and the Louis Berger Human Rights Policy uphold elimination of all forms of forced elimination of forced and compulsory labor. and compulsory labor. • Our Global Anti-Corruption Policy includes a prohibition on coercive practices. • Louis Berger complies with minimum wage standards. 5. Businesses should uphold the • Louis Berger upholds the abolition of child labor under its Human Rights Policy and Code of Business Conduct. effective abolition of child labor. 6. Businesses should uphold the • We adopted a Respectful Workplace Anti-Harassment Policy. elimination of discrimination in • Our Code of Business Conduct maintains that all employees are responsible for creating and maintaining a respect of employment and harassment-free workplace. occupation. • In 2018, we required all U.S. employees to take anti-harassment training and all supervisors to take additional related training, with a total of about 2,200 hours of training completed. • Employees also completed a total of approximately 5,400 hours of online compliance and ethics training, in addition to the anti-harassment training. • Louis Berger supports two employee resource networks focused on improving diversity and inclusion at Louis Berger—Women @ Louis Berger and Inclusion @ Louis Berger. • For the past three years, Louis Berger has tracked and reported our workforce diversity within North America. ger.com GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES LOUIS BERGER’S PROGRESS Environment 7. Businesses should support a • As a professional services firm, we provide solutions to clients that seek to protect the environment and human precautionary approach to health. environmental challenges. • We adopted a Sustainability Commitment in 2017, which the CEO distributed to all employees. • We signed the Business Backs Low-Carbon USA Commitment in 2016, which encouraged the US administration and congress to honor the commitments made in the historic Paris Climate Agreement. • We purchased Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) to offset 30% of our electricity usage in 2017. 8. Businesses should undertake • We adopted a Sustainability Commitment in 2017. initiatives to promote greater • We published a Corporate Citizenship and Sustainability Report in 2017, detailing our efforts to measure and reduce environmental responsibility. our environmental footprint. • We maintained ISO 14001 certification in all of our international regions. • We published Standard Operating Practices (SOPs) in 2018 to address waste management and recycling in our offices and on projects sites under our control. • We implemented a print management tool in 2018 to reduce waste printing. • In the U.S., we recycled over 7,700 pounds of e-waste and over 2,600 pounds of K-Cups in 2017 and 2018 to date. • Over 100 employees throughout 20 offices participated in the Louis Berger Zero Waste Lunch challenge in 2018. 9. Businesses should encourage • The Louis Berger Sustainability Commitment encourages integration of sustainability into projects and operations. the development and diffusion of • Louis Berger is a member of the Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure at Harvard University, which environmentally friendly focuses on developing and promoting methods, processes and tools that qualify sustainability for infrastructure. technologies. • Louis Berger is a member of the Center for Integrated Facility Engineering at Stanford University, a research center working on issues relevant to the A/E/C industry. • Louis Berger is part of the HarborRock consortium, which developed a sustainable and economical process to reuse the natural components found in dredged material. • We trained over 130 employees in the Envision Rating System for Sustainable Infrastructure, with approximately 100 current employees certified as Envision Sustainability Professionals (ENV SPs). • We partnered with Direct Energy Solar in 2017 to offer employees discounts on residential solar systems. • We partnered with EZ-EV in 2018 to offer employees discounts on electric vehicles. • We sponsored a Global Innovation Challenge during the summer of 2018 to identify solutions that would improve the sustainability and resilience of our disaster management practice. • We started testing drones in different applications, which can potentially reduce environmental impacts and provide cost savings through more efficient data collection. • We deployed pro-bono hybrid solar-diesel generators in two communities in Puerto Rico following Hurricane Maria to demonstrate distributed, solar hybrid power technologies while restoring residents’ access to fundamental services that would otherwise not be available until full restoration of the central power grid. ger.com GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES LOUIS BERGER’S PROGRESS Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against • We maintain a Global Anti-Corruption Policy. corruption in all its forms, • The Louis Berger Code of Business Conduct describes our anti-corruption policies and practices. including extortion and bribery. • We vet all prospective business partners and intermediaries through a mandatory due diligence review process prior to establishing contractual business relationships. • We continued to improve our easy-to-use online Authority Matrix, which is a decision-making tool for business activities. • We completed approximately 1,500 hours of in-person anti-corruption training for all employees in overseas operations and 1,000 hours of online anti-corruption training. • We completed 1,600 hours of new hire and annual Code of Business Conduct training for all employees globally. • We completed 400 hours of annual consolidated code training (including anti-corruption) for select U.S. employees. ger.com
