PAE 2017 Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact 2017 Table of Contents Dear Colleague, In 2017, as it has been in year’s past, PAE is committed to the United Nation’s Global Compact mission of shaping a sustainable future. We understand that long-term business A Message from PAE success means more than just our bottom line. Our entire workforce is doing their part in respecting the rights of others, of upholding and practicing established labor standards, CEO John Heller of being good stewards of the environment and encouraging environmentally friendly Page 1 technologies. Every day, on every project, we work with integrity and require integrity from everyone who represents PAE. While I could cite multiple initiatives across our enterprise that support the UN Global Compact mission, I’m going to focus on one contract that represents the principles we vowed to uphold for 2017. Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact In April, PAE won for the fourth consecutive time the Rapid Expert Assistance and Cooperation Teams contract supporting the Department of State and the Organization Page 2 for Security and Cooperation in Europe, or OSCE as it’s known. Because everyone has the right to live safely, the OSCE has a mandate to monitor and report on security and human rights issues. OSCE asked one of our REACT Monitoring Officers to spearhead Human Rights an initiative in Ukraine to identify industrial facilities and other sites in the conflict zone Page 3 that posed environmental concerns. Despite the challenges and hazards of working in the conflict zone, the officer reported feeling strongly mission-driven about what she was doing because as she put it, environmental risks need to be examined and addressed to mitigate Labor Standards the hazards posed to communities. That’s the kind of dedication indicative of our team. Page 4 Similarly, PAE’s commitment to anti-corruption, human rights and labor standards is demonstrated daily through REACT. For example, our program officers in the Economic The Environment Governance Unit at OSCE Secretariat in Vienna focus on anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism. We also support those on the margins of society to Page 5 build their resilience and self-confidence and encourage their critical thinking through a mobile training team in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because of this training, we are working to eliminate acts of violence and abuse occurring in the workplace and to individuals. Anti-Corruption Page 6 As I referenced earlier, the REACT program is just one example among many (some of which are shared in this document) that represent PAE’s diligence toward sustainment of human rights protection, fair labor standards, environmental protection and our Appendix ongoing work against anti-corruption. As CEO, I committed PAE to implement universal Page 7 sustainability principles put forth in the UN Global Compact – as an organization we honor our commitments. John Heller Chief Executive Officer 1 Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 Human Rights Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PAE Values Our zero tolerance policy is in place to protect One of PAE’s core corporate values is to “perform with excellence and integrity.” employees from discrimination and harassment, We expect that all employees integrate this and employees are encouraged to report any commitment into their daily work whether violation of this policy or any other concern. In they support our customers’ missions directly addition to reaching out to our Chief Ethics & or indirectly. In a direct sense, PAE’s Global Compliance Officer personally, PAE employees Mission Services business unit includes have various channels to report violations, programs that provide critical support to the including our Ethics Hotline, which is reachable civil infrastructure of conflict and post-conflict by international and domestic employees via countries; assist foreign governments that are phone or email. While these and other regulatory challenged to provide for the needs of their measures are effective, it is truly the management citizens; and provide logistics and training to team that sets the tone and expectations for the support basic human needs within the context of rest of the workforce. Through their example and peacekeeping and humanitarian missions. the corporate policies in place, PAE uses every resource at its disposal to support and protect PAE Initiatives human rights. PAE’s mandatory annual ethics and compliance trainings include an explanation of the company’s expectations of behavior as stated in the Code of PAE Spotlight: Conduct entitled “Leading the Way.” Among the PAE implements the Department of State topics covered in the training, special attention is Bureau of International Narcotics and Law paid to ethics awareness, diversity and inclusion, Enforcement Affairs Corrections System human trafficking, creating a harassment-free Support Program (CSSP) in Afghanistan. workplace and Equal Employment Opportunities. CSSP provides mentoring and advising support, PAE educates its employees on the U.S. Federal training assistance, leadership capacity building Acquisition Regulation and provides additional initiatives, infrastructure assistance and nationtraining to mitigate even the slightest perception wide case management for correctional facilities. of inappropriate behavior. One of PAE’s initiatives for CSSP in 2017 was to execute small-scale construction efforts to PAE is committed to ethical performance of our improve sanitation, life support needs and security work, and we support the industry-wide efforts of for adult prisons and juvenile rehabilitation the International Stability Operations Association centers. In order to track and report the progress to promote universal standards of conduct. of these projects in the field, PAE’s Software PAE’s comprehensive compliance plan trains Solutions team and Governance and Institutional our employees to recognize and report violations Development team partnered to design and they may observe in their work or travels, such deploy a remote monitoring tool. The tool as instances of human trafficking, which is one produced elaborate reports that were shared with of the fastest growing criminal activities in the the customer and proved a critical component in world. the success of the projects. PAE Code of Conduct PAE’s Code of Conduct stipulates that all employees are required to comply with our own corporate policies, the laws of the United States and the laws that govern their country of operation. 3 Labor Standards Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; the effective abolition of child labor; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PAE Values PAE’s commitment to fair labor standards Ethics & Compliance Officer works closely with provides employees with the right to collective PAE’s Legal department, Human Resources and bargaining; fair compensation for the work Program Managers to thoroughly investigate any they do; and protection from every form of reported allegations, and take action if necessary. discrimination. We believe that our employees are our most valuable assets, and we prioritize In addition, PAE’s anti-human trafficking program their individual and collective needs accordingly. provides employees and contractors with training PAE’s workforce includes a number of union and awareness on human trafficking red flags, labor groups, and we are proud of the effective assesses suppliers on their human trafficking collaborations between PAE Labor Relations risks, holds suppliers accountable for trafficking and these teams to most effectively support the activities that may occur in their supply chain, missions of our customers. and includes human trafficking-focused audits for specific programs. PAE Initiatives PAE has continued its partnerships with PAE Code of Conduct organizations such as the International Stability PAE’s support of our employees’ fair labor Operations Association and the United Nations rights around the world is vital to maintaining Global Compact to expand awareness of globally a productive workforce. In turn, we expect our recognized fair labor standards. employees to create a culture of fairness and equality amongst themselves by treating each Operating in over 60 countries on all seven other as they wish to be treated. This is a recurring continents, PAE’s diverse workforce is comprised theme throughout our policies and Code of of individuals who represent a wide spectrum of Conduct; where our employees must lead with age, ethnicities, religions and races. To protect integrity and excellence. our employees from abuse or harassment, and to ensure that our working environment is inclusive PAE Spotlight: and respectful of all employees, PAE implements PAE employees have access to the One PAE a zero-tolerance policy against any sort of Policy Library, which stores all of the company’s discrimination. policies and related documents. Weekly company communications direct employees to the Policy Every PAE employee is trained on our policies Library for various policy updates and procedures on non-discrimination, Equal Employment that enforce our values of working with integrity Opportunity, our culture of leading with and excellence. Our employees are educated and integrity and excellence, and our commitment trained on our labor policies on the first day of to maintaining a safe, healthy and respectful their employment, and the entire workforce is reenvironment, among many others. At the trained on key elements of our business conduct conclusion of our new-hire orientation and on an annual basis. We prohibit discrimination every annual ethics and compliance training, in any form and take an active approach to every employee is required to sign and return recruiting and developing a diverse and inclusive an acknowledgement page, confirming that they workforce, which we believe is one of our greatest comprehend and voluntarily agree to follow the organizational strengths. policies by which PAE is governed. Forced labor and child labor are strictly prohibited in every area where we work. We promote the use of our Ethics Hotline, and PAE’s Chief 4 The Environment Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PAE Values PAE recognizes that the safety of our employees to the Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance and the protection of the environment are document, and our subcontractors make every imperative to ensuring our operational success. effort to incorporate LEED standards into our PAE’s Director for Quality, Environmental, construction projects. We choose to use products Safety and Health (QESH) reports to the PAE that are safe for our client, the environment and President and centralizes PAE’s approach to our employees. Our goal is to reduce waste; applying QESH best practices across our diverse maximize the utility of any unavoidable waste; business units. Our Environmental Safety and and conserve energy, water and any other natural Health (ESH) initiatives are then implemented resources in the construction and/or maintenance by local ESH representatives on sites where PAE phase of our programs. is the majority owner of contract operations. We have continued the efforts from previous years PAE Code of Conduct to reduce hazardous environmental releases and Our Code of Conduct addresses our company’s other ESH incidents on contract sites around the commitment to a safe and healthy work world. Our ESH organization continues its active environment, and we ask that all members of our request for input from our diverse workforce, organization consider themselves ambassadors in an effort to combine the knowledge from of public safety. Not only are all employees our different backgrounds and experiences. responsible for complying with ESH regulations PAE is also proud to have our headquarters and laws, they are also required by policy to in a Leadership in Energy and Environmental report any injury sustained or accident observed Design (LEED) designated building. Throughout on a job site to their management immediately. the year, our employees participate in LEED initiatives such as an E-waste recycling project. PAE Spotlight: In Antarctica, PAE provides operations and PAE Initiatives maintenance support to the United States PAE emphasizes to its employees that prevention Antarctica Program (USAP) funded by the is the first line of defense against hazardous National Science Foundation. Scientists and environmental impacts. Our Target Zero goal support staff “on the ice” must adhere to strict an initiative aimed at eliminating injuries environmental regulations, and PAE employees and negative environmental impacts applies play an integral role in this area each year. In throughout the company. We have continued 2017, PAE environmental employees at the pollution prevention initiatives and recurring main U.S. base, McMurdo Station, conducted training for all on-site employees on proper 63 environmental trainings for 731 USAP disposal of hazardous waste. We also have participants. In addition, the environmental team continued our recycling and reusable materials completed eight field camp/ science environmental plan at international project sites. audits and seven remediation projects and were part of three science and technical project service Our ESH representatives record, log and report cleanup projects. all safety incidents and environmental releases. These incidents are tracked on a system modeled after a blend of the ISO-9000, ISO-14000 and OHSAS-18000 certification requirements. Our ESH standards apply to our procurement process as well. PAE upholds U.S. standards for purchasing materials that do not contain lead or asbestos from international vendors. In the absence of nation-specific environmental laws, we adhere 5 Anti-Corruption Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. PAE Values PAE’s quarterly employee magazine, Inside PAE, Given the different cultures in each of the countries where PAE operates, our employees have and regularly includes perspectives from the Ethics will continue to encounter varying interpretations & Compliance Office and offers examples of of business protocol. Because a gesture could be unethical behavior in our industry, to emphasize considered typical etiquette in one country and the importance of following our anti-corruption bribery in another, PAE and other contractors policies. In the event of a corruption claim, the must be proactive in training employees to avoid Ethics & Compliance Office works closely with the most conservative definitions of extortion and our General Counsel to investigate thoroughly. bribery. PAE’s position against corruption is not only the PAE provides employees with ample training concern of our Ethics and Legal departments. Our to prepare them for any instance of corruption Procurement team is required to compare vendors’ they might confront, and implements precautions costs to ensure fair competition. Procurement to ensure that the laws of the United States personnel are also specially trained to not accept and foreign governments are strictly followed. gifts of any value from potential vendors, to avoid Through diligent instruction and annual even the perception of bribery. Additionally, our reinforcement of policies and procedures through International Trade Compliance Office procures our annual ethics and compliance training, PAE the appropriate authorizations for international employees receive a comprehensive education on shipments to fulfill all regulatory requirements. how to operate ethically and professionally. PAE Spotlight PAE Initiatives Because of the nature of PAE’s work, it is imperative that all PAE employees follow the PAE’s Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer serves as one of the four founders of the Compliance company’s anti-corruption policies. Among the Leadership Roundtable (CLR), which was requirements implemented by PAE’s policies is established in 2013 to promote excellence in the company’s obligation to ensure compliance compliance and reality in regulations. The with the FCPA’s rules regarding hospitality invitation-only group of key leaders in the for and facilitating payments to government Washington, DC metropolitan area collaborates officials, as well as internal accounting and with other relevant professional organizations, reporting provisions. In 2017, PAE augmented and educational institutions to promote its financial reporting and monitoring procedures development and continued learning for leaders by introducing a revamped pre-approval, in the compliance profession. monitoring, and reporting process for hospitality and facilitating payments. PAE’s Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer leverages the CLR to shape quarterly compliance In addition, PAE is committed to investigate all discussions on high risk areas; such as False reported ethics cases in a serious and fair manner. Claims Act, respect and workplace safety, This includes investigating matters promptly and conflicts of interest. The Chief Ethics & and thoroughly. Furthering this commitment, Compliance Officer also chairs a Monthly PAE appointed additional staff to lead and direct Compliance Council comprised of functional investigations. PAE also provided detailed executive leaders to: oversee the Company’s instructions on how internal investigations should implementation of compliance programs, policies be handled, while continuing to emphasize and procedures that are designed to be responsive the importance of maintaining confidentiality, to the various compliance and regulatory risks ensuring an environment free of retaliation, and facing the company; assist the Chief Ethics encouraging employees to speak up when they & Compliance Officer in fulfilling oversight witness instances of unethical behavior. responsibility for the Company’s compliance and ethics programs; and perform any other duties deemed as necessary. 6 Appendix Leading the Way: Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available online at: http://www.pae.com/about-pae/ethics-and-business-conduct 7 Appendix Leading the Way: Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 8 2018 PAE Marketing & Communications
