UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) FEBRUARY 2018 LETTER OF COMMITMENT FROM CEO Max Energy embarks the 5th year of our successful incorporation with United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) this year. We are humble that Max Energy has been making significant improvements and progress with our commitment for sustainable development of the society during the past five years. Max Energy has developed to become one of the most progressive and respected organizations in Myanmar with our strong culture identity of sustainable growth and various contributions. Since we incorporated United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 5 years ago, we have embedded all aspects of the UNGC’s Ten Principles; human rights, labor standards, environment and anticorruption into our strategies, our growth initiatives, establishing policies and procedures and CSR activities. Every employees at Max Energy has been practicing and adapting those principles in our decision making process, the way we conduct our business and engagement with our stakeholders in daily basis. We are also collectively proud that UNGC’s Ten Principles is becoming important part of our organizational culture and value at Max Energy. We believe no business and organization can sustain their growth without a healthy planet, a healthy environment and a healthy society where everyone has equal rights, equal opportunity and pursue of happiness while fair way or conducting and competing business activities. Max Energy always strives to be the best in the industry for sustainable development and growth in alignment with the UNGC’s Ten Principles. We are fully committed to work hard with our utmost efforts to improve the quality of lives and betterment of our customers and consumers, our employees and the communities we serve and the societies as a whole. On behalf of all employees at Max Energy, I would like to express our fullest commitment to always find better ways to fulfill the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact by protecting our environment, conducting business with ethical and legal way and sharing benefit and working towards sharing economic benefit and betterment of our employees and stakeholders. Sincerely Yours Zaw Htoo Aung Chief Executive Officer Max Energy Co., Ltd. UNGC Principles Max Energy’s Implementation Max Energy’s Activities and Outcomes HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Business should Max Energy value and respect the equal On Max Energy website, support and respect the rights of human beings and set the highest www.maxenergy.com.mm, Human protection of priority and ensure well being of Rights Policy both in English Version internationally individuals. and Myanmar Version, Equality and proclaimed human Diversity Management Policy, rights. Max Energy’s HR policy strives to assure Grievance Policy and Code of Conduct there is zero tolerance for any form of are publicly uploaded. 2. Make sure Businesses abuse or harassment within the company. are not complicit in Related important sections of human human right abuses. Max Energy’s Occupational Health and right policies are delivered in the staff Safety and Environment policy ensure to orientation and trainings. provide a safe and healthy workplace at all time. Suggestion boxes are placed at every filling station or work places and there Max Energy seeks to maintain workplace is also a hotline for human rights with harmony, diversity, high employee grievances. morale and productivity by handling grievances and counseling support if Updated the employee handbook and needed. policies annually as required. LABOUR STANDARDS Max Energy has Workplace 3. Business should Max Energy HR policy encourages diversity Coordination Committee (WCC) with uphold freedom of and ensures zero tolerance for any form representatives from senior association and discriminatory behavior due to difference management team and junior effective recognition of of religion, race and gender or political employees for continuous the right to collective belief and ideology. Business is conducted improvement of workplace, bargaining. with freedom of association. employees well being or to resolve any personal/professional issues if 4. The elimination of all Max Energy strictly follows local labor law arises. forms of forced and ILP guidelines and international best labor compulsory labor. and HR practices to ensure fair treatment Max Energy employ HR policy design to all employees. for youth development by providing 5. The effective part-time job opportunities for the abolition of child labor. Max Energy ensure there is zero form of distance-education university students forced labor and child labor within aiming to improve quality of life by 6. Eliminate organization, at our suppliers or earning while learning. discrimination in contractors. respect of employment Gender equality and gender balance is and occupation. Max Energy is always finding better way to high priority at Max Energy. As of upgrade the employees’ standard by 2017, 70% of total employees are creating a conducive and advantages male and 30% are female. 30% of training and rewarding work environment. women hold senior executives and Max Energy is always implementing the management positions. upgrading training to promote the human capacity. Individuals with different ethnic background ; Chin, Kayin, Shan, Mon, Max Energy is running the business with Myanmar, Rakhine, etc. and religious mutual respect between employee and background and different age group employer. The company is always taking are also being employed at Max care not to discriminate in respect of Energy. employment and occupation. Max Energy accept freedom of expression of Max Energy strictly follows and employees’ opinions, needs, sharing their monitors the wages, working hours problems, and giving suggestions. and leave allowances. Provide career development trainings; operation, management, sale & marketing, finance, human resources have been delivered 19 times, orientation training for new employees have been delivered 6 times and 2 more times of ISO awareness and Internal Audit Training in 2017. There is no child labor under the age of 18 within the organization and only work with suppliers and contractors who follow similar rules. On Max Energy website, www.maxenergy.com.mm, Whistle Blowing Policy, Occupational Health and Safety Policy, Grievance Handling Policy, are publicly uploaded. ENVIRONMENT 7. Business should Max Energy always seeks to lead by Max Energy follows the mother support a precautionary example in taking care of environment and company’s environmental policy, Max approach to to love nature. Max Energy is actively Myanmar Holding Co., ltd, which is environmental participating in the environmentally uploaded on challenges. sustainable activities annually. http://www.maxmyanmargroup.com/ en/content/environmental-policy . 8. Undertake initiatives Max Energy has applied the rules and to promote greater regulations to be environmental During 2017, Max Energy did trash environmental responsible organization. cleaning at the street, market, public responsibility. area which is nearby working place at Max Energy is not only raising every township where Max Energy 9. Encourage the environmental saving culture internally Filling Stations are located. development and but also seeking the ways to promote the diffusion of awareness by sharing the information on Max Energy is continuously doing tree environmentally friendly social media about environmental impact. planting activities every year and this technologies. year, Max Energy has planted teak, kind of ornamental shade tree for 20 acres. There is no environmental incidents or complaints has been occurred during 2017. Max Energy has implemented to reduce the use of paper internally by printing double sided and to keep only soft copy in computer instead of printing hard copy for most of the documents. Gradually, Max Energy is planning to reduce more paperwork. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should Max Energy is always conducting to be a Max Energy has publicly announced work against all forms of transparency and ethical organization by Whistle Blowing Policy and Anticorruption, including committing integrity in doing business. corruption Policy on the website, extortion and bribery. Max Energy set a high ethical standard and www.maxenrgy.com.mm , which are endorse a zero-tolerance principle to being applied within the stakeholders corruption and bribery. of Max Energy. Max Energy has been checked by the Internal Audit Team, ISO Audit Team and External Audit Team (Deloitte) by quarterly and annually in order to avoid any forms of corruption and fraud case at any touch point. There is no corruption has been reported in 2017. Max Energy has been listed number 50 for Income Tax and number 12 for Commercial Tax for the Fiscal Year of 15-16 at the Assessment Year of 16-17 which is uploaded in the government website, https://www.irdmyanmar.gov.mm/Do wnload.aspx.
