Sustainability Data 2018 CONTENTS Executive Message 03 The Environment 46 Toppan’s Sustainability Initiatives 04 Basic Approach Pollution Control Mitigation of Global Warming Biodiversity Organizational Governance 06 Building of a Recycling-oriented Society Corporate Governance Control of Chemical Substances Risk Management Group Business Outline 80 BCP/BCM Independent Assurance Report 82 Human Rights 14 Labor Practices 17 Sustainability Data 2018 Employee Work and Health & Safety This report presents comprehensive sustainability data with a focus on Human Asset Development various sorts of performance data and information on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues. Fair Operating Practices 28 Period Covered This report mainly covers activities in fiscal 2017 (from April 2017 to March 2018), though information on prior and later years is Strict Compliance also included in parts. CSR Procurement Scope and Boundary Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and its Group entities consolidated for accounting purposes. The information on personnel Consumer Issues 33 principally applies to personnel within Toppan Printing Co., Ltd., the parent company. For details on the scope of the environmental performance data, Initiatives for Products and Services see the List of Indicators Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider Consumer Protection shown on page 2. Publication Dates (English version) Previous report, December 2017; Community Involvement and Development 44 Current report, December 2018; Next report, December 2019 (planned) Contact Information Sustainability Promotion Office, Public Relations Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (Tokyo, Japan) Email: csr@toppan.co.jp Sustainability Information Disclosure System Toppan reports the Group’s sustainability initiatives in line with the seven core subjects set under the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 26000 standard, a globally recognized set of guidelines on social responsibility. Information relevant to the sustainability activities has been disclosed using timely and appropriate methods that make the best use of information media such as PDFs and the Toppan website. Website https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/csr/ ・Basic approach ●Sustainability Section of Toppan Website ・Promotion framework This website section presents Toppan’s sustainability initiatives, from the ・Main activities Group’s basic approach to sustainability to its activities in fiscal 2017. Sustainability Data 2018 (PDF) and various other forms of detailed performance data are posted here. PDFs ・Detailed sustainability performance data ・Information related to environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues ●Sustainability Data 2018 This PDF presents Toppan’s basic approach and ●Other Related Information promotion framework relevant to sustainability activities, ・Corporate information: https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/ various other sustainability performance data, and ・IR information: http://www.toppan.co.jp/en/ir/ information related to environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues. Guidelines This report has been edited according to the Environmental Reporting Guidelines (fiscal year 2012 version) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan and prepared in accordance with the “Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option” in the “GRI 102: General Disclosures.” 1 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 List of Indicators Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider The following sustainability performance indicators in this report (Sustainability Data 2018 PDF) are assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd., an independent assurance provider. Performance Indicators Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider and Scope of the Performance Data ❶ Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (“the Company”) ❷ 15 domestic subsidiaries under the control of the Company or the Company’s business divisions and subsidiaries with production facilities (subject to the Company’s environmental targets) ❸ 21 domestic Group companies (not subject to the Company’s environmental targets) ❹ 23 overseas subsidiaries of the Company (not subject to the Company’s environmental targets) ❺ 8 overseas Group subsidiaries (not subject to the Company’s environmental targets) 68 companies and subsidiaries in total On the following pages every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Indicator Assured by an Independent Companies Page Category Data Scope Assurance Provider Promoting Positive Action Female Managerial and Supervisory Staff 〇 1 ① P16 Human Total number of regular recruits (percentage of women); Rights Number of Recruits Number of mid-career recruitments of experienced female 〇 1 ① personnel Number of female directors 〇 1 ① Labor P21 Employee Work Information on Personnel Number of female employees 〇 1 ① and Health & Practices Safety Average tenure 〇 1 ① Occupational Health and Deaths from occupational accidents; frequency rate; severity P24 Safety rate 〇 1 ① P49 ISO 14001 environmental management system certification － 60 ①-④ Single-year Environmental Values, Results, and Evaluation of Environmental Targets Targets (CO2; waste; VOC) ○ 16 ①, ② P50 CO2 Emissions ○ 16 ①, ② Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets Final Landfill Waste Disposal ○ 16 ①, ② VOC Emissions into the Atmosphere ○ 16 ①, ② Evaluating Domestic Environmental Impact and Environmental Efficiency in Japan － 16 ①, ② P51 Environmental Impact based on LIME Types of Environmental Impact by Business Field － 16 ①, ② Environmental Performance Major Types of Environmental Burden (Total burden; covering P52 Data Group companies around the world) ○ 68 ①-⑤ Environmental Performance Major Types of Environmental Burden (subject to the P53 Data environmental targets in Japan) ○ 16 ①, ② Basic Approach Environmentally Friendly P54 Products － 16 ①, ② Results of Environmental Education － 16 ①, ② P55 Numbers of Internal Environmental Audits and Issues in Need of Improvement － 19 ①-③ Capital Investment for Environmental Conservation － 67 ①-⑤ P56 Environmental Accounting Environmental Conservation Benefit － 68 ①-⑤ Green Procurement Standards for Paper and Level of － 11 suppliers － Fulfillment Green Procurement and Green Purchasing Green Procurement Standards for Ink and Level of Fulfillment － 4 suppliers － P57 In-house Green Purchasing Standards and Levels of Fulfillment － 16 ①, ② Environment-related The Environment Businesses Total sales of environment-related businesses － 68 ①-⑤+1 Group-wide emissions, including emissions associated with Group subsidiaries around the world ○ 68 ①-⑤ P60 CO2 Emissions Emissions subject to the environmental targets in Japan ○ 16 ①, ② Group-wide energy consumption, including consumption associated with Group subsidiaries around the world ○ 68 ①-⑤ Energy consumption subject to the environmental targets in P61 Energy Consumption Japan ○ 16 ①, ② Mitigation of Toppan Logistics Fuel Efficiency of Vehicles Owned by Toppan Logistics － 1 Co., Ltd. Global Warming All Group entities P62 Scope 1-3 Greenhouse Gas Greenhouse gas emissions by category ○ 156 consolidated for Emissions accounting purposes Percentages of Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Type (in tons of CO2 equivalent) ○ 68 ①-⑤ P64 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Percentages of Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Source (in tons of CO2 equivalent) ○ 68 ①-⑤ Calculated Level of Fluorocarbon Leakage － 68 ①-⑤ Material Input ○ 68 ①-⑤ Building of a P67 RecyclingWater Consumption (Water Consumption; Effluent Discharge) ○ 68 ①-⑤ oriented Waste Discharge and Recycling ○ 68 ①-⑤ Society P68 Zero-emission Efforts Zero-emission Sites － 18 ①-③ Control of VOC Emissions into the Atmosphere ○ 16 ①, ② P71 Chemical Substances PRTR Data ○ 16 ①, ② Pollution Monitoring Soil and Groundwater Pollution － 21 ①-③ P75 Control Preventing Pollution; Approach to Environmental Compliance － 21 ①-③ Approaches to Forest P78 Management Certification FSC® and PEFC Certification － 68 ①-⑤ Biodiversity P79 ECO-GREEN Purchasing － 16 ①, ② *Total values may not exactly match the sum totals of individual values, as decimals are rounded up or down. 2 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Executive Message Evolving as a Corporation that Creates Social Value for a Sustainable Society Shingo Kaneko President & Representative Director The outlook for the world economy in fiscal 2017 remained Toppan has been participating in the United Nations Global uncertain as a consequence of the slowdown of the Chinese Compact and supporting its 10 principles of human rights, labour, market, growing protectionist policies in the U.S., and other environment, and anti-corruption since September 2006. I will concerns elsewhere. In the Japanese economy, meanwhile, ongoing continue espousing the United Nations Global Compact and improvements in corporate earnings, employment, and income directing our sustainability activities based on this global policy underpinned a gradual recovery overall. initiative. Turning to the big picture, rapid progress in groundbreaking As an invaluable guideline to fulfill our social responsibility, we technologies such as the Internet of Things (IoT), big data, and incorporated the International Organization for Standardization artificial intelligence (AI) is transforming social norms and values (ISO) 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility (globally recognized drastically. The paradigm shifts brought by these technologies are standard for organizations) into our sustainability management redefining every industry in the world. practices in fiscal 2011. We have been pushing forward with Industrial revolutions have generally taken place every hundred sustainability activities accordingly by piecing together a clear years in the history of commercial manufacturing. Now, however, picture of the social issues we should help solve and the social we are jumping forward in the historical cycle: just 50 or so years responsibilities we should fulfill. The ISO 26000 standard after entering the third industrial revolution, we are already moving condenses various social issues to address. Our measures to tackle into the fourth, the information revolution. Paradigm shifts are these issues correspond to the requirements of the United Nations being seen in all kinds of industries, including printing, the core Global Compact. activity of the Toppan Group. In September 2015, the countries of the United Nations adopted a series of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as core steps Creating the Value of the Future for “Transforming our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.” We will be analyzing how our Group’s businesses are We at the Toppan Group cannot ensure our ongoing growth if we relevant to the 17 SDGs with a view to identifying material issues stay wedded to conventional norms, values, and business models. to be addressed more assertively in our ongoing sustainability For a business, the commitment to realizing a sustainable society activities and further intensifying our measures to achieve these has become more crucial than ever before. Our Group is now material targets. required to innovate itself to create new value and deliver benefits for the global community. With Our Stakeholders If we are to realize a sustainable society for tomorrow, I am convinced that Toppan will have to execute a rigorous sustainability At the Toppan Group we have reviewed our information disclosure strategy to help solve social issues while ensuring the ongoing system to enable stakeholders to better understand our activities in growth of the Group. We are striving to solve social issues through addressing the diversifying environmental, social, and governance value creation in collaboration with our stakeholders using the (ESG) issues of the day. I am eager to hear your candid opinions printing technologies we have built up since our foundation in about our sustainability activities. 1900. We are also working to grow as a corporation that creates We will keep up our work towards the creation of a sustainable social value by identifying the value of the future and making it a society by evolving as a corporation that creates social value. We reality through planning and creativity. rely on your ongoing support and guidance. 3 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Toppan’s Sustainability Initiatives Evolving as a Corporation that Creates Social performing business operations. The Conduct Guidelines set out the basic concepts and behavioral norms for Toppan employees Value both as businesspeople and as members of society. The Toppan Group strives to evolve as a corporation that creates The Business Fields, meanwhile, are made up of two categories: social value towards the realization of a sustainable society. “Technology & Expertise” and “Markets & Customers.” The former TOPPAN VISION 21 sets forth the basic concepts and direction for category encompasses accumulated Toppan knowledge and the ongoing growth of the Group in harmony with society and the technologies classified into five resource-based segments. The global environment. The vision consists of a “Corporate Structure” latter focuses on four key fields for growth: Healthcare & Life and a set of “Business Fields.” Sciences, Education & Cultural Exchange, Urban Space & Mobility, The Corporate Structure is made up of three elements: Toppan’s and Energy & Food Resources. The Toppan Group strives to create Corporate Philosophy, the Corporate Creed, and the Conduct social value in these four growth fields and five resource-based Guidelines. The Corporate Philosophy specifies ideals and the business segments by providing societies with an array of products, most important values and concepts for the Group. The Corporate services, and solutions developed through inclusive relationships Creed expresses the standards to be kept foremost in mind when with stakeholders. ■ Toppan’s Business Fields Toppan’s Business Fields Markets & Customers Technology & Expertise Four Growth Fields Five Segments Four ﬁelds on which to focus Toppan resources classiﬁed into ﬁve different segments Healthcare & Life Sciences Creative Communication Information Management Packaging & Converting Performance Materials Electronic Devices Education & Cultural Exchange Urban Space & Mobility Energy & Food Resources Toppan’s Sustainability Activities client companies in their efforts to overcome business challenges. The solutions Toppan offers to meet the ever-changing needs of The Toppan Group undertakes sustainability activities in markets and clients have been based on specialist knowledge and accordance with the principles of the United Nations Global expertise of every variety derived from printing over many decades. Compact and the guidelines of the ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Toppan shapes the Group’s current Business Fields by applying Responsibility, a globally recognized standard for organizations. The printing technologies on all fronts. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) have also In working with client companies as a partner to tackle their been incorporated into the Group’s sustainability activity targets. business challenges, the Toppan Group gains opportunities to help Toppan will commit to addressing the social issues targeted by the solve global social issues through its core B2B business models. SDGs in order to promote the continual development of the Group The social issues targeted under the SDGs are the very issues as a creator of social value. the Group should address. Toppan will advance its sustainability The SDGs, a set of shared global development agendas, were activities towards the solution of the SDGs by integrating these adopted by 193 countries at the UN General Assembly held in development agendas into Group management in consideration of September 2015. The SDGs encompass 17 goals and 169 targets the opportunities they offer and the risks they pose. focused on social issues for the international community to commit Toppan will be reviewing the 17 SDGs and 169 targets to select to achieving by 2030. Private-sector businesses around the world material issues for the Group to address by analyzing the relevant are expected to join policy initiatives to help solve the social issues connections linking the SDGs with the operations and Business under the SDGs. Fields of the Group. The Toppan Group plans to develop a clear Since its foundation in 1900, Toppan has supported various roadmap to achieve these material targets. 4 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Toppan’s Sustainability Initiatives ■ Toppan’s Approach to Sustainability A sustainable society A corporation that creates social value TOPPAN VISION 21 Corporate Structure Corporate United Nations Global Compact Philosophy ISO 26000 Principles guiding sustainability activities Guidance on sustainability activities Corporate Creed Universal principles to be espoused by Globally recognized standard on social corporations responsibility Conduct Guidelines 10 principles in four areas Business Seven core subjects Customers partners Markets & Customers Technology & Expertise Four Growth Fields Five Segments Shareholders Employees and investors Communities Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Sustainability activity goals 17 action goals for the realization of a sustainable society Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles United Nations Global Compact https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/ 5 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Basic Approach Corporate governance focused on the management of sustainability Exchange. activities provides an integral foundation for Toppan’s approach to Toppan and its Group companies work together to implement fulfilling corporate social responsibilities as a group of companies consolidated management under the Related Company dedicated to furthering sustainable growth hand-in-hand with the Administration Regulations prescribed for the advancement of fair development of society at large. management within the Group. Through this approach, the Toppan Toppan has formulated a Basic Policy on Corporate Governance Group implements governance aimed at maximizing the value of to further strengthen corporate governance based on a full the entire Group. understanding of the spirit and aims of the principles of the Basic Policy on Corporate Governance of Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Corporate Governance Code established by the Tokyo Stock https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/ir/management/governance-policy.html Promotion Framework Toppan’s governance structure employs an Audit & Supervisory independent external members audits the execution of duties by Board. directors from a position independent of management. As an entity entrusted by shareholders, the Board of Directors An Advisory Committee for Nomination and Remuneration has strives to achieve sustainable growth and a mediumto long-term also been set up to enhance the objectivity and transparency of increase in the corporate value of the Group while overseeing personnel affairs and remuneration of directors. important managerial decision-making and the execution of duties Toppan has adopted an executive officer system to clarify the by each director. authority and responsibilities of those in charge of business An Audit & Supervisory Board composed of a majority of execution. ■ Corporate Corporate Governance Governance Structure Structure (as31, (as of March March 31, 2018) of2018) Meeting of Shareholders Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing External directors (including two independent oﬃcers) Board of Directors Auditing Auditing Advisory Committee for Selecting or Special Committee Advising and Supervising Advising Nomination and Remuneration dismissing (for defending against takeover bids) counseling Crisis Management Committee President & Representative Director Executive Oﬃcer Management Committee Committee Audit & Supervisory Board Investment & Legal Review Council Directors in Charge Executive Oﬃcers in Charge Monitoring Auditing Monitors and veriﬁes the legality and Auditing Business Divisions Audit Firm and guiding Management Audit Oﬃce appropriateness of operational activities Reporting Group Companies Spearheads, monitors, and veriﬁes the strict observance of business-related laws Compliance Department and regulations and the establishment of Independently check, evaluate, and make improvements under ethical business practices Oﬃce of the Audit & Supervisory the direction of departments responsible Oversees, monitors, and veriﬁes for laws, regulations, etc. Ecology Center environmental activities across the Group Guiding Instructing Board Members National Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisors (in Japan) Other organizations for control Assisting Chief Information Security Manager Safety and Health Committee TPM National Conference (in Japan) National Eco-protection Committee (in Japan) Working together 6 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Corporate Governance ■ Directors, Board of Directors, ■ Audit & Supervisory Board, Board Members, and Various Meetings and Audit Firm Toppan’s Board of Directors is composed of 17 Company directors As of the end of March 2018, Toppan has five audit & supervisory and three external directors, two of whom are independent officers board members, including three external members who are (as of the end of March 2018). Board meetings are held monthly independent officers. Along with their own board meetings, the and whenever a pressing matter requires action or deliberation. board members attend meetings of the Board of Directors, meetings Especially important matters are deliberated beforehand by the of the Management Committee, and other important meetings on Management Committee, a body made up of directors nominated risk management. These board members systematically manage the by the President & Representative Director. The goal is to lay weight implementation of audits of operational sites and Group companies on managerial efficiency in business decision-making. Toppan has in close cooperation with the audit firm and internal audit-related also adopted an executive officer system to clarify the authority departments of the Company. By these means, they audit and and responsibilities of those in charge of business execution and advise the Company from a preventive perspective to ensure enable prompt responses to changes in business circumstances. the legality of the operations of the directors and departments An Advisory Committee for Nomination and Remuneration for and smooth and appropriate corporate management in line with directors has also been in place since fiscal 2017. The Company company policies and regulations. They also regularly convene a partially revised its executive officer system in May 2018. meeting of audit & supervisory boards from related companies to improve the effectiveness of the audits by board members across the Group. Toppan has had KPMG AZSA LLC verify the propriety of the Company’s accounts through audits in order to enhance the reliability and transparency of the Company’s financial information. ■ Strengthening Audit Functions The Management Audit Office is a body established independently Property Division spearheads the Company’s initiatives to ensure from the business divisions of the Company. Working from legal the strict observance of laws and regulations and to firmly and rational viewpoints, the office conducts fair and objective audits establish ethical business practices. The department is responsible on the administrative and operational systems of management for ensuring that employees are fully informed of the Conduct activities and the practical status of the Company’s operations. Guidelines, organizing employee education on compliance with The office provides feedback to the relevant departments on issues applicable laws, and implementing internal audits on information identified, proposes measures for improvement, and reports the security. The Ecology Center in the Manufacturing Management audit results to the President & Representative Director, directors Division oversees environmental activities across the Group, in charge of relevant departments, and audit & supervisory board conducts internal audits at operational sites, and monitors the members. progress of their improvements. The Compliance Department in the Legal Affairs & Intellectual ■ Mechanism for Promoting Sustainability Toppan’s ■ Toppan’s Sustainability Sustainability Promotion Structure Structure Promotion Initiatives President & Representative Director The divisions of the head office work in collaboration with each other to promote sustainability activities under the President & Director in charge of Sustainability Representative Director and the Director in charge of Sustainability. Each division confirms the materiality of action points in line Sustainability promotion departments with the seven core subjects set under ISO 26000. The divisions Administration devise action plans and carry out measures while sharing Public Relations Division information about the issues they are addressing and the progress they are making. The head office divisions also coordinate and Secretary Oﬃce share information with Group companies to advance Group-wide sustainability initiatives. Corporate Planning Division Every year Toppan organizes a training course on sustainability management for new employees and e-learning-based, Group-wide Personnel & Labor Relations Division basic education for employees of the Company and the other main Legal Aﬀairs & Intellectual Property Division companies of the Group. Finance & Accounting Division Manufacturing Management Division Business Development & Research Division 7 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Corporate Governance Main Activities and Relevant Information Revision of the Executive Officer System Toppan introduced an executive officer system and set up an revised the rules on executive officers in fiscal 2017. The amended Advisory Committee for Nomination and Remuneration for rules stipulate that a director in charge of business execution directors in an effort to upgrade its existing corporate governance shall concurrently serve as an executive officer in order to clarify structure in fiscal 2016. the segregation of duties in corporate management and business The Company reviewed the executive officer system and partially execution. Officer Name Previous Position Current Position Notes Naoki Adachi Chairman & Representative Director Chairman & Representative Director Shingo Kaneko President & Representative Director President & Representative Director Hideharu Maro Senior Managing Director Executive Vice President & Representative Director Yukio Maeda Senior Managing Director Director & Executive Vice President Shinichi Ohkubo Senior Managing Director Director & Senior Managing Executive Officer Atsushi Ito Senior Managing Director Director & Senior Managing Executive Officer Makoto Arai Senior Managing Director Director & Senior Managing Executive Officer Naoyuki Matsuda Senior Managing Director Director & Senior Managing Executive Officer Sumio Ezaki Managing Director Director & Senior Managing Executive Officer Nobuaki Sato Managing Director Director & Managing Executive Officer Taro Izawa Managing Director Director & Managing Executive Officer Yasuhiko Yamano Managing Director Director & Managing Executive Officer Tetsuro Ueki Director Director & Managing Executive Officer Norio Yamanaka Director Director & Managing Executive Officer Mitsuhiro Nakao Director Director & Managing Executive Officer Takashi Kurobe Executive Officer Director & Executive Officer Newly appointed Kunio Sakuma Director Director External Director Yoshinobu Noma Director Director External Director Ryoko Toyama Director Director External Director Yuichiro Kotani Senior Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Hiroshi Iwase Senior Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Yuji Sato Senior Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Kazunori Sakai Senior Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Haruhiko Noguchi Senior Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Masanori Saito Senior Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Chiharu Komachi Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer 8 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Corporate Governance Management Audits The Management Audit Office carried out 28 operation audits in fiscal 2017 and conducted maintenance and operational evaluations of internal controls over financial reporting for all business divisions and main subsidiaries. The audit results are regularly reported to the representative directors, directors in charge of the relevant organizations, and the audit & supervisory board members. Remuneration to Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members The total annual remuneration to directors and total annual remuneration to audit & supervisory board members were 1,082 million yen and 74 million yen, respectively, in fiscal 2017. Please see the section covering corporate governance in the securities report (in Japanese) for details on the method used to determine remunerations and remuneration-related information. 9 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Risk Management Risk Management Basic Approach The Toppan Group places special importance on the accurate the possibility of adverse impact on its business operations. The detection and appropriate management of impending risk as an Group has taken steps to mitigate the types of risk identified and essential aspect of corporate social responsibility. Toppan pursues has established a risk management structure to immediately collect comprehensive risk management to reduce the likelihood of risk necessary information and comprehensively and strategically occurring and minimize damage and loss when an event at risk of implement countermeasures against risk that actually arises. These occurring actually occurs. The Group makes every effort to ensure risk management approaches form the basis for a set of Rules on business continuity and live up to the trust of society. Risk Management that guide Toppan in the management of every Specifically, Toppan identifies quality-related incidents, natural type of risk throughout the Group. disasters, and other types of risk requiring action in order to limit Promotion Framework ■ Division-specific Risk Management Structure In accordance with the Rules on Risk Management, the Toppan divisions in the head office based on the types of risk involved. The Group has set up a risk management structure under which directors in charge of each relevant division are responsible for the responsibilities for risk management are allotted to specific taking measures to prevent, avoid, and correct each type of risk. ■ Types of Risk to Be Managed and the Relevant Head Office Divisions in Charge Types of Risk to Be Managed and the Relevant Head Ofﬁce Divisions in Charge Types of Risk to Be Managed Product-related incidents or product liability Productor quality-related incidents (Manufacturing Management Div.) Accidents related to main computer systems (ICT Management Div.) Occupational accidents, traﬃc accidents, or other accidents involving employees (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Incidents related to notes or accounts receivable (Finance & Accounting Div.) Accidents or disasters related to Legal problems with orders received (Legal Aﬀairs & Intellectual Property Div.) company operations Leakage of personal information, internal conﬁdential information, etc. (Legal Aﬀairs & Intellectual Property Div.) Accidents or disasters related to ﬁres or explosions (Manufacturing Management Div.) Illegal activities related to the storage of solvents, dangerous chemicals, etc. (Manufacturing Management Div.) Damage to the company’s internal computer system due to cyber terrorism, illegal access or use of company information, or leakage of personal information, internal Defamation, slander, conﬁdential information, etc. (ICT Management Div.) or other criminal damages Acts of violence against the company (threats, kidnapping, or robbery) (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Unreasonable demands from antisocial organizations or transactions conducted Relationships with antisocial between business partners and antisocial organizations organizations (Legal Aﬀairs & Intellectual Property Div.) Material losses or personal accidents suﬀered by customers or the company due to Natural disasters earthquakes, wind or water damage, lightning, etc. (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Shareholder derivative lawsuits or hostile takeovers Risk in business management (Legal Aﬀairs & Intellectual Property Div.) Unlawful activities related to Violations of the Subcontract Law of Japan or illegal transactions with business external contracts partners (Manufacturing Management Div.) Infringements of intellectual Infringements of patents, trademarks, or copyrights property rights (Legal Aﬀairs & Intellectual Property Div.) Violations of environmental laws, regulations, or standards or illegal disposal of Environmental problems industrial waste (Manufacturing Management Div.) Product-related incidents, environmental problems, ﬁres or natural disasters, or Risk in overseas business activities damage to human or physical resources caused by international conﬂicts, terrorism, etc. (Corporate Planning Div.) 10 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Risk Management ■ Risk Management ■ Risk Management Liaison Meeting In line with the Rules on Risk Management, the Toppan Group The Toppan Group holds a regular Risk Management Liaison surveys business divisions and main Group companies around Meeting attended by persons in charge of risk management in the the world every year to determine all types of risk that potentially head office divisions. Sharing information on a continuous basis, require action. The frequency and severity of possible risks are the meeting participants work to mitigate all types of possible risk, assessed, and countermeasures are formulated based on the reduce losses when any risk occurs, and take other necessary riskassessment results. management actions. Using the individual risk assessment results, the Compliance Department in the head office Legal Affairs & Intellectual Property Division orchestrates Group-wide efforts to identify serious types of risk in order to develop risk countermeasures and arrange other initiatives required for risk management. 11 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development BCP/BCM BCP/BCM Basic Approach The Toppan Group manufactures a wide variety of products To mitigate negative impact, Toppan has been conducting necessary for everyday lives. Many manufacturers that procure business continuity management (BCM) activities under the from the Group, for example, use Toppan packaging products such Group’s Basic Plan for Countermeasures against Earthquake as cartons, food packaging materials, and detergent and shampoo Disasters. These activities aim to ensure the safety of employees, bottles. A large earthquake or other disaster may interrupt the minimize damage to the Group, and maintain a steady supply of supply of these products, causing considerable impact on customer products and services to customers when a wide-scale disaster companies and consumers. strikes. Promotion Framework ■ Promotion System ■ Promotion Mechanism The Toppan Group takes comprehensive measures to address the Everybody must remain calm and take prompt action in the event of risks posed by large-scale disasters under the leadership of the a wide-scale disaster. Critical for Toppan is to keep each and every BCP Promotion Office in the head office Legal Affairs & Intellectual employee aware. The Group focuses on holding business continuity Property Division. The office coordinates with persons in charge management (BCM) training for new employees and veterans, of business continuity planning (BCP) at head office divisions and fostering BCM-qualified personnel with specialist knowledge and business divisions across Japan. The Group has also acquired ISO expertise in business continuity management, and organizing other 22301 certification and consistently enhances its competence for forms of BCM education. Toppan also repeats various BCM training business continuity by implementing the following measures. to enhance employee preparedness for dealing with emergency situations. ・Operational-site-based evacuation drills, employee fire response The Group determines the business continuity competencies training, and drills using a communication system to check the of business partners by surveying material suppliers and safety of employees and their families subcontractors involved in production. The head office holds ・Stockpiling of water, food, and other emergency supplies to workshops for business partners to encourage them to cooperate support local communities and commuters who will have no with Toppan in performing BCM activities. means to return to their homes Toppan carries out an annual self-review with checklists to ・Japan-wide BCP Meetings (semiannual) and Group Company assess the Group’s BCM activities. Management reviews reported BCP Liaison Meetings (semiannual) to senior management are conducted in every business division to ・Preparations for the startup and operation of emergency task upgrade the activities. forces ・Establishment of an alternate structure in the Kansai area in preparation for the disaster scenario of an earthquake striking directly beneath the Tokyo Metropolitan Area ・Regular review of action procedures during a wide-scale disaster and disaster-simulation drills In the event of a natural disaster, Toppan will immediately set up emergency task forces at the head office in Tokyo and operational sites in the disaster-stricken region and take necessary actions based on the Group’s business continuity plans. 12 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development BCP/BCM Main Activities and Relevant Information More than 100 BCM Drills at 52 Departments and Group Sites across Japan The Toppan Group is aware of the special importance of drills in business continuity plans. facilitating business continuity management (BCM) activities. This drill has deepened employee awareness of the roles of the Group sites organize regular comprehensive disaster-preparedness task force. Regular improvements and repeated reviews of the drills to perennially rehearse the actions to be taken during actual points identified in the drill have enhanced the skills required of wide-scale disasters: the initial damage assessment and safety employees for the handling of emergency conditions caused by a verification, the evacuation procedures, the employees’ journeys large-scale disaster. back home from their workplaces on foot, and the distribution of stockpiled supplies. Toppan also focuses efforts on a task-force operation simulation drill developed and designed by the Group to promptly start up and operate the task force in the event of a disaster. In this simulation drill, Group employees form an actual task force equipped with information collection tools, an emergency IP wireless communication system, and other hardware arranged in advance according to the procedures formulated in the Group’s Task force operation drill Task force operation drill (Fukaya Plant) (Hokkaido Subdivision) BCP Workshops for Business Partners The lessons learned from past earthquake disasters have renewed who tackle similar challenges.” Toppan’s awareness of the importance of business continuity The strong demand for regular planning (BCP) throughout the supply chain. On November sessions has encouraged the 27, 2017, the Group invited an expert to lecture at a workshop Toppan Group to continue holding for business partners on effective BCP. In total, 21 participants workshops for more business from 15 companies exchanged views in a workshop program for partners. Toppan seeks to enhance identifying BCP issues they are likely to face. They also learned the corporate value of the Group about the significance of business continuity plan formulation, by further solidifying its business the details of the training and drills carried out in the Toppan foundations and reciprocating Group, and the tools prepared for sharing damage information in the trust of customer companies emergency conditions. The participants spoke highly of the training through these workshops and overall. One was pleased to have “reinforced my awareness of the ongoing BCP and BCM activities importance of information-sharing and good teamwork with Toppan of various other types. in the event of an emergency situation.” Another found “the session very productive” and “gleaned important hints on approaches for addressing BCP issues through discussion with other participants ISO 22301 Certification for Security-related Business Operations After the Great East Japan Earthquake struck in 2011, many cement the trust of client companies, Toppan acquired ISO companies were forced to halt their business operations due 22301 certification for its security-related business (card issuing to damage incurred by suppliers of production materials. The operations, direct-mail creation, operations related to securities experience alerted client companies in every kind of industry to production, and back-office operations entrusted to Toppan) in the importance of business continuity management (BCM) within February 2018. The ISO 22301 is an internationally recognized the Toppan Group as a partner with links to their own businesses. standard on business continuity management systems. The Group The Group began strident efforts to formulate business continuity will extend the scope of the certification to include other operations plans immediately after the earthquake to meet their expectations. based on the assessment of client demands and market trends. Toppan has since applied BCP across the Group and continued BCM activities through a plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle. To 13 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Human Rights Human Rights Basic Approach The Toppan Group regards human rights as a paramount principle norms set under the Conduct Guidelines for Toppan personnel. in its business activities and sustainability initiatives. The guideline stipulations include respecting people’s personalities The Group operates business under the foundational concept and individuality, prohibiting discrimination and harassment, and of respect for people. To ensure this foundational concept, Toppan prohibiting child labor and forced labor. calls for respect for basic human rights as one of the behavioral ■ Supporting the Principles of Human Rights Manifested in the United Nations Global Compact Toppan has been participating in the United Nations Global Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights and implements Compact and therefore supporting its two principles of human the human rights due diligence process and other initiatives for rights since 2006. The Group also espouses the United Nations human rights. Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary protection of internationally proclaimed human approach to environmental challenges; rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human environmental responsibility; and rights abuses. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Anti-Corruption association and the effective recognition of the Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all right to collective bargaining; its forms, including extortion and bribery. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ■ Labor-Management Initiatives for Human Rights Toppan’s labor union and management undertake various measures human rights violations in the form of negative impact on the lives for labor-related human rights based on a fundamental policy of people living near its operational sites. For example, the Group stated in a collective labor agreement. promotes environmental conservation initiatives based on The The Toppan Printing Labour Union and Toppan’s management Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment and the have concluded the collective labor agreement in order to ensure Basic Policy on Biodiversity. stable labor-management relations, maintain and improve working conditions, and secure the corporate concord. This agreement sets forth a fundamental policy between labor and management, Fundamental Policy under the Collective Labor the rules governing union activities and labor-management Agreement negotiations, and employment conditions such as wages and As a fundamental policy between labor and management, Article 1 working hours. of the collective labor agreement, the General Principles, stipulates that the Company and union shall contribute to society through The Toppan Printing Labour Union is run by members business operations and collectively work for the benefit of the from Toppan and nine Group companies. The union and the Company and long-term stability of the livelihood of employees. management have concluded an agreement to impose a uniform Labor and management both uphold this policy as a common goal. Article 2 of the agreement clearly states that the union has all the set of liability-related clauses (rules governing union activities and rights established by law, specifying that the Company shall respect labor-management negotiations) on all 10 companies. the union’s rights to organize and collectively bargain and act. The Toppan Group has also been taking measures to avoid United Nations Global Compact More details on Toppan’s environmental conservation initiatives https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/csr/environment/ The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment (in Japanese) Conduct Guidelines https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/japanese/csr/files/pdf/ https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/corporateinfo/vision/shishin.html The_Toppan_Group_Declaration_on_the_Global_Environment.pdf Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Basic Policy on Biodiversity (in Japanese) https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/japanese/csr/files/pdf/2013/biodiversity.pdf 14 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Human Rights Promotion Framework The Personnel & Labor Relations Division, Legal Affairs & Division, and other head office divisions collaborate to implement Intellectual Property Division, Manufacturing Management various measures for human rights. ■ Training on the Conduct Guidelines ■ CSR Procurement Respect for basic human rights is positioned as Basic Principle 1 The Toppan Group asks business partners to comply with the of Chapter 1 of the Conduct Guidelines, the standards of behavior Procurement Standards Concerning Human Rights, Labor, the for Toppan personnel. Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Environment, and Anti-Corruption under the Toppan Group CSR continue to disseminate this principle at their workplaces. The Procurement Guidelines. Business partners continue to work with Toppan Group educates employees on human rights through the Group to undertake initiatives to promote respect for human first-year training, e-learning-based programs, and other training rights. sessions. Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines (second edition) https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/english/corporateinfo/files/csr/ 2014/proc2014_en01.pdf More details on Toppan’s CSR procurement https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/csr/procurement.html ■ Operating Hotlines ■ Pursuing Diversity Management (helpline & power/sexual harassment helpdesk) Toppan operates a Toppan Group Helpline through which Group Toppan pursues diversity management with a focus on equal employees can report human rights issues or violations. Toppan opportunity to innovate and create value by engaging diverse also runs a helpdesk in the head office Personnel & Labor Relations human assets* and nurturing their capabilities to maximum Division to deal with power harassment, sexual harassment, and potential. any other forms of harassment. The Company promotes positive action to bring out the full The Toppan Group has also set up a Supplier Hotline, a portal potential of individual employees and assign them to more diverse for receiving reports from business partners on human rights issues positions regardless of gender. Women play important roles or violations committed by the Group’s procurement departments. in widening arenas and the Company strives to ensure equal treatment in promotion to managerial positions. More details on the Toppan Group Helpline *Toppan values its employees as precious “human assets.” https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/csr/fair_practices.html#link Supplier Hotline https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/corporateinfo/ our_suggestion/supplier_hotline.html ■ Self-determination on the Career Path / ■ Providing an Open Environment for Recruitment In-house Staff Recruitment Toppan provides every employee with equal opportunity for skill Toppan hires diverse persons of both genders and of many improvement through an in-house staff recruitment system and nationalities, ages, and levels of physical and mental ability through the Challenging Job System, a self-directed program to encourage recruitment channels such as the regular hiring of new graduates employees to set out their career development plans. The Company from universities and high schools and the year-round hiring of expects these systems to nourish a problem-solving, can-do mindset persons with disabilities and experienced personnel in the middle throughout the widening arenas in which the Toppan workforce of their careers. To reach out to diverse persons, Toppan publicizes operates. its working styles in company orientation sessions and via its website and other media. ■ Employment of Persons with Disabilities Toppan promotes the hiring of persons with disabilities in persons with disabilities by devising procedures and routines that collaboration with a special subsidiary, Tokyo Metropolitan empower them to perform wide-ranging jobs in ways better suited Government (T.M.G.) Prepress Toppan Co., Ltd. Toppan and T.M.G. to their capabilities. Prepress Toppan support the ongoing hiring and employment of 15 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Human Rights *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Main Activities and Relevant Information Promoting Positive Action Toppan promotes positive action to bring out the full potential of ■ Female Managerial and Supervisory Staff individual employees and assign them to more diverse positions (as of April) regardless of gender. Women play important roles in wider arenas ■ Female supervisory staff ■ Female managerial staff and the Company strives to ensure equal treatment in promotion 450 418 to managerial positions. As of April 2018, Toppan has appointed 348 360 91 female employees to managerial positions and 327 female 299 270 251 employees to supervisory positions. With these appointments, 327 Toppan has attained an 8.9% ratio of women among managerial and 267 180 226 supervisory staff. 192 90 59 73 81 91 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 (year) Number of Recruits ■ Number of Recruits Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Male 98 105 102 Sales, administration, etc. Regular recruitment of new graduates from Female 73 65 86 universities and graduate schools Male 102 115 86 Technical Female 35 36 45 Regular recruitment of new graduates from high schools and colleges of Male 3 1 6 technology Female 33 33 30 344 355 355 Total number of regular recruits (percentage of women) （41.0％） （37.7％） （45.4％） Male 56 55 − Mid-career recruitment of experienced personnel Female 20 22 − Employment of Persons with Disabilities ■ Employment of Persons with Disabilities Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Employees 250 253 274 Percentage of 2.07％ 2.06％ 2.25％ total workforce* *The percentage is calculated based on the total number of regular employees (as of June 1) as a denominator. The total number was presented in the Disabled Persons Employment Report in accordance with Article 8 of the Japanese Law for Employment Promotion, etc. of the Disabled. 16 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Employee Work and Health & Safety Employee Work and Health & Safety Basic Approach Toppan values its employees as precious “human assets” and Group and the health insurance union separately. The declaration understands how deeply it depends on them. The Company is pursues dual aims. The first is to promote enhanced health for convinced that human assets perform to their full potential when employees and their families through various approaches, such as they are vigorous, earnest, and driven. activities to support work-life balance. The second is to contribute To support motivated, vigorous, and earnest work, Toppan to society through health-related businesses that support health promotes positive working conditions and healthcare and safety promotion activities undertaken in communities. measures in cooperation with the labor union and Toppan Group The Basic Policy on Health and Safety, meanwhile, enunciates Health Insurance Union (“the health insurance union”). a “safety first” principle as a top priority in business operations For employee health and safety in particular, the Group towards the complete elimination of occupational accidents. formulated a Basic Policy on Health and Safety in 2010 and *The term “health and productivity management®” is a registered a Health Management Declaration in October 2015. Various trademark of the Workshop for the Management of Health on Company measures have been undertaken ever since. and Employee. The Health Management Declaration clarifies future health management policies for maintaining and enhancing the health Health Management Declaration (in Japanese) https://www.toppan.co.jp/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/sengen.html of Group employees. From a viewpoint of “health and productivity management*,” this declaration visualizes and reorganizes health Basic Policy on Health and Safety (in Japanese) promotion measures and action plans previously organized by the https://www.toppan.co.jp/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/safety-policy.html Promotion Framework The Labor Relations Department and Personnel Department in Division, meanwhile, spearheads employee health and safety the head office Personnel & Labor Relations Division coordinate initiatives in cooperation with the labor union, the health insurance with general affairs departments in business divisions across union, and general affairs departments in business divisions across the Company to develop various measures on labor matters in the Company. consultation with the labor union. The Personnel & Labor Relations ■ Labor-Management Partnership Toppan’s labor union and management respect each other’s ■ Structure for Health Management Promotion positions as partners with shared ideals. They have been working together on various issues on an equal footing. Business councils General aﬀairs departments Head of health management at operational sites are convened as Company-wide and operational-site-based (President & Representative Director) forums to discuss wide ranging managerial issues. Several special Toppan Printing Labour Union committees are also convened to deliberate pertinent issues of the Health management promotion supervisor day. Standing committees meet to discuss issues such as working (Director in charge of personnel and Safety and Health Committee hour reductions, wages, and health and safety. Individual laborgeneral aﬀairs departments) Industrial physicians management committees meet when necessary to discuss specially Collaborating in implementing measures designated subjects such as the creation of a working environment Clinics and medical specialists amenable to enhanced job satisfaction. Toppan has adopted a union shop system. In principle, all nonHealth Management Promotion Council Industrial counselors managerial employees belong to the labor union as members. Health insurance union, Personnel and Toppan Group Fraternal general aﬀairs divisions at the head oﬃce Beneﬁt Society ■ Committing to Health Management Collaborating Collaborating The Toppan Group has formulated a structure for promoting “health and productivity management*” by establishing a Health Departments involved in Public relations Corporate planning healthcare businesses Collaborating division division Management Promotion Council overseen by the President & Representative Director as the head of health management. Representatives from the Group and the health insurance union meet to engage in constructive discussions on various healthcare *The term “health and productivity management®” is a registered measures. A healthcare-guidance brochure for Group employees trademark of the Workshop for the Management of Health on Company illustrates the diverse outputs from the council. and Employee. 17 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Employee Work and Health & Safety ■ Supporting Work-Life Balance ■ Announcing a Common Employer’s Action Plan At the ongoing business councils and labor-management Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. has published a common employer’s committees to support work-life balance, Toppan’s labor action plan based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to representatives and management exchange opinions and deliberate Support Raising Next-Generation Children of Japan. measures to further shorten overtime working-hours and comply This act specifies respective responsibilities of central and local with the revised Labor Standards Act of Japan. They have also been governments, employers, and citizens of Japan in their efforts to analyzing actual overtime practices, reviewing the use of recently create healthy environments for the upbringing of children who adopted working systems, and examining the introduction of new are to lead coming generations. The act stipulates that, as of its systems. enactment on April 1, 2005, these four parties are expected to Labor and management at each operational site also discuss intensively and systematically engage in childrearing initiatives. approaches to creating more accommodating workplace The common employer’s action plan, meanwhile, aims to develop environments that encourage employees to take leave. The a working environment that supports balanced work and family measures they have devised and implemented are tailored to the life for employees with young children. Employers are expected to actual working conditions at their sites. design a plan primarily to arrange varied working conditions for diverse employees, including those not raising children. Common Employer’s Action Plan (fourth term) of Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/japanese/csr/files/pdf/2018/ koudou_4-20180713.pdf ■ Efforts to Support Employees with Children Toppan has striven to create a working environment in which of a child’s fourth year of elementary school (surpassing the ageemployees can achieve better work-life balance. It does so by three requirement imposed under the applicable Japanese law). providing systems for childcare and nursing care leave, reduced Toppan has also been developing the “Hagukumi (nurturing) working hours, higher family allowances for dependents, and Program” since fiscal 2012. This program supports the wellbeing various other benefits for employees. of employee parents by providing therapeutic activities for parents From fiscal 2015 Toppan began paying a full salary for the first on childcare leave, activities to share the know-how necessary for five days of childcare leave taken by male employees, in order maintaining good balance between working and raising children, to support employees with children by encouraging the use of and activities to give employees in various positions opportunities the childcare leave system. In fiscal 2016 the eligibility period to learn about and consider the importance of work-family balance. for preferential work shifts such as reduced working hours for The Hagukumi Program received the Minister of State for Gender employees with childcare responsibilities was extended to the end Equality Award at the Kids Design Award 2016 in Japan. ■ Hagukumi (nurturing) Program A scheme to support the wellbeing of ● To provide therapeutic activities for parents on childcare leave employee parents ● To share the know-how necessary for maintaining good balance between working and raising children Hagukumi Program ● To give employees in various positions opportunities to learn about and consider the importance of work-family balance Hagukumi Art Salon Hagukumi Seminar Hagukumi Circle (from ﬁscal 2012) (from ﬁscal 2013) (from ﬁscal 2014) ● To strengthen bonds between parents and To learn and enhance understanding about To build a network of working parent children good balance between work and parenting employees who wish to discuss their concerns ● To stimulate interaction among employees throughout the workplace about work and parenting and share ideas and currently on childcare leave tips on work-family balance ● To alleviate anxieties about returning to work 18 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Employee Work and Health & Safety ■ Efforts to Support Employees Bearing Nursing Care Responsibilities Toppan’s labor union and management employ systems to help allows care-giving employees to commute to and from work by employees maintain good balance between work and care at Shinkansen bullet train in certain cases. The Toppan intranet home. These systems create an environment where employees also provides employees with nursing care information in a timely can concentrate on work without worrying about care for family manner conducive to the achievement of good work-care balance members at home. After reviewing the results of employee in accordance with the latest legal amendments and other social questionnaires on nursing care, Toppan relaxed the eligibility developments. requirements for nursing-care-related systems, designed ways Toppan has held a seminar on nursing care for employees at to enable employees to more flexibly adjust their working hours operational sites in Tokyo to facilitate understanding and relieve for care, enhanced financial support during nursing care leave, concern about care burdens for family members at home. The and provided more information on work-care balance. Along Company will organize this seminar at more sites outside of Tokyo with system enhancements in these four areas, the Company in the years to come. ■ Four Approaches in Employee Support Systems for Good Work-Care Balance Eligible members from employee families are in need of long-term care or support under one of the following conditions: Eligibility requirements for nursing-care-related ● “In need of long-term care” as speciﬁed in the Child and Family Care Leave Act of Japan systems ● “In need of long-term care” as speciﬁed in the Long-term Care Insurance System of Japan ● “In need of support” as speciﬁed in the Long-term Care Insurance System of Japan ● Nursing care leave ● Reduced working hours for nursing care (reduced working hours, ﬂexible work schedules, reduced number of prescribed working days per week) *Nursing care leave and reduced working hours for nursing care can be taken in Ways to more ﬂexibly adjust installments. working hours for care *Employees are allowed to switch between the two systems. ● Days oﬀ for nursing care ● Commuting by Shinkansen bullet train for family care reasons Financial support during ● Allowance for nursing care leave (40% of the employee’s average wage) nursing care leave ● Entitlement for paid days oﬀ for nursing care ● Launch of an intranet site to provide information on work-care balance This site provides employees with general knowledge about work-care balance and information on support systems available at the Company, public nursing-care-related systems, and so on. Provision of information on work-care balance ● Launch of a nursing-care consultation desk run by outside experts The Company commissions an external professional body to oﬀer unlimited, free-of-charge nursing-care consultation to employees on a contract basis. Employees can also use fee-based agency services such as watch-over visits or administrative processes handled by dedicated staﬀ at care facilities and hospitals. ■ Occupational Health and Safety Safety masters, safety personnel, employees in charge of Group sites in fiscal 2017, one in China and another in Thailand. engineering and safety, and other safety experts have been deployed The dojo facilities have been operated for several years domestically to Group sites across Japan to build safety promotion systems. at the Kawaguchi Plant in Saitama Prefecture, Takino Plant in Toppan has also applied risk assessments to upgrade the intrinsic Hyogo Prefecture, and Fukuoka Plant in Fukuoka Prefecture. safety of machines and equipment and organized full-fledged safety education of various types centered around foreman training. Anzen Dojo initiatives (in Japanese) Anzen Dojo safety training facilities outfitted to simulate dangers https://www.toppan.co.jp/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/safety-policy/ and alert employees at the workplace were set up at two overseas anzendojo.html 19 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Employee Work and Health & Safety ■ Measures for Mental Healthcare Toppan undertakes the following measures to prevent mental Toppan recognizes that the most effective strategy to administer health problems at the workplace. fundamental prevention measures for mental health problems is to enable employees to improve their physical and mental conditions ・A stress check system and e-learning-based programs to help by having the means and wherewithal to better understand individuals better perceive and cope with the stresses affecting themselves, communicate skillfully, and adopt positive lifestyle them habits. The Company has been organizing mental healthcare ・An Art Salon workshop to refresh minds and bodies through the programs such as workshops arranged in cooperation with act of artistic creation workplaces. ・Rank-based training and handbooks to prevent or promptly detect and treat mental problems ・Counseling rooms where employees can receive advice from inhouse counselors in a comfortable, pressure-free setting ・Advisory agreements concluded with mental healthcare specialists ・A new employment regulation defining rehabilitation programs that support employees returning from mental healthcare leave by helping them to return to work more seamlessly ■ Overview of Mental Healthcare Activities Line Care Care Using Resources Care Using Resources Self-care (by managers and within the Workplace outside the Workplace supervisors) Fundamental ● Assertion ● Dialogue skills ● Participation in ● Participation in ● Career development in-house seminars external seminars prevention ● Target management ● Good physical and ● Operational reform Creation of job satisfaction mental condition and improvement Primary prevention ● Self-development ● Attendance ● Participation in ● Participation management rank-based training in external seminars Prevention ● Improvement of programs workplaces ● Activities by the Safety and Health Committee Stress check Test administration and Improvement of Interviews system understanding of current conditions workplaces and guidance Secondary prevention ● Early counseling and consultation ● Recommendation for early consultation ● Consultation with industrial physicians ● Hospitals and EAPs* Early detection and early and public health response nurses Tertiary prevention ● Ongoing treatment ● Return-to-work program ● Periodic interviews by ● Treatment by a ● Personnel reassignment industrial physicians specialist physician Steps to limit severity and prevent recurrence *Employee assistance programs (EAPs): The EAPs shown above are counseling and training programs run by an external specialist body under contract with the Company and the Toppan Group Health Insurance Union. 20 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Employee Work and Health & Safety *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Main Activities and Relevant Information Information on Personnel ■ Number of Personnel (as of March 31) Management Total Average Average Sum Total Part-time Dispatched Directors Supervisors Class Employees Tenure Age Employees Workers Staff Male 26 1,989 1,843 7,576 15.4 42.9 Fiscal 2015 8,993 562 203 Female 0 59 192 1,417 9.8 34.2 Male 18 2,158 1,932 7,930 15.1 43.4 Fiscal 2016 9,551 502 237 Female 1 71 224 1,621 9.3 34.3 Male 19 2,201 1,914 7,964 15.2 43.6 Fiscal 2017 9,699 451 246 Female 1 79 266 1,735 9.3 34.6 ■ Reasons for Leaving *1 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Personal 184 (39) 206 (54) 217 (62)*2 reasons Retirement 94 ( 0) 85 ( 1) 120 ( 1) Requested by 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) the company Other 92 ( 3) 83 ( 3) 108 (20) Total 370 (42) 374 (58) 445 (83) Turnover rate 4.0％ 3.8％ 4.5％ *1 The number of female employees who left the Company is shown in parentheses. *2 Five female and 31 male employees took advantage of Toppan’s support system for employees who pursue new careers after leaving the Company. ■ Retention Rates for Recruits (Percentage of fiscal 2015 hires still working at Toppan) Male Female Hired on April 1, 2015 195 111 Still with Toppan as of April 1, 2018 178 97 Retention rates 91% 87% Average for male and female employees 90% Percentage who leave the Company 10.1% before working three years ■ Average Annual Salary Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Average 6,697,391 yen 6,956,597 yen 6,910,163 yen annual salary 21 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Employee Work and Health & Safety Listed in the 2018 Health & Productivity Stock Selection and Recognized as a Health & Productivity Organization Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. was listed in the 2018 Health & health and productivity management as Health & Productivity Productivity Stock Selection under a program operated by the organizations. The Nippon Kenko Kaigi (Japan health conference) Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and conducts this recognition program by assessing organizations for the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) to select TSE-listed enterprises their engagement in initiatives to overcome the healthcare-related with outstanding “health and productivity management*” programs. challenges of communities and to promote the health-conscious Under another program jointly conducted by METI and members activities recommended by the Kaigi. of Japanese health insurance organizations, Toppan has been In the 2018 Health & Productivity Stock Selection, Toppan selected for two years running (fiscal 2017 and 2018) to join the was recognized for its work in collaboration with the Group’s onHealth & Productivity “White 500” (large enterprise) category, a site clinics, industrial physicians, and the labor union to develop group of organizations recognized for their excellent achievements working environments amenable to enhanced job satisfaction. in advancing health and productivity management. Toppan’s healthcare solutions were also praised for their Under the Health & Productivity Stock Selection program, contribution to the maintenance and enhancement of public health. METI and TSE have been jointly selecting outstanding TSE-listed enterprises that are strategically engaged in healthcare initiatives for employees and their families from a management perspective on a one-company-per-industry basis in Japan. Under the Certified Health & Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program, meanwhile, METI has been recognizing excellent enterprises and other organizations advancing TOPPAN NEWSROOM (in Japanese) https://www.toppan.co.jp/news/2018/02/newsrelease180220.html *The term “health and productivity management” is a registered trademark of the Workshop for the Management of Health on Company and Employee. Toppan Sports Festival 2017 The Toppan Sports Festival 2017 was held in the Saitama Super Group organizes site-based labor-management events designed to Arena on October 1, 2017. This labor-management event was strengthen bonds between colleagues. Toppan also holds a Groupplanned, organized, and run by mostly younger employees of the wide sporting event every two years to facilitate communication, Group. Some 4,300 employees and family members came to take build a sense of unity, and heighten an understanding of the Group part in various games and events. among employee families. To enhance job satisfaction at the workplace, the Toppan 22 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Employee Work and Health & Safety Annual Paid Leave Used Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Average paid leave used (days) 8.6 9.6 10.3 Average ratio * 45.1% 50.8% 55.1% *Average ratio = average paid leave used / average paid leave granted Main Leave Systems and Family Benefits ■ Main Leave Systems and Family Benefits / Measures to Support Work-Life Balance and Foster the Next Generation If annual paid leave is left unused for two years after it is granted, up to 50 days of the leave can be accumulated as stock leave. Stock Leave Employees are eligible to use their stock leave for medical treatment for themselves or their dependents, healthcare or nursing care for their families, fertility treatment, recovery-work in the aftermath of unexpected disasters, and so on. Both mothers and fathers are eligible for fulltime childcare leave taken consecutively until their child reaches the age of two years. The first five days of childcare leave can be taken as paid leave. From the sixth day, employees on leave receive 10% of their regular salaries from the Company (until their child reaches the age of two years) and subsidies of 30,000 yen a month from the Toppan Childcare Leave Group Fraternal Benefit Society. They can also work for shorter hours (maximum reduction of two hours per day) or select a flextime or irregular working schedule from the date of their return to the job until their child completes the fourth year of elementary school. The Company subsidizes certain childcare costs and provides childcare-related information through a consultation office. Rehiring is guaranteed for an employee who resigns to deliver and raise a child, provided that the employee has worked for Toppan Rehiring of Employees who Leave the for more than three consecutive years up to the date of resignation. A resigned employee who meets this condition will remain Company to Raise Children eligible for rehiring until May 1 of the year when the child enters elementary school. Employees are entitled to take leave for nursing care. For every family member requiring care, an employee is entitled to one year of consecutive or aggregated leave and up to three years of other work-hour adjustments such as staggered working hours or Nursing Care Leave two-hour working day reductions. The Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society pays a 30,000-yen subsidy per month as assistance during the leave. Toppan offers nursing care-related information and contracts consultants outside the Company to provide advice. Employees can take up to 10 days of leave a year, regardless of the number of children they are raising. (Five days can be taken as Leave for Child Healthcare paid leave, either as full days or half-day allotments, as necessary.) Employees can take volunteer leave to engage in socially beneficial activities for up to one year. Employees on volunteer leave Volunteer Leave receive an allowance. An employee can adjust daily working hours upward or downward by one hour to avoid rush-hour commutes during pregnancy Staggered Work-hours and by two hours for childcare (until his or her child completes the fourth year of elementary school). For employees with children, the Company pays a monthly allowance of 20,000 yen for each child. This allowance is discontinued Dependent Family Allowance on the first April 1 to arrive after the child’s 20th birthday. (No limit for the number of children is applied.) Partial Subsidization of Babysitter The Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society subsidizes 50% of babysitter expenses (up to 5,000 yen per day) for up to 90 days a Expenses year. The Toppan Group Health Insurance Union covers standard medical costs for childbirth. The union also gives out a complimentary Other childrearing magazine and runs a consultation office for employees with questions about the health of the body and mind. Employees Taking Maternity or Childcare Leave Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Employees taking maternity leave 85 105 111 Employees taking childcare leave * 295 (160) 300 (173) 334 (160) *The number of male employees who took childcare leave is shown in parentheses. Seminars for Good Balance between Work and Care at Home Toppan sites in Tokyo have been holding seminars to help for the first time in fiscal 2018. As these seminars are held in more employees maintain a good balance between work and care at sites, they will help create an environment where employees can home since fiscal 2016. Outside experts from a nursing-care concentrate on work without having to worry about care burdens consultation service with which Toppan has a contract are invited for family members at home. to lead seminar courses. The guest lecturers present general knowledge on nursing care and tips for achieving good work-care balance. Toppan personnel also inform participants of support systems available at the Company, such as nursing care leave and reduced working hours for nursing care, as well as intranet sites and other information sources on nursing care. The Company plans to organize seminars at operational sites in the Kansai area 23 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 安全教育を実施しています。 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices （中国・リーホォン東芫工場の安全道場） Development Employee Work and Health & Safety *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . 2017年10月にタイ・サイアムトッパン、2018年1月に中国・リーホォン東芫工場に「トッパングループ安全道場（以下 を開設しましたが、今後は他の海外事業所にも順次安全体感道場を開設し、その現地に合せた安全教育を強化し Expanding Anzen Dojo Overseas 今回開設された海外2カ所の「安全道場」では、これまで国内で培ってきた知見を活かし、また海外事業所の実情 に合わせた展示、体感設備の導入と、運用体制の構築を行っています。 運用体制については、国内と同じように安全師範を現地にて要請し、定期的に現場オペレーターを集めて、 Two new Anzen Dojo safety-training facilities were opened at sessions for frontline operators according to the same operational 安全教育を実施しています。 Toppan Group sites in the last two years: one at Siam Toppan scheme applied in Japan. （中国・リーホォン東芫工場の安全道場） （タイ・サイアムトッパンの安全道場） Packaging Co., Ltd. in Thailand in October 2017; another at Toppan Leefung Packaging & Printing (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. in China in January 2018. Both of the new overseas facilities leveraged the Group’s expertise on safety education cultivated at similar dojos in Japan. Both are also equipped with safety-related displays and danger simulators optimally selected for the working conditions at their sites. The Group trains on-site safety masters and regularly holds safety TOPPAN NEWSROOM （タイ・サイアムトッパンの安全道場） https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/news/2018/03/newsrelease180308.html Company-wide Mental Stress Checks Toppan began providing Company-wide mental health checkups In fiscal 2018 Toppan will introduce a Quick Survey Sheet (with well before stress checks in organizations were required by 80 questions) on New Forms of Occupational Stress. The new Japanese legislation. Toppan has implemented a web-based survey sheet, together with Toppan’s original mental health survey checking system across the Company since fiscal 2017. This system questions, will provide data the Company needs to enhance mental enables results to be confirmed by people taking the tests and healthcare for employees and delve more deeply into the sources of those administrating them as soon as the checkups are completed. stress within Toppan’s organizations. Toppan will promptly provide necessary care to any employee Mental stress check results are valuable data for fully identified as demonstrating a high level of stress. understanding the mental health A cross-organizational analysis of checkup results, meanwhile, status of Toppan’s organizations as allows the Company to determine detailed organization-specific well as its individual employees. trends in mental well-being and variations between different Toppan continues to use these organizations across the Company. This analysis identifies data to steadily work towards the workplaces with higher health risk and ensures that the results are creation of workplaces free of shared with department heads to prompt further efforts towards mental illnesses. improved working environments. Occupational Health and Safety *1 Number of occupational accidents requiring employee 2015 2016 2017 leave, per million cumulative actual working hours Deaths from occupational accidents 0 0 0 (reflects the frequency of occupational accidents) *2 Number of workdays lost as a consequence of Frequency rate *1 0.05 0.000 0.000 occupational accidents, per thousand cumulative actual Severity rate*2 0.001 0.000 0.000 working hours (reflects the severity of occupational accidents) 24 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Human Asset Development Human Asset Development Basic Approach Labor shortages are anticipated throughout various industries in the driving force towards the realization of TOPPAN VISION Japan. Toppan is convinced that maximizing the performance of the 21 . Toppan would like to contribute to society as a corporation workforce as an asset of society will help solve social issues. blessed with human assets with excellent communication skills and Mindful of how deeply it depends on its employees, Toppan fosters heightened awareness and sensibilities. individuals with ambition and integrity who will go on to become Promotion Framework ■ Toppan University The Human Resource Development Center in the head office Toppan University, a simple platform that strives to foster leaders Personnel & Labor Relations Division coordinates with persons in while supporting the skill improvement and career enhancement charge of human asset development at departments throughout the of employees through basic and special programs, a leadership Company to institute training programs. These programs to develop program, and a personal empowerment program. and nurture human assets are organized systematically around ■ Systematic Human Asset Development Programs “Conduct of High Value” Based on the Corporate Philosophy and Corporate Creed Earning the trust Strengthening business Fulﬁlling corporate Strengthening Improving of customers foundations social responsibility the organization corporate value Abilities and Skills for “Conduct of High Value” Knowledge and Ability to identify Ability to Techniques Skills in communication information skills and formulate tasks accomplish tasks and know-how and fostering subordinates Rank-based Training Department-based Training ● New division manager training ● New employee Company-wide training ● Program to strengthen sales departments ● Training for new supervisors in technology ● New department manager training ● Early career planning ● Training for plant managers departments ● New manager training ● OJT brother/sister training ● Training for new managers in technology ● Individual department-based training ● New supervisor training and manufacturing departments (purchasing, secretary, personnel & labor ● Training for employees in production relations, technology & research, etc.) control departments Basic Company-wide Education Globalization Training (e-learning) Training by Divisions Toppan Business School ● Basic education on TOPPAN VISION 21 ● MBA abroad training ● Basic education on CSR ● Study abroad program for engineers ● Training in each division or ● Group training ● Basic education on the environment ● IT training in India workplace ● e-learning ● Education on proﬁt maximization in ● Short-term overseas study ● Dispatching human assets outside business ● Selective training on global business Selective Training the Company ● Basic education on globalization ● Trainee system ● Executive business school ● Mental health self-care ● Training to cultivate industryChallenge School ● BCM initiatives leading talent ● Program to nurture talent who can develop frontier businesses ● Advance̶Shaping the Future Operated together with Toppan Mind Wellness Co., Ltd., an education consultation company within the Group entrusted with training projects inside and outside the Group. 25 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Human Asset Development Toppan has established training centers in Kawaguchi, Saitama Prefecture and Yugawara, Kanagawa Prefecture to nurture human assets. These centers are venues for various training sessions and interaction between Toppan personnel. In April of 2017 Toppan launched the Human Resource Development Laboratory as a research base to develop innovative personnel training programs that apply brain research, neuroscience, analysis of physical condition, and various technologies. This laboratory will be used as a platform to design and implement programs that foster human assets with excellent communication skills and heightened sensibilities. The Company plans to improve individual productivity and facilitate the individual development of the Toppan workforce via this platform. The Company also operates a training management system that Human Resource Development Laboratory offers training tools and information on various learning courses. Employees can review records of their own training online via the e-learning programs. Toppan has also surveyed every employee with a questionnaire on the Company’s human asset development programs to reflect the results in future development plans. 26 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Human Asset Development Main Activities and Relevant Information Results of Human Asset* Development Programs in Fiscal 2017 Number of Employee Program Outline Participants (cumulative) A series of programs to provide self-development training with group and e-learning-based Toppan Business School courses. A wide range of training is available, from courses to learn basic knowledge and skills 3,186 in business to advanced courses to enhance specialist skills. A program to provide self-development training with correspondence-learning courses to Challenge School 4,633 acquire knowledge and skills. E-learning-based GroupE-learning-based programs to give every Group employee the opportunity to learn requisite 82,924 wide basic education business knowledge. Selective training on global A program to equip employees with fundamental qualities for global business such as linguistic 31 business aptitude, cross-cultural competency, and consensus building. A system to deploy young employees to overseas affiliates for one year of language immersion Trainee system and practical training in day-to-day business activities, primarily to enhance their linguistic 10 aptitude and cross-cultural competency. A program to dispatch Toppan employees to emerging and developing countries via the trainee JICA Japan Overseas system to work as Japan Overseas Cooperation Volunteers for the Japan International 2 Cooperation Volunteers Cooperation Agency (JICA). A program to send employees involved in international business to short-term open courses at the International Institute for Management Development (IMD; one of the world’s top-ranked Short-term open programs at business schools) in Lausanne, Switzerland to acquire practical training in leadership, the 2 IMD tenacity required to follow through on projects to completion, and other capabilities required in global business. *Toppan values its employees as precious “human assets.” Fiscal 2017 Human Asset Development Expenditure Usage Rates of Toppan Expenditure on Training, etc. Training Centers* per Employee Kawaguchi Yugawara Fiscal 2015 79,251 yen 85.7％ 45.1％ Fiscal 2016 70,783 yen 87.0％ 45.8％ Fiscal 2017 70,730 yen 87.6％ 46.2％ *Usage rates are calculated by dividing the number of days the training centers are used by the number of days the centers are available (excluding holidays, etc.) 27 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Strict Compliance Strict Compliance Basic Approach Legal compliance in business operations is an indispensable into the Toppan Group Conduct Guidelines, a set of common prerequisite for every corporation to fulfill its responsibilities to principles that all Group companies around the world are required society. to observe for the assurance of strict compliance. These GroupToppan established the Conduct Guidelines as a set of wide guidelines are reviewed every year to adjust to changes in compliance standards in June 2000, the centennial of Toppan business environments, social conditions, and other circumstances Printing Co., Ltd. These guidelines set forth standards for Toppan relevant to the Group. Any revision of the guidelines is subject to a personnel’s behavior based on the Corporate Philosophy and resolution by the Board of Directors of Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. principles of legal compliance. Toppan Group Conduct Guidelines In November 2010 Toppan completely revised the guidelines https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/corporateinfo/vision/shishin.html Promotion Framework ■ Compliance Promotion Structure Toppan believes that the strict observance of the Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders at workplaces initiate guideline Guidelines directly links to legal compliance. The Group has been compliance activities under the Director in charge of Conduct operating a Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leader system to ensure Guidelines Promotion. full observance of the guidelines in daily operations. The Conduct ■ Structure to Promote the Conduct Guidelines President & Representative Director Director in charge of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Compliance Department, Legal Aﬀairs & Intellectual Property Division Business divisions Head oﬃce divisions Division heads Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisor Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisors Senior General Manager Person in charge of management: of Legal Aﬀairs & Business Strategy Department GM Intellectual Property Person in charge of education: Division General Aﬀairs Department GM Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Promotion Leaders in Promotion Leaders Conduct Guidelines in sales and planning administrative in manufacturing Promotion Leaders departments departments departments Supervisors from each Supervisors from Supervisors or Supervisors from educational leaders department each department from each department each department Employees Employees 28 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Strict Compliance ■ Compliance Training ■ Anti-Corruption Initiatives Toppan organizes group training for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Toppan conforms to the anti-corruption principle set out by Leaders every year. The Group devises ways to enhance the the United Nations Global Compact. In fiscal 2016 the Group effectiveness of training sessions through activities such as group formulated an anti-corruption framework led by the Director in discussions using case methods describing actual incidents. charge of Legal Affairs as the chief anti-bribery manager. A set of Toppan gives every employee in Japan a Conduct Guidelines anti-bribery rules was also established in the same year to ensure Casebook, a Q&A style casebook describing situations that can strict anti-bribery practices. arise in daily work. The casebook is used in various guideline For more intensive anti-bribery control, Toppan has tightened promotion activities. The Leaders, for example, use it to the procedures that employees use to request entertainment for disseminate the guidelines at their workplaces. The Group also and gift-giving to public officials and the like in line with the antiposts regular Conduct Guideline Notifications on themes relevant bribery rules and guidelines. In fiscal 2017 Toppan checked the to the guidelines in order to heighten employee awareness and call request records, arranged e-learning-based programs, and provided attention to compliance-related issues. Toppan has been holding Group employees with a Q&A style casebook describing specific seminars, producing posters, and implementing other compliance examples. promotion activities to ensure strict compliance among Group employees. ■ Training for Compliance with Transaction■ Training to Prevent Infringements of related Laws and Regulations Intellectual Property To enforce compliance with major transaction-related laws and Protection and management of intellectual property is a crucial regulations in Japan, the Toppan Group has been comprehensively issue for Toppan, a group of companies operating in the three preventing improper import and export transactions and ensuring fields of Information & Communication, Living & Industry, and compliance with the Subcontract Law. Electronics. The Group devotes strict attention to measures to Toppan organizes training on compliance with the subcontract prevent the infringement of copyrights, trademarks, and other law every year mainly for Group companies with track records of intellectual property rights of other parties while obtaining patents frequent subcontracting transactions. The Group also continues for its own technologies and business models. holding training sessions and carrying out audits focused on export Apart from in-house special training, Toppan holds regular controls under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act. training sessions for employees of the Toppan Group and its business partners. Participants in these sessions acquire basic legal knowledge on intellectual property rights by reviewing case histories in design work and other operations involving intellectual property issues within the Group. ■ Toppan Group Helpline ■ Internal Reporting System When an employee discovers a legal violation or improper conduct Communicator When the problem Any Group employee remains unresolved somewhere in the Toppan Group, he or she is to report it to his/her superior for deliberation as a basic rule. If the employee’s superior Reporting and fails to resolve the problem, the employee is encouraged to call consultation the Toppan Group Helpline, the Group’s internal reporting system. Reporting on The helpline is open for use by all Group employees, including Superior progress and results, follow-up dispatched staff and part-time workers. communication Internal reporting (an email or sealed document sent in the name of an employee) ■ Compliance in fiscal 2017 Receiver Toppan was not involved in any serious incidents or violations of President & Representative Director or Senior Audit & Supervisory Board Member laws or regulations in the course of business in fiscal 2017. Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Instructions Reporting Department responsible for investigation and countermeasures 29 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Strict Compliance Main Activities and Relevant Information Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leader System Seven hundred and thirty-three Conduct Guidelines Promotion from Toppan and Group companies in fiscal 2017. Leaders (the “Leaders”) were deployed across the Group in fiscal The Compliance Department in the Legal Affairs & Intellectual 2017, including 95 women (13.0% of the Leaders). A cumulative Property Division sent out 12 Conduct Guideline Notifications on total of 9,055 employees have worked as Leaders since the system topics relevant to the Conduct Guidelines in fiscal 2017 to ensure was launched in fiscal 2004. strict compliance at the workplace under the Leaders. Toppan held 85 training sessions across Japan for 1,042 Leaders Number of Female Number of Newly Cumulative Total Leaders Deployed Deployed Leaders Number of Leaders (Percentage) Fiscal 2015 754 66（8.8%） 7,581 Fiscal 2016 741 82（11.1%） 8,322 Fiscal 2017 733 95（13.0%） 9,055 Anti-Corruption Initiatives The Toppan Group established a set of anti-bribery rules and 第章 贈賄防止に向けて © TOPPAN PRINTING CO.,LTD. guidelines to ensure strict anti-bribery practices in March 2017. 国内外を問わず、公務員への不正な利益供与（贈賄）は、 犯罪行為です！ E-learning-based, Group-wide education on anti-bribery  ・国内の公務員への贈賄 ⇒ 贈賄罪（刑法１９８条） practices was arranged for 8,515 employees in fiscal 2017. Toppan  ・外国の公務員への贈賄 ⇒ 外国公務員贈賄罪                （不正競争防止法１８条） also checked its records on requests placed by Group employees to  トッパングループ行動指針では、 公務員に対する贈与や接待を禁止しています。 provide entertainment, give gifts, and offer other forms of hospitality  【行動指針基本原則３－６（贈賄や不適切な接待をしない）】  私たちは、公務員に対して贈与、接待などの贈賄行為を行いません。 Screenshot from a to public officials and the like. Group-wide e-learning また、国や公共団体の公務員だけでなく、独立公益法人の職員、公務  員に準じる企業の職員や外国公務員などに対しても、違法な贈賄行為  をしません。さらに、民間の取引先との接待についても、行う場合、 In April 2018 Toppan revised the guidelines and issued a  受ける場合を問わず、社会的な常識の範囲内にとどめます。 -0based training course Q&A style casebook describing specific cases of bribery to equip (in Japanese) employees with the awareness required to strictly avoid committing bribery themselves. Compliance with Transaction-related Laws and Regulations Toppan regularly organizes transaction-related training and sessions focused on export controls under the Foreign Exchange monitors and audits how business transactions are being handled. and Foreign Trade Act, 494 employees were trained on compliance Both activities are key to preventing improper import and export with the subcontract law, and 1,100 employees took a course transactions and ensuring compliance with the Subcontract Law of on export controls via the e-learning system. The Group also Japan. audited the observance of export controls in 15 departments and In fiscal 2017, a total of 333 employees participated in group compliance with the subcontract law in 25 departments. Number of Internal Reports The Toppan Group Helpline was used in four cases in fiscal 2017. Every case was properly handled and followed up with necessary countermeasures to prevent recurrence. 30 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development CSR Procurement CSR Procurement Basic Approach Sustainability initiatives can be completed only when implemented takes an assertive approach to the sustainable use of resources throughout the entire supply chain. by avoiding or minimizing the impact on biodiversity during raw The Toppan Group therefore promotes CSR procurement in material procurement. cooperation and collaboration with business partners as a means of Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines (second edition) implementing sustainability initiatives throughout the entire supply https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/english/corporateinfo/files/csr/ chain. 2014/proc2014_en01.pdf The Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines are a set Toppan Group Standards for the Management of Chemical Components of principles the Group observes to drive this endeavor. These of Raw Materials (ver. 4.4) guidelines consist of the Basic Procurement Policy, a conceptual https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/english/corporateinfo/files/csr/ framework to be closely observed by every Toppan employee 2018/proc2018_en04.pdf involved in procurement operations, and the CSR Procurement Basic Policy on Biodiversity (in Japanese) Standards, a set of requirements to be satisfied by every business https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/japanese/csr/files/pdf/2013/ partner. The CSR Procurement Standards are composed of the biodiversity.pdf Basic Procurement Standards and the Procurement Standards Concerning Human Rights, Labor, the Environment, and AntiToppan Group Paper Procurement Guidelines for the Sustainable Use of Forest Resources (second edition) (in Japanese) Corruption. https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/japanese/corporateinfo/files/csr/2014/ Turning to the environment, the Toppan Group’s basic policy proc2014_06.pdf Promotion Framework The Purchasing Center in the head office Manufacturing efforts of business partners to comply with the Group’s procurement Management Division and other procurement departments across standards on human rights, labor, the environment, and antithe Group take the initiative in advancing CSR procurement in corruption; and ongoing efforts to conclude basic sale and purchase close coordination with business partners. agreements with business partners stipulating the observance of The center and departments have undertaken a host of CSR the Group’s procurement guidelines. procurement initiatives focused on business partners, including the The Toppan Group also controls chemical components following: briefing of business partners on the Toppan Group CSR throughout the entire supply chain based on the Standards for the Procurement Guidelines; surveys with questionnaires to check the Management of Chemical Components of Raw Materials. ■ Promoting Compliance in Procurement Departments CSR procurement initiatives should be built upon trust between the Basic Policy on Biodiversity. The policy stipulates a proactive businesses. Toppan therefore regularly monitors whether the approach to the sustainable use of resources by avoiding or Group’s procurement departments operate properly in accordance minimizing the impact on biodiversity in the procurement of raw with the Basic Procurement Policy in their transactions with materials. For the sustainable use of forest resources in line with business partners. the basic policy, the Group has cooperated with paper suppliers Toppan has also set up a Supplier Hotline on its corporate (business partners) to ensure that the lumber they use for paper website as a portal for receiving reports from business partners production is legally obtained. involved in the Group’s procurement operations. The hotline is Supplier Hotline open for use by all business partners of the Group. https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/ The Toppan Group targets sustainable procurement based on supplier_hotline.html 31 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development CSR Procurement Main Activities and Relevant Information Briefing on Procurement Guidelines and Concluding Basic Sale and Purchase Agreements As of the end of fiscal 2017, Toppan has briefed 2,100 business ■ Briefing Sessions on CSR Procurement partners on the Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines. The Guidelines Group has also promoted the implementation of CSR initiatives Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2015 2016 2017 throughout the entire supply chain by asking business partners Number of business to conclude basic sale and purchase agreements stipulating the 21 7 25 partners briefed observance of the guidelines. As of fiscal 2017, agreements have Cumulative total of been concluded with 72% of the business partners that sell the 2,068 2,075 2,100 business partners Group goods and services worth more than 10 million yen a year. Turning to the environment, the Toppan Group promotes CSR ■ Percentage of Basic Sale and Purchase procurement in line with specific standards such as the Standards Agreements with CSR Procurement for the Management of Chemical Components of Raw Materials Provisions Concluded (with business and the Paper Procurement Guidelines for the Sustainable Use of partners supplying goods and services worth Forest Resources. more than 10 million yen a year) Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2015 2016 2017 Cumulative percentage of agreements (out of 62％ 68％ 72％ the business partners targeted) Verifying the Legality of Lumber as a Paper Material The Toppan Group established a Basic Policy on Biodiversity and *http://www.toppan.co.jp/en/csr/environment/biodiversity.html posted it on the Toppan website* in May 2010. The basic policy stipulates that “we will take a proactive approach to sustainable use by avoiding or minimizing the impact on biodiversity” during raw material procurement operations. For paper procurement, for example, the Group has surveyed the ■ Results of Surveys to Verify the Legality of legality of lumber as a paper material as a means of promoting the Lumber as a Paper Material sustainable use of forest resources. Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Toppan monitors paper suppliers (business partners) to ensure 2015 2016 2017 that the lumber they use for paper production is legally obtained. Number of business 29 28 18 The Group surveyed 24 sites of 18 business partners around the partners surveyed world in fiscal 2017 to confirm that all of the procured lumber was Percentage of lumber obtained legally. In yen terms, these 24 partner sites supplied 92.3% sources verified as 100％ 100％ 100％ of the paper used by Toppan in fiscal 2017. legal Monitoring Compliance in Procurement Departments The Toppan Group regularly monitors whether its procurement ■ Monitoring Results departments operate properly in accordance with the Basic Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Procurement Policy in their transactions with business partners. 2015 2016 2017 In Fiscal 2017 the Group used the results of a questionnaire survey Number of business of 13 business partners to improve compliance in procurement partners that filled out 8 10 13 operations. the questionnaire Toppan has also set up the Supplier Hotline*, a portal for Cumulative total receiving reports from business partners, on its website. number of business 93 103 116 partners monitored *https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/ supplier_hotline.html 32 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Initiatives for Products and Services Initiatives for Products and Services Basic Approach Quality assurance for products at the Toppan Group is a concern UD as a guiding philosophy for developing products and services for every department, not only the departments directly responsible that “help realize a society with a high appreciation of diversity.” for production. Departments involved in marketing, R&D, planning, By embracing UD approaches, Toppan assigns greater weight design, sales, and shipment all contribute to quality. This is why to dialogue with diverse people and the concerns of people with Toppan describes quality assurance as a total activity (“total quality different physical abilities and perceptions while considering usage assurance”) and strives to improve product quality and manage scenarios and design parameters such as understandability and product safety throughout the Group. For the maintenance and usability. improvement of product quality, the Group has established a Basic Stance on Product Safety Management and a set of Basic Guidelines on Product Safety Management to securely manage the Basic Stance on Product Safety Management safety of the products Toppan manufactures. We promote product safety management throughout the Group The Global environmental challenge is another crucial social by securing safety and improving the quality of our products issue requiring Toppan’s committed efforts. To propel sustainable based on the Basic Principles of Conduct Guidelines and the consumption, the Group markets environmentally friendly products principles of corporate social responsibility as a protector of and services and visualizes CO₂ emissions associated with the user* safety and health. *User: Includes both customer companies and end-user consumers. products and services Toppan develops. Toppan and Group companies endeavor to contribute to the realization of sustainable consumption under The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Basic Stance on Product Safety Management / Basic Guidelines on Environment. Product Safety Management The Toppan Group also realizes the social value of universal https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/ design (UD). Since its launch of a pioneering UD packaging product_safety.html consulting service in 1999, Toppan has been consistently The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment (in Japanese) designing and producing attractive, easy-to-use UD packaging https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/japanese/csr/files/pdf/ and communication tools for as many people as possible in every The_Toppan_Group_Declaration_on_the_Global_Environment.pdf Business Field of the Group. Toppan Declaration on Universal Design / Toppan’s Seven Principles on The Toppan Declaration on Universal Design and Toppan’s Seven Universal Design (in Japanese) Principles on Universal Design (both established in 2010) define https://www.toppan.co.jp/csr/consumers/ud.html Promotion Framework The Quality Assurance Center in the head office Manufacturing underpinning total quality assurance across the Group. Management Division holds a Japan-wide conference of quality Toppan has arranged e-learning-based training programs for assurance departments every three months. Conference participants all Group employees and rank-based educational curriculums to clarify various challenges related to safety management and quality heighten employee awareness and facilitate a deeper understanding assurance for products and monitor the progress of key initiatives of Toppan’s environmentally friendly products and initiatives for to mitigate quality loss and further improve product quality. carbon-offsetting and carbon footprint of products (CFP) services. Every Group site consistently enhances its quality management The Ecology Center in the head office Manufacturing Management system (ISO 9001) to bolster product safety management. The Division compiles and discloses information on registered Quality Assurance Center organizes seminars on ISO 9001 and environmentally friendly products. training sessions for internal auditors every year. These training ISO 9001 Accreditation and Certification (in Japanese) sessions aim to constantly improve quality management systems https://www.toppan.co.jp/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/iso/iso9001.html 33 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Initiatives for Products and Services ■ Assuring Product Quality The quality assurance department in each business division efforts to sustain these measures. The Toppan Group has also handles complaints and claims from customers. When a serious adopted a certified approval system for food packaging requiring product-related incident occurs, Toppan sets up an emergency exacting quality assurance for safety and sanitation to ensure taskforce in line with the Group’s rules on risk management to that the operational sites of Toppan and partner companies can rapidly and properly handle the issue, giving the top priority to manufacture containers and packages only after undergoing user safety. The Group has also established rules on corrective audits with checklists in conformance with the Quality Assurance actions for claims from customers in accordance with ISO 9001. Guidelines for Food Packaging. Based on these rules, the quality assurance departments determine fundamental causes, take optimal countermeasures, and prevent recurrence through the standardization of corrective actions. The Quality Assurance Center compiles monthly data on ■ CFP and Carbon-offset Services customer claims and cases of product quality loss from business The Ecology Center supports training sessions and promotional divisions and assesses the progress of improvement activities. efforts for employees in marketing and sales promotion departments For serious product-related incidents, the center examines the relevant to the carbon footprint of products (CFP) and carbonvalidity of recurrence-prevention measures and the status of offset services for printed materials and events. Main Activities and Relevant Information Initiatives for Product Safety The Toppan Group has established a Basic Stance on Product head office held training sessions for internal auditors in fiscal Safety Management and Basic Guidelines on Product Safety 2017. Four hundred and twenty-nine employees took part in the Management to secure the safety management of the products it sessions to learn the ISO 9001:2015 requirements for formulating a manufactures. quality management system integrated with business processes. All Every Group site continues improving its quality management Group sites in Japan succeeded in migrating from ISO 9001 to ISO system (ISO 9001) to bolster product safety management. The 9001:2015 certification. Certified Approval System for the Production of Food Packaging Food packaging requires exacting quality assurance for safety and ■ Audits for the Food Filling/Packing Businesses sanitation. The Toppan Group has adopted a certified approval system to ensure that the operational sites of Toppan and partner Audit Points companies can manufacture containers and packages only after undergoing audits with checklists in conformance with the Quality ・Agreements with client companies Assurance Guidelines for Food Packaging. Toppan carried out ・Quality assurance systems accreditation audits for packaging operations at 14 sites inside and ・Management of equipment and inspection devices outside the Group in fiscal 2017. ・Management of safety and sanitation ・Steps to prevent the admixture of different products ・Steps to safeguard against insect infestations ・Steps to prevent the admixture of foreign substances ・Steps to prevent the outflow of defective products ・Steps to prevent contamination ・Traceability ・Food defense ・Education and training ・Maintenance of systems and frameworks for product safety and quality Operational Sites Audited Primary food filling/packing businesses 4 sites run by manufacturing subsidiaries 10 sites run by production business partners 34 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Initiatives for Products and Services Conducting CFP Quantifications and Applying for Carbon-offset Certification for Printed Materials and Events The Toppan Group has been visualizing CO2 emissions associated certified wood refuse in the Amazon basin, Brazil) provided by with printed materials and events through carbon footprint of the Gold Standard Foundation under the United Nations Clean products (CFP) and carbon offsetting initiatives. The Group’s Development Mechanism (CDM). Toppan used this mechanism one-stop service for client companies covers every step from CFP to contribute to relevant sustainable development targets such as quantification to carbon-offset certification for printed materials climate security and stable power supply. and events. This procedure has also been applied to the Group’s The Group has also offset CO2-equivalent GHG emissions own products and events. In fiscal 2017 the Group conducted CFP associated with in-house biodiversity-focused educational events quantifications for a total of 23 products, services, and events. and environment-focused meetings such as the National EcoIn self-initiated activities, the Group applied for carbon-offset protection Meeting and Toppan Group Environmental Meetings certifications based on the quantified CFP data for the Toppan CSR in Japan. Toppan supported the recovery of Kumamoto from Report 2017 (Japanese version) and Toppan booth at Eco-Pro 2017. the earthquake disaster of 2016 through these carbon-offsetting The greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with the brochure initiatives by applying a J-VER credit, a credit originating from CO2 and exhibition were offset by a Sustainable Development Goals absorption using lumber from thinning operations in forests owned (SDG)-linked credit (originating from power generation using FSCby Kumamoto Prefecture. ■ Framework for CFP and Carbon Offsetting Carbon Footprint of Products (CFP) Quantify CO2-equivalent greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions throughout the entire life cycle (#1-5) of a product and display the CFP data on printed materials brochures shop brochure collection box ① Raw material ④ Use and ⑤ Disposal and procurement ② Production ③ Distribution maintenance recycling Carbon Offsetting Partially or completely “offsetting” difficult-to-reduce GHG emissions with equivalent credits (GHG-emission reduction values and/or GHG absorption values) earned elsewhere. ■ CFP information in the Toppan CSR Report 2017 (in Japanese) https://www.cfp-japan.jp/common/pdf_permission/001513/CR-BS05-17014.pdf ■ Carbon offsetting for the Toppan Group’s environmental meetings (in Japanese) http://offset.env.go.jp/sengen/cof/detail/sengen_957.html ■ Toppan Group Environmental Meeting held in 2017 (in Japanese) https://japancredit.go.jp/cp/13/ Toppan Group Environmental Meeting 35 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Initiatives for Products and Services Editorial UD Solutions In October 2016 the Toppan Group established the UD ■ Five Evaluation Points in Editorial UD Communication Laboratory, an organization tasked with Solutions augmenting the social value of knowledge in universal design (UD) and knowhow in communication design. The UD Communication ❶ Information governance: Tool organization Laboratory supports client companies in their efforts to solve Whether or not the tool is appropriately positioned in diversity-related challenges of various kinds. accordance with expected roles, etc. In fiscal 2017 the laboratory launched a series of Editorial UD ❷ Information architecture: Page composition (E-UD) solutions to provide counseling on information tools. The Whether or not information is easy to find and the reader E-UD information service pursues a wholly optimized system for stays with the tool. developing effective information tools based on an original method that schematizes every process of information editing from UD ❸ User interface: Page layout perspectives. Whether or not the tool imposes a lighter load on the E-UD solutions allow client companies to deliver information reader and facilitates the reader’s instinctive understanding. more effectively by enabling improvements based on exhaustive ❹ Look & feel: Graphic expression assessments of their information tools. The assessments are based Whether or not the tool strikes a balance between on five evaluation points focused on criteria ranging from individual accessibility and attractive design. elements of expression to overall tool organization. E-UD solutions help clients create information tools that are easier-to-read, easier❺ Plain wording: Text expression to-understand, and more effective for diverse people, including the Whether or not the tool delivers important information elderly, the physically and mentally disabled, busy businesspeople, promptly and necessary information appropriately. and parents with young children. 36 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Consumer Protection Consumer Protection Basic Approach Toppan has reinforced safeguards to prevent leaks and outflows of personal information in the diverse processes in which it is Toppan Group Basic Policy on Information handled within the Group by restricting the handling of personal Security information to tightly secured areas that satisfy rigorous criteria As a group of companies operating in the information communication for qualification audits. The Group has also worked for thorough industry, each of us at the Toppan Group carries out Groupsecurity control in operation design and quality assurance with wide information security management in the recognition that the management of information necessary for business is a significant safe, secure systems and processes designed to manage personal managerial challenge for us as a means to reciprocate our customers’ information. trust and promote the ongoing growth of the Toppan Group. Toppan has also declared that “each of us at the Toppan Group 1. We manage information necessary for our business appropriately in carries out Group-wide information security management” in its observance of our in-house rules, the law, and the principles of social basic policy on information security. Under the basic policy, Toppan order. has continuously upgraded the Group’s systemized rules formulated 2. We collect information for appropriate purposes using appropriate based on ISO/IEC 27001 (a stringent, globally recognized standard methods. on information security management) in compliance with Japanese 3. We safely manage the information entrusted to us by customers in Industrial Standards (JIS) Q 15001 (standard for accrediting order to reciprocate our customers’ trust. PrivacyMark Systems for personal information protection 4. We are deeply aware of the risks to the information assets we handle, management). such as illegal access, loss, damage, falsification/manipulation, and leakage of information, and take necessary and reasonable safety measures against these risks. We deal with and rectify any problems Toppan Group Basic Policy on Information Security that occur promptly and in an appropriate manner. https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/ security_kihonhoushin.html 5. We establish, operate, maintain, and continuously improve information security management systems. Personal Information Protection Policy https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/privacy.html Established on April 1, 2001 Revised on August 1, 2011 Shingo Kaneko President & Representative Director Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Promotion Framework ■ Organizational Structure for Information Security Management Companies today face wide-ranging types of information security strengthen cooperation with relevant departments throughout the risk, from careless mistakes and fraudulent acts committed inGroup. Toppan seeks to maintain the Group’s governance structure house to cyber attacks and hidden threats in new business fields. through cooperation that goes beyond existing organizational The head office and every business division at Toppan work to boundaries. President & Representative Director Information Security Management Promotion Committee ● Corporate planning division ● Manufacturing ● ICT management division Chief information security manager management division ● Legal aﬀairs division ● Information-security-related ● Personnel & labor departments in business relations division divisions Meetings of Information Security Managers TOPPAN-CERT, anti-virus task force, etc. Administrative oﬃce (Legal aﬀairs division) Business Divisions Senior information security managers Administrative oﬃce / Persons in charge of operations Auditing supervisors (Network management, web service management, employee training, management of suppliers and vendors) Information security managers Departments involved in committees ● Quality assurance ● Production control ● BPO promotion ● ICT development Marketing and sales Quality assurance Production control promotion departments Administrative departments departments Overseas aﬃliates Related companies Planning and development departments Technology departments Manufacturing departments departments 37 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Consumer Protection ■ Training on Information Security Management ■ Complying with Laws, Regulations, and Standards on Personal Information Protection Toppan works to ensure awareness of the importance of To prepare for the enforcement of the amended Act on the information security management through face-to-face group Protection of Personal Information in May 2017 in Japan, the training for employees. Toppan Group carefully studied a set of guidelines issued by the In fiscal 2017 Toppan invited outside information security experts Personal Information Protection Commission of Japan. Toppan to hold an in-house open seminar and various other lectures. The also revised the Group’s personal information protection bylaws Group also organized practical risk analysis training sessions for based on the amended act and strived to prescribe the revised business process designers conducted by an external instructor. bylaws throughout the Group. As a means of addressing the These sessions aimed to enhance Toppan’s ability to provide revised JIS Q 15001:2017, the Group has joined an inter-business customer companies safety and security in a manner responsive to project to compile a handbook on the revised standard in order to changing markets. spread the relevant information throughout the printing industry in Japan. Toppan has also directed Group companies on the personal information protection system required for PrivacyMark accreditation under the revised standard. ■ Tightly Secured Areas Designated for the ■ Number of Domestic Sites with Tightly Handling of Personal Information Secured Areas Designated for the Handling of Operations entailing the use of confidential materials at the Personal Information (as of March 31, 2018) Toppan Group are conducted exclusively in physically isolated, tightly secured workplaces to minimize the risk of potential acts of Hokkaido Kansai (5 areas) fraud inside or outside the Group. Operations under strict control (11 areas) include the handling of personal information, such as individual Chugoku & Shikoku Higashinihon identification numbers under Japan’s Social Security and Tax (4 areas) (1 area) Number System, as well as the production and handling of security Kyushu Kanto printing products with monetary value. (2 areas) (45 areas) In response to customer requests, the Group has been increasing Chubu the number of tightly secured areas and strengthening the (3 areas) procedures to monitor and audit these operations. ■ Measures against Cyber Attacks ■ Protecting Personal Information against Cyber Attacks The Toppan Group has set up a specialized team called TOPPANCERT to address cyber attacks. TOPPAN-CERT collects internal Anti-virus TOPPAN-CERT and external information and monitors technological trends Task Force in computer security to provide necessary information on a ● Investigate and take action ● Expedite the creation of an when an incident occurs environment that is both continuous basis and technical support for solutions when a cyber ● Collect and analyze virus-resistant and external information rigorously protected by incident occurs. (vulnerability information, Information virus shields exchange security trends, etc.) and ● Respond to virus-related Toppan has established an emergency report form, a hotline report the results to related departments incidents and issues using anti-virus software Coordination for informing TOPPAN-CERT about suspicious incoming emails, across the Group ● Exchange information and on its internal portal site. CERT will take immediate action upon coordinate with computer security incident response receiving a report of a virus infection or another of cyber attack via teams outside the Group the hotline. Monitor and protect computer systems with two specialized organizations to defend against cyber The Company has also engaged Toppan directors and employees attacks and other security threats Cyber Viruses in regular drills to rehearse countermeasures against targeted email Toppan Group ICT Environment attacks attacks. Systems for Internal systems Plants client companies ■ Preparing for the Tokyo 2020 Games The Olympic and Paralympic Games, large-scale sporting festivals, are easy targets for organized criminals. While collecting information, as a Tokyo 2020 Official Partner Toppan Printing is taking part in anti-cyber-attack joint simulation drills organized by the Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department. 38 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Consumer Protection Main Activities and Relevant Information Information Security Training ■ Group-wide and Divisional Training Toppan organized regular training on information security e-learning system. Face-to-face training was held in 352 sessions throughout the Group in fiscal 2017. By streamlining the process across Japan. of collating data on all Group employees and those who have For manufacturing departments, the Group has reviewed its taken courses, Toppan promptly identified employees who had not training approaches, reexamined the methods used to collect received training and provided them with catch-up classes via the training data, and arranged division-specific training. Workplace precautions presented in a regular training course (in Japanese) Tips for keeping the workplace organized (in Japanese) ■ Risk Analysis Training by Outside Instructors The Toppan Group has been organizing practice-based risk analysis training for business process designers to provide safety and security to customers in a manner responsive to changing markets. In fiscal 2017 trainees joined an instructor invited from Ricoh Japan Co., Ltd. to study problems that can occur in the course of operations, identify the causes of accidents, and learn practical risk assessment approaches. 39 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Consumer Protection Open Seminar for Employees on Information Security In October 2017 Toppan invited Mitsuhiko Maruyama, the President of Deloitte Tohmatsu Risk Services Co., Ltd., to hold an in-house seminar. Teleconference systems were used to enable about 550 employees from 23 Group sites across Japan to participate. How to address emerging cyber security risks and resolve security challenges ・Cyber crimes today ・Security in Japan ・Targeted cyber attacks ・Leakage of email addresses and passwords ・Attack targets: all connected data and devices ・Basic information on security measures Toppan Cyber Security Seminar Toppan invited two guest lecturers to a cyber security seminar and panel discussion at Koishikawa Terrace in the Toppan Koishikawa Cyber security challenges and countermeasures Building in Tokyo in February 2018—Kei Nakamura, an expert from from the viewpoint of entities handling TIS Inc., and Kazuhisa Uryu, the Counselor of the National center confidential information of Incident readiness and Strategy for Cybersecurity (NISC) of ・Latest cyber security trends Japan. ・Initiatives promoted by the Japanese government The seminar was also attended by personnel from 20 customer ・Initiatives required of companies companies closely involved in cyber security issues. Toppan presented an overview of the Group’s cyber security measures to the seminar participants. Seminar poster (in Japanese) 40 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Consumer Protection Advanced Security Management The Toppan Group imposes an advanced security management ■ Safety management measures for tightly regime on the handling of personal information, including day-tosecured areas day operational checks and management assessments via internal audits. Detection of abnormal behavior and audit inspections of operational management take high priority among the information security measures enforced. Detection of abnormal behavior The Group disables access to external devices and prevents other Surveillance camera behavior that can lead to information leakage. By analyzing alerts on a daily basis, the head office is always ready to check and verify any abnormal behavior on the same day it is discovered. Audit inspections of operational management In fiscal 2017 internal auditors checked procedures for which Access control instructions have been provided in such operational processes as the editing of data, the sending of emails, and the printing, insertion, and sealing of documents, in order to preempt accidents that can result from mistaken handling of personal information. Their assessment report confirmed that compliance was ensured throughout the relevant processes. 41 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Consumer Protection Third-party Certification Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and its Group companies have acquired ISO/IEC 27001 certification for information security management systems (ISMS), PrivacyMark accreditations under Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) Q 15001:2006 for their personal information protection management systems (PMS), and other third-party certifications. ■ PrivacyMark Accreditations ■ ISMS Certification (ISO/IEC 27001) for ( JIS Q 15001:2006) Information Security Management Systems Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. 10190891 Information & Communication Division, Toppan Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd. 24000216 Printing Co., Ltd.; ICT Infrastructure Technology Center, ICT Management Division, Toppan Toppan Graphic Communications Co., Ltd. 10190298 IC06J0151 Printing Co., Ltd.; Toppan Communication Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd. 24000061 Products Co., Ltd.; Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd.; Toppan Graphic Communications Co., Ltd. Toppan Editorial Communications Co., Ltd. 24000308 Toppan Group Kansai Business Center, Toppan Toppan Logistics Co., Ltd. 10450006 JQA-IM0137 Forms Co., Ltd. Toppan Prosprint Co., Ltd. 24000182 Toppan TDK Label Co., Ltd. RB-IS14004 Toppan Travel Service Corp. 10450093 Asaka Plant and Shiga Plant, Toppan Printing Toppan Forms Co., Ltd. 10190934 Co., Ltd.; Semiconductor photomask operations, Toppan Forms Central Products Co., Ltd. 24000366 Asaka Plant and Shiga Plant, Toppan Electronics IS 530416 Toppan Forms Tokai Co., Ltd. 24000204 Products Co., Ltd.; Toppan Technical Design Toppan Forms Kansai Co., Ltd. 24000101 Center Co., Ltd. Toppan Forms Nishinihon Co., Ltd. 18860028 Mapion Co., Ltd. IS 533218 Toppan Forms Operation Co., Ltd. 10820089 Kyushu, Chugoku & Shikoku Team and ISMS Promotion Committee, Information Security Toppan Forms Logistics and Services Co., Ltd. 10450002 I308 Management, Nishinihon Division, Toppan Toppan Forms (Hokkaido) Co., Ltd. 10190307 Printing Co., Ltd. TOSCO Corp. 11820447 Kansai Production Department, Toppan Graphic IC13J0361 J-SCube Inc. 10860018 Communications Co., Ltd. Tosho Printing Co., Ltd. 24000032 Higashinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. IS 606897 Tokyo Shoseki Co., Ltd. 10190966 Takino Plant, Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.; Takino Manufacturing Department, Livretech Co., Ltd. 10190035 Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd.; Technology, Kansai IC14J0376 Tokyo Logistics Co., Ltd. 10860071 Information & Communication Subdivision, EduFront Learning Research Co., Ltd. 10861827 Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Froebel-Kan Co., Ltd. 24000369 Secure BPO Team, Chubu Division, Toppan BookLive Co., Ltd. 28000007 Printing Co., Ltd.; Chubu Production Department, Toppan Graphic Communications Tokyo Metropolitan Government (T.M.G.) IC17J0444 24000419 Co., Ltd.; Nagoya Plant, Toppan Communication Prepress Toppan Co., Ltd. Products Co., Ltd.; Nagoya Plant, Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd. One undisclosed entity 42 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Consumer Protection Complying with Laws, Regulations, Standards, and their Amendments The Toppan Group complies with the amended Act on the EU General Data Protection Regulation, and other informationProtection of Personal Information of Japan, the revised JIS protection legislation around the world. standard for accrediting PrivacyMark systems, the newly enforced ■ Complying with the Amended Japanese ■ Complying with the Revised Act on the Protection of Personal JIS Q 15001:2017 Information In December 2017 the Japanese Standards Association (JSA) To prepare for the enforcement of the amended Act on the revised JIS Q 15001:2017, a standard for accrediting a business Protection of Personal Information in May 2017 in Japan, the operator or other entity with an appropriate system for the Toppan Group carefully studied a set of guidelines issued by the protection of personal information. The Toppan Group has joined Personal Information Protection Commission of Japan. Toppan an inter-business project to compile a handbook on the revised also revised the Group’s personal information protection bylaws standard in order to spread the relevant information throughout based on the amended act and strived to prescribe the revised the printing industry in Japan. Toppan has also directed Group bylaws throughout the Group. The key revisions to the bylaws companies on the personal information protection system required were additional rules on the verification of appropriateness for PrivacyMark accreditation under the revised standard. when obtaining personal information, procedures for providing information to third parties, and the handling of “anonymously processed information*.” Agreements on outsourcing operations were also reviewed. *Personal information that has been processed to ensure that it cannot be used to identify a specific individual or otherwise restored to its original form, as defined by the Act on the Protection of Personal Information of Japan. ■ Complying with the EU’s GDPR ■ Complying with PCI DSS for Credit Card Information Management The Toppan Group has been preparing for the enforcement of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new piece of EU The Toppan Group follows the principle of “not storing cardholder legislation that is likely to impose strict punitive actions. Given the data” for credit card issuance operations. The Group works to unilateral adequacy decisions between Europe and Japan, Toppan’s comply with the Payment Card Industry Card Production (PCI responses to the GDPR are fundamentally in line with the policies CP) and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI established by the Personal Information Protection Commission DSS), a standard applied to the production of credit cards and a of Japan and the requirements the EU legislation imposes on standard applied to the datacenters that store and manage card the Group’s overseas subsidiaries. Toppan has made progress in data, respectively. collecting necessary information, reviewing its bylaws, providing training to Group employees, and improving the data protection structure. Organizing Drills against Targeted Email Attacks Though originally conducted for Toppan directors and Company About 26,300 employees from Toppan and 29 Group companies employees, drills to rehearse countermeasures against a series performed the drill in June of 2017, and some 27,700 employees of targeted email attacks have steadily been extended to cover from Toppan and 40 Group companies did the same in December. affiliated and related companies within the Group. In fiscal 2017 Toppan redesigned this drill to accomplish more than simply raised awareness. Training was held in June and December 2017 to simulate conditions encountered during an actual attack. The drill focused on the details of seemingly innocuous messages and the reinforcement of the initial responses to take after clicking on a malicious link. For enhanced initial responses, an emergency report form has been made available on the Group portal site to ensure that employees can report an infection as soon as one occurs. Toppan has been using this form Screenshot of the emergency during drills to inform Group employees of the procedure used for report form on the Toppan reporting an incident. portal site (in Japanese) 43 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Community Involvement and Development Community Involvement and Development Basic Approach The Toppan Group supports the communities in which it operates “Building trust from society through social contribution activities by addressing local issues and contributing to sustainable and appropriate disclosure of information.” Every Group site development. Domestic and overseas sites in the Group have organizes an array of community initiatives in full recognition of engaged in contribution activities forged through dialogues with the importance of engaging in social and community contribution neighboring communities. Dialogue is sustained through manifold activities as a corporate citizen. activities, including collaboration with organizations that bring together the opinions of community members. Basic Principle 9 of Conduct Guidelines the Toppan Group’s Conduct Guidelines emphasizes the value of https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/corporateinfo/vision/shishin.html Promotion Framework ■ Initiatives for Community Contribution and ■ Cooperating with International Communities to Involvement Address Social Issues The Personnel & Labor Relations Division of the head office in Convinced that cooperative solutions to global issues are vital for its Tokyo cooperates with general affairs departments throughout community contribution activities, Toppan has been organizing the the business divisions across Japan to facilitate the involvement Toppan Charity Concert series since fiscal 2007. This series aims of Toppan sites in meetings, organizations, and various other to support global initiatives to raise literacy rates in developing community gatherings. Each Group site has sounded out opinions countries. Literacy is the ability to read, write, and calculate with from its communities and shaped and implemented business proficiency sufficient to function well in daily life. activities and community contribution initiatives based on their Toppan Charity Concerts opinions. https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/news/2018/05/newsrelease180507.html Main Activities ・Cleanup around operational sites ・Traffic safety and anti-crime campaigns with surrounding communities ・Plant tours and practical training for local elementary school students ・Meetings with neighborhood communities to report environmental initiatives ・Internships ・Off-site lectures ・Provision of site facilities such as meeting rooms and sports facilities ・Blood donation drives ・Participation in community festivals and events ・Cosponsorship of projects to foster future generations and serve communities in other ways 44 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Community Involvement and Development Main Activities and Relevant Information Community Contribution and Involvement by Toppan Group Sites The Toppan Group supports communities by addressing local participants, and to elicit opinions. Site facilities such as meeting issues and contributing to sustainable development. Domestic and rooms and sports facilities are also opened to community residents. overseas sites in the Group have engaged in contribution activities forged through dialogues with neighboring communities. Dialogue is sustained through manifold activities, including collaboration with organizations that bring together the viewpoints of community members. Each Group site takes part in meetings and activities with various local organizations in the community in which it operates and devises local contribution activities by sounding out opinions from surrounding communities. The sites also hold briefings and forums to inform neighborhoods about production operations and environmental initiatives, to answer questions from Cosponsoring the Central Contest for Book Report Drawings Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. continues to work with the Japan School replicas of famous Japanese-style paintings produced with Toppan’s Library Association and The Mainichi Newspapers Co., Ltd. as technology. a cosponsor of the Central Contest for Book Report Drawings, an annual contest that cultivates the reading and creative skills of children by encouraging them to express their impressions of books by drawing. The judges of the 29th competition in fiscal 2017 received 688,672 picture entries from 6,434 schools. Toppan produced and distributed a calendar decorated with the prizewinning works to schools and other educational facilities across Japan. The schools of the prize-winning students also received Off-site Lecture “Printing School” Toppan Group sites in Bunkyo and Itabashi in Tokyo cooperate of writing prose for the production of a fun-to-read booklet. The with local elementary schools by organizing the “Printing School,” guidebooks are published and distributed in and around shopping a workshop class where students create guidebooks to promote the streets in Bunkyo and Itabashi. A cumulative total of about 150 shopping districts in their towns. Younger employees from Toppan Toppan employees and some 500 elementary school students have lecture on efficient methods to gather and edit information. The taken part in the Printing School workshops since the launch in students learn more about work-oriented mindsets by interviewing fiscal 2013. shopkeepers and refine their skills by taking on the challenges Toppan Charity Concerts Upon completing the 10th* Toppan Charity Concert series in fiscal 2016, Toppan had donated an accumulated total of 21,332,183 yen to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the Asia-Pacific Cultural Centre for UNESCO (ACCU). The funds provided to the ACCU have been used for literacy education and classes on maternal and child health for mothers raising young children in Cambodia. Toppan also continues to invite personnel from a Cambodian NGO working on the literacy initiative to greet the concert audiences and engage in discussion on the operation of 10th Toppan Charity Concert Discussion with Cambodian NGO members the classes in the years to come. *The 11th Toppan Charity Concert was held on June 1, 2018. 45 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach Basic Approach Basic Approach With the growing awareness of environmental conservation throughout the world in the 1990s, the scope of environmental The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global issues to be tackled by businesses grew significantly. Toppan Environment reorganized its previous structure for environmental conservation As responsible members of international society, by establishing the Ecology Center in 1991 and formulating its we who work within the Toppan Group strive to realize a sustainable society Declaration on the Global Environment, a basic philosophy through forward looking corporate activities with consideration for environmental conservation activities, in 1992. Toppan has for the conservation of the global environment. promoted environmental initiatives based on the declaration ever Basic Principles since. 1. We observe all laws, regulations and in-company rules relating to the environment. The Toppan Group targets the creation of a sustainable society 2. For the future of the Earth, we strive for the effective utilization of where all forms of life in the global ecosystem can coexist into the limited resources and the reduction of all types of environmental burden. future. In April 2009, the Group revised the Declaration on the 3. With foresight, we promote the development and widespread use Global Environment into The Toppan Group Declaration on the of products that show consideration for the environment, and contribute to the environmental activities of customers. Global Environment, a new basic philosophy for environmental 4. We engage in communication related to the environment with a activities applied to the entire Group. The revised declaration wide range of peoples both inside and outside the company, and strive for mutual understanding. reflects Toppan’s more assertive approach to the conservation of the 5. We also take a proactive approach to environmental conservation in global environment. corporate activities in international society. The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment (in Japanese) Established in April 1992 https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/japanese/csr/files/pdf/ Revised in April 2009 The_Toppan_Group_Declaration_on_the_Global_Environment.pdf Promotion Framework ■ Promotion Structure The Board of Directors is the highest-level body responsible for the actual implementation of conservation activities carried out at their Toppan Group’s environmental management. The board appoints a sites and collaborate to propel environmental initiatives throughout director to head the Ecology Center, an organization that oversees the divisions. Toppan’s environmental conservation initiatives by supervising, To accelerate the initiatives, these officers have set up Ecoevaluating, and verifying environmental activities undertaken protection Promotion Committees, bodies composed of persons throughout the Group and reporting results to the Board of relevant to the environment across the departments. The Directors. committees promote environmental conservation activities at The Toppan Group has established an environmental Group sites and manage progress. For advanced environmental conservation framework in which the heads of every division, measures, the committees have convened multiple subcommittees Group company, and operational site are positioned as the to formulate necessary responses to specific environmental issues. personnel chiefly responsible for environmental efforts. These Energy Subcommittees, for example, pursue energy-saving efforts to heads appoint Environmental Management Officers to steer the help mitigate global warming. 46 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach ■ Environmental Management Organization Board of Directors Director in charge of the Ecology Center Ecology Center Group companies Toppan business divisions Presidents Division heads Environmental Management Oﬃcers Environmental Management Oﬃcers Eco-protection Promotion Committees Eco-protection Promotion Committees Energy Subcommittees Other subcommittees ■ Mechanism The Toppan Group has established environmental management the Toppan Group’s environmental conservation activities. The systems (EMSs) based on ISO 14001. evaluation results are assured by an audit firm (independent A PDCA cycle of planning, support and operation, performance assurance provider) and reported to the Board of Directors. The evaluation, and improvement serves as a core part of the ISO center discloses the verified performance data via the Toppan 14001-based EMSs to ensure ongoing improvement. corporate website and other communication channels. Group sites maintain their EMSs through management system audits by ISO 14001 registrars, internal audits (of legal compliance) ISO 14001 environmental management system certification (in Japanese) by the Ecology Center, and other internal environmental audits at https://www.toppan.co.jp/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/iso/iso14001.html individual sites. Independent Assurance Report The Ecology Center aggregates evaluations of environmental https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/english/csr/files/pdf/2018/ performance as the organization responsible for overseeing csr2018_detail-en.pdf#page=83 ■ Management Cycle under ISO 14001:2015 Context of the organization Needs and Internal and external issues expectations of Scope of the environmental management system interested parties P Planning 6.1 Actions to address risks and opportunities 6.1.1 General 6.1.2 Environmental aspects Support and 6.1.3 Compliance obligations 6.1.4 Planning action Operation 6.2 Environmental objectives and planning to achieve them 7.1 Resources 6.2.1 Environmental objectives 7.2 Competence 6.2.2 Planning actions to achieve environmental objectives 7.3 Awareness 7.4 Communication 7.4.1 General A Improvement Leadership 7.4.2 Internal communication D 7.4.3 External communication 10.1 General 5.1 Leadership and commitment 7.5 Documented information 10.2 Nonconformity and 5.2 Environmental policy 7.5.1 General corrective action 5.3 Organizational roles, 7.5.2 Creating and updating 10.3 Continual improvement responsibilities and authorities 7.5.3 Control of documented information 8.1 Operational planning and Performance Evaluation control 8.2 Emergency preparedness 9.1 Monitoring, measurement, 9.2 Internal audit and response analysis and evaluation 9.2.1 General 9.1.1 General 9.2.2 Internal audit 9.1.2 Evaluation of compliance programme 9.3 Management review C Intended outcomes of the environmental management system 47 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach ■ Environmental Education ■ Environmental Communication The Toppan Group implements various measures to improve the The Toppan Group develops Environmental Communication environmental literacy of employees based on social trends related Activities to share environmental conservation awareness with to the environment, priority topics for year-by-year environmental stakeholders through integration into the communities, along with activities, and other environment-related issues. environmental education for Group employees and non-Toppan Toppan has been holding sessions for rank-based training, individuals. Toppan has been organizing a host of environmental optional training, and internal auditor training, along with communication activities such as industry-government-academiaCompany-wide e-learning-based training. Group sessions in civil society projects, the disclosure of environmental performance rank-based training are arranged in conjunction with e-learning data on the Toppan website, the publication of Site Eco Reports for programs. Regular training on Eco-creativity Activities is also surrounding communities and local governments, neighborhood organized for employees in sales departments. meetings to report on the Group’s environmental efforts, and participation in eco-exhibitions and environmental consortiums. ■ Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets As the highest-level body responsible for the Toppan Group’s The Toppan Group has established current targets for fiscal 2020 environmental management, the Board of Directors appoints with regard to three management indicators: CO₂ emissions for the Director in charge of the Ecology Center, an organization the mitigation of global warming, final landfill waste disposal for responsible for overseeing the Group’s environmental conservation building a recycling-oriented society, and VOC emissions into the initiatives. The director leads the center in its work to establish a atmosphere for the conservation of the atmospheric environment. set of environmental targets. Management indicators to be targeted The Ecology Center collects results on these indicators every year, are set based on guiding forces on the environment such as global reports them to the Board of Directors, decides a set of single-year conventions, Japanese laws and regulations, social conditions, and targets, and finally develops environmental measures for the current the voluntary action plans of the KEIDANREN (Japan Business year with authorization from the Board of Directors. These GroupFederation) and Japan Federation of Printing Industries (JFPI). For wide targets are reshaped into site-specific targets to be treated the objective assessment of environmental impact by indicator, the as key indicators for managing the progress of the environmental Toppan Group applies the Life-cycle Impact assessment Method conservation activities carried out at individual sites. based on Endpoint modeling (LIME) to consolidate INPUT and OUTPUT data on the environmental burden associated with business activities into a single index of environmental impact. Single-year Environmental Targets This quantitative assessment provides a holistic view of the Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/english/csr/files/pdf/2018/ environmental impact of the overall business activities of the Group csr2018_detail-en.pdf#page=51 as a benchmark for checking which management indicators exert Evaluating Domestic Environmental Impact based on LIME comparatively significant influences on the Group’s environmental https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/english/csr/files/pdf/2018/ impact. csr2018_detail-en.pdf#page=52 ■ Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2020 ❷ Action for building a ❸ Conservation of the ❶ Mitigation of global warming recycling-oriented society atmospheric environment ● Reduce CO₂ emissions by 30% ● Reduce ﬁnal landﬁll waste ● Reduce VOC emissions into the compared to the ﬁscal 2008 level disposal by 95% compared to atmosphere by 70% compared to (751 kilotons → the ﬁscal 2008 level the ﬁscal 2008 level 530 kilotons: 221 kilotons) (1,584 tons → (7,326 tons → 80 tons: 1,504 tons) 2,198 tons: 5,128 tons) 48 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach Main Activities and Relevant Information ISO 14001 Certification (56 systems at 109 sites, as of March 31, 2018) ■ ISO 14001 Certificates Obtained at Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and Domestic Manufacturing Subsidiaries (subject to the environmental targets) Operational Site (Division or Manufacturing Subsidiary) Registrar Registration Date Electronics Division BV July 1998 Environmental Design Subdivision [Kashiwa Plant and Satte Plant of Toppan Decor Products ICL March 2000 Inc.] (Living & Industry Division) Tokyo-based sites (Information & Communication Manufacturing Subdivision) SAI GLOBAL February 2002 Fukusaki Plant [including Wakayama Plant and Fukusaki Plant of Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd.] JQA July 2002 (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) Takino Site JQA October 2002 Azusawa Site, Atago Site, Niiza Site, Kawaguchi Site, Sagamihara Site, Numazu Site (Toppan ICL October 2002 Logistics Co., Ltd.) Gunma Central Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) JQA July 2003 Mito Plant (Toppan Prosprint Co., Ltd.) ICL January 2004 Saitama Plant, Miyagi Plant, Sano Plant (Toppan Containers Co., Ltd.) ICL April 2004 Fukuyama Plant (Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd.) ICL October 2004 Higashinihon Subdivision ICL March 2005 Toppan Technical Research Institute JQA May 2005 Sapporo Plant, Chitose Plant (Hokkaido Subdivision) ICL June 2005 Satte Plant (Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd.) SAI GLOBAL December 2006 Ranzan Plant, Kyushu Plant (Toppan Packaging Service Co., Ltd.) JQA February 2007 Sagamihara Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) SAI GLOBAL March 2007 Saga Plant (Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd.) ICL November 2007 Kyushu Subdivision (Nishinihon Division of Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.) ICL October 2008 Head office, Kansai branch (Toppan Techno Co., Ltd.) SAI GLOBAL March 2009 Sodegaura Beverage Plant (Toppan Packaging Service Co., Ltd.) SAI GLOBAL April 2009 Fukaya Plant [including Satte Site] (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) ICL March 2010 Chubu Division JQA December 2010 ■ ISO 14001 Certificates Obtained at Domestic ■ ISO 14001 Certificates Obtained at Overseas Subsidiaries Subsidiaries (not subject to the environmental targets) (not subject to the environmental targets) Registration Registration Operational Site (Group Company) Registrar Group Company Registrar Date Date Total Media Development Institute Toppan Photomasks France SAS LRQA October 2000 JSA March 2001 Co., Ltd. Toppan Photomasks, Inc. [Round Rock] LRQA November 2001 Head office, Saitama Plant (Livretech Siam Toppan Packaging Co., Ltd. ＭＡＳＣＩ April 2002 ＪCＱＡ July 2001 Co., Ltd.) Toppan Printing Co., (H.K.) Ltd. DNV May 2002 Fukushima Plant [including Takino Plant, Sagamihara Plant] (Toppan RB-ISO November 2001 Toppan Chunghwa Electronics Co., Ltd. SGS October 2003 TDK Label Co., Ltd.) PT. Indonesia Toppan Printing ＬＲＱＡ November 2004 Central Research Center (Toppan Toppan Photomasks Korea Limited JQA March 2004 LRQA February 2005 Forms Co., Ltd.) Toppan Photomasks Co., Ltd. Shanghai Toppan Forms Tokai Co., Ltd. JQA August 2004 Toppan SMIC Electronics (Shanghai) SGS February 2007 Toppan Forms Kansai Co., Ltd. JQA April 2007 Co., Ltd. Toppan Forms Nishinihon Co., Ltd. JQA January 2005 Toppan Leefung Printing (Shanghai) ＣＣＣＩ April 2007 Hino Plant (Toppan Media Printec Co., Ltd. JSA November 2005 Tokyo Co., Ltd.) Shanghai Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. ＮＱＡ July 2008 Zama Plant (Toppan Media Printec Toppan Leefung Changcheng Printing JACO September 2009 ZDHY November 2009 Tokyo Co., Ltd.) (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Kansai Tosho Printing Co., Ltd. JQA June 2005 Toppan Leefung Printing Limited Tosho Printing Co., Ltd. Ｉｎｔｅｒ ｔｅｋ May 2003 (H.K.) ＣＮＡＳ March 2009 Head office, Kochi Plant (Ortus Toppan Leefung Packaging & Printing BV February 2008 (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. Technology Co., Ltd.) Gunma Plant (Tamapoly Co., Ltd.) JQA February 2011 Toppan Excel Printing (Guangzhou) ＣＮＡＳ May 2009 Company Limited Toppan Forms Central Products Co., Ltd. JQA September 2011 Toppan Excel Printing (Meizhou) Co., Ltd. CQC September 2013 Sanda Plant (Tamapoly Co., Ltd.) JQA January 2012 Toppan Security Printing Pte. Ltd. TUV August 2010 Tokyo Logistics Co., Ltd. JIA-QA August 2001 Toppan Win Label Company Limited CQC November 2012 Tochigi Plant (Tamapoly Co., Ltd.) JQA August 2017 Toppan Yau Yue Paper Products (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. Ｉｎｔｅｒｔｅｋ May 2016 Toppan Yau Yue Packaging (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. 49 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Single-year Environmental Targets ■ Values, Results, and Evaluation of Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2017 and Environmental Target Values for Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Environmental Management Environmental Targets Target Achievement Target Values Indicators Results Evaluation for Fiscal 2018 Values Rates 1. Mitigation of global warming 550 537 CO2 emissions 102.4% A 535 kilotons Reduce CO2 emissions kilotons kilotons 2. Action for building a recycling-oriented society Final landfill 100 tons 82 tons 118% S 80 tons Reduce final landfill waste disposal waste disposal 3. Conservation of the atmospheric environment VOC emissions into the 3,200 tons 2,924 tons 108.6% S 3,100 tons Reduce VOC emissions into the atmosphere atmosphere Evaluation criteria S: Results achieved far surpass the targets (achievement rate [%] ≧ 105) A: Targets achieved (100 ≦ achievement rate [%] < 105) B: Activities fully carried out, but targets unachieved (70 ≦ achievement rate [%] < 100) C: Activities insufficient (achievement rate [%] < 70) 200 – (values actually achieved / target values) x 100 [%] Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets The Toppan Group has been undertaking environmental the target values for fiscal 2020. Values from fiscal 2008 are set as conservation activities to ensure that Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. baseline values. and its main domestic Group manufacturing subsidiaries attain ■ CO 2 Emissions ■ Final Landfill Waste Disposal (1,000 t-CO2) (tons) 800 751 1,800 1,584 600 554 561 537 1,350 400 900 200 450 160 97 82 0 0 2008 2015 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) 2008 2015 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) *CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption are calculated uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh to confirm the degree of improvement achieved. CO2 emissions in fiscal 2017 totaled 652,314 t-CO2 when calculated using the effective emission factor from the method specified in the Ministerial Ordinance Concerning the Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities of Specified Dischargers (the latest amendment on April 30, 2015) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. ■ VOC Emissions into the Atmosphere (tons) 8,000 7,326 6,000 4,000 3,684 3,403 2,924 2,000 0 2008 2015 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) 50 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The The Environment Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach Evaluating Domestic Environmental Impact based on LIME The Toppan Group applies the Life-cycle Impact assessment baseline of 100. In fiscal 2017 the Group attained a 44% reduction Method based on Endpoint modeling (LIME) to quantify domestic compared to the baseline value from fiscal 2006. environmental impact. The value from fiscal 2006 is set as a ■ Environmental Impact and Environmental ■ Types of Environmental Impact by Business Field Efficiency in Japan 100％ ■ Environmental impact (left axis) Environmental efficiency (right axis) Other 100 Other 100 296 300 Other 288 Photochemical 80 274 80％ oxidants 257 60 ５８． ４ 55.8 248 ５９． ７ 40 222 Environmental impact 60％ 20 196 Global Global 189 warming Global warming 0 170 warming 2006 2015 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) 40％ *1 The value in fiscal 2006 = 100 (baseline); recalculated with nonproduction sites excluded *2 Environmental efficiency = net sales / environmental impact The Toppan Group has implemented the following measures in Japan 20％ since fiscal 2006 (base year). ・Installed solvent treatment equipment and other systems and processes that have together helped reduce VOC emissions into the Resource Resource Resource atmosphere by approximately 70% consumption consumption consumption ・Practiced high-efficiency production, material recycling, and other 0％ processes that have together contributed to the reduction of total Information & resource consumption by approximately 70% Living & Industry Electronics Communication ・Replaced existing equipment with energy-saving, high-efficiency alternatives and conducted other energy-saving initiatives that *Every business field shows comparatively high global warming effects from have contributed to the reduction of total energy consumption by energy consumption for electricity used for power and air-conditioning approximately 30% and for natural gas used for heat sources. The Living & Industry field shows significant impact from photochemical oxidants, pollutants formed by reactions between sunlight and VOCs released into the atmosphere. The Toppan Group includes these indicators among its medium-and-longterm environmental targets and has taken steps to reduce environmental impact of these types. 51 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The The Environment Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Environmental Performance Data ■ Major Types of Environmental Burden (Total burden; covering Group companies around the world) Category Chief Component Environmental Burden (Total) Total input 1,995,400 Paper 1,582,498 Ink, solvent 89,440 Material (tons) Plastic 270,536 Glass 9,621 Other 43,305 Total consumption 20,961 INPUT Energy (1,000 GJ)*1 Fuel 4,310 Electricity, steam 16,652 Total consumption 14,069 Industrial water 815 Municipal water 5,762 Water (1,000 m3) Groundwater 7,468 Rainwater used 24 Use of water circulated on premises 4,358 CO2 emission 1,006,082 Atmosphere (t-CO2) *2 Fuel-derived 239,796 Electricity-, steam-derived 766,287 Total effluent discharge (1,000 m3) 10,612 Into public water system (1,000 m3) 7,527 Into sewage system (1,000 m3) 3,085 OUTPUT Water and soil environments BOD (kg) 54,240 COD (kg) 82,724 Nitrogen discharge (kg) 32,186 Phosphorous discharge (kg) 85,499 Total discharge*3 362,027 Waste (tons) Recycled 353,221 Final landfill disposal 7,407 *1 Energy consumption associated with fuel consumption is calculated using the conversion factor specified in the year 2000 amendment of the Act on the Rational Use of Energy of Japan. The primary energy input associated with electricity consumption is calculated uniformly as 0.00983 GJ/kWh. *2 CO2 emissions are calculated by the method specified in the Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Businesses (2003) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption are calculated uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh. CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption at overseas Group sites, however, are calculated based on the latest conversion factors published by the International Energy Agency. Fuel-derived CO2 emissions include emissions derived from combustibles burned in incinerators. *3 The total discharge of waste includes industrial waste of no value and waste materials of value sold or transferred as resources (both generated in association with business activities). 52 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The The Environment Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . ■ Major Types of Environmental Burden (subject to the environmental targets in Japan) Environmental Burden (subject to the Category Chief Component environmental targets in Japan) Total input 1,140,345 Paper 868,842 Ink, solvent 60,930 Material (tons) Plastic 173,139 Glass 7,535 Other 29,899 Total consumption 12,380 Energy (1,000 GJ)*1 Fuel 3,400 INPUT Electricity, steam 8,980 Total consumption 6,427 Industrial water 787 Municipal water 1,290 Water (1,000 m3) Groundwater 4,339 Rainwater used 11 Use of water circulated on premises 3,611 Handling of chemical substances designated under Chemical substances (tons) 5,045 the PRTR law CO2 emission (t-CO2) *2 537,156 Fuel-derived (t-CO2) 191,602 Electricity-, steam-derived (t-CO2) 345,554 Atmosphere Release of chemical substances designated under 130 the PRTR law (tons) VOC emission into the atmosphere (tons) *3 2,924 Total effluent discharge (1,000 m3) 4,938 Into public water system (1,000 m3) 3,602 OUTPUT Into sewage system (1,000 m3)*4 1,336 BOD (kg) 11,788 Water and soil environments COD (kg) 7,674 Nitrogen discharge (kg) 10,801 Phosphorous discharge (kg) 612 Release of chemical substances designated under 1 the PRTR law (tons) Total discharge*5 222,409 Waste (tons) Recycled 221,988 Final landfill disposal 82 *1 Energy consumption associated with fuel consumption is calculated using the conversion factor specified in the year 2000 amendment of the Act on the Rational Use of Energy of Japan. The primary energy input associated with electricity consumption is calculated uniformly as 0.00983 GJ/kWh. *2 CO2 emissions are calculated by the method specified in the Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Businesses (2003) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption are calculated uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh. Fuel-derived CO2 emissions include emissions derived from combustibles burned in incinerators. *3 Emissions into the atmosphere are calculated in conformance with the standards established by the Japan Federation of Printing Industries (JFPI) and the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA). *4 Includes 10,926 m3 of spring water from the premises of the Akihabara Sales Building. *5 The total discharge of waste includes industrial waste of no value and waste materials of value sold or transferred as resources (both generated in association with business activities). 53 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The The Environment Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach Environmentally Friendly Products (87 products as of March 2018) Business Business Product Standard Categories Field Product Standard Categories Field Ecothrough card Suitability for disposal Cylindrical paperBulky Waste composite container Use of sustainable resources Resource saving (reduced use of materials) Processing Sticker for refill Eco Pack (life-size High-resistance Resource-saving efforts, improvement in transport Resource saving (reduced use of materials) POP display) Flexible Pouch efficiency Paper Desk Calendar Use of recycled materials BIOAXX (label) Use of sustainable resources Ecology Calendar Use of recycled materials Aluminum-free Lid Use of sustainable resources Non-vinyl Chloride Material Suitability for disposal Lenticular Lens Multi-layer Blow Tube Resource-saving efforts Eco Pack Multipanel Reusability Steam-release Reduced environmental burden during use Eco Floor Sticker Suitability for disposal Packaging Information & Communication Eco Pack End Panel Resource saving Air Hold Pouch Resource-saving efforts Eco Pack Stand (round Use of sustainable resources, resource saving, Resource saving BIOAXX (flexible type) environmentally friendly disposal, visualization of packaging material) Resource saving, prolonged product life, recyclability, environmental burden Disk Tottokun Series Square-bottomed Improvement in transport efficiency, resource saving, suitability for disposal Ultra-thin DM Resource saving, reduced energy consumption in Gazette Pouch environmentally friendly disposal (brochures, etc.) production, recyclability Use of recycled materials, procurement of materials with Flexible packaging Eco Pack Multipanel Reusability, prolonged product life, recyclability, easy lower environmental burden, reduced energy consumption material using Mini separation and disassembly in production, environmentally friendly disposal, recycled materials Reusability, prolonged product life, recyclability, easy visualization of environmental burden Multicube POP Printed Decorative Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of separation and disassembly Paper (Coated Paper) hazardous substances Green Bankbook Recyclability, suitability for disposal Printed Decorative Biodegradability, use of safe materials, resource saving, Use of sustainable resources, reduced use of chemical KAMICARD® Paper (Coated Paper recyclability substances, reduced use of hazardous substances FSC-certified) Recyclability, use of safe materials, resource saving, easy Printed Decor Paper KAMI-RFID CARD Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of separation and disassembly for HPL/LPL hazardous substances, reduced release of chemical Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of (Saturated Grade substances Printed materials with hazardous substances, use of recycled materials, use of Paper) environmental logos sustainable resources, use of recyclable energy, carbon Printed Decor Paper Use of sustainable resources, reduced use of chemical offsetting, labeling with environmental logos for HPL/LPL substances, reduced use of hazardous substances, reduced Flip chip ball grid array (Saturated Grade release of chemical substances [FC-BGA] substrate Suitability for disposal Paper FSC-certified) (halogen free) Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of Transfer paper for Color filter (resin Use of safe materials, energy saving, reduced release of hazardous substances, reduced release of chemical Electronics padded floors black matrix [BM]) chemical substances, suitability for disposal substances Palladium pre-plated Use of safe materials, reduced release of chemical Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of Lower-VOC wallpaper leadframe substances, suitability for disposal hazardous substances, reduced release of chemical (Exceptional*) Flip chip ball grid substances Use of safe materials, reduced release of chemical Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of array [FC-BGA] substances, suitability for disposal SnapFit hazardous substances, use of sustainable resources, substrate (lead free) Reduced release of chemical substances, use of safe extension of product life Toppan Ecowall 101 Coordination Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of materials, suitability for disposal Living & Industry TOPPAN ECO Reduced release of chemical substances, extension of Floor REPREA eco hazardous substances, use of sustainable resources, SHEET product life (Exceptional*) extension of product life, labeling with environmental logos GL BARRIER Resource saving, improvement in transport efficiency, Use of sustainable resources, resource-saving efforts Sosogi Jozu (Exceptional*) environmentally friendly disposal Stand-up pouch Resource-saving efforts Preform for PET Improvement in transport efficiency, visualization of Bottled Pouch Resource-saving efforts bottles environmental burden Plastic container made Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of Use of recycled materials hazardous substances, environmentally friendly disposal, from recycled materials FORMANO TT Paper Can Use of sustainable resources reduced release of chemical substances, extension of Ecotainer Recycling, improvement in transport efficiency product life TL-PAK Recycling, improvement in transport efficiency Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of EP-PAK (EP-GL) Improvement in transport efficiency, recycling hazardous substances, environmentally friendly disposal, FORTINA reduced release of chemical substances, extension of EP-PAK (Al) Improvement in transport efficiency product life Stand-up Laminated Resource-saving efforts Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of Tube TOPPAN MATERIAL hazardous substances, use of recycled materials, Recyclen Cap Recycling WOOD (Exceptional*) environmentally friendly disposal, reduced release of AP Carton Improvement in transport efficiency chemical substances, extension of product life Micro Flute Resource-saving efforts, recycling Smart Deli Bag Reduced environmental burden during use TP-Tray Recycling, use of sustainable resources Plastic UV ink Use of recycled materials, use of sustainable resources, Corrugated Board Living & Industry Recycling container improvement in transport efficiency, recycling Cushioning Material Forest-certified-paper Use of sustainable resources, labeling with environmental AD-Case Resource-saving efforts packaging logos Cartocan Use of sustainable resources, recycling, visualization of Biodegradable plastic (Exceptional*) environmental burden Use of biodegradable materials products GL-C Bottle Resource-saving efforts Cardboard with Jar Plus Resource-saving efforts, recycling Resource saving, reduced energy consumption in shrink wrap GL FILM Lined Paper production, improvement in transport efficiency, recycling Use of sustainable resources packaging Cup Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of Double-wall Barrier Emergency magnesium hazardous substances, use of sustainable resources, Resource-saving efforts Paper Cup air battery extension of product life, reduced environmental burden Fluorine-free during use, recycling, environmentally friendly disposal Recycling oil-repellent paper Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of In-mold Barrier Cup Extension of product life, improvement in transport efficiency FINE FEEL (101 hazardous substances, resource saving, extension of Easy Peel-off Materium) Recycling product life, environmentally friendly disposal Thermo-label Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of Eco Band Reusability EP-PAK Fold & Tear/ hazardous substances, use of sustainable resources, Paper carton with Easy Removal Cap improvement in transport efficiency, recycling, tamper-evident Resource-saving efforts (Exceptional*) environmentally friendly disposal, labeling with closure environmental logos Clear UV-blocking BIOAXX flexible Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of Use of sustainable resources Film packaging material hazardous substances, resource saving, use of sustainable BIOAXX (molding (Eco Mark certified) resources, environmentally friendly disposal, visualization Use of sustainable resources product) (Exceptional*) of environmental burden, labeling with environmental logos EL-Case Resource-saving efforts, recycling Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of Paper cup made from Flexible packaging hazardous substances, use of recycled materials, resource pulp from forestUse of sustainable resources material using recycled saving, reduced energy consumption in production, thinning operations materials (Eco Mark environmentally friendly disposal, visualization of certified) (Exceptional*) environmental burden, labeling with environmental logos *Exceptional environmentally friendly product 54 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach Results of Environmental Education Training Number of Trainees New employee training: General environmental education 345 E-learning-based programs 20,576 Toppan Challenge School (11 courses) 61 Internal environmental auditor training program 368 Numbers of Internal Environmental Audits and Issues in Need of Improvement Domestic sites audited 62 sites Issues in need of improvement identified at domestic sites 75 issues Domestic sites reviewed 2 sites 55 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach Environmental Accounting: Capital Investment for Environmental Conservation (million yen) Increase/ Average for the Item Major Content Fiscal 2017 Decrease from Last Five Years Fiscal 2016 Investment in equipment Investment in equipment to prevent atmospheric and 1 1,003 -568 1,181 to prevent pollution other forms of pollution Investment in equipment Investment in equipment to conserve the global 2 to conserve the global 607 -587 971 environment by mitigating global warming, etc. environment Investment in equipment Investment in equipment to realize the appropriate 3 69 -68 163 to circulate resources treatment and recycling, etc. of waste Investment in equipment Investment in equipment to monitor and measure 4 to carry out environmental environmental burden, plant trees at operational sites, 49 34 36 management activities and implement other environmental measures Total 1,728 -1,189 2,350 Environmental Accounting: Environmental Conservation Benefit Increase/Decrease Item Major Content Fiscal 2017 from Fiscal 2016 Energy Total energy consumption (1,000 GJ) -941 20,961 Water Water consumption (1,000 m ) 3 95 14,069 CO2 emission (1,000 t-CO2) -26 1,006 Atmosphere Emission of dioxins (mg-TEQ) -1 0 Total effluent discharge (1,000 m3) 355 10,612 Water and soil BOD (tons) 17 54 environments COD (tons) 24 83 Waste Total discharge (1,000 tons) -8 362 56 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach Green Procurement and Green Purchasing ■ Green Procurement Standards for Paper and Level of Fulfillment Fiscal 2017 Green Principle Level 1 Level 2 Result* Paper composed of at least 20% recycled Paper composed of at least 60% recycled 1. Using recycled paper or paper made pulp or forest-certified paper, tree-free pulp plus forest-certified pulp for the with fewer forest resources (excluding paper, paper made with pulp from remaining portion, or with an overall rating covers for brochures) forest-thinning operations, or tissue of more than 80 points paper 4.3% 2. Reducing component properties Non-usage of printing materials with waste Non-usage of printing materials with waste obstructive to waste paper recycling paper recyclability rankings of B, C, or D paper recyclability rankings of C or D 3. Procuring from manufacturers Procurement from manufacturers who proactively use waste paper as a raw material proactively engaged in paper recycling for recycled paper Note: Result under the Green Standards for Offset Printing Services (April 1, 2017 amendment) of the Japan Federation of Printing Industries (JFPI) *Level 1 or 2 paper used (kg) / offset paper purchased (kg) ■ Green Procurement Standards for Ink and Level of Fulfillment Fiscal 2017 Green Principle Level 1 Level 2 Result* 1. Avoiding the use of substances Conformance with the NL regulations of the Japan Printing Ink Makers Association harmful to the human body 2. Considering chemical substances Non-usage of substances designated under Identification of substances designated designated under the PRTR law of the PRTR law under the PRTR law (via SDSs) Japan 3. Controlling VOC emissions Vegetable oil ink, soybean oil ink, or “ig” (for offset ink, excluding heat-set ink Non-VOC ink or UV ink 98.3% ink (labeling with Ink Green Mark) for web press) 4. Using sustainable resources Vegetable oil ink, soybean oil ink, or “ig” ink (labeling with Ink Green Mark) (for heat-set ink for web press) Non-usage of printing materials with 5. Reducing component properties Non-usage of printing materials with waste waste paper recyclability rankings of C obstructive to waste paper recycling paper recyclability rankings of B, C, or D or D Note: Result under the JFPI Green Standards for Offset Printing Services (April 1, 2017 amendment) *Level 1 or 2 ink used (kg) / offset ink purchased (kg) ■ In-house Green Purchasing Standards and Levels of Fulfillment Product Standard Fiscal 2017 Result Copy machines and printers Configured to automatically revert to low-power mode or off mode 88.2% Configured to automatically revert to low-power mode or off mode and to maintain PCs 100.0% low energy consumption when in low-power mode Stationery and office goods Products listed in eco-friendly product catalogues of manufacturers 73.5% Environment-related Businesses The total sales of environment-related businesses—including, most notably, sales of environmentally friendly products satisfying the inhouse criteria of the Toppan Group—were 606.5 billion yen in fiscal 2017. 57 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Mitigation of Global Warming Mitigation of Global Warming Basic Approach The Toppan Group has formulated the following basic policies for climate security. mitigating global warming. The Group will continue to adopt renewable energy sources on Toppan positions global warming mitigation as an important a preferential basis and assertively encourage the broad use of element of management. The Group focuses on energy management renewables into the future. and the rational use of energy in implementing activities towards Promotion Framework ■ Promotion Structure The Board of Directors is the highest-level body responsible for the actual implementation of conservation activities carried out at their Toppan Group’s environmental management. The board appoints a sites and collaborate to propel environmental initiatives throughout director to head the Ecology Center, an organization that oversees the divisions. Toppan’s environmental conservation initiatives by supervising, To accelerate the initiatives, these officers have set up Ecoevaluating, and verifying environmental activities undertaken protection Promotion Committees, bodies composed of persons throughout the Group and reporting results to the Board of relevant to the environment across the departments. The Directors. committees promote environmental conservation activities at The Toppan Group has established an environmental Group sites and manage progress. For advanced environmental conservation framework in which the heads of every division, measures, the committees have convened multiple subcommittees Group company, and operational site are positioned as the to formulate necessary responses to specific environmental issues. personnel chiefly responsible for environmental efforts. These Energy Subcommittees, for example, pursue energy-saving efforts to heads appoint Environmental Management Officers to steer the help mitigate global warming. ■ Environmental Management Organization Board of Directors Director in charge of the Ecology Center Ecology Center Group companies Toppan business divisions Presidents Division heads Environmental Management Oﬃcers Environmental Management Oﬃcers Eco-protection Promotion Committees Eco-protection Promotion Committees Energy Subcommittees Other subcommittees 58 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Mitigation of Global Warming ■ Mechanism The Toppan Group has established environmental management the Toppan Group’s environmental conservation activities. The systems (EMSs) based on ISO 14001. evaluation results are assured by an audit firm (independent A PDCA cycle of planning, support and operation, performance assurance provider) and reported to the Board of Directors. The evaluation, and improvement serves as a core part of the ISO center discloses the verified performance data via the Toppan 14001-based EMSs to ensure ongoing improvement. corporate website and other communication channels. Group sites maintain their EMSs through management system audits by ISO 14001 registrars, internal audits (of legal compliance) ISO 14001 environmental management system certification (in Japanese) by the Ecology Center, and other internal environmental audits at https://www.toppan.co.jp/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/iso/iso14001.html individual sites. Independent Assurance Report The Ecology Center aggregates evaluations of environmental https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/english/csr/files/pdf/2018/ performance as the organization responsible for overseeing csr2018_detail-en.pdf#page=83 ■ Management Cycle under ISO 14001:2015 Context of the organization Needs and Internal and external issues expectations of Scope of the environmental management system interested parties P Planning 6.1 Actions to address risks and opportunities 6.1.1 General 6.1.2 Environmental aspects Support and 6.1.3 Compliance obligations 6.1.4 Planning action Operation 6.2 Environmental objectives and planning to achieve them 7.1 Resources 6.2.1 Environmental objectives 7.2 Competence 6.2.2 Planning actions to achieve environmental objectives 7.3 Awareness 7.4 Communication 7.4.1 General A Improvement Leadership 7.4.2 Internal communication D 7.4.3 External communication 10.1 General 5.1 Leadership and commitment 7.5 Documented information 10.2 Nonconformity and 5.2 Environmental policy 7.5.1 General corrective action 5.3 Organizational roles, 7.5.2 Creating and updating 10.3 Continual improvement responsibilities and authorities 7.5.3 Control of documented information 8.1 Operational planning and Performance Evaluation control 8.2 Emergency preparedness 9.1 Monitoring, measurement, 9.2 Internal audit and response analysis and evaluation 9.2.1 General 9.1.1 General 9.2.2 Internal audit 9.1.2 Evaluation of compliance programme 9.3 Management review C Intended outcomes of the environmental management system ■ Mitigating Global Warming The Toppan Group has been reducing total emissions of carbon or nonessential use of electricity, Toppan redresses demand-anddioxide (CO₂) to help mitigate global warming. supply imbalances and suspends the use of any equipment that has For reduced electricity consumption, the Group operates been kept running during vacations. a nationwide demand-monitoring system to control peak Toppan Logistics Co., Ltd., the logistics specialist for the power demand in summer and winter in Japan. The electricity Group, is working with shippers from Toppan Group companies consumption data compiled for each site via this system enables to optimize transportation conditions and further improve Toppan to review power contracts and encourage energy-saving transportation efficiency. Together they endeavor to reduce the efforts on a site-by-site basis. energy consumption per unit of transport volume by company The Group is also replacing long-used utility facilities with highvehicles and the total volume of CO₂ emissions from transport. efficiency alternatives systematically. To reduce the unnecessary 59 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Mitigation of Global Warming *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Main Activities and Relevant Information CO2 Emissions ■ CO2 Emissions (Group-wide) (1,000 t-CO2) In fiscal 2017 the Toppan Group began evaluating and disclosing 1,200 1,032 1,006 Group-wide CO2 emissions, including emissions associated with 1,000 overseas Group subsidiaries. The disclosed values for Group-wide 800 CO2 emissions begin from fiscal 2016 (data disclosed for earlier years is limited to sites in Japan). 600 400 200 0 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) *CO2 emissions are calculated by the method specified in the Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Businesses (2003) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption are calculated uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh. CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption at overseas Group sites, however, are calculated using the latest conversion factors published by the International Energy Agency. CO2 emissions include emissions derived from combustibles burned in incinerators. ■ CO2 Emissions (1,000 t-CO2） (subject to the environmental targets in Japan) 800 751 Among CO2 emissions from various sources (subject to the environmental targets in Japan), emissions associated with 600 554 561 537 electricity consumption are calculated using a fixed factor to assess the Group’s CO2 reduction measures. 400 200 0 2008 2015 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) *CO2 emissions are calculated by the method specified in the Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Businesses (2003) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption are calculated uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh to confirm the degree of improvement achieved. CO2 emissions in fiscal 2017 totaled 652,314 t-CO2 when calculated using the effective emission factor from another MOE method specified in the Ministerial Ordinance Concerning the Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities of Specified Dischargers (the latest amendment on April 30, 2015). CO2 emissions include emissions derived from combustibles burned in incinerators. 60 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Mitigation of Global Warming *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Energy Consumption In fiscal 2017 Toppan began evaluating and disclosing energy consumption across the entire Group, including consumption by overseas subsidiaries. The disclosed values for Group-wide energy consumption begin from fiscal 2016 (data disclosed for earlier years is limited to sites in Japan). ■ Energy Consumption ■ Electricity Consumption (1,000 GJ) ■ Group-wide (GWh) ■ Group-wide ■ Group sites subject to the environmental targets in Japan ■ Group sites subject to the environmental targets in Japan 25,000 2,000 21,903 1,761 1,735 20,961 20,000 1,600 15,000 1,200 12,695 12,842 12,380 912 937 912 10,000 800 5,000 400 0 0 2015 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) 2015 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) ■ Natural Gas Consumption ■ Kerosene Consumption (1,000 Nm³）■ Group-wide (kL) ■ Group-wide ■ Group sites subject to the environmental targets in Japan ■ Group sites subject to the environmental targets in Japan 100,000 5,000 90,580 87,813 77,430 3,907 80,000 75,309 71,273 4,000 3,748 3,667 3,340 3,492 60,000 3,000 40,000 2,000 20,000 1,000 0 0 2015 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) 2015 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) ■ Fuel Efficiency of Vehicles Owned by Toppan Logistics (km/L) 5.0 4.5 4.36 4.31 4.11 4.0 3.5 3.0 2015 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) 61 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Mitigation of Global Warming *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Scope 1-3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions In fiscal 2017 the Toppan Group began evaluating and disclosing strategy. This calculation showed that four categories related to raw Group-wide scope 1-3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, including material consumption collectively accounted for the largest share of emissions associated with overseas Group subsidiaries. the Group’s GHG emissions: category 1 (manufacturing of products Toppan calculated the Group’s scope 3 emissions (total value purchased by Toppan), categories 4 and 9 (transportation and chain GHG emissions) in fiscal 2017 to identify the categories of distribution of products purchased and sold by Toppan), category corporate activity that represented larger sources of GHG emissions 12 (end-of-life treatment of products sold by Toppan). and to establish priority targets in the Group’s emission reduction ■ Scope 1-3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions ■ Calculating Scope 3 Emissions Scope 3 Other categories* Scope 1 ● Extraction of raw materials 337 236 Scope 2 Category 9 937 Scope 2 342 ● Consumption of Category 12 Suppliers, etc. electricity supplied ● Production of raw by entities outside the reporting 862 company materials, etc. ● Consumption of heating and cooling 7,295 supplied by entities outside Category 4 thousand the reporting company 583 t-CO₂ Scope 1 Category 1 The reporting company itself 3,997 ● Transportation and ● Fuel combustion distribution of raw ● Emissions from industrial materials, etc. processes *Categories 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 ● End-of-life treatment of ● Employee commuting sold products and goods ● Sales activities, business travel Users of products ● Transportation and and goods distribution of sold ● Use of sold products products and goods and goods 62 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Mitigation of Global Warming ■ Details of the Scope 1-3 Categories For scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, CO2 emissions associated with electricity Emissions Types consumption at domestic sites are calculated using the effective emission factor from Direct emissions Direct emissions from industrial processes or the method specified in the Ministerial Ordinance Concerning the Calculation of (Scope 1) fuels consumed at the reporting company Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities of Specified Dischargers (the Indirect emissions associated with the latest amendment on April 30, 2015) issued by the Ministry of the Environment Indirect consumption of electricity, heating, or cooling (MOE) of Japan. Meanwhile, CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption emissions purchased or acquired by the reporting at overseas sites are calculated using country-specific conversion factors published by (Scope 2) company the International Energy Agency. CO2 emissions associated with fuel consumption, excluding electricity consumption, are calculated globally by the MOE method specified in the Ministerial Ordinance Concerning the Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities of Specified Dischargers (the latest amendment on April 30, 2015). Calculation Methods Indirect Emissions Not Included in Scope 2 (Scope 3) Activity Quantity Basic Unit from Emissions associated with activities up to the point of the Purchased goods production of raw materials, components, goods, sales-related Materials purchased or Category 1 CFP-DB*2 and services materials, or the like purchased or acquired by the reporting acquired (by weight) company Emissions that occur during the construction or production of Capital investments by Category 2 Capital goods MOE-DB*1 capital goods purchased or acquired by the reporting company business field Fueland energyEmissions associated with the procurement of fuels supplied by 1. Electricity and steam related activities (not entities outside the reporting company or fuels necessary for the 1. MOE-DB*1 Category 3 consumption included in scope 1 or generation, etc. of electricity, heating, cooling, etc. consumed by 2. CFP-DB*2 scope 2) the reporting company 2. Fuel consumption 1. Freight ton-kilometers as a Emissions associated with logistics up to the point of the arrival designated shipper classified Upstream of incoming raw materials, components, goods, sales-related under the Energy Saving Act of 1. Energy Saving Category 4 transportation and materials, or the like purchased or acquired by the reporting Japan Act of Japan distribution company; transportation and distribution of products sold by the 2. Estimated freight ton2. CFP-DB*2 reporting company kilometers of procurement logistics Waste generated in Emissions associated with the transportation and treatment of Category 5 Waste discharge by type MOE-DB*1 operations waste generated at the reporting company Business travel expenses by Category 6 Business travel Emissions associated with business travel by employees MOE-DB*1 transport mode Employee Emissions associated with the commuting of employees between Category 7 Commuter fares or petrol costs MOE-DB*1 commuting their homes and worksites Emissions associated with the operation of assets leased by the Upstream leased Electricity and gas consumed Emission factors Category 8 reporting company (lessee), excluding scope 1 and scope 2 assets at tenant premises by business emissions Downstream Emissions associated with the transportation, storage, loading, or Estimated freight Category 9 transportation and CFP-DB*2 retailing of sold products after delivery to customers ton-kilometers by product distribution Excluded from calculation because there are no Processing of sold Emissions associated with the processing of sold intermediate Category 10 scenarios or units that apply universally to products products by downstream companies Toppan’s diversified products Emissions associated with the end use of sold products by users Category 11 Use of sold products Not applicable (consumers, downstream companies) End-of-life Emissions associated with the transportation and treatment of Waste disposal by product Category 12 treatment of sold sold products at the end of their life by users (consumers, CFP-DB*2 (estimated) products downstream companies) Downstream leased Emissions associated with the operation of assets owned by the Category 13 Not applicable assets reporting company (lessor) Category 14 Franchises Emissions from franchise members Not applicable Category 15 Investments Emissions related to the operation of investments Excluded from calculation Notes ・Toppan calculates the Group’s scope 3 emissions for categories 1-9 and 12. ・The calculation boundary covers all GHG emissions associated with Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and its consolidated entities. ・For “freight ton-kilometers as a designated shipper classified under the Energy Saving Act of Japan” in category 4, “business travel” in category 6, and “employee commuting” in category 7, Toppan has estimated total values across the calculation boundary in terms of the proportion of production volume or employee numbers based on the values counted for organizations whose activities are quantifiable. *1 MOE-DB: Emission unit database issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan for calculating the greenhouse gas emissions, etc. of organizations throughout the entire supply chain (ver. 2.5) *2 CFP-DB: Standard database (ver. 1.01) of the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry (JEMAI) Carbon Footprint of Products (CFP) Communication Program 63 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Mitigation of Global Warming *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Greenhouse Gas Emissions ■ Percentages of Greenhouse Gas Emissions ■ Percentages of Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Type (in tons of CO2 equivalent) by Source (in tons of CO2 equivalent) Scope 2: Electricity and Scope 1: Fuel consumption steam consumption 225,754 t-CO₂ CO₂ 766,287 t-CO₂ （18.9%） 84.46% （64.3%） Scope 1: Non-energy-derived greenhouse gases 199,941 t-CO₂ （16.8%） Other SF6 2.85% 12.69% NF₃ Notes CH₄ 0.05% ・Calculated by the method specified in the Guidelines for Calculating 0.22% Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Businesses (2003) issued by the PFC N₂O Ministry of the Environment of Japan. 2.34% 0.23% ・ Fiscal 2017 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from domestic sites (subject to and not subject to the environmental targets) and overseas sites (including Group company sites) are based on calculations of emissions of energy-derived CO2 and non-energy-derived CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6, and NF3. GHG emissions accounting for 0.01% or more of total emissions in CO2-equivalent values from these sites (namely, emissions associated with dry etching, dry ice consumed, waste burned in incinerators, combusted refuse-derived fuel, and fuel consumed in Total: 1,191,982 t-CO2 cogeneration systems) are included. ■ Calculated Level of Fluorocarbon Leakage Fiscal Year Domestic Sites Domestic Sites Overseas Sites (subject to the environmental targets) (not subject to the environmental targets) 2017 3,600 t-CO2 694 t-CO2 2,877 t-CO2 Notes: The values shown for domestic sites (subject to and not subject to the environmental targets) are calculated in conformance with the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons enforced in April 2015 in Japan. The value shown for overseas sites (including Group company sites) is calculated by a method corresponding to the Japanese Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons. 64 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Building of a Recyclingoriented Society Building of a Recycling-oriented Society Basic Approach The Toppan Group has formulated the following basic policies 2) Second priority is given to the reuse or recycling of industrial to contribute to the building of a recycling-oriented society, an waste and waste materials discharged in spite of the reduction endeavor it positions as an important element of management. The efforts. Group processes industrial waste and waste materials in line with 3) Third priority is given to the application of appropriate treatment the following priorities. methods to industrial waste and waste materials not reused or 1) First priority is given to reductions of the discharge of industrial recycled. waste and waste materials generated in association with This order of priority may not apply when another order of priority business activities. is deemed to be more effective for reducing environmental burden. Promotion Framework ■ Promotion Structure The Board of Directors is the highest-level body responsible for the personnel chiefly responsible for environmental efforts. These Toppan Group’s environmental management. The board appoints a heads appoint Environmental Management Officers to steer the director to head the Ecology Center, an organization that oversees actual implementation of conservation activities carried out at their Toppan’s environmental conservation initiatives by supervising, sites and collaborate to propel environmental initiatives throughout evaluating, and verifying environmental activities undertaken the divisions. throughout the Group and reporting results to the Board of To accelerate the initiatives, these officers have set up EcoDirectors. protection Promotion Committees, bodies composed of persons The Toppan Group has established an environmental relevant to the environment across the departments. The conservation framework in which the heads of every division, committees promote environmental conservation activities at Group company, and operational site are positioned as the Group sites and manage progress. ■ Environmental Management Organization Board of Directors Director in charge of the Ecology Center Ecology Center Group companies Toppan business divisions Presidents Division heads Environmental Management Oﬃcers Environmental Management Oﬃcers Eco-protection Promotion Committees Eco-protection Promotion Committees Energy Subcommittees Other subcommittees 65 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Building of a Recyclingoriented Society ■ Mechanism The Toppan Group has established environmental management the Toppan Group’s environmental conservation activities. The systems (EMSs) based on ISO 14001. evaluation results are assured by an audit firm (independent A PDCA cycle of planning, support and operation, performance assurance provider) and reported to the Board of Directors. The evaluation, and improvement serves as a core part of the ISO center discloses the verified performance data via the Toppan 14001-based EMSs to ensure ongoing improvement. corporate website and other communication channels. Group sites maintain their EMSs through management system audits by ISO 14001 registrars, internal audits (of legal compliance) ISO 14001 environmental management system certification (in Japanese) by the Ecology Center, and other internal environmental audits at https://www.toppan.co.jp/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/iso/iso14001.html individual sites. Independent Assurance Report The Ecology Center aggregates evaluations of environmental https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/english/csr/files/pdf/2018/ performance as the organization responsible for overseeing csr2018_detail-en.pdf#page=83 ■ Management Cycle under ISO 14001:2015 Context of the organization Needs and Internal and external issues expectations of Scope of the environmental management system interested parties P Planning 6.1 Actions to address risks and opportunities 6.1.1 General 6.1.2 Environmental aspects Support and 6.1.3 Compliance obligations 6.1.4 Planning action Operation 6.2 Environmental objectives and planning to achieve them 7.1 Resources 6.2.1 Environmental objectives 7.2 Competence 6.2.2 Planning actions to achieve environmental objectives 7.3 Awareness 7.4 Communication 7.4.1 General A Improvement Leadership 7.4.2 Internal communication D 7.4.3 External communication 10.1 General 5.1 Leadership and commitment 7.5 Documented information 10.2 Nonconformity and 5.2 Environmental policy 7.5.1 General corrective action 5.3 Organizational roles, 7.5.2 Creating and updating 10.3 Continual improvement responsibilities and authorities 7.5.3 Control of documented information 8.1 Operational planning and Performance Evaluation control 8.2 Emergency preparedness 9.1 Monitoring, measurement, 9.2 Internal audit and response analysis and evaluation 9.2.1 General 9.1.1 General 9.2.2 Internal audit 9.1.2 Evaluation of compliance programme 9.3 Management review C Intended outcomes of the environmental management system ■ Building a Recycling-oriented Society In a drive to use limited resources more effectively, the Toppan field. The Group has striven to increase the material recycling Group works to reduce the discharge of waste, increase the rate by processing waste paper into recycled paper, separating recycling rate, and apply appropriate waste treatment methods. waste plastics and processing composite plastics into pellets, and Waste paper derived from operational sites primarily in the recycling by other methods. Waste acid, meanwhile, has been Information & Communication and Living & Industry fields makes treated in-house to lower volumes for disposal. The Toppan Group up the largest portion (about 70%) of the total waste discharged will continue reducing waste discharge and promoting material at Group sites. This is followed by waste plastics from plants in recycling. the Living & Industry field and waste acid from the Electronics 66 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Building of a Recyclingoriented Society *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Main Activities and Relevant Information Material Input In fiscal 2017 the Toppan Group began evaluating and disclosing (kilotons) ■ Paper ■ Plastic ■ Ink, solvent ■ Other ■ Glass 2,500 Group-wide material input, including input at overseas Group 10.1 9.6 subsidiaries. The disclosed values for Group-wide material input 2,000 44.4 43.3 begin from fiscal 2016 (data disclosed for earlier years is limited to 91.5 1,500 89.4 sites in Japan). 267.8 270.5 1,000 1721.1 1582.5 500 0 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) Water Consumption In fiscal 2017 the Toppan Group began evaluating and disclosing Group-wide water consumption, including consumption at overseas Group subsidiaries. The disclosed values for Group-wide water consumption begin from fiscal 2016 (data disclosed for earlier years is limited to sites in Japan). ■ Water Consumption ■ Effluent Discharge (1,000 m³) ■ Groundwater ■ Municipal water ■ Industrial water (1,000 m³) (1,000 m³) ■ Into public water system ■ Into sewage system ■ Rainwater (left axis) ■ Use of water circulated on premises (right axis) 15,000 4,500 12,500 24 24 942 815 12,000 4,400 10,000 4,358 3,171 3,085 5,656 5,762 9,000 4,300 7,500 6,000 4,200 5,000 4,203 7,086 7,527 3,000 7,352 7,468 4,100 2,500 0 4,000 0 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) Waste Discharge and Recycling In fiscal 2017 the Toppan Group began evaluating and disclosing (tons) ■ Recycled ■ Final landfill waste disposal Group-wide waste discharge and recycling, including discharge and 400,000 recycling at overseas Group subsidiaries. The disclosed values for ５，７０8 7,407 Group-wide waste discharge and recycling begin from fiscal 2016 320,000 (data disclosed for earlier years is limited to sites in Japan). 240,000 160,000 362,860 353,221 80,000 0 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) 67 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Building of a Recyclingoriented Society Zero-emission Efforts ・59 sites approved in June 2017 99.5% or over; A+-rank site, recycling rate of 99% or over and less ・The Toppan Group approves operational sites as zero-emission than 99.5%; and A-rank site, recycling rate of 98% or over and less sites based on a three-level grading system according to their than 99%. recycling rates. ・Group sites satisfying any of the following criteria were approved as zero-emission sites in June 2017: S-rank site, recycling rate of ■ Zero-emission Sites (TZERO-17) (59 sites approved in June 2017) Total Waste Generation Waste Recycled in Recycling Rate in Operational Site (Division or Group Company) Rank in Fiscal 2016 (tons) Fiscal 2016 (tons) Fiscal 2016 (%) Sapporo Plant (Hokkaido Subdivision) 2,054 2,054 100.00 S Sendai Plant (Higashinihon Division) 4,558 4,553 99.90 S Itabashi Site 6,618 6,587 99.53 S Asaka Site [Commercial Printing, Publications Printing] (Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.) 3,624 3,620 99.88 S Asaka Site (Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd.) Asaka Securities Printing Plant (Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.) 3,202 3,202 100.00 S Kawaguchi Site 35,259 35,259 100.00 S Sakado Site 24,398 24,398 100.00 S Ranzan Plant (Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.) 763 763 100.00 S Nagoya Plant (Chubu Division) 6,765 6,760 99.93 S Takino Plant (Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.) 9,547 9,469 99.18 A+ Takino Securities Printing Plant (Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.) 959 951 99.14 A+ Fukuoka Plant (Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.) 6,137 6,137 100.00 S Fukuyama Plant (Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd.) 1,862 1,838 98.71 A Oyodo Plant (Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.) 276 274 99.30 A+ Chitose Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 3,268 3,213 98.33 A Gunma Central Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 11,434 11,415 99.84 S Sagamihara Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 17,423 17,423 100.00 S Matsusaka Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 3,014 2,977 98.76 A Fukusaki Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 6,630 6,530 98.50 A Fukusaki Plant (Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd.) 372 372 100.00 S Fukuoka Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 6,101 6,099 99.98 S Miyata Plant (Toppan Packaging Service Co., Ltd.) 134 134 100.00 S Mikkabi Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 3,141 3,141 100.00 S Tamana Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 4,884 4,884 100.00 S Miyagi Plant (Toppan Containers Co., Ltd.) 3,380 3,319 98.20 A Sano Plant (Toppan Containers Co., Ltd.) 3,390 3,363 99.21 A+ Saitama Plant (Toppan Containers Co., Ltd.) 9,080 9,010 99.23 A+ Satte Plant (Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd.) 526 523 99.42 A+ Wakayama Manufacturing Section (Fukusaki Plant of Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd.) 119 119 100.00 S Saga Plant (Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd.) 218 218 100.00 S Ranzan Plant (Toppan Packaging Service Co., Ltd.) 500 500 100.00 S Sodegaura Beverage Plant (Toppan Packaging Service Co., Ltd.) 1,711 1,711 100.00 S Kyushu Plant (Toppan Packaging Service Co., Ltd.) 178 178 100.00 S Mito Plant (Toppan Prosprint Co., Ltd.) 5,237 5,234 99.94 S Satte Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 423 423 100.00 S Kashiwa Plant (Toppan Decor Products Inc.) 503 503 100.00 S Satte Plant (Toppan Decor Products Inc.) 5,415 5,415 100.00 S Harima Plant (Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd.) 547 547 100.00 S Kansai Bottling Co., Ltd. 77 77 99.95 S Fukaya Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 1,763 1,758 99.73 S Asaka Plant (Toppan Electronics Products Co., Ltd.) 61 61 100.00 S Shiga Plant (Toppan Electronics Products Co., Ltd.) 277 277 99.63 S Shiga Plant (Toppan TOMOEGAWA Optical Films Co., Ltd.) 502 499 Mie Plant [Kameyama] (Toppan Electronics Products Co., Ltd.) 2,581 2,581 100.00 S Mie Plant [Hisai] (Toppan Electronics Products Co., Ltd.) 2,462 2,462 100.00 S Niigata Plant (Toppan Electronics Products Co., Ltd.) 5,343 5,342 99.97 S Kumamoto Plant (Toppan Electronics Products Co., Ltd.) 5,404 5,404 100.00 S Toyama Plant (Toppan Electronics Products Co., Ltd.) 100 100 100.00 S Toppan Technical Research Institute (Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.) 439 438 99.77 S Sakado Distribution Processing Center (Toppan Logistics Co., Ltd.) 1,198 1,198 100.00 S Sagamihara Plant (Toppan TDK Label Co., Ltd.) 450 450 99.92 S Takino Plant (Toppan TDK Label Co., Ltd.) 412 412 99.99 S Fukushima Plant (Toppan TDK Label Co., Ltd.) 2,166 2,165 99.94 S Gunma Plant (Tamapoly Co., Ltd.) 3,032 2,984 98.42 A Sanda Plant (Tamapoly Co., Ltd.) 2,990 2,990 100.00 S Tochigi Plant (Tamapoly Co., Ltd.) 2,265 2,265 100.00 S Saitama Plant (Livretech Co., Ltd.) 6,721 6,702 99.73 S Hino Plant (Toppan Media Printec Tokyo Co., Ltd.) 657 657 99.95 S Zama Plant (Toppan Media Printec Tokyo Co., Ltd.) 246 246 99.85 S Kochi Factory (Ortus Technology Co., Ltd.) 1,241 1,227 98.88 A Note: The Toppan Group approves operational sites as zero-emission sites based on a three-level grading system according to their recycling rates. S-rank site, recycling rate of 99.5% or over; A+-rank site, recycling rate of 99% or over and less than 99.5%; A-rank site, recycling rate of 98% or over and less than 99%. Group sites satisfying any of the above criteria were approved as zero-emission sites in June 2017. 68 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Control of Chemical Substances Control of Chemical Substances Basic Approach The Toppan Group has formulated the following basic policies on and endeavors to reduce their usage and replace them with chemical substance control. substitutes. Toppan refrains from the use of hazardous chemical substances Toppan monitors every chemical substance used within the as a basic rule. The Group may, however, resort to the use of Group’s business operations. The Toppan Group seeks to eliminate hazardous substances when their use is legally permitted and obstacles to environmental conservation in advance by being no alternate technologies are available. Even when these latter proactive in constantly improving substance control methods as a conditions apply, the Group appropriately controls the substances business operator. Promotion Framework ■ Promotion Structure The Board of Directors is the highest-level body responsible for the actual implementation of conservation activities carried out at their Toppan Group’s environmental management. The board appoints a sites and collaborate to propel environmental initiatives throughout director to head the Ecology Center, an organization that oversees the divisions. Toppan’s environmental conservation initiatives by supervising, To accelerate the initiatives, these officers have set up Ecoevaluating, and verifying environmental activities undertaken protection Promotion Committees, bodies composed of persons throughout the Group and reporting results to the Board of relevant to the environment across the departments. The Directors. committees promote environmental conservation activities at The Toppan Group has established an environmental Group sites and manage progress. For advanced environmental conservation framework in which the heads of every division, measures, the committees have convened multiple subcommittees Group company, and operational site are positioned as the to formulate necessary responses to specific environmental issues. personnel chiefly responsible for environmental efforts. These Energy Subcommittees, for example, pursue energy-saving efforts to heads appoint Environmental Management Officers to steer the help mitigate global warming. ■ Environmental Management Organization Board of Directors Director in charge of the Ecology Center Ecology Center Group companies Toppan business divisions Presidents Division heads Environmental Management Oﬃcers Environmental Management Oﬃcers Eco-protection Promotion Committees Eco-protection Promotion Committees Energy Subcommittees Other subcommittees 69 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Control of Chemical Substances ■ Mechanism The Toppan Group has established environmental management the Toppan Group’s environmental conservation activities. The systems (EMSs) based on ISO 14001. evaluation results are assured by an audit firm (independent A PDCA cycle of planning, support and operation, performance assurance provider) and reported to the Board of Directors. The evaluation, and improvement serves as a core part of the ISO center discloses the verified performance data via the Toppan 14001-based EMSs to ensure ongoing improvement. corporate website and other communication channels. Group sites maintain their EMSs through management system audits by ISO 14001 registrars, internal audits (of legal compliance) ISO 14001 environmental management system certification (in Japanese) by the Ecology Center, and other internal environmental audits at https://www.toppan.co.jp/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/iso/iso14001.html individual sites. Independent Assurance Report The Ecology Center aggregates evaluations of environmental https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/english/csr/files/pdf/2018/ performance as the organization responsible for overseeing csr2018_detail-en.pdf#page=83 ■ Management Cycle under ISO 14001:2015 Context of the organization Needs and Internal and external issues expectations of Scope of the environmental management system interested parties P Planning 6.1 Actions to address risks and opportunities 6.1.1 General 6.1.2 Environmental aspects Support and 6.1.3 Compliance obligations 6.1.4 Planning action Operation 6.2 Environmental objectives and planning to achieve them 7.1 Resources 6.2.1 Environmental objectives 7.2 Competence 6.2.2 Planning actions to achieve environmental objectives 7.3 Awareness 7.4 Communication 7.4.1 General A Improvement Leadership 7.4.2 Internal communication D 7.4.3 External communication 10.1 General 5.1 Leadership and commitment 7.5 Documented information 10.2 Nonconformity and 5.2 Environmental policy 7.5.1 General corrective action 5.3 Organizational roles, 7.5.2 Creating and updating 10.3 Continual improvement responsibilities and authorities 7.5.3 Control of documented information 8.1 Operational planning and Performance Evaluation control 8.2 Emergency preparedness 9.1 Monitoring, measurement, 9.2 Internal audit and response analysis and evaluation 9.2.1 General 9.1.1 General 9.2.2 Internal audit 9.1.2 Evaluation of compliance programme 9.3 Management review C Intended outcomes of the environmental management system ■ Controlling Chemical Substances The Toppan Group strives to reduce the consumption of chemical substances, these standards list substances that are banned or substances in order to mitigate the impact of these substances on restricted with regard to use as raw materials. Toppan regularly the environment. The Group continues reducing the consumption reviews the list to assure chemical control and asks every supplier of chemical substances designated under the Pollutant Release to control the chemical substances listed. and Transfer Register (PRTR) law of Japan and introducing safer For reduced VOC emissions into the atmosphere, the Group substitutes by setting priorities in terms of both the type and range applies adequate treatment before discharge to ensure that the of application. Group production sites have also been appropriately emission volumes and concentrations are controlled at appropriate controlling chemical substances based on established management levels. Increasing efforts are also made to reduce the consumption procedures. of VOCs. The Toppan Group has formulated a set of Standards for the Management of Chemical Components of Raw Materials governing Toppan Group Standards for the Management of Chemical Components of Raw Materials (ver. 4.4) the substances and materials the Group purchases. Based on https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/english/corporateinfo/files/csr/2018/ Japanese and international laws and regulations on chemical proc2018_en04.pdf 70 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Control of Chemical Substances *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Main Activities and Relevant Information VOC Emissions into the Atmosphere ■ VOC Emissions into the Atmosphere (subject to the environmental targets in Japan) (tons) 8,000 7,326 6,000 4,000 3,684 3,403 2,924 2,000 0 2008 2015 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) PRTR Data ■ Chemical Substances Designated under the PRTR law of Japan (subject to the environmental targets in Japan) (Unit: kg/year) Released Total PRTR No. Chemical Substance Handled 1. Atmosphere 2. Water 3. Soil Transferred 20 2-aminoethanol 23,821 0 0 0 0 13,686 44 Indium and its compounds 2,367 0 0 0 0 1 53 Ethylbenzene 21,448 1,170 1,170 0 0 569 59 Ethylenediamine 3,014 0 0 0 0 3,014 71 Ferric chloride 1,960,608 0 0 0 0 1,895,409 76 Epsilon-caprolactam 2,825 0 0 0 0 428 80 Xylene 58,763 1,645 1,645 0 0 576 87 Chromium and chromium (III) compounds 23,611 14 0 14 0 16,910 88 Chromium (VI) compounds 13,047 0 0 0 0 1,000 151 1,3-dioxolane 8,589 341 341 0 0 1,762 213 N,N-dimethylacetamide 1,769 106 106 0 0 255 243 Dioxins (mg-TEQ) 725 0 0 0 0 724 245 Thiourea 2,559 2 0 2 0 2,557 272 Copper salts (water-soluble, except complex salts) 311,962 438 0 438 0 129,790 296 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene 88,592 5,558 5,558 0 0 3,738 297 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene 9,868 579 579 0 0 1,121 300 Toluene 2,373,947 120,426 120,426 0 0 146,560 308 Nickel 54,570 0 0 0 0 0 309 Nickel compounds 19,476 4 0 4 0 18,406 401 1,2,4-benzenetricarboxylic 1,2-anhydride 1,256 0 0 0 0 101 411 Formaldehyde 6,280 44 44 0 0 427 412 Manganese and its compounds 7,612 84 0 84 0 1,842 438 Methylnaphthalene 8,916 46 46 0 0 0 448 Methylenebis(4,1-phenylene) diisocyanate 39,734 0 0 0 0 0 Total 5,044,636 130,459 129,916 542 0 2,238,149 Notes: ・Period covered: April 1, 2017–March 31, 2018 ・Operational sites covered: Sites that handle more than 1.0 ton of Class I designated chemical substances per year (or specified Class I designated chemical substances in excess of 0.5 tons per year) ・The total transfer is the sum of transfers into waste and sewage systems. 71 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Pollution Control Pollution Control Basic Approach The Toppan Group has formulated the following basic policies on and work relentlessly to address the case while taking necessary pollution control. actions to reliably prevent recurrences. Toppan will also implement Toppan positions pollution control as an important element of recurrence-prevention measures for similar operations throughout management. The Group places utmost priority on environmental the Group. Proactive conservation activities will enable Toppan to conservation activities in its efforts to prevent pollution. In the detect any signs of pollution and swiftly correct the problem at its event that Toppan causes environmental pollution of any form, the source. Group will immediately publish the incident, disclose information, Promotion Framework ■ Promotion Structure The Board of Directors is the highest-level body responsible for the actual implementation of conservation activities carried out at their Toppan Group’s environmental management. The board appoints a sites and collaborate to propel environmental initiatives throughout director to head the Ecology Center, an organization that oversees the divisions. Toppan’s environmental conservation initiatives by supervising, To accelerate the initiatives, these officers have set up Ecoevaluating, and verifying environmental activities undertaken protection Promotion Committees, bodies composed of persons throughout the Group and reporting results to the Board of relevant to the environment across the departments. The Directors. committees promote environmental conservation activities at The Toppan Group has established an environmental Group sites and manage progress. For advanced environmental conservation framework in which the heads of every division, measures, the committees have convened multiple subcommittees Group company, and operational site are positioned as the to formulate necessary responses to specific environmental issues. personnel chiefly responsible for environmental efforts. These Energy Subcommittees, for example, pursue energy-saving efforts to heads appoint Environmental Management Officers to steer the help mitigate global warming. ■ Environmental Management Organization Board of Directors Director in charge of the Ecology Center Ecology Center Group companies Toppan business divisions Presidents Division heads Environmental Management Oﬃcers Environmental Management Oﬃcers Eco-protection Promotion Committees Eco-protection Promotion Committees Energy Subcommittees Other subcommittees 72 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Pollution Control ■ Mechanism The Toppan Group has established environmental management center discloses the verified performance data via the Toppan systems (EMSs) based on ISO 14001. corporate website and other communication channels. A PDCA cycle of planning, support and operation, performance The Ecology Center also manages the monitoring of soil and evaluation, and improvement serves as a core part of the ISO groundwater pollution, ascertains the results, and discloses the 14001-based EMSs to ensure ongoing improvement. details. Group sites maintain their EMSs through management system audits by ISO 14001 registrars, internal audits (of legal compliance) ISO 14001 environmental management system certification (in Japanese) by the Ecology Center, and other internal environmental audits at https://www.toppan.co.jp/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/iso/iso14001.html individual sites. Independent Assurance Report The Ecology Center aggregates evaluations of environmental https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/english/csr/files/pdf/2018/ performance as the organization responsible for overseeing csr2018_detail-en.pdf#page=83 the Toppan Group’s environmental conservation activities. The Monitoring Soil and Groundwater Pollution evaluation results are assured by an audit firm (independent https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/english/csr/files/pdf/2018/ assurance provider) and reported to the Board of Directors. The csr2018_detail-en.pdf#page=76 ■ Management Cycle under ISO 14001:2015 Context of the organization Needs and Internal and external issues expectations of Scope of the environmental management system interested parties P Planning 6.1 Actions to address risks and opportunities 6.1.1 General 6.1.2 Environmental aspects Support and 6.1.3 Compliance obligations 6.1.4 Planning action Operation 6.2 Environmental objectives and planning to achieve them 7.1 Resources 6.2.1 Environmental objectives 7.2 Competence 6.2.2 Planning actions to achieve environmental objectives 7.3 Awareness 7.4 Communication 7.4.1 General A Improvement Leadership 7.4.2 Internal communication D 7.4.3 External communication 10.1 General 5.1 Leadership and commitment 7.5 Documented information 10.2 Nonconformity and 5.2 Environmental policy 7.5.1 General corrective action 5.3 Organizational roles, 7.5.2 Creating and updating 10.3 Continual improvement responsibilities and authorities 7.5.3 Control of documented information 8.1 Operational planning and Performance Evaluation control 8.2 Emergency preparedness 9.1 Monitoring, measurement, 9.2 Internal audit and response analysis and evaluation 9.2.1 General 9.1.1 General 9.2.2 Internal audit 9.1.2 Evaluation of compliance programme 9.3 Management review C Intended outcomes of the environmental management system 73 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Pollution Control ■ Preventing Pollution The Eco-protection Promotion Committee at each Group site in treatment facilities designed to correspond to specific water Japan sets in-house control standards that are more stringent than consumption and pollutant conditions at individual sites. the applicable regulatory standards. The Toppan Group works to Wastewater recycling systems have also been installed at reduce environmental burden and prevent pollution by complying Electronics plants that discharge effluents in significant amounts. with these in-house standards. By recovering and reusing wastewater via these systems, the plants To prevent atmospheric pollution, the Group controls boilers have been working to reduce the levels of water consumption and and other plant facilities responsible for air pollutants by managing effluent discharge. operations under appropriate combustion conditions. The Group The Toppan Group also checks plant facilities subject to the enhances the efficiency of effluent-gas treatment in plant facilities Water Pollution Control Law in compliance with the regulatory subject to requirements under the Air Pollution Control Act by standards for structures. The Group will monitor every facility, reusing recovered solvents and controlling combustion facilities including those not subject to the law, to prevent groundwater appropriately. pollution caused by the leakage of chemicals and other liquids. Any To prevent water pollution, the Group has installed wastewater equipment or components with undue wear will be replaced. ■ Education ■ Handling Inquiries and Complaints Toppan arranges three types of training programs on pollution The Toppan Group receives environmental inquiries and control: general education for every employee at individual Group complaints via “Inquiries,” a contact window for persons seeking sites; specific operational training for every employee engaged in information on corporate activities, on the Toppan corporate operations that cause or could potentially cause significant impact website. The Ecology Center receives reports on these inquiries on the environment; and emergency drills to prevent the spread of and complaints from the Public Relations Division and responds to damage in the event of a potential emergency. them as the organization overseeing environmental conservation activities across the Group. Inquiries on Toppan’s activities https://www.toppan.co.jp/en/inquiry/privacy_corporate.html 74 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Pollution Control Main Activities and Relevant Information Monitoring Soil and Groundwater Pollution ■ Purification of Soil and Groundwater Pollution Operational Site Detail Current Progress Itabashi Plant (Itabashi City, Tokyo) Groundwater pollution by hexavalent chromium and toluene Continuously monitored Niigata Plant (Shibata City, Niigata) Soil pollution by fluorine and fluorine compounds Continuously monitored ■ Soil Pollution Remediation for Redevelopment in Conformance with Applicable Laws, Regulations, and Ordinances ・The Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act of Japan requires ・Site reconstruction projects are occasionally subject to these remediation work or other countermeasures in the event that legal demands. The Toppan Group has therefore conducted soil a soil investigation detects soil contamination at a site during investigations in accordance with the act and taken necessary construction or demolition work of a certain scale (including soil countermeasures when soil contamination has been detected at a contamination by natural sources in the environment). Group site. Chemical Substances Subject to Operational Site Remediation Measures Current Progress Remediation Former Itami Plant (Itami City, Lead, fluorine, and their compounds Excavation and removal Remediation completed Hyogo) Excavation and removal; Remediation work completed Former Gunma Plant (Oizumi, Hexavalent chromium, lead, selenium, purification of (Groundwater will be monitored Ora District, Gunma) and their compounds groundwater continuously up to November 2019.) Preventing Pollution / Approach to Environmental Compliance ■ Preventing Pollution The Eco-protection Promotion Committee at each Group site in treatment facilities designed to correspond to specific water Japan sets in-house control standards that are more stringent than consumption and pollutant conditions at individual sites. the applicable regulatory standards. The Toppan Group works to Wastewater recycling systems have also been installed at reduce environmental burden and prevent pollution by complying Electronics plants that discharge effluents in significant amounts. with these in-house standards. By recovering and reusing wastewater via these systems, the plants To prevent atmospheric pollution, the Group controls boilers have been working to reduce the levels of water consumption and and other plant facilities responsible for air pollutants by managing effluent discharge. The Toppan Group also checks plant facilities operations under appropriate combustion conditions. The Group subject to the Water Pollution Control Law in compliance with enhances the efficiency of effluent-gas treatment in plant facilities the regulatory standards for structures. The Group will monitor subject to requirements under the Air Pollution Control Act by every facility, including those not subject to the law, to prevent reusing recovered solvents and controlling combustion facilities groundwater pollution caused by the leakage of chemicals and appropriately. other liquids. Any equipment or components with undue wear will To prevent water pollution, the Group has installed wastewater be replaced. ■ Approach to Environmental Compliance Toppan has used the Group’s in-house environmental database for As a preventive action against environmental pollution, the operational sites across Japan to identify any risk of exceeding the Group also reviews drills for coping with potential emergencies and limits stipulated under laws, ordinances, agreements, and other accidents during production operations whenever necessary. applicable regulations. Preventive measures against unduly high Communities around Toppan plants filed two complaints at risks have been taken to ensure that none of the regulatory limits two sites in fiscal 2017. One involved noise and another involved are broached. inconvenience to community members related to odor. The Group Despite these steps, two sites reported cases of excessive levels has identified the plant facilities responsible for the noise and of water contaminant (BOD) relative to the standards set under odor and taken measures to mitigate them. Toppan will continue laws, ordinances, agreements, or other applicable regulations in enhancing the quality of environmental management through fiscal 2017 (one case at each site). The Toppan Group has taken earnest dialogue with residents in surrounding communities. immediate corrective measures for both cases, including steps to Fiscal Excessive Levels Relative to inspect plant facilities and revise the methods for facility control. Complaints 2017 Applicable Legal Standards Since implementing these corrective measures, the Group has 2 2 standardized newly adopted control procedures and taken other Cases (2 cases involving water (1 case involving noise; actions to reliably prevent recurrences. contaminant [BOD]) 1 involving odor) 75 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Biodiversity Biodiversity Basic Approach The Toppan Group has formulated the following basic policies on to conserve biodiversity with preventative and adaptive methods biodiversity conservation and the sustainable use of biodiverse formulated from long-term perspectives. These biodiversity resources. initiatives focus on cooperation with communities and various Toppan positions the conservation of biodiversity as an important other stakeholders with links to biodiversity. The Group recognizes element of management. The Group takes an assertive approach that biodiversity conservation and the sustainable use of biodiverse to the sustainable use of resources by avoiding or minimizing the resources help mitigate global warming and alleviate other impact on biodiversity during raw material procurement operations. environmental problems. The Group also proactively undertakes social contribution activities Promotion Framework ■ Promotion Structure The Board of Directors is the highest-level body responsible for the actual implementation of conservation activities carried out at their Toppan Group’s environmental management. The board appoints a sites and collaborate to propel environmental initiatives throughout director to head the Ecology Center, an organization that oversees the divisions. Toppan’s environmental conservation initiatives by supervising, To accelerate the initiatives, these officers have set up Ecoevaluating, and verifying environmental activities undertaken protection Promotion Committees, bodies composed of persons throughout the Group and reporting results to the Board of relevant to the environment across the departments. The Directors. committees promote environmental conservation activities at The Toppan Group has established an environmental Group sites and manage progress. For advanced environmental conservation framework in which the heads of every division, measures, the committees have convened multiple subcommittees Group company, and operational site are positioned as the to formulate necessary responses to specific environmental issues. personnel chiefly responsible for environmental efforts. These Energy Subcommittees, for example, pursue energy-saving efforts to heads appoint Environmental Management Officers to steer the help mitigate global warming. ■ Environmental Management Organization Board of Directors Director in charge of the Ecology Center Ecology Center Group companies Toppan business divisions Presidents Division heads Environmental Management Oﬃcers Environmental Management Oﬃcers Eco-protection Promotion Committees Eco-protection Promotion Committees Energy Subcommittees Other subcommittees 76 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Biodiversity ■ Mechanism The Toppan Group has established environmental management the Toppan Group’s environmental conservation activities. The systems (EMSs) based on ISO 14001. evaluation results are assured by an audit firm (independent A PDCA cycle of planning, support and operation, performance assurance provider) and reported to the Board of Directors. The evaluation, and improvement serves as a core part of the ISO center discloses the verified performance data via the Toppan 14001-based EMSs to ensure ongoing improvement. corporate website and other communication channels. Group sites maintain their EMSs through management system audits by ISO 14001 registrars, internal audits (of legal compliance) ISO 14001 environmental management system certification (in Japanese) by the Ecology Center, and other internal environmental audits at https://www.toppan.co.jp/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/iso/iso14001.html individual sites. Independent Assurance Report The Ecology Center aggregates evaluations of environmental https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/english/csr/files/pdf/2018/ performance as the organization responsible for overseeing csr2018_detail-en.pdf#page=83 ■ Management Cycle under ISO 14001:2015 Context of the organization Needs and Internal and external issues expectations of Scope of the environmental management system interested parties P Planning 6.1 Actions to address risks and opportunities 6.1.1 General 6.1.2 Environmental aspects Support and 6.1.3 Compliance obligations 6.1.4 Planning action Operation 6.2 Environmental objectives and planning to achieve them 7.1 Resources 6.2.1 Environmental objectives 7.2 Competence 6.2.2 Planning actions to achieve environmental objectives 7.3 Awareness 7.4 Communication 7.4.1 General A Improvement Leadership 7.4.2 Internal communication D 7.4.3 External communication 10.1 General 5.1 Leadership and commitment 7.5 Documented information 10.2 Nonconformity and 5.2 Environmental policy 7.5.1 General corrective action 5.3 Organizational roles, 7.5.2 Creating and updating 10.3 Continual improvement responsibilities and authorities 7.5.3 Control of documented information 8.1 Operational planning and Performance Evaluation control 8.2 Emergency preparedness 9.1 Monitoring, measurement, 9.2 Internal audit and response analysis and evaluation 9.2.1 General 9.1.1 General 9.2.2 Internal audit 9.1.2 Evaluation of compliance programme 9.3 Management review C Intended outcomes of the environmental management system ■ Promoting the Conservation of Biodiversity The Toppan Group established a Basic Policy on Biodiversity in in conservation activities organized in site neighborhoods by April 2010 to pursue biodiversity conservation. A set of Paper environmental NPOs and local governments. Procurement Guidelines for the Sustainable Use of Forest The Toppan Group works with a number of stakeholders, Resources was also formulated in September 2011 to step up including employees, to conserve biodiversity throughout Japan and specific conservation measures. the rest of the world. Concrete initiatives have been carried out through two Basic Policy on Biodiversity (in Japanese) approaches: biodiversity conservation at Group sites and https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/japanese/csr/files/pdf/2013/ biodiversity.pdf conservation outside the sites. In the former initiatives, Toppan employees and their families promote biodiversity conservation Toppan Group Paper Procurement Guidelines for the Sustainable Use of Forest Resources (second edition) (in Japanese) within site premises in cooperation with external environmental https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/japanese/corporateinfo/files/csr/2014/ experts. In the latter, employees and family members take part proc2014_06.pdf 77 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Biodiversity Main Activities and Relevant Information Approaches to Forest Management Certification ■ FSC® and PEFC Certification (as of July 5, 2018) FSC®: Forest Stewardship Council PEFC: Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes Organization Country FSC PEFC Information & Communication Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Environmental Design Subdivision, Living & Industry Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Toppan Cosmo, Inc. Japan Satte Plant, Toppan Decor Products Inc. Japan Chubu Site, Environmental Design Subdivision, Living & Industry Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Nishinihon Site, Environmental Design Subdivision, Living & Industry Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Hiroshima Office, Environmental Design Subdivision, Living & Industry Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Takamatsu Office, Environmental Design Subdivision, Living & Industry Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Toppan Forms Co., Ltd. Japan Takiyama Plant, Toppan Forms Central Products Co., Ltd. Japan Fussa Plant, Toppan Forms Central Products Co., Ltd. Japan Kawamoto Plant, Toppan Forms Central Products Co., Ltd. Japan Hamamatsu Plant, Toppan Forms Tokai Co., Ltd. Japan Shizuoka Plant, Toppan Forms Tokai Co., Ltd. Japan Nagoya Plant, Toppan Forms Tokai Co., Ltd. Japan Osaka Sakurai Plant, Toppan Forms Kansai Co., Ltd. Japan Kyushu Plant, Toppan Forms Nishinihon Co., Ltd. Japan Toppan TDK Label Co., Ltd. Japan Living & Industry Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Kansai Living & Industry Subdivision, Nishinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Chubu Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Mito Plant, Toppan Prosprint Co., Ltd. Japan Higashinihon Subdivision, Higashinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Hokkaido Subdivision, Higashinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Kyushu Subdivision, Nishinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Chugoku & Shikoku Subdivision, Nishinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Tosho Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Organization Country or Region FSC PEFC Toppan Interamerica Inc.（PA） USA Toppan Interamerica Inc.（GA） USA Toppan Europe GmbH (London) UK Toppan Security Printing Pte. Ltd. Singapore Toppan Europe GmbH (Barcelona) Spain Siam Toppan Packaging Co., Ltd. Thailand Toppan Europe GmbH Germany Toppan Excel (Hong Kong) Company Limited Hong Kong Toppan Forms Hong Kong Toppan Vintage Limited Hong Kong Toppan Win Label Company Limited Hong Kong Toppan Yau Yue Paper Products Limited Hong Kong Toppan Leefung Printing Limited PRC Shanghai Toppan Advertising Co., Ltd. PRC Toppan Forms (HK) Ltd. PRC Toppan Leefung Changcheng Printing (Beijing) Co., Ltd. PRC Toppan Leefung Packaging & Printing (Dongguan) Company Limited PRC Toppan Leefung Printing (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. PRC Toppan Leefung Printing Limited PRC Toppan Win Label Printing (Dongguan) Company Limited PRC 78 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Biodiversity ECO-GREEN Purchasing Fiscal Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of 2,484 2,867 2,811 2,949 3,046 Cases Note: ECO-GREEN is a toilet paper composed of about 50% used Cartocan paper. 79 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Group Business Outline Corporate Profile Group Profile The Toppan Group (“the Group”) comprises Corporate name President & Representative Director Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (“the Company”) and Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Shingo Kaneko 182 related companies (155 subsidiaries and Head office Number of employees (nonconsolidated) 27 affiliates) engaged in manifold businesses 1, Kanda Izumi-cho, Chiyoda-ku, 9,699 (as of the end of March 2018) in three fields: Information & Communication, Tokyo 101-0024, Japan Number of employees (consolidated) Living & Industry, and Electronics. Phone: +81-3-3835-5111 51,210 (as of the end of March 2018) Detailed information on related companies Established Capital (nonconsolidated) can be found in the financial statements posted 1900 104.9 billion yen on the Toppan website. http://www.toppan.co.jp/ir/material/report.html （in Japanese） Business Fields Information & Communication Living & Industry Electronics Providing solutions to enhance the Providing a wide range of products and Using advanced technology and value of information and deliver it services to create living environments manufacturing capabilities to develop effectively to customers who require that offer comfort and peace of mind. products related to displays and smooth communication. semiconductors. 80 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Group Business Outline DATA ■ Net Sales ■ Net Sales by Business Field ■ Net Sales by Region 1,452.7 billion yen ■Consolidated ■Nonconsolidated (billion yen) (billion yen) (billion yen) (billion yen) 2,000 Information & Electronics Communication Asia, excluding Japan Other regions 1,532.0 1,526.9 1,474.6 1,431.5 198.2（14％） 856.3（59％） 175.9（12％） 71.2（5％） 1,500 1,452.7 1,000 815.7 845.4 831.6 781.5 773.6 500 Living & Industry 0 398.2（27％） Japan 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1,205.5（83％） (ﬁscal year) ■ Operating Income ■ Net Income ■ Total Assets & Return on Assets (ROA) 52.2 billion yen 42.2 billion yen 2,152.7 billion yen/2.0% ■Consolidated ■Nonconsolidated ■Consolidated ■Nonconsolidated (billion yen) (billion yen) (billion yen) (%) 60 2,500 4.0 51.6 52.2 2,152.7 48.5 45 42.2 1,994.6 1,997.9 2,000 1,876.5 3.0 45 40.8 35.2 1,712.3 35.7 32.5 30.7 30 1,500 1.8 1.7 2.0 2.0 30 20.6 19.2 22.8 1.2 1,000 1.2 1.0 17.0 12.7 15 11.1 15 10.1 6.5 500 0 7.7 6.8 0 0 0 -1.0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 -5 -1.4 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) (ﬁscal year) ■ Net Assets & Return on ■ Capital Expenditure ■ R&D Expenses Equity (ROE) 1,303.6 billion yen/3.9% 72.0 billion yen 19.4 billion yen (billion yen) (%) (billion yen) (billion yen) 1,303.6 1,250 1,171.9 5.0 100 25 1,082.8 1,066.8 76.1 19.8 19.0 19.3 19.4 1,000 913.1 3.8 3.9 4.0 80 72.1 72.0 20 17.9 63.2 64.9 750 2.7 3.3 3.0 60 15 2.7 500 2.0 40 10 250 1.0 20 5 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) (ﬁscal year) (ﬁscal year) ■ Number of Employees ■ Number of Employees by 51,210 Business Field (consolidated) ■Consolidated ■Nonconsolidated (billion yen) Company-wide positions 51,210 1,356 48,751 48,999 50,705 50,000 46,705 Electronics 9,948 Information & 40,000 Communication 27,852 30,000 20,000 8,993 9,551 9,699 Living & 8,604 8,900 Industry 10,000 12,054 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (ﬁscal year) 81 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018 Independent Assurance Report Toppan is authorized to attach the mark on the left as a testament to the reliability of the sustainability information presented in this Sustainability Data 2018 report . Any report bearing this mark meets the Sustainability Reporting Assurance and Registration Criteria established by The Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information. 82 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2018
