Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 1 Summary 13 Business Model 25 Transforming Role 34 Corporate Governance 46 Risk Management 61 Financial Value Creation 69 Social Value Creation 87 Environmental Value Creation 93 GRI Appendix 139 GRI Content Index Annual Report 2017 2 About Us Assets Comman Equity Market share in agribusiness R$1.37 trillion Tier1 Capital (Basel) 10.48% 60.0% We are Banco do Brasil S.A., the first bank We are present in 99.8% of the BraShareholders’ Market Share in Credit Total number of employees zilian municipalities, and our 4,770 19.3% 99,161 to operate in the Country and also the first Equity branches represent 21.8% of the share of R$98.7billion company to conduct a public offering of shares in the Brazilian capital market. With the national financial system. Our external netover 200 years of existence, we have actively contributed to the development of work is composed of 29 in 20 branches located countries. We maintain agreements 857 Products in Brazil. Our brand reflects attributes such our portfolio with financial institutions abroad and, in 2017, as strength, confidence, and there were 884 banks operating as our corcredibility. Private limited, public limrespondent banks in 106 countries. 102-4 ited, mixed-capital company and controlled The continuous innovation of business and by the Federal Government, we are part of relationship models allow us to maintain comNovo Mercado of B3, included in the Corpopetitiveness and the preference of customers, rate Sustainability Index (ISE) and the Dow building solid and long-lasting relationships. The Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), of the expansion of the digital model is one of New York Stock Exchange, in the Dow Jones the main actions that promote the improvement Sustainability Emerging Markets portfolio, in the customer experience, who seeks more and a result of our Management’s commitment more easiness in the relationship with banks. to transparency, accountability, equity and Based on the principles of sustainability, socioenvironmental responsibility, supportwe will continue giving priority to profitability, reved by the use of monitoring tools that align enues from the provision of services, reduction the executives’ behavior to the interests of of losses, gains in efficiency and improvement in the shareholders and the society in general. productivity from the simplification of processes 102-1, 102-5 and digital transformation. International presence since 1947 Annual Report 2017 3 We connect people to their achievements We are connected to the Brazilian rural production growth. Through our financings, small rural producers may invest in crops and therefore increase their performance and get into new markets. More work in the field, more food on the table. Annual Report 2017 4 Key Indicators 102-7 Transforming Role Corporate Governance Risk Management R$ 193.0 green balance of Level 1 Seal with maximum score, in R$1.4 billion resources We initiated the envibillion businesses the Governance Indicator of the Department of Coordination and Governance of Stateare allocated in funds ronmental due diligence process, when Owned Companies (IG-SEST). with socioenvironmenwe joined the Carbon Dis60% of share in funding inten­ded tal characteristics. closure Program (CDP). for agribusiness, serving 1.2 million family rural proJuvenile Insertion into the Digiducers. The busi­nesses reached 97.2% of tal Eco­nomy, which will develop Brazilian municipalities. We supported initiatives directed to mitigation children and adolescents from of climate change, such as the Low-Carbon AABB Comu­nidade Agriculture Program (ABC Program), 230 the Program, of Banco do Brasil in which we identified positive financial Foundation (Fundação Banco do implications with the contracts of operations Brasil – FBB), for the job market. works completed and financed by us, totaling 2017 in 2017 in the amount of R$1 billion, at a 37,573 new real estate units, i.e. 114 develcontracting cost of R$3.8 million opments in the line of Minha Casa Minha Vida (Real Estate Lending) Program, with the delivery of 18,824 housing units. We expanded by 160% the number of usOur CCBB were the zone of 230 cultural initiatives, with R$54.5 ers of BB Code on the internet and exceeded the mark of 29 million customers with 4.1 million visitors and million contributed in FBB, biometrics registered. R$967.8 million return in which represents an increase spon­taneous media. of 12.8% compared to 2016. Annual Report 2017 5 Key Indicators 102-7 Creation of Financial Value Creation of Social Value Creating Value for the Environment Adjusted Net Income App Cliente 66,017 Reduction of the total consumption of 360° Mobile, water by 10.3% in the year 2017. R$11.1 billion R$9.5 to 12.5 billion estimate which can be downloaded on the cell phone and is another way for thousand customers. 36,417thousand The reduction of electric power managers to interact with their portfolio. consumption avoided an expense checking accounts: of R$36 million. NII (Net of Recovery Fale Com seu 34,098 thousand individuals of Write-offs) Organic Gerente, which and 2,319 thousand companies. Reconditioning of 105 thousand cartridges (which corresponds to 97.58% -3.8% Domestic Loan Portfolio revolutionized the digital service. By accessing via the Internet or of the total used in 2017) which provided savings -4 to 0% estimate R$91.8 million. -3.2% BB App, customers can contact of All Expenses Net of Recovery of Write-offs 4 to -1% estimate their Relationship Manager, from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. 101,247 1,704 branches with the Selective Individuals 2.7% employees: -R$20.1 2 to 5% estimate Waste Collection Program implemented. 99,161 employees and Companies -10.6% New solutions for means of billion 2,086 interns. Digital transformation strategy, payment that allowed greater -11 to 8% estimate -R$23.5 to -20.5 billion estimate which contributed to reducing paper Rural 6.1% economic dynamism in partnership consumption by 628 tons. Fee 6 to 9% estimate with municipalities. Income Administrative In the first half of 2017, 42% (2,021 9.0% Expenses More than 1 million of 73.4% units) of the branches evaluated reached the target set for IPE. Already in the second 6 to 9% estimate -3.1% Estilo Digital, customers, consolidating our leadership in the of total transactions were conducted through cell semester, 51% (2,902 units) reached the indicator – a increase of 9% in compared -2.5 to 0.5% estimate phones and the internet. high-income market in Brazil. to the first half. Annual Report 2017 6 2018 Estimates The estimates for 2018 are below. The indicators and the way they are calculated have not changed compared to the previous year. Assumptions that Are Influenced Assumptions that Are beyond The results depend on market conditions, the economic performance of the country the Control of the Management by the Manegement and the foreign markets, which can impact the effective performance of those provided for in our estimates. M  aintenance of the current business model, withNational and international regulatory changes in out considering the sale of companies or busithe financial market; nesses of the Conglomerate; Consistent growth of the world economy; Indicators 2018 Estimates P  rioritize business with better income, adjusting Preservation of the current macroeconomic poliprofitability to sustainable thresholds, adding valAdjusted Net Income (R$ billion) 11.5 to 14 cy architecture: floating exchange rate, goals for ue to shareholders; inflation and fiscal discipline; Growth of the loan portfolio in strategic macro-secNII (Net of Recovery of Write-offs) (%) -5 to 0 Gradual reduction of the level of unemployment tors, in compliance with the economic conditions; in the job market; and Focus on the relationship, seeking to be the priOrganic Domestic Loan Portfolio – Expanded View (%) 1 to 4 mary provider of solutions in order to enhance the Prospect of gradual resumption customer experience and the income of the Bank; of the economy (GDP). Individuals (%) 4 to 7 Intensification of the digital service model, with Companies (%) -3 to 0 investments in the rationalization of the operational structure; Rural Loans (%) 4 to 7 Does not to consider new acquisitions and/or strategic partnerships that can be signed for the ALLL Expenses net of Recovery of Write-offs -19 to -16 exploitation of specific segments; and (R$ billion) Adjustments in contracts with suppliers and the collective bargaining agreement, aligned to the Fee Income (%) 4 to 7 market practice. Administrative Expenses (%) 1 to 4 Annual Report 2017 7 Awards Best Corporate University Worldwide Gold Seal of the Brazilian In 2017, we were recognized with awards, Innovation – Gold Award Socially Devoted: GHG Protocaol Program: recognition, and certifications that attest our UniBB: our Corporate University received we occupied the first place among the Brazilian banks that for the quality and reliability of our inventory of have the best relationships in social networks (Facebook Greenhouse Gases (GHG), we received the Gold Seal commitment to sustainable development and the the international award from the Global Council of and Twitter), based on an analysis of Social Bakers, one of of the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program. Corporate Universities for the second time. The award qualified relationship with our stakeholders. The the main suppliers of analytical data on the effectiveness is granted every two years and disseminates the best main ones were: of communication of brands in these media. corporate education programs in the world. Brand Finance Global 500 efinance Award: we were awarded in 21 categories in view of several innovations, 2017: Brand Finance presents the largest brands in the world each year and assesses which are the most including the possibility of purchasing with points in Cubic Awards Corporate powerful and valuable. In 2017, we occupied the 319th physical stores through the Ourocard application, University Best-in-Class: Corporate position (440th in 2016). open banking solution with the launch of the Portal for Developers, the spread of digital culture for the awarded by International Quality & Productivity Center Innovation: our Silicon Valley Labbs (IQPC), the award is the main one in corporate education in was recognized in the Fall Summit event, organized development of Labbs in Silicon Valley and Conta Fácil, the first step to the checking account opened the world. We were recognized in 2017 in the “Excellence by Plug and Play, a major accelerator of startups on Top of Mind 2017: in Leadership Development” category. the planet. we won all the editions of the “Top Bank” category. by using the cell phone. Cardmonitor Award Best Banks Award 2017 Anbima Ranking: we occupied the in Latin America – Brazil: Ombudsman of “Preferred Card first place in the ranking of Anbima in the management Quality of Brazilians”: for the of Investment Funds intended for the Public Sector, in the publishers of Global Finance magazine recognized our activities in fully meeting the needs of customers, Ranking: our Ombudsman’s Office was ninth consecutive time, we received the award from the terms of Government’s Asset Management. even in a challenging year. recognized by the Central Bank as the best one Medida Certa Institute, which interviewed approximately 12 among the five financial institutions with more than 30 thousand credit card holders throughout Brazil. million customers. Green Latin America Finance Award: we were recognized in the “Eco-efficiency” Most Valuable 2017 Top Employer Abrarec Gold Service Award: and “Climatically Smart Agriculture” categories in the award Companies in Brazil: Certification: we were recognized by we received the award with a case of our Customer Service, sponsored by the Latin American Federation of Banks we are in the fifth position in the annual ranking of the which conducted the differentiated service to a customer for (FELABAN), in partnership with the International Bankers Top Employer Institute for offering employees a work most valuable brands in Brazil, according to a survey the settlement of a money order to abroad, in record time. Association (FIBA) and International Finance Corporation (IFC). environment of excellence. of the Interbrand consulting firm. Annual Report 2017 8 Introduction Relevant Topics The 2017 Annual Report discloses to employees, shareholders, This report presents a summary of the main events of the year 2017, as well as our perforinvestors, customers and Government representatives the way mance in this scenario. In order to reinforce our commitment to transparency, we disclosed we operate and manage our businesses and their resulting imthe main facts associated with our brand. pact on economic, environmental and social spheres. We will discuss in depth the relevant topics, expressed in our materiality, revised in 2016 Published in electronic media since 2010, this report has been (see GRI Appendix, page 95 for more information). They are worked on challenges and prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards, Essential option, identified in boxes, according to the icon. In short, the challenges are: Reading and audited by KPMG Auditores Independentes. The purpose is Guide to demonstrate our value creation, in alignment to the principles of Integrated Reporting and through the results achieved during the period in response to our challenges in sustainability – AgenAdvances in governance; da 30 BB (see chapter “Business Model” for more information). Non-financial and/or emerging risk management; Search for innovation; The economic and financial data is in compliance with Act Customer satisfaction; No. 6,404/1976 (Business Corporation Act) and with the stanSocial affairs; Productive development and financial inclusion; Our report was developed to prodards issued by the Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM) and by the Central Bank of Brazil (Bacen). The Ensuring the promotion of diversity; Development of our human capital; vide a simple and enjoyable readfigures stated are related to our performance and that of our subEthics and anti-corruption; sidiaries, in compliance with the standards in force and the BrazilDevelopment of financial solutions focused on the inclusive green economy; ing, especially the topics of greatest ian practices applicable to financial institutions, according to the Evaluation process and environmental criteria for lending and financing; financial statements available on the Investor Relations website Development of process of due diligence; and relevance to our businesses (www.bb.com.br/ri). The information related to social and enviStrategic management in the private social investment. ronmental indicators comprises Banco Múltiplo, which, in 2017, contributed with 75.8% of our operating income. Annual Report 2017 9 Alignment with Trends Agenda 30 BB Challenges We continue the journey towards integrated management and thought. This is expressed in the update of our Sustainability Plan – Agenda PROSPERITY PARTNERSHIP 30 BB, in alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). We demonstrate the importance of our transforming role through our products and services, which promote the transition to an inclusive green economy. PEOPLE PLANET In the GRI Content Summary and throughout this report, there are icons identifying the correlation of our performance with the SDGs. Where appropriate, there is also an icon, linking our activities to the PEACE capitals proposed by the framework of the Integrated Reporting. Keeping the history of accountability, the GRI Content Index also shows a correlation with the 10 Global Compact principles. Capitals Also focused on improvement and production of Integrated Reporting, we reviewed our business model and disclosed the results that assess our value creation. Identification of: Social and Financial Intellectual Relationship Challenge; Capital of Integrated Reporting; and SDG. For any questions or suggestions regarding this publication, please send us an email to the following addresses: ri@bb.com.br e Human Natural Manufactured direo.sustentabilidade@bb.com.br. Have a good reading! Annual Report 2017 10 GDP (variation % Special System for Settlement and Message from the Management 102-14 in 12 months) Custody – Selic (% p.y. – end of period) 1.0 14.25 13.75 Even in a challenging year, we operated with full confidence of delivering Customers; Processes; People; and Sustainability – formally assuming results compatible with the estimates disclosed and commitments taken, the purpose of “taking care of what is valuable to people”. That means 2015 2016 because we know the capacity and the commitment of our employees. assisting in the achievement and preservation of which is important for our customers, shareholders, employees and society in general. 2017 7.00 We ended 2017 with an adjusted net income of R$11.1 billion and adjusted return (ROE) of 10.6%, compared to 8.4% in 2016. Part of this That is also why the sustainability is an aspect that crosses the manresult was achieved with the efficient control of administrative expenses, agement of our businesses, which enables us to match the service to which fell 5.5% in a year, even with an inflation (National Extended the shareholders’ interests with the responsible extension of credit. With Consumer Price Index – IPCA) of 2.95% and substantial reduction of this commitment and inspired by the Sustainable Development Goals, the allowance for doubtful accounts (AFDA) by R$2.9 billion (10.3% launched by the United Nations (UN), we have a Sustainability Plan, 2015 2016 2017 compared to 2016). called Agenda 30 BB. (3.5) (3.5) Our revenues from service provision and bank charges grew 9.0% In all our activities, we make use of guidelines for an increasingly efficient compared to 2016, which demonstrates the success of the evolution consumption of natural resources and so that our products and services of our customer relationship strategy, especially with the use of new have environmental attributes, in order to help with the transition to an Adjusted Net Income Adjusted ROE (%) technologies. The materialization of this result is in our adjusted effiinclusive green economy. In these terms, we entered into agreements (R$ billion) ciency ratio, which reached 38.1%, compared to 39.7%, in 2016 and with sectoral entities and agencies that promote socioenvironmental 11.6 13.0 11.1 the improvement of our Basel and common equity tier 1 capital indexes, responsibility activities, nationally and internationally. We participate, 10.7 which increased to 19.6% and 10.5%, respectively, in 2017. for example, in the Brazilian Global Compact Committee and keep our commitment to the 10 Global Compact principles. 7.2 7.5 The review process of the Corporate Strategy included the involvement of several stakeholders. After extensive reflection, we agreed to work Supported by the achievements of 2017, we believe that, in 2018, the in the 2018-2022 period on five performance perspectives – Financial; transformation and complexity of the business environment will intensify. 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Annual Report 2017 11 102-14 Administrative Expenses National Extended Consumer Price Index AFDA Expenses (R$ billion) (R$ billion) – IPCA (% accumulated in 12 months) Therefore, improving the customer experience and investment in innova(32.8) 10.67 (31.5) tion will continue to be assumptions of our performance. More efficiency (31.6) (31.8) in operations and in the processes, the growth of the use of artificial (25.2) (23.7) intelligence in data analysis, plus specialization of the employees and the constant search for the convenience of customers when using our 6.29 service channels will be crucial pillars in the evolution of profitability. 2.95 We also believe that the acceleration of the economic recovery will drive the growth of our loan portfolio, especially to individuals, small and medium-sized enterprises and agribusiness. The effects of the strengthening of the economic activity are also reflected in the increase of insurance 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 business, means of payment, capital market and asset management. 2015 2016 2017 We appreciate the dedication and effort of our employees and the trust of the customers and society, that guide us toward the vision of “Being the company that provides the best experience for people’s lives and promotes the development of society in an innovative, efficient and Fee Income (R$ billion) Efficiency Index (%) Common Equity Tier 1 sustainable manner.” Capital – Basel (%) 25.9 41.6 10.5 39.7 23.8 38.1 9.6 22.0 8.2 Paulo Rogério Caffarelli Banco do Brasil’s CEO Fabrício da Soller Chairman of the Board of Directors 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Annual Report 2017 12 Business Model Our Stakeholders 102-40 | 102-42 2018-2022 BB Corporate Strategy 102-16 In order to improve our perception with regard to diverse stakeholders with which we interact, we promoted in 2014, with an update in 2016, an In 2017, in an evolutionary and participatory process, we redesigned evaluation of the relevance of the main categories of stakeholders. our strategic guidelines: This mapping, in the scope of the process of updating our sustainability plan, allowed us to broaden the focus of our activities in search of value Purpose creation, as follows: To take care of what matters to people. Vision To be the company that provides the best experience for people and promote society’s development in an innovative, efficient Civil society and sustainable way. Partners Shareholders/ Investors Experts Values Customer Focus, Innovation, Ethics, Internal Media/Press Efficiency, Protagonism, Reliability and stakeholders Public Spirit. Community Customers Competitors Government Business This conception reinforces the central role of people in our strategic decisions with the intention in being “a innovative Priority Suppliers Regulatory bodies Model brazilian company, which connects people to their achievements.” Important Annual Report 2017 13 Our Conception of Integrated Reporting Capitals Intellectual capital: Financial Capital: consists of intangible assets such as the value of funds available or invested in own or third-party our brand, the accumulated technical knowledge businesses obtained through borrowings, provision of and our ability to innovate in the development of services and the supply of products to our customers. new products, services, and technologies, aimed at the perpetuity of the business. Social and Relationship Capital: the ethical relationship we maintain with our Manufactured Capital: stakeholders – customers, shareholders/investors, consists of our facilities and equipment, including suppliers, regulatory bodies, society and Government buildings, a network of branches, ATMs, systems, – and shows our ability to share values and improve and applications. the individual and collective well-being. Human Capital: Natural Capital: composed of our employees, their expertise, consists of all environmental, renewable and experience and capacity for innovation. It includes non-renewable resources, used or impacted by their alignment with our good governance practices our business, and that support our prosperity. and ethical values; ability to execute our strategy; It includes mostly water, air, land, forests, the motivation to improve processes, goods, and biodiversity, and ecosystem health. services; and ability to direct, manage and collaborate. Annual Report 2017 14 Our Relevant Topics Material Challenge 10244 In 2016, we reviewed our materiality, which Challenge 2 Challenge 19 resulted in the definition of 13 priority sustainChallenge 11 Challenge 14 To identify and To improve the management of socioenvironmental risk based interactivity ability challenges, that guided the update of our To ensure greater proportionality of To strengthen the role on socioenvironmental criteria in the granting of financing, page representation of gender and race in all of BB with regard to manage medium Sustainability Plan, referred to as Agenda 30 and long-term considering also the controversial issues. BB, in alignment to 2030 Global Agenda and the hierarchical levels of BB. human capital, considering the management non-financial and/ to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Challenge 21 Challenge 15 of health, safety and or emerging risks wellness, the developthat may significantly To develop a social (includes human rights and labor practicTo strengthen the role of BB with We associate our priority challenges with the impact BB’s es) and environmental due diligence process to assess the regard to the ethics and antiment and the retention capitals proposed by the framework of the Inof talents. businesses. impacts of operations and commercial relations of BB. corruption topics. tegrated Reporting and identify indicators for quantifying our value creation. Social and Human Financial Intellectual Relationship Capital Capital Capital Capital Challenge 1 Challenge 4 Challenge 7 Challenge 24 Challenge 3 To align the goverTo enhance customer relationship management and To enhance BB’s initiatives towards the effective To improve the integration To identify innovations in the nance of Banco do increase the satisfaction and retention indices. development, entrepreneurship and the promotion of the Private Social financial sector (business Brasil (BB) to the best of social and financial inclusion. Investment (PSI) and the and technology models) and international practices Challenge 6 business strategy. anticipate the trends in order and strengthen the role To strengthen the engagement of BB in the pursuit Challenge 16 to ensure the perpetuity and of the Senior ManageTo develop financial solutions and business models that prolongevity of BB. of social affairs through comprehensive, efficient and ment in the sustainabilinnovative solutions aligned to public policies. mote the transition to an inclusive green economy. ity strategy. Annual Report 2017 15 Challenges Our Value Creation Statement of Value Added R$45.8 billion Capitals Capitals Financial Financial R$1.4 in trillion in financial assets R$10.8 billion – Other JCP + Retained Earnings R$864.5 billion of third-party asset management + Non-controlling interest in retained earnings Social and Relationship Social and Relationship More than 300 thousand shareholders Our Management Model R$13.9 billion – JCP of the Union, Interest 65.8 million clients on instrument eligible for capital of the Union 36.4 million account holders Human Human R$19.5 billion in wages 101,247 employees Intellectual1 Intellectual Training – R$64.3 million R$3.1 billion – investment in technology Data processing – R$851.2 million Advertising and publicity – R$394.6 million Manufactured Corporate Education – R$70.9 million 4.770 agencies 73.4% transactions by mobile/internet Manufactured R$1.6 billion – rentals Natural Electricity: 609 GWh Natural1 Water: 1,405 thousand m3 Material, water, energy and gas – R$604.4 million Paper: 5,454 t (1) Values complementary to the Distribution of Added Value. Creation of BB value Annual Report 2017 16 Convergence of industries: innovation is destroying the boundaries among Intelligent technologies: intelligent Future of work: the working model industries, which are being redrawn by technologies raise the level of insight is changing, moving first to a more inStrategy disruptive technology companies, with and decision-making beyond the simple dependent economy to then achieve the revolution of traditional business and interaction between connected items. In an economy driven by artificial intelIn 2017, we reviewed our Corporate Stratetheir production chains. In this scenario, a network, assets, infrastructure or even ligence and robotics. This process gy for the period of 2018-2022 (ECBB 2018organizations must analyze the threats a transaction become autonomous, so should affect occupation and employand seek opportunities beyond the limits that information systems can detect and 2022) through a more complete and comment concepts, with impacts on busiof their industry, always considering, in automatically solve operating problems prehensive process that the one promoted nesses, Governments, and society. that convergence, the service demands and/or detect suspicious patterns. in previous years, with the active participation and needs of customers. of shareholders, employees, leaders, and representatives of entities linked to Banco do Brasil (ELBB). We also discussed studies Concentration of population in urban Resources and sustainability: the dison the financial industry, considering eight environments: the number of residents in cussions about the sustainability become megatrends, involving the following emerging cities, including those of small and medium more relevant with the current demographsizes, increases each year. This concentraECBB topics, opportunities, and risks for the secic, social and urban changes. The possition brings challenges related to the orgator (see more information in Chapter 4, Risk bility of occurrence of extreme weather nization and to the infrastructure in those Management): 102-43 | 102-15 events and other situations that put the societies at risk raises the pressure for 2018-2022 municipalities; causes behavioral changes in society; leads to the need for a review of smart cities, for models of guarantee of Based on these megatrends and in response the physical presence of the service providreliability of the social system and for the to the scenarios assessed, we promoted ers; and influence the emergence of media maintenance of ethical behavior. SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, interaction with customers. and threats) analysis to support the formulation of our 2018-2022 Corporate Strategy. Global connectivity: the great flow of inforEmpowerment of customers: the cusDemographic changes: behaviormation causes behavioral changes in society tomer profile is changing and evolving into al patterns have been undergoing in many ways – at the same time it provides a niche and custom culture, leveraged changes arising from new demogreater freedom of choice, reduces privacy through data analysis. This transformation graphic dynamic. Changes in life exand brings doubts as to the security in data occurs mainly in the business-to-consumer pectancy and fertility rate, changes management. The agents are constantly (B2C) but has a ripple-down effect also in in the structure of homes and digital exposed, which raises the reputational risk. the business-to-business (B2B) and connativity demand solutions that meet Thus, the environment needs constant atsumer-to-consumer (C2C) relationships. the desires of the consumer market in tention because of information overload, in This scenario accelerates the transformaa simple, immediate and secure way. which the dynamics of consumption changes tion of competitive environments and fosfrom “ownership” to “access”. ters the emergence of disruptive entrants. Annual Report 2017 17 2018-2022 Innovation and Digital Business Strategic Program Salas de Guerra – Digital Transformation ECBB Highlights The 2018-2022 ECBB positions us as “a Brazilian innovaOver 2017, we implemented the Strategic Program Salas de Guerra tive company that connects people to their achieve– Transformação Digital (War Rooms – Digital Transformation), foIn the Financial perspective, we will prioritize the growth of profitability, the increase of revenues from the provision of ments.” Thus, for us, innovation is an organizational value, cused on strategic initiatives that strengthen our positioning, stimulate services, the improvement in the operational efficiency, the through which we encourage the development of transforming the culture of innovation, improve the efficiency, intensify the digital adequacy of capital and the reduction of operational and services and products, as well as actions that foster entrepretransformation and enhance the digital and leadership skills, among credit losses. neurship and experimentation. other topics. The War Room – Digital Transformation has enabled the For Customers, our focus will be to provide high-value convergence of organizational efforts in different working contexts, experiences to this kind of stakeholder, prioritizing actions More than a technological process, the digital transformation is a which reached, among the main results: that foster the increase in satisfaction. behavioral and adaptation movement in a scenario marked by the For Processes, we will continue investing in Digital evolution of the communications and internet connection devices. Institutional campaign “#maisquedigital;” Transformation, by means of which we have continually improved methods, products and channels, making them Improvement of instruments for budget and measurement more simple, agile, innovative, integrated and oriented to Specifically in the banking system, the digital reality implies new of results in digital channels; the journey of our customers. complexities, with more demanding consumers and entrants Development of strategies for transformation of the culture and In the People perspective, we seek to develop strategic eager to provide financial services similar to those provided by development of digital skills in the various segments of employees; skills necessary to face the challenges identified for the next banks. Therefore, we seek increasingly to combine face-to-face Development of work teams and instruments models that facilitate few years, and we continue to be guided by the meritocracy in succession processes in order to recognize and retain service with the best in a full digital experience. Our strategy of the development of solutions that promote digital transformation; our talents. digital transformation allows us to deliver value and enhance the Review of the internal structures and decision-making processes, customer experience, which is in line with our goal of being noticed seeking greater agility in the decision-making process; and For Sustainability, which complements and transcends all other perspectives, the focus is on improving our performance as promoters of innovation and digital inclusion, strengthening Structuring and intensification of e-commerce and development of on sustainability, on economic, social and environmental ties with the Brazilian society. As an example of this movement, open Banking business model. dimensions, since the generation of sustainable returns in the long term assumes going beyond financial issues and we launched in 2017 the Portal for Developers, which makes traditional risks. us the first bank in Latin America to make a structured open banking operation. Annual Report 2017 18 Digital solutions result in lower cost with regard to the physical points and have inNumber of Users in the Application (millions) creased their participation in our result. Another indication that we are on the right 15.1 path is the fact that we record an average growth of 45% annually in our base of customers using the application (see table below). In 2017, 1.5 million users with accounts opened through the BB application contributed to this performance (for 2018, 10.2 3 million accounts are expected to be opened), offering a fully digital experience in the acquisition of financial products. Another highlight is the possibility of contracting 6.9 Vehicle Loan via mobile, of approximately R$1 billion payment. The solution brings more convenience to customers – more than half of the sales were performed outside banking hours, including on weekends. 2015 2016 2017 Digital Inclusion and Transformation of the Brazilian Society In line with our Corporate Strategy and our Brand Positioning, we defined, in 2017, the challenge of promoting the “Digital Inclusion and The strategy of connecting people Transformation of the Brazilian Society” as a socioenvironmental cause. to their achievements includes This new cause is expressed in our concern and our commitment to increasingly digital solutions transforming Brazil through innovation and digital inclusion, promoting the democratization of access to digital media and information technologies. This is how we seek to enable the communities to take advantage of the opportunities and benefits of the information age (for more information, see chapter 2, Transforming Role). Annual Report 2017 19 Labbs How Labbs works In December 2017, we completed one year of operation of our Advanced Laboratory (Labbs), a space for drawing and W  e have employees full of suggestions to experimentation of projects and technological solutions with the improve our products and our services and potential of radical innovation in our processes, products, and even to propose entirely new businesses. services. In order to strengthen the culture of intrapreneurship In order to stimulate and support teams, we and innovation, we have selected and empowered our teams hold events and programs for collection and to put their best ideas in practice. For that, at the end of 2017, selection of the ideas of greatest potential. Ideas Acceleration T  he project is ready to we had two units of Labbs, one in Brasilia and one in Silicon be accelerated! At this Valley, California (USA). stage, which lasts up to 12 months, the About 270 employees contributed with the Labbs during the project will aim to year. Of the suggestions presented, approximately 30 have increase the number resulted in innovative solutions. More than 80 companies and of users, in addition 3,000 people also visited the space, whose actions were disto adopting features. seminated and shared in lectures. This trail is followed by metrics to verify that The entire cycle of incubation and acceleration of Labbs comGarage Incubation the initiative is on the prises a year and a half of operation. Thus, the final deliveries right path and, at the of the first initiatives should occur in 2018. end of the acceleration, H  ere, the ideas selected in the In this step – which can happen in another validation first phase begin to take shape. Labbs Brasilia or Labbs Silicon Valley committee meeting is With the use of Design Thinking, – there are the effective development held. If approved, the Inclusion and digital transformation Design Sprint and even research and construction of the project, which project becomes a with customers, the suggestion includes tests with users for validation. business or product to of the Brazilian society were is improved and presented to a After three months, it is presented to the be offered by us. committee. If approved, it moves committee sponsoring the project, which elected our main cause in the to incubation. decides whether the initiative can move to the next stage or not. socio-environmental dimension Annual Report 2017 20 Pensa BB We maintained the Innovation Incentive Program (Pensa BB), through which we launched strategic challenges for all employees, encouraging them to submit innovative solutions. In December 2017, the program started its final stage, when the best actions of the 2016/2017 edition were selected and awarded, namely: Visitas PJ application: the creation of a mobile application to be used by New model of relationship in people management – centralized struccorporate account managers in their visits, with features such as geolocation, tures: use of virtual platforms to enhance the framework of the Regional visit guide, audio recording, and scanning of documents, schedule and inforPeople Management (Gepes), focused on operating nationally. This allows mation about the customer registration. It was awarded as the best idea of the release of funds and people, operational efficiency, agility and adoption the 2016/2017 edition. of technological innovations. Turning (companies) corporate account managers into sponsors of Real Estate Loan application: new functionality in our mobile application, products: provision of specific training for corporate account managers to take which enables customers to execute the real estate loan process entirely using the stance of “sponsors” of the products of Special Social Security Schemes the cell phone. (RPPS) and Closed Supplementary Pension Entities (EFPC), disseminating them in their locations. Full Home Broker: expansion of the solutions offered by our home broker, Portal for disclosure of personal assets available: comprises the deespecially with regard to the possibility of the customer to operate with derivelopment of strategies and electronic environments to facilitate and expand vatives and their diverse financial strategies. the sharing of personal assets across our units, with opportunities to gain efficiency and use our assets optimally. Online team of consultants to advise on an immediate solution for the occurrences of closing trial balances: adoption of online customer Indicator of sustainable results: inclusion of performance indicators in service team (through chat or video) for all units of the Country that are having Labor Agreements (ATB), with indexes for determination of sustainability of trouble closing the trial balance. The action aims to give greater efficiency to our businesses over the medium and long term. our customer service, reduce response times and facilitate monitoring. Annual Report 2017 21 Sustainability Strategy 102-15 In addition to continuing directing efforts to our process of digital transformation, we For greater effectiveness, we spread the culture of sustainability among our reinforced, in our Corporate Strategy, the focus on improving performance in susstaff through training in several contexts. One of them is the Sustainability Trail, tainability, which should permeate the other perspectives – Financial, Customers, available on Banco do Brasil Corporate University (UniBB) and that brings toProcesses, and People. Our perpetuity depends on the maintenance of a continuous gether in an environment all training content of the area of Socioenvironmental dialogue with the society, which goes beyond our offer of products and services. Responsibility and Sustainable Development. Another context refers to the Certification of Corporate Socioenvironmental Responsibility, whose evidence is made The directions on sustainability are evaluated through indicators, ranging from a straavailable on a half-yearly basis to employees enrolled in the Internal Knowledge tegic level, with the Master Plan, to the operational level, in the Work Agreement of Certification Program. branches. The indicators include the assessment of results in the operational plans of the branches, impacting the variable compensation of the statutory officers and Through these actions, we have a prominent role in the global scenario in the employees. 102-18 | 102-19 sustainability theme, so much so that we are part of nationally and internationally recognized indexes such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), of the The Management’s Variable Compensation Program (RVA) is subject to the distribution New York Stock Exchange; the Dow Jones Sustainability Emerging Markets of Profit Sharing (PLR) to employees. The amount varies according to the performance portfolio; and the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) of B3. observed in ten indicators based on the Corporate Strategy of BB, one of which is specific to the social business perspective. The variable compensation of the employees is linked to Work Agreement (BB and ATB connection) and includes indicators related to the efficient use of resources (water, energy, and paper) and the expansion of employee involvement in social and voluntary causes. The model measures the performance of the management of branches with respect to the established goals and affects the variable compensation Our action upon payment of profit sharing (PLR), whose receipt is subject to a minimum score plan for a in the Work Agreement. sustainable future. Thus, we believe that the Corporate Socioenvironmental Responsibility (CER) should be an aspect that crosses the management of our businesses. We believe that it is possible to reconcile the interests of shareholders with socioenvironmentally sustainable businesses by establishing ethical and responsible relations with our various stakeholders. Annual Report 2017 22 Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB Challenges in Sustainability Agenda 30 BB 102-43 | 102-44 Aligned with the world transformation agenda PROSPERITY PARTNERSHIP PEOPLE PLANET PEACE focused on sustainable development, we update our Sustainability Plan every two Challenge 1: to align the governance Challenge 6: to strengthen the Challenge 11: to ensure greater Challenge 16: to develop financial Challenge 21: to develop a social years. In 2016, the review, in addition to of Banco do Brasil to the best engagement of Banco do Brasil in proportionality of representation of solutions and business models that (includes human rights and labor the contributions obtained with an exteninternational practices and strengthen the pursuit of social affairs through gender and race in all the hierarchical promote the transition to an inclusive practices) and environmental due the role of the Senior Management comprehensive, efficient and innovative levels of Banco do Brasil. green economy. diligence process to assess the impacts sive consultation with our stakeholders, was in the sustainability strategy. solutions aligned to public policies. of operations and commercial relations inspired by the Sustainable Development of Banco do Brasil. Goals (SDG) launched by the United Nations Challenge 2: to identify and manage Challenge 7: to enhance Banco Challenge 12: to expand programs on Challenge 17: to improve the Challenge 22: to review and develop (UN), in 2015. medium and long-term non-financial do Brasil’s initiatives towards education and awareness-raising in management of the climate change the commitments of Banco do Brasil set and/or emerging risks that may the effective development, sustainability for internal stakeholders theme in Banco do Brasil in such a out in the guidelines of sustainability for significantly impact Banco do entrepreneurship and the promotion and the society. manner that it takes into account the the credit and controversial issues. Our Sustainability Plan contributes to the Brasil’s businesses. of social and financial inclusion. governance, risks, opportunities, and adaptations. improvement of businesses and processes Challenge 3: to identify innovations Challenge 8: to strengthen the Challenge 13: to improve the Challenge 18: to improve the Challenge 23: to improve management by consolidating actions with socioenvironin the financial sector (business and dissemination of the sustainability model of variable compensation Environmental Management System and reporting practices of Banco do mental bias. Organized on sustainability chaltechnology models) and anticipate the topic in the entities affiliated with of employees, including that of the (EMS) and the eco-efficiency practices Brasil on the sustainability performance. trends in order to ensure the perpetuity Banco do Brasil. Senior Management, expanding seeking to reduce the ecological footprint lenges, it unfolds in mapped commitments and longevity of Banco do Brasil. the socioenvironmental criteria and of Banco do Brasil. considering the individual performance. based on the evaluation of national and international trends of sustainability, market Challenge 4: to enhance customer Challenge 9: to enhance the role Challenge 14: to strengthen the Challenge 19: to improve the Challenge 24: to improve the indexes and demands of society in general. relationship management and increase of Banco do Brasil as an advisor role of Banco do Brasil with regard management of socioenvironmental integration between the Private Social the satisfaction and retention indices. for financial education. to human capital, considering the risk from socioenvironmental criteria in Investment and the business strategy. For their organization and effectiveness, the management of health, safety and the granting of financing, considering challenges are distributed among the five wellness, the development and the the controversial issues as well. retention of talents. pillars of SDG (see the table). Challenge 5: to enhance the Challenge 10: to improve the Challenge 15: to strengthen the role of Challenge 20: to improve the Challenge 25: to ensure transparency management of Banco do Brasil’s tax management of socioenvironmental Banco do Brasil with regard to the ethics management of socioenvironmental in communication and ethics in the strategy, with a focus on governance, risk from socioenvironmental criteria in and anti-corruption topics. risk from socioenvironmental criteria marketing of products and services. tax risks, and transparency. the supply chain and in the process of in own investments and third-party sustainable purchases. asset management. Annual Report 2017 23 Agenda 30 BB Highlights in 2017 Our Agenda 30 BB comprises 82 actions for us to, We also approved, in our Executive CommitPromotional campaigns supporting the among others, enhance the sustainability goveroffer to small and medium-sized entertee of Internal Control and Risk Management nance, promote initiatives for social and financial prises (MSE) of Corporate ConstitutioProposal of a financial structure of (CEGRC), the development of a socioenviinclusion in the context of the green economy and nal Fund for Financing the Mid-Wesreimbursable and non-reimbursable ronmental rating to enhance the socioenviadopt sustainable projects and solutions. tern Region (FCO), Corporate Urban funds raising for the promotion of green ronmental risk management. With a focus on Proger and Corporate Finame credit economy and contribution to achieving our human capital, we defined indicators to lines, which fund sustainable assets the goals of the Brazilian Nationally DeThese actions are distributed in the ATB of the areas monitor the total absenteeism and work-reand encourage the consumption of termined Contributions (NDC). responsible for the development of initiatives and lated indicators. In addition, we implemented goods and services intended for the compose one of the indicators that measure the use of clean energy. the Career Advancement Program for Division performance of the management of our Units. 102-43 Manager of Strategic Units, of talent identification for appointment to the position. Challenge 16, “To develop financial solutions and business models that promote the transition to an With regard to the challenge of ensuring greatinclusive green economy,” was considered by our er proportionality of representation of gender main stakeholders as the most relevant challenge Draft of Technical Cooperation with and race in all hierarchical levels, we adopted Agro Energia program, to support to be addressed in the 2017-2019 period. ThereBanco Interamericano de Desenvolactions that integrate the Career Advancethe use of photovoltaic and biomass fore, from the point of view of business opportunivimento for the incorporation into our ment Program to stimulate greater participaenergy in the field, especially in traties, we seek to prospect and/or propose financial planning of actions of dissemination of tion of women in our managerial functions. ditional customers, such as poultry the concepts of green economy on the solutions and business models for our various and pig farmers. lines of credit and financing. pillars of activity, in addition to performing actions The other actions performed in 2017, within that stimulate the green economy promotion. The the scope of Agenda 30 BB, are available main actions were: in GRI Appendix, on page 95 of this report. Digital inclusion and transformation of Brazilian See more in GRI Appendix 102-21 | 102-29 | 102-43 | 102-44 | 102-46 | 102-47 | 103-2 | 103-3 society were elected in the year as our main cause in the socioenvironmental dimension Annual Report 2017 24 Transforming Role Corporate Governance 02 Transforming Role Risk Management 26 Message from the Board of Officers Financial 27 Our Role in Society 28 Green Economy Value Creation 32 Private Social Investment Social We transform Value Creation people’s lives Environmental Value Creation Annual Report 2017 25 193.0 green balance of Agenda 30 BB – Challenges and actions taken Our role as an agent that transforms the Brazilian society is played for more than 200 years, either through the launch and review of R$ Challenge 6: to strengthen prominence of Banco do Brasil (BB) in the our products and services or through the relationship with customers and communities. We reaffirm this intent in 2017 by declaring billion businesses realization of social businesses through solutions that are comprehensive, effective and innovative and aligned to the public policies. formally the purpose of “taking care of what is valuable to people.” Indicator: balance of the portfolio in Social Affairs – Microcredit for Production with Guidance – MPO (R$305 million), Real Estate Lending 60% Program – MCMV (R$21.3 billion), National Family Agriculture Development For that, we are attentive to the quality and adherence to our prodProgram – Pronaf (R$43.2 billion), Accessibility Credit (R$163.6 million) and ucts, which provide the accomplishment of projects, businesses Student Financing Fund – Fies (R$35.8 billion). Juvenile Insertion into the Digital EcoChallenge 7: to enhance Banco do Brasil’s initiatives towards the and dreams, as well as the development of companies and Brazil. of share in funding intennomy, which will develop children and efficient development, entrepreneurship and the promotion of social We have a great concern for our portfolio, which has characterded for agribusiness, adolescents from the AABB Comuand financial inclusion. istics to boost environmental, educational, housing, cultural and serving 1.2 million family Action 21: we reviewed our Sustainability track including thematic Sonidade Program, of Banco do Brasil agribusiness issues – all of them of joint and public interest. We rural producers. The busicial Business, with content update. Foundation (Fundação Banco do Brasil invest, in this respect, in services provided by means of branches nesses reached 97.2% of Indicator: partnership to increase access to banking services – – FBB), for the job market. maisBB network has 13,774 service stations; and support for financial and digital channels. Brazilian municipalities. 230 education – Minhas Finanças App with four million registered users and two million hits daily. Our transforming role is a historical vocation, which must be consolidated in customer experience, to which we aim to advise and Challenge 16: to develop financial solutions and business models that works completed and financed by us, totaling 37,573 new real promote the transition to an inclusive green economy. offer loans consciously and responsibly. We are present in 99.8% estate units, i.e. 114 developments in the line of Minha Casa Action 46: we developed digital financial solutions to support the public of Brazilian municipalities and finance the most varied types of sector, such as Ourocard Cidades, and sought business partners and Minha Vida (Real Estate Lending) Program, with the delivery of productive activity in order to ensure generation of wealth, circudevelopment institutions for agreements and technical cooperation aimed 18,824 housing units. lation of money, offer of jobs and local growth. This is achieved at promoting the green economy. We intensified the use of the mobile channel as a way to reduce the with technology and mainly with people. Bearing this in mind, we consumption of natural resources. The main actions are the signings of seek outstanding relations for employees to be ambassadors of Crédito Veículo (Vehicle Loan), whose volume increased by 32% from our brand and customers to be proud of trusting what is valuable January to December 2017, which represented, in contrast, the reduction to a genuinely Brazilian bank. of 180,000 print sheets. Indicator: balance of green businesses – R$193.0 billion, which represents CCBB were the zone Our of 230 cultural initiatives, R$54.5 32.4% of our loan portfolio classified internally. Challenge 24: to improve the integration of the Private Social Investment Message from the Board of Officers with 4.1 million visitors and million contributed in FBB, and the business strategy. R$967.8 million return in which represents an increase of Action 76: we approved and published the new guidelines for the Private spontaneous media. 12.8% compared to 2016. Social Investment. Indicator: donations encouraged (PSI) in the amount of R$37.7 million. Annual Report 2017 26 Our Role in Society Through our businesses and processes, we seek the vision of providing the best experience for people’s lives and promoting the development of society in an innovative, efficient and sustainable way. Our actions Digital access Innovation and entrepreneurship Digital culture go through constant improvement and we are focusing on reaching We support digital inclusion by Via technologies and digital media, we Through technology, digital media and the the digital transformation, by promoting and highlighting initiatives offering and stimulating the access contribute with the incentive to financial development of cross-sectional approaches, of that contribute to the journey of our customers and the technological to internet and technologies. education, innovation, entrepreneurship relevant cultural and social scope, we enhance inclusion in Brazil. To this end, we are focused on the following areas: and social and effective inclusion. opportunities and access to knowledge. Thus, we highlight below the initiatives effectively carried out during the Environmental education and digitization of the BotaniLaunch of the Public Intelligence Portal – BB Integra: year in alignment to the Inclusion and Digital Transformation of the Brazilcal Garden of Rio de Janeiro (RJ), through FBB, for the (http://bbintegra.com.br), in October 2017, for free access to more than 370 ian Society (see additional information on innovation and digital businesspurpose of improving visitation through digital solutions, indicators, with contextualized information, presented in the form of charts es in Business Model): information on the mobile application, digital collection, and graphs, about the Brazilian municipalities. The focus is to support the and virtual educational environmental, cultural and hispublic administration and the improvement of citizens’ life quality; and Juvenile insertion into the digital economy, which will detorical trails. velop children and adolescents from the AABB ComuniLaunch of “Município Mais que Digital” strategy, implemented in dade Program, of Banco do Brasil Foundation, for the job Availability of free Wi-Fi, at Avenida Paulista, in São October 2017 to expand, in small and medium-sized municipalities, market. In 2017, 20 pilot projects for training in activities Paulo (SP), with a contract effective from August 2017 the use of alternative means of payment, such as debit cards, credit directed to social and effective insertion into the digital to July 2018, and in 1,181 of our branches, in order to cards and digital channels. The strategy aims to reduce the circulation economy were approved, for the purpose of developing facilitate the access by customers to BB application. of paper money, include population digitally, strengthen the local econdigital and information technology skills. omy and consolidate our partnership with public entities. Service to microentrepreneurs via Facebook, proPilot project for revitalization of AABB Comunidade Program vided since November 2017. The action, pioneer as a of Banco do Brasil Foundation that, in the year 2017, served digital microcredit agent, includes tips to boost sales, We also play a transforming role by providing loans, moving all corners of over 34 thousand children and adolescents throughout Brazil. advertise products and services, expand production, Brazil. Our expertise ranges from microcredit operations to financial soluThe goal is, by updating the pedagogical matrix, to reinforce create cash flow and develop the business in order tions for major customers of the wholesale, capital markets and Governments, as well as prominence in rural and housing financing – areas that the pillars of innovation, entrepreneurship and social and to improve the customer experience and encourage are essential to the economy and social welfare of the Brazilians. effective inclusion into the digital economy. entrepreneurship in Brazil. Annual Report 2017 27 Green Economy Initiatives Developed in 2017 By incorporating sustainability in a cross-sectional way into our Water and Energy Efficiency Portal – BB Internet – shows our strategy, we seek to align the provisions of the United Nations financial solutions and offers guidelines and tips on using natural Environment Programme (UNEP) on the green economy. As resources in an eco-efficient way, especially on the use of solar energy. agents of the financial system, we assume a crucial responsibility: to direct the investment of funds and assist the transition Business Models for Reforestation of Areas of Permanent from a high-impact economy to a green, low-carbon and inclusive Preservation (APP) and Legal Reserves (RL) – enables the economy, with an assertive risk management and preparation of environmental alignment of rural properties through the adoption, in innovative models of fundraising. 2018, of a forest recovery model, with 50% of native species and 50% exotic species. The project is in accordance with the new Forest Code and In our planning, we take into account the matter regarding climate aims at the economic, financial and technical feasibility of the properties. change and prioritize businesses that take advantage of the opportunities of a low-carbon economy. In addition, we identify sustainSolutions for risk management related to Socioenvironmental able production chains that may encourage the green economy, Criteria for commodities – we held a series of discussions with experts especially to meet the needs of emission reductions undertaken by for a discussion of socioenvironmental criteria for funding of commodities Brazil in the Conference held in Paris. in Brazil, with a focus on the main risks and socioenvironmental impact mitigation factors. Socioenvironmental and management risks were In this context, our main challenges include promoting the nationmapped in the production chains of soybeans, corn, cotton and rice. al economic growth on a sustainable basis so that it comprises The result of such process is the preparation of the Socioenvironmental Risk Management Matrix, a document which includes measures for the production chains with lower socioenvironmental risk with higher identification, measurement and management of socioenvironmental return. In the coming years, we will continue betting on models risk in the properties. for private and public funding for investments in projects that have sustainability as a premise. We capture opportunities in reforestation, urban infrastructure, mobility, decentralized energy generaSustainable Credit Guidelines – the process of updating the document tion, energy efficiency and sustainable production chains in agriincluded a Stakeholder Panel held for the sectors of civil construction cultural and livestock activities. and electric power, which was an opportunity for collection of criticisms and suggestions from our various stakeholders. Annual Report 2017 28 Green Businesses 203-2 Our Socioenvironmental Responsibility Policy (PRSA) provides for R$193.0 billion the work in conjunction with companies, Governments and society Green Businesses in the definition of initiatives aimed at reducing risks and leveraging (2017) opportunities related to socioenvironmental issues. We work continuously to develop financial solutions and business models that promote the transition to an inclusive green economy – and we reached 32.4% national prominence in this perspective. of our internally Based on the methodology developed by the Brazilian Federation of Banks (FEBRABAN), which deals with the measurement and identification of funds allocated in the Green Economy, in 2017, our portfolio of green business presented a balance of R$193.0 billion. Loan classified loan portfolio operations related to investments and lending for renewable energy, energy efficiency, sustainable building, sustainable transportation, sustainable tourism, water, fishing, forest, sustainable agriculture and waste management are part of this portfolio. In order to foster an inclusive economy, social areas such as education, health and local R$2.8 billion and regional development, are also part of the portfolio. Sectors are Contribution margin considered according to the UNEP classification, as well as thematic products specific to activities related to the green economy. R$309.1 billion 21.7% FEBRABAN portfolio Risk-Adjusted Return (2016) RAR measures the efficiency of products taking For more information on the in consideration the relationship between FEBRABAN study, please visit Return vs. Capital Consumption Annual Report 2017 29 Sustainable Agriculture 203-2 At the end of 2017, we served approximately 1.2 million family farmers under Pronaf, with a share in 65% of contracts of costing and investment operations in the market. The businesses reached 97.2% of Brazilian municipalities, which indicates the scope of the program. We were recognized as one of the main agents that drive the agribusiness development in Brazil, supporting the sector at all stages of its production chain. Our work is Information about the Portfolio – Pronaf (R$ million) aligned with the criteria established for the maintenance of socioenvironmental sustainability. 41,935 43,190 39,272 We are partners of the Sustainable Rural Project, created to encourage small and medium-sized producers to adopt technologies with a low emission of Greenhouse Gases (GHG), as well as train and reward the technical assistance agents responsible for preparing and moni2015 2016 2017 toring the projects. In 2017, we remained a leader in the number of contracts of financing within the scope of the Low-Carbon We provide solutions with socioenvironmental attributes Agriculture (ABC). The initiative finances sustainable agricultural production systems, with a recognized to our rural producing customers, such as the National capacity to reduce or sequester GHG emissions and promote vegetation/biomass and food production Family Agriculture Development Program (Pronaf), which and the preservation of the environment. The actions of the program are aligned to the ABC plan, coordihas the support from teams that are qualified in agriculnated by the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Food Supply (Mapa). tural financing, experts in investments and agronomists. Created in 1995 by the Federal Government, the program is intended for the provision of specialized service to mini Information about the Portfolio – ABC Program (R$ million) and small rural producers, which promotes income generation and values the use of family workforce. 9,099 9,166 8,784 2015 2016 2017 More information in GRI Appendix FS7 | FS8 Annual Report 2017 30 Popular Housing 203-2 Effective Development and Support for Entrepreneurship 203-2 With a focus on intensifying our work in microfinance, we improved, in 2016, the strategic partnership with Movera, our affiliate for acWe are also the financer of the set of measures of the Federal GovernWe provided micro and small-sized enterprises and individual micro-entrepreneurs tions related to MPO. The company has specialized microcredit ment aimed at facilitating the acquisition of houses by low-income famwith appropriate solutions to support their development, ranging from financial alagents so that entrepreneurs are advised and can sign contracts ilies through Minha Casa Minha Vida Program – PMCMV (Real Estate ternatives to business models that promote the transition to an inclusive economy. in a qualified way, and they also monitor the investment of the loan, We encouraged the entrepreneurial culture in Brazil and the perpetuity and susLending). By means of the funds provided as real estate loan, we also with close control of non-default. tainability of the projects. helped the Brazilian economy and society, the reduction of the housing deficit, the growth of the entire chain of the civil construction industry and In 2017, with 220.7 thousand active customers, the portfolio ended Our lines for micro and small-sized enterprises, such as those linked to the Income the improvement of the quality of life. Generation Program (Proger), fund the installation of energy efficiency (lighting, the year with a balance of R$305.2 million, which represents a reengines, climate control, solar panels and wind power, among others) and water duction of 45.5% in the year. In 2017, 230 works financed by us were completed, totaling 37,573 (water intake, reuse and treatment, hydrometer, regulators, etc.) equipment, with new real estate units, 114 of which were developments in the line of cost reduction and savings for our customers. PMCMV Program, with the delivery of 18,824 housing units. There was the release of the amount of R$1.38 billion for the construction Information about the Portfolio – Proger (R$ million) of 235 developments, 62 of which in the PMCMV line, with 9,395 Information about the Portfolio – MPO (R$ million) housing units. In addition, we allocated funds for the acquisition 2,667.2 2,272.10 of other 10,900 units under the program, contributing to the goals 1,694.99 663.3 560.2 of the housing policies of the Country. In the Individuals segment, 305.2 14,455 PMCMV operations were carried out, which results in the portfolio of R$21.03 billion. Information about the Portfolio1 – PMCMV (R$ million) 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Our contribution in the extension of microcredit occurs through Microcredit for Produc21,025.98 19,912.77 tion with Guidance (MPO) program, which aims to improving the cash flow or financing 16,658.73 the purchase of equipment, furniture or tools for individual micro-entrepreneurs (MEI), either formal or informal, with revenues up to R$200 thousand per year. The MPO enables credit-oriented access, with consequent financial and efficient inclusion, education in the use of the money and generation of employment and income. 2015 2016 2017 (1) It comprises only the Individuals Portfolio. Annual Report 2017 31 Tax Incentives (R$ million) 2015 2016 2017 Private Social Investment Culture Support Rouanet Act 36.3 32.8 31.8 Our Private Social Investment (PSI) comprises the voluntary, Sports Incentive Act1 12.0 16.6 2.4 monitored and systematic allocation of private funds to social, environmental and cultural initiatives of public interest. The PSI Fund for the Rights of Children 2.0 9.8 1.5 and Adolescents2 can be leveraged through tax incentives and the allocation of non-financial and intangible resources. National Fund for the Elderly2 2.0 10.0 0.9 National Program for Cancer Our tax incentives follow specific legislation and are destined for 2.0 9.6 0.9 Care Support2 the Childhood and Adolescence Funds (FIA), the Elderly Fund, the National Program for Cancer Care Support (Pronon) and the National Program for Support to the 0.2 Healthcare of the Disabled People2 National Program for Support to the Healthcare of the Disabled People (Pronas/PCD). The FIA and the Elderly Fund work with Total Amount in Donations 54.3 78.8 37.7 groups of people prioritized by the State for social inclusion and (1) The amount in 2017 was lower because the sponsors failed to approve the projects in the Ministry of protection, while donations from Pronon and Pronas support Sports in a timely manner. initiatives and services developed by entities, associations and (2) The transfer amounts are calculated based on income tax due by the company in the reference year, according to the legislation in force. Therefore, when there is a change in that basis, the amounts of private non-profit foundations in the field of oncology and PCDs. donations are impacted. Social Business Our PSI guidelines provide for the work integrated with social affairs, which, for us, are cost-effective initiatives seeking solutions to social problems – using market mechanisms – for the purpose of reducing social and economic inequalities in a sustainable way and ensuring income, effective inclusion and access to public services. Examples of these businesses are funding under the MPO, Pronaf, BB Accessibility Credit, Fund for Financing the Higher Education Student See our PSI (Fies) and PMCMV. Guidelines here Annual Report 2017 32 As founders of FBB, we carried out donations in accordance with Investment in Sports and Culture our financial availabilities – limited to 5% of our operating income, according to the Bylaws. In 2017, we allocated R$54.5 million in Within the framework of our PSI, we maintain four Cultural Centers of Banco do Brasil (CCBB) FBB, which represents an increase of 12.8% compared to 2016. – in the cities of Brasília (DF), Belo Horizonte (MG), Rio de Janeiro (RJ) and São Paulo (SP) – with varied schedule of projects, in addition to a structured Educational Program. With this FBB directs funds to actions related to the urban and rural areas, investment, we offer equipment of culture available to the population, with free or low-cost in five themes: water, agro-ecology, agro-industry, solid waste and access, thus contributing to the development of the society. 203-1 education. Thus, through the Foundation, we seek to improve the lives of people by encouraging the social and effective inclusion, The definition of actions, which should be adhering to our curatorial axis, passes through a the sustainable development and social technologies, contributing public selection and prospecting process in the cultural market. In addition to regular and in an integrated and participatory manner to the achievement of qualified, CCBB schedule strengthens the bond with our customers and in the segments the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). that we prioritize. In the Educational Program, the scope of work includes the creation of educational materials CCBB 2017 Socio-environmental actions Contributions to Banco do Brasil Foundation designed for exhibitions of greater visibility, with appropriate language to elementary and per Source (R$ million) high school students. Some exhibitions have material in Braille and visits designed to assist hearing impaired people. Sources of Expedients 2015 2016 2017 In 2017, our CCBB were the zone of 230 cultural initiatives, with 4.1 million visitors and Educational project Banco do Brasil 47.6 48.3 54.5 Direct jobs R$967.8 million return in spontaneous media. 250,483 visitors served 6,245 Brasilcap 9.3 3.8 0.1 We also sponsored sports projects that meet our premises of sustainability, and most of which includes athletes and modalities that evoke the national identity, especially the Brazilian BB DTVM 0.5 0.5 1.8 Volleyball and Handball Confederation, the project Ambassadors of Sports and also social inFree transportation clusion initiatives focused on education and the incentive to sports. Of this total, R$2.4 million Indirect jobs FENABB 24.2 24.2 22,8 45,521 people 27,695 were invested through the Sports Incentive Act. The year 2017 was marked by a new sports platform within the portfolio of BB-sponsored modalities: the first edition of the Banco do Brasil Running Circuit. The project encouraged See the actions of Education transportation the practice of street running in eight capitals and brought together around 30 thousand parSelective waste collection the year of FBB here 21,276 children of the ticipants of all ages, with differential offers and advantages to customers and employees. Educational Program 5.6 tons Annual Report 2017 33 Transforming Role Corporate Governance 03 Corporate Risk Governance Management 35 Message from the Strategy Financial and Organization Officer 36 Structure Value Creation 40 Governance of the Entities Affiliated Social We are committed with Banco do Brasil (ELBB) Value Creation to transparency 40 Ethics and Transparency Environmental Value Creation Annual Report 2017 34 Level 1 Seal with maximum score, in the Agenda 30 BB – Challenges and actions taken Governance Indicator of the Department of Coordination and Governance of State-Owned Companies (IG-SEST). Challenge 1: to align the governance of Banco do Brasil to the We are a bank with a unique identity, which operates in partbest international practices and strengthen the role of the Senior nership with the Brazilian society, whose national treasury is Management in the sustainability strategy. the main shareholder. We exercise our corporate governance Action 4: we approved the expansion of the scope of on the basis of the most widely recognized practices – for performance of the Compensation Committee which now is example, the fact that we work with committee structure – referred to as Compensation and Eligibility Committee (Corem). and in line with the applicable regulations. Action 5: we created the Risk and Capital Committee (Coris) whose purpose is to assist the Board of Directors regarding In 2017, for compliance with State-Owned Companies Act, the performance of its duties concerning the management of we reviewed our Bylaws and established two committees: risks, including the socioenvironmental and capital risk, in a Eligibility, coordinated by a representative of minority shareunified manner, for institutions that are members of the Prudential holders, and Capital Risk. We were also the fastest public Conglomerate of Banco do Brasil. company to adopt the State-Owned Companies Act, in ad2017 Indicator: to be in the Highlights in Governance of State-Owned vance of a year. We have integrated Novo Mercado of B3, in Companies Program. which we are distinguished in the Highlights in Governance of State-Owned Companies Program. These are recognitions to our continuous and clear accountability to investors and Challenge 15: to strengthen the role of Banco do Brasil the market in general. with regard to the ethics and anti-corruption topics. Indicator: results of the Integrity Program – Completion These actions reinforce our commitment to the development of the mapping of risks related to corruption in all our of the Brazilian society and transparency in management Strategic Units. and governance. Also, with this focus, we reviewed in 2017 our strategy and our purposes, always with a focus on the relationship and the satisfaction of our stakeholders. Carlos Alberto Araújo Netto Strategy and Organization Officer Annual Report 2017 35 Structure 102-18 Our Board of Directors’ Structure Executive Board (Direx) Audit Committee (Coaud) A body responsible for the management of A statutory body, composed according to the regthe Bank, composed of the President, the ulation of the National Monetary Council (CMN), At all levels of our company, decisions are takShareholders’ General Meeting Vice Presidents and Officers. The Execuwhose duty is, among other duties provided for in en in committees and with the support of strative Board is responsible for complying and the legislation, to advise the Board of Directors in tegic committees that guarantee agility, quality Board of causing compliance with the Bylaws, the the exercise of its audit and inspection functions and safety to the process. In this way, we also Audit Auditors resolutions of the Shareholders’ General (Bylaws, art. 33, paragraph 6th). Committee Meeting and the Board of Directors and share our administrative vision, spread knowlInternal exercising the tasks set by this Board, alCompensation and Eligibility Committee (Corem) edge, add value and quality to our positioning Audit ways complying with the principles of solid Compensation A statutory body, composed according to the regulation and mitigate risks. Board of and Eligibility banking technique and the good corporate of the National Monetary Council (CMN), whose duty Directors Committee Independent governance practices (Bylaws, art. 28). is, among other duties provided for in the legislation, The segregation of duties is a premise adopted Audit to advise the Board of Directors in the establishment of Risk and Board of Officers (BoO) the policy on compensation of the Bank’s administrators by us within the scope of corporate governance. Capital A committee composed of the President and (Bylaws, art. 34, paragraph 5th). Our areas responsible for the management of Committee the Vice Presidents, responsible for proposrisks, for example, are not under the direct suing and enforcing the policies, corporate stratRisk and Capital Committee (Coris) pervision of superior departments or those linked Executive egy, the investment plan, the master plan and A statutory body, composed according to the regulation Board of Board the general budget of the Bank; adopting of the National Monetary Council (CMN), whose essento any other administrative or business activities, Officers President and enforcing the plan of markets and the tial duty is to advise the Board of Directors on risk and except in the cases of recovery of credits and inUp to 10* Vice Presidents work agreement; deciding on the internal capital management (Bylaws, art. 35, paragraph 2nd). ternal controls. The same occurs with the areas * Subject to the amendment of Decree 3905/01. organization of the Bank and its administrathat deal with credit risk analysis and those of tive structure; distributing and applying the Internal Audit (Audit) third-party asset management, which is separatUp to 27 Officers earnings, deliberately by the General Meeting The Internal Audit reports to the Board of Directors Exclusive of active employees of BB – Bylaws, Article 24 or by the Board of Directors, in compliance and is responsible, among other duties, for the audits ed from own asset management. with the legislation in force (Bylaws, art. 29). focused on the risks and the provision of advice to the Board of Directors, Board of Auditors, Executive Board In line with good governance practices, we are Shareholders’ General Meeting Board of Directors (BoD) Board of Auditors (BoA) and subsidiaries. also guided by transparency, which guarantees It is the deliberative body of the comIt is the body that provides the genThe Board of Auditors, which operates the objective, clear, reliable and timely provision pany, responsible for, in addition to the eral guidance about the businesses on a permanent basis, is the body that Independent Audit powers provided for in law, deliberating of the Bank, its subsidiaries and conoversees the acts of management, for The Board of Directors is responsible for choosing and of information. We consider all the facts that can on the sale, in whole or in part, of the trolled companies. It has strategic, the purpose of protecting the interests of dismissing the independent auditors, whose activities be disclosed, except those of restricted characshares of the capital stock of the Bank guiding, elective and surveillance the Bank, meeting the requirements of are supervised and evaluated by the Audit Committee ter, which put at risk our activity and institutional or its subsidiaries, IPO and increase of assignments, not covering operathe public asset and the social function (Bylaws, art. 21, subparagraph IX, and 33, paragraph image, or those that are protected by law. capital stock through the subscription tional or executive functions. of the company (Bylaws, art. 39). 2nd, subparagraph II). of new shares, as well as the spin-off, merger or takeover of the company See more in Chapter 2 of the Reference Form (Bylaws, art. 10). Annual Report 2017 36 Among the changes related to the State-Owned Companies Act and/ In addition to the broad review in our Bylaws, we also carried out: or PDGE, the main ones are: We review our Bylaws The creation of aligned with the Policies on Relatedbest corporate Expansion of the requirements and prohibitions for the Party Transactions The revision of the Code appointment of members of the Board of Directors, Executive and Policies on of Ethics and Standards governance practices Board and Board of Auditors; the Appointment of Conduct and Succession Creation of the Risk and Capital Committee, composed of of Administrators four members, most of them independent, to advise the Board of Directors; Innovations and Adjustments – State-Owned Companies Inclusion in the Bylaws of the section on risk management Act and PDGE practices and internal controls; The preparation The formulation of Extension of the duties of the Compensation Committee (current and dissemination of the Shareholders’ In the period, in the Shareholders’ General Meeting, it was approved a Compensation and Eligibility Committee), with powers to express the Annual Corporate Compensation Policy comprehensive review of our Bylaws in order to adjust it to best pracan opinion on the compliance with the process of appointment and Governance Letter tices of corporate governance and the State-Owned Companies Act, to evaluation of members of the Board of Directors (and its advisory which we aligned with a year in advance of the term stipulated by the committees), the Executive Board and the Board of Auditors; legislation (see below). The body also confirmed our adherence to the Increase of the minimum percentage of independent directors Highlights in Governance of State-Owned Companies Program (PDGE), in the Board of Directors to 25%; and In search of permanent improveof B3, which certifies companies controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Explanation of the requirement, in contracts entered into with the ment and aware of the need for The improvement federative entities, and that undertake voluntarily with the best practices Federal Government of Brazil, of the forecast of terms for the adjustment, we anticipate for of the contents of the of corporate governance. compliance with the obligations and penalties for noncompliance. 2018 the disclosure of the minReference Form utes of the meetings of the Board Another innovation of 2017 that brings us to a level of excellence was the of Directors, its committees and reach of Level 1, with maximum score, in the Governance Indicator of the Board of Auditors in the interthe Department of Coordination and Governance of State-Owned Comnal regulations of the bodies, as panies (IG-SEST), of the Ministry of Planning. The IG-SEST is an instruwell as disclosing the certificate ment of periodic monitoring to assess compliance with the requirements of adequacy of the structure and of Act No. 13.303/2016. budget of the area of Internal Controls and Compliance. Annual Report 2017 37 Organizational Structure of Risk and Capital Management Risk and Capital Management Bodies and their Duties Committees Main Purposes BoD Assist the Board of Directors on risk and capital management; Coris Coaud Supervise the compliance, by our Executive Board, Risk and Capital with the terms of Statement of Risk Appetite and Committee (Coris) Tolerance; and Risk Management Governance CD Assess the degree of adherence to the processes of risk management framework to policies related to risk and capital management. Our model of governance for risk and capital management involves CSGRC top and executive committees structure, with the composition of High Committee various areas and participation of the President, Vice Presidents for Risk, Assets, Adopt strategies for management of assets, and top executives (as the case may be). The following aspects Liabilities, Liquidity and liabilities and liquidity, risks, internal controls CEGRC CEGAPC Capital Management and capital. are considered: (CSGRC) PCLD (Allowance Forum of Internal Controls and Risk for Doubtful Accounts) Capital Forum Segregation of duties – business x risk; Forum Management in the Entities Affiliated Approve methodologies for management of risks with BB and in the external network Specific structure of risk management; Executive Committee and their mitigation actions; Liquidity Risk of Internal Control and Express itself about methodologies for identification Defined management process; Scenarios Forum Risk Management and classification of deficiencies in the internal Forum Decisions at various hierarchical levels; (CEGRC) control system and correction measures; and Equip the CSGRC in its duties. Clear rules and authorities structure; and Integrated Operational and LeReference to the best management practices. gal Risk Management Forum A  pprove guidelines for the management of funding Executive Committee Our risk management framework involves specific policies, Stateand liabilities, models, criteria and parameters Technical Operational Risk for Assets, Liabilities, applied to capital management; ment of Risk Appetite and Tolerance, strategies, processes, proceModel Evaluation Forum Liquidity and Capital A  pprove the scenarios to be used in the capital Management dures and management structures, always in compliance with the management process; and (CEGAPC) E quip the CSGRC in its duties. specificities of each risk. BoD Board of Directors Coaud Audit Committee Coris Risk and Capital Committee BoO Board of Officers CSGRC High Committee for Risk, Assets, Liabilities, Liquidity and Capital Management CEGRC Executive Committee of Internal Control and Risk Management Learn more on Chapter 2 of the Risk Management Report CEGAPC Executive Committee for Assets, Liabilities, Liquidity and Capital Management Annual Report 2017 38 Governance of the Corporate Structure and Roles 102-29 Socioenvironmental Responsibility Our governance of CER is structured as follows: The Corporate Socioenvironmental Responsibility (CER) permeates our organizational structure and is expressed in our policies and in sevBoard of Directors, which follows up our socioenvironmental eral voluntary commitments that we assumed. performance and ongoing initiatives annually. The main purpose of governance in CER is to manage our socioenBoard of Officers, responsible for approving, every two years, vironmental performance, which occurs from the implementation and the actions of the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB and for dissemination of the Socioenvironmental Responsibility Policy (PRSA) monitoring the related initiatives, whose accountability is carried out every six months. which considers, in an integrated manner, the economic, social and environmental dimensions in business and in the ethical and transparent relationship with our stakeholders. Risk and Capital Committee, which advises the Board of Directors in the performance of its duties concerning the management of risks, among which, socioenvironmental and capital risk. The monitoring of the actions that form the plan of action of PRSA occurs within the scope of Agenda 30 BB, for the purpose of improving the Sustainability Forum, composed of our executives and those of socioenvironmental risk management (see more about Agenda 30 BB Banco do Brasil Foundation (FBB), which supports the incorpoin the Business Model chapter). ration, the alignment and the dissemination of our sustainability principles and practices; as well as following up socioenvironmental initiatives and the implementation of actions of Agenda Our other policies include socioenvironmental aspects, which are also 30 BB. This forum is held on a quarterly basis and reports to the considered in negotiating and administrative practices, such as credit Executive Business Committee. and investment operations, and those of relationship with suppliers and employees. For their relevance, these guidelines are replicated in the Strategy and Organization Board, a body directly linked to our Sustainable Credit Guidelines and in the Socioenvironmental GuidePresidency and responsible for driving the corporate socioenvilines for Controversial Issues. Read the full Guidelines. ronmental responsibility topic. In 2017, our governance structure of CER was enhanced with the creation of the Risk and Capital Committee and from the migration See more in 102-21 | 102-29 | 102-43 | 102-44 of responsibility for driving the theme for the Strategy and OrganiGRI Appendix 102-46 | 102-47 | 103-2 | 103-3 zation Board, which contributes to greater alignment to the Corporate Strategy. Annual Report 2017 39 Governance of the Entities Affiliated with Banco do Brasil (ELBB) Ethics and Transparency 102-17 The ELBB are organizations with independent legal personality, with their own Banco Votorantim: the Socioenvironmental Responsibility and Sustainability Policy business strategies and policies, in which we seek synergy and dissemination of is being revised at the beginning of 2018, with contributions from BB and BV. We value ethical reflection as a way to improve behaviors and we our governance, guidelines and best practices which we adopted as a way of base recognize that our employees must be the legitimate representatives them on decisions about the sustainability theme. Cielo: in September 2017, the Board of Directors of the company deliberated of the theme. Our Corporate Ethics Management aims to: the Proposal of the Sustainability Strategic Plan by the representatives of BB The governance of ELBB includes the formulation of analyses and considerations in the company. R  aise the awareness of the staff about the essential character of to base the directors appointed by us, in addition to the modeling of standards and ethical behavior; mechanisms. In 2017, the main ones were: BB DTVM: 2018-2022 Corporate Strategy of the company and the Master Plan, T  rain the teams regarding the standards of behavior that we expect; approved in 2017, contemplate the strategic goal of “enhancing sustainable investInhibit misconduct; Establishment of Eligibility Committee, aligned to Act No. 13,303/2016 and its ment practices.” The Review of the Specific Supplier Relationship Policy, approved Identify any deviations, risks and their consequences, with the Decree No. 8,945/2016; in 2017, requires from suppliers the socio-environmental responsibility commitments. proposal of corrective actions; and P rovide information to managers of products and services to an Improvement of the criteria and review of our process of selection and appointment BB Consórcios: it advocates the responsible management and the preservation ethical conduct. of members to compose the governance bodies of ELBB, with the development of of the environment in its Supplier Policy, approved in 2017. We recommend to BB We participated in the National Forum of Ethics Management a model and system for implementation of a Base of Directors and standardized Consórcios to evaluate the inclusion of reputation, strategy and socioenvironmenin State-Owned Companies to share practices, formulate stratresearch (by segment, by governance body, by education background and expetal risk in its Inventory of Risks and Set of Relevant Risks. In 2017, the Board of egies and establish procedures compatible to the demands of rience) for candidate searches, among other features; and Directors of the entity considered such risks as emerging risks, not relevant risks. the companies represented, with the adoption of actions for the Provision to ELBB of the Specific Policy of Relationship with Customers and Users Cateno: the Board of Directors of the company has been discussing the formulation dissemination of ethical principles in the organizational policies of Products and Services, approved by our Board of Directors, with promotion of of the company’s policies, including the Socioenvironmental Policy that complies and practices. We are also part of the Working Group of the exchange and proposal of synergistic actions in CER. with the applicable law and the guidelines of BB. Business Pact for Integrity and Anti-Corruption, of Ethos Institute, created to support signatories in the implementation of In 2017, we followed up the deliberation of topics of the meetings of the Board of DirecBB Seguridade: the company supports the socioenvironmental responsibility policies to promote the integrity and anti-corruption. tors (BoD) of the Entities Affiliated with Banco do Brasil (ELBB) on socioenvironmental policies set out in the public commitments of its parent company, BB. and sustainability issues, through issuance of analysis and subsidy of information, through the Executive Summary document, sent to the directors appointed by us. Assets: the review of the Unified Risk Management Policy of the company (including Socioenvironmental Risk) was deliberate by the Board of Directors in 2017. Banco Patagonia S.A.: annually, the Directory (Board of Directors – BoD) of the company approves the report (http://bancopatagonia.com.ar/institucional/rse.shtml) in PREVI: it is a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) since which the socioenvironmental programs performed in the previous year are detailed. 2006 and included in its Investment Policy the criteria of socioenvironmental responsibility (SER). See more in 205-1 | 205-2 | 406-1 | 407-1 | 408-1 GRI Appendix 409-1 | 412-1 | 412-2 | 410-1 Annual Report 2017 40 Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct 102-17 We have a Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct to systematize interns and apprentices perform reading and electronic concorthe amounts that should be practiced by our professionals, of the vardance of the Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct. 205-2 ious functions, and service providers in relationships with the various segments of society, in Brazil and abroad. The document regulates Periodically, all are instructed on matters of relevance to busithe actions in the performance of functions and, to this end, it has the ness and conduct in work through notices and booklets, which description of concrete situations of everyday life. also encourage the reporting of any suspicious situations to the Internal Ombudsman. The document is reviewed periodically to provide guidelines on how to act before today’s challenges. Our Board of Directors updated the We also have a structured internal control model through layers of Code in April 2017, in compliance with Act No. 13,303/2016; CMN control, and we have standards and procedures aimed at the restoResolution No. 4,539/2016, which deals with principles and policy ration of order and repositioning of employees, in case of non-comof relationship with customers and users of financial products and pliance with the Code, policies and other internal regulations. services; and for the inclusion of guidelines for improving the culture of customer service and satisfaction. In 2017, we received through the channels of the Internal Ombudsman (email, BB intranet, letter, in person, via telephone or 2018 2015 2016 2017 via trade unions) 603 complaints relating to possible breaches of goals the Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct, of which 80 were Employees Who Have Declared considered valid, which resulted in administrative measures such Adherence to the 96.13 97.14 96.46 97.50 as feedback, guidance, mediation of conflicts, improvement of Code of Ethics and Conduct Norms (%) processes and others. Of the total, 170 conflict mediations were performed with the agreement. For the correct understanding and implementation of the guidelines in the document, we invested in communication and educaSee more in 205-1 | 205-2 | 406-1 | 407-1 | 408-1 GRI Appendix 409-1 | 412-1 | 412-2 | 410-1 tion. In this sense, annually, our Senior Management, employees, We share our principles with employees and partners. The goal of the adopted practices is to develop relationships based on integrity and transparency Annual Report 2017 41 Our Internal Ombudsman, means of communication with employees, interns, apprentices and workers of contractors, receives Ethical Trail annually approximately 3.7 demands. Communications include workplace conflicts, complaints about behavioral deviations and We conduct training on our Code of Ethics and Standards of Connon-compliance with internal standards and complaints relating to duct through the Ethical Trail, created in 2014 and hosted on the portal of the Banco do Brasil Corporate University (UniBB). people management processes. The Trail is reviewed and updated according to our strategy, our Reporting Channel – Ethics and Anti-Corruption 102-17 The corruption cases committed by an individual that cause injury context and the national scenario. After 2017, it was composed or expose us to risks are referred as irregularities, regarding conof 15 educational solutions (courses, video classes, articles, We maintain dedicated structures to receive and handle complaints ducting the disciplinary control; booklets, among others) for discussion on ethical behavior. The related to ethics and corruption. Our External Ombudsman and our Complaints about behavioral or relational themes are always treatmain actions were: Prevention and Fight Against Corruption, PreAudit Committee are channels for receiving external complaints ed for the purpose of repositioning of employees and the search for vention and Fight Against Bullying and Sexual Harassment, and Learning about the Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct. about possible frauds or noncompliance with standards. a restorative and healthy environment; When there is proof of social and functional objectionable behavFor their relevance, since 2015, by the decision of the Board In the case of complaints concerning the suspicion that legal entiiors, signs of bullying and/or failure to comply with the rules of the of Officers, the courses that form the Ethical Trail are prerequities have practiced harmful act eligible as corruption, in accordance Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct, the employee is unable site in selection processes and for the enrollment of employees with Act No.12,846/2013 (Anti-Corruption Law or Clean Company to rise professionally and to participate in programs of recognition in opportunities for internal professional rise and obtainment of Law) against us, our flow includes the following steps: and awards, among others. If there is a recurrence, the case is scholarships from our Continuing Education Programs. escalated to the Ethics Committee; For the Senior Management, training on ethics involves lectures Admissibility of the complaint; Women and transgenders may request the service to be provided on a half-yearly basis that cover topics such as Anti-CorrupEstablishment of a preliminary investigation; exclusively by women whenever a complaint involving evidence tion Law and regulatory framework on the governance of StateEstablishment of administrative accountability process; of sexual harassment or gender discrimination is registered; and owned enterprises. Trial; and Cases about evidence of sexual harassment, if proven, are asArchiving. sessed by the Internal Audit. See more in GRI Appendix 205-2 See more in 205-1 | 205-2 | 406-1 | 407-1 GRI Appendix 408-1 | 409-1 | 412-1 | 412-2 Annual Report 2017 42 Efforts and Results Integrity Program In order to mitigate the occurrence of harmful acts that can Participation in advisory boards of institutions inWe seek to ensure an ethical work environment in our activities and in the be qualified as corruption in 2017, we list: tended for the prevention and fight against correlationship with our stakeholders through the Integrity Program that adds ruption, such as Alliance for Integrity and Internaprocedures for prevention of situations that can be qualified as active or Review of the procedures of the Administional Transparency in Brazil. passive corruption. trative Proceedings of Accountability, by the Board of Officers. The initiative aims at the prevention and identification of risks that can be Extensive disclosures, to our external and interqualified as corruption and the remediation of situations related to harmful nal stakeholders, of the channel of Clean ComIssuance of specific guidelines for the conduct acts against us. of the Process of Prevention and Fight Against pany Reporting Channel, specific to receive Corruption in the Entities Affiliated with BB. suspected acts of corruption provided for in Act No. 12,846/2013; and to employees, of the theme Prevention and Fight Against Corruption through Completion of the mapping of risks related to corporate messages and Internal News Agency. corruption in all our Strategic Units. The process, started in 2016, evaluated 389 internal processes and enabled the classification of Inclusion, in the instruments for donations and spon156 as “at risk of corruption,” under the point sorships, of recommendation so that beneficiaries of view of Act No. 12,846/2013. We identified achieve the maximum efforts for the adoption of the complementary integrity procedures capable Integrity Program, in accordance with the provisions of implementation in seven Strategic Units. of Federal Decree No. 8,420/2015. For these, technical recommendations of security were drawn up aimed at the monitoring of deployments. Dissemination of guidelines and information on the theme Prevention and Fight Against Corruption to our suppliers, on page Relationships Participation in the actions of the National with Suppliers. Anti-Corruption and Anti-Money Laundering Strategy, whose focus was the prevention and repression of corruption. See more in GRI Appendix 205-1 Annual Report 2017 43 Planning of Prevention and Fight Against Corruption and Money Laundering We focused mainly on the prevention and fight against corruption and money laundering. Our general process of supply of goods and services includes proceThe main risks include the possibility of being classified as authors of acts of corruption dures focused on the prevention and fight against corruption and to avoid in actions of agents who act on our behalf and any benefits received in trading with legal situations that could set up a conflict of interest. These determinations entities. In order to mitigate these risks, we conducted, during 2017, initiatives within the are expressed in the invitations to bid and are set out in internal regulascope of the Action Plan based on the determinations of a report of the Office of the Comptions. There are also guidelines in our Regulation of Bids e Contracts. troller-General (CGU). We also completed, during the year, a mapping of Prevention and Fight Against Corruption (learn more on the topic above), in addition to the following actions: Review of methodologies for the evaluation of risk of money laundering; Update of a platform for assessment of money laundering; Calculation Evaluation of the quality of the management of the process of preventing money laundering; and We are not involved in any corruption case confirmed, classified Participation in the development of the National Anti-Corruption and Anti-Money Laundering under the Anti-Corruption Law or Clean Company Law, and we Strategy (ENCCLA). had no contracts terminated and/or not renewed as a result of violations related to the theme. In 2017, we filed 27 administrative Specifically in the Entities Affiliated with BB, we supported and managed the review and proceedings of accountability to assess the practice of act of structuring of processes, in addition to periodically evaluating if the policies and procedures corruption on the part of legal entities against us. At the end of the defined for prevention of corruption and money laundering are aligned with our determinafiscal year, such proceedings were still under investigation. During tions. Additionally, we invited Technicians and/or Executives of the Entities Affiliated with BB 2017, no public lawsuits were identified related to corruption filed for all our training events. against the organization or its employees. 205-1 | 205-3 We completed six administrative proceedings with the All members of our Board of Officers and Board of Directors are aware of our Specific Anti-Money determination of responsibilities in instances involving the charge Laundering, Counter-Terrorism Financing and Anti-Corruption Policy. We also maintain training or receipt of improper commission for a service provided, which on the subject in our UniBB Portal. Since the launch, in November 2016, and the end of 2017, resulted in the disciplinary penalties for the people involved, 45 thousand employees completed the training session. 205-2 including dismissal with cause. 205-3 See more in GRI Appendix 205-1 | 205-2 Annual Report 2017 44 Other Information In 2017, two facts were highlighted by the press, about which we expressed our posithe exercise of administrative positions, in addition to others required by the law and by the considering that this is a civil servant. We also chose to revoke the contest and, tioning, in line with the principle of transparency. regulation in force, “not being prevented by special law, or convicted of bankruptcy crime, at the appropriate time, initiate such advertising bidding. tax evasion, prevarication, active or passive corruption, concussion, embezzlement against Aldemir Bendine, former President of Banco do Brasil in the period of 2009 to 2015, the popular economy, public faith, property or the National Financial System, or sentenced Additionally, we adopted measures to strengthen the mitigation of this risk – we was charged and arrested in connection with Lava Jato Operation for alleged receipt to criminal penalty that prohibits, even if temporarily, the access to public offices.” disclosed to the market the measures adopted on the subject and our Internal Audit of unfair advantage during his term of office as President of Petrobrás. Based on the recommended adjustments in physical environments and standards, in order to analysis of the statements made public and according to the understanding of the Federal Cautions like those are recognized by the market. Recently, we have been certified in the strengthen security in our bidding processes. Prosecution Service itself and the Court of the 13th Federal Court of Curitiba, the facts Highlights in Governance of State-Owned Companies Program of B3 S.A. – Brasil, Bolsa, indicate that Banco do Brasil is not related to the alleged crimes. Yet, our Internal Audit, Balcão (B3). The initiative is an incentive for state-owned companies to adopt good corporate An example is the publication of bid regulation and Bank’s contracts, adjusting fully by request of the Board of Officers of BB, has been assessing the facts referred to in governance practices. It is our case: we adjusted ourselves, with a year in advance, to the to the new regime of Bids and Contracts of the State-owned companies provided the testimonials and the news released by the press. governance measures established by Act No. 13,303/2016 and integrated the Novo Mercado for in Act No.13,303/2016 (State-Owned Companies Act) with a year in advance, segment of B3, which attests the strength, transparency and reliability of our business practices. including the provision of training in the Bank’s Corporate University Portal accesWe clarify that at all levels of the Bank, our decisions are taken collectively. In order to sible to all employees. involve executives in the definition of strategies and approval of proposals for the various Still, we seek the constant improvement of our standards. Recent examples in this regard businesses of BB, we use strategic committees that ensure agility and security to the are the preparation of the Annual Letter of Public Policies and Corporate Governance; the Addendum to the 2017 Annual Report decision-making process. Such a configuration contributes to the sharing of administrative preparation of the Related-Party Transactions Policy and the Policy on Compensation to On March 13, 2018, during the final process of preparation of the 2017 Annual vision, dissemination of knowledge and risk mitigation. Shareholders; the improvement of the content of the Reference Form; the revision of the Report, we informed to the Market our reply to Official Letter No. 90/2018/CVM/ Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct; and the strengthening of risk management and SEP/GEA-1, in which the Superintendence of Relations with Companies of the In addition, our practices for the protection of the reputation and the good progress internal controls structure, with the creation of the Risk and Capital Committee. of the activities include the zeal in the choice of the members of the Board of DirecBrazilian Securities Commission (CVM) of Rio de Janeiro (RJ) requested our tors and the Executive Board. From the appointments, they must provide data and Another case refers to a possible conflict of interest of one of the participating members of opinion on the veracity of the information disclosed on March 11 and 12, 2018, information that support the verification of qualifications and potential impediments the bidding committee. When we became aware of the news published in media, indicating by blog “O Antagonista,” under the following titles: “Bendine revela esquema do to assume the functions. suspected anticipation of the outcome of the bidding of advertisement, we immediately PT no Banco do Brasil” (Bendine reveals a PT’s scheme in Banco do Brasil) established a verification process, even it has not been possible to prove that there has and “Bendine e o desvio de R$1 bilhão” (Bendine and the misappropriation of As a reinforcement to this measure, we prepared an Appointment and Succession Polbeen leaking or favoritism. R$1 billion). We emphasized that we did not coadunate with any unethical or icy, with requirements and restrictions provided for in Act No. 13,303/2016, which rules on the legal statute of state-owned companies. The provision led to the amendment Despite the bidding process to choose the new advertising agencies have complied strictly unlawful practice that may have been committed by any of our employees and we of the name and the duties of the Compensation Committee, which now performs as with the legislation and the definition of the winners have been guided by technical criteria, are proud to maintain a staff recognized by technical competence, ethical behavior Compensation and Eligibility Committee, responsible for verifying the compliance of the we identified potential conflict of interest of one of the members of the bidding committee, and the commitment to customers and the communities where we operate. We process of appointment. who had recently provided services to one of the competitors, different from that which was reaffirm our complete willingness to cooperate with the Courts in any investigation, in the first position in the phase reported by the newspaper. but we regret that speculations that denigrate the image of the institution and of our Before this change, our Appointment and Succession Policy has already established the moral integrity and irreproachable reputation as requirements for the exercise of Considering this fact, and also the possibility of misrepresentation by the signature of an employees are published in the press without proper verification of the facts. Finally, the position in the management bodies. As a financial institution, we are subject to the instrument in which the servant stated having no conflict of interest, we reported it to the we emphasize that the facts disclosed in the news mentioned were subsequently definitions of CMN Resolution No. 4,122/2012 – Appendix II, which are conditions for police authority for crime investigation and the Federal Bureau of Control of the CGU, denied in an Official Note published. Annual Report 2017 45 Transforming Role Corporate Governance 04 Risk Management Risk Management 47 Message from the Vice-President of Internal Controls and Risks Management Financial 48 Mapping and Identification of Risk 49 Processes and Strategies for Management Value Creation 54 Internal Audit Social We strenghten the risks 58 Emerging Themes Value Creation management culture 59 Compliance Environmental Value Creation Annual Report 2017 46 Agenda 30 BB – Challenges actions taken 102-15 The development and consolidation of a system for the definition of the credit risk appetite, as well as the effective credit recovery and resumption process – notably in the micro and small-sized enterprises – were heavily worked in 2017. R$1.4 billion We initiated the Challenge 2: to identify and manage medium and longresources are alloenvironmental term non-financial and/or emerging risks that may sigWe have the right direction to keep sustainable performance, cated in funds with due diligence nificantly impact Banco do Brasil’s businesses. with a risk/return ratio suitable for the protection of our funds, process, when we Indicator: emerging risks – we supported initiatives directsocioenvironmental whose methodology has been widely discussed and approved characteristics. joined the Carbon ed to mitigation of climate change, such as the Low-Carbon by the governance bodies. Agriculture Program (ABC Program), in which we identified Disclosure Propositive financial implications with the contracts of operaThe focus on internal controls, with the awareness of risk magram (CDP). tions in 2017 in the amount of R$1 billion, at a contracting nagement in our base, in particular, operational risks, also concost of R$3.8 million. tributed to the achievement of stable results. The entire team is responsible for the management of the risks of the activities under its management and we know that, for our scope, this work Challenge 19: to improve the management of sociohas no end. In 2018, we will keep the investments to strengthen We supported initiatives directed to mitigation environmental risk from socioenvironmental criteria in the risk management culture among our staff, assisting in the of climate change, such as the Low-Carbon the granting of financing, considering the controversial development of strategies and action plans for this purpose. We Agriculture Program (ABC Program), issues as well. begin the new cycle with even more quality in our loan portfolios in which we identified positive financial Action 64: we developed Socioenvironmental Ratand confidence in the strength of the businesses signed with ing in order to identify, classify, evaluate, monitor, our various customers. implications with the contracts of operations mitigate and control the socioenvironmental risks in in 2017 in the amount of R$1 billion, at a our operations. Most part of our investments in technology is in systems to encontracting cost of R$3.8 milliont Action 66: we updated and published the Guidelines sure the full safety of who accesses the bank. There is a barrier of Sustainability to the Credit of the Civil Construction that makes it very difficult the access to new facilities by maliand Electric Power sectors. cious people. We can tell customers that they do not need to Indicator: we approved three projects in view of the worry: our websites are safe and we do not owe anything to the Equator Principles. Financial System, including the International one, as a whole. We have had no episode of invasion of our systems by persons We expanded by 160% the number of users not accredited. of BB Code on the internet and exceeded Challenge 21: to develop a social (includes human the mark of 29 million customers with rights and labor practices) and environmental due Márcio Hamilton Ferreira diligence process to assess the impacts of operaVice-President of Internal Controls and Risk Management (CRO) biometrics registered. tions and commercial relations of Banco do Brasil. Indicator: supplier management – of a total of 14,795 contracts in force, only 0.15% showed non-compliance with the labor legislation. Annual Report 2017 47 Corporate Set of More Relevant Risks Risk Concept Possible occurrence of losses related to non-compliance by the borrower or counterparty with their respective financial liabilities under Credit the agreed terms, devaluation of credit agreement derived from deterioration in borrower’s risk rating, reduction of gains or compensations, advantages granted in renegotiation and recovery costs. Possible credit losses arising from significant exposures to a counterparty, a risk factor or groups of related counterparties through Credit Concentration common characteristics. Possible non-compliance, by a certain counterparty, with the obligations related to the settlement of operations involving negotiation of Counterparty Credit financial assets, including those related to the settlement of derivative financial instruments. Market Possible occurrence of financial or economic losses resulting from the fluctuation in the market values of positions held by us. Banking Book Interest Rate Possible loss arising from the exposures subject to variation in interest rates of operations not classified in the trading portfolio. Possible loss arising from imbalances between tradable assets and liabilities payable – “mismatches” between payments Liquidity and receipts – which may affect our ability to pay, taking into account the different currencies and terms for settlement of their rights and obligations. Possible losses resulting from failure, deficiency or inadequacy of internal processes, people and systems, or external events. Operational This definition includes the possibility of losses arising from legal risk. Possible loss resulting from the inadequacy or deficiency in contracts entered into by us, as well as the sanctions due to the breach Legal of legal provisions and claims for damages to third parties arising from the activities that we develop. Socio-environmental Possible losses arising from exposure to socioenvironmental damages generated by our activities. Mapping and Identification of Risk 102-15 Possible losses arising from adverse changes in the business environment or use of inappropriate premises in Strategy the decision-making process. We keep a structured process to identify and define the inventory Possible losses resulting from a negative perception on the part of our stakeholders, which can adversely affect and the corporate set of more critical risks for our business and in Reputation the sustainability of the business. the interaction with the stakeholders. They are reviewed annually, Closed Supplementary Pension based on consideration of importance in various sectors of activiPossible negative impact resulting from the “mismatch” between actuarial liabilities and the assets of the closed supplementary Entities and Operators of Health pension entities and operators of private health plans to employees. ties operated by us and by our subsidiaries, and the classification Plans to Employees (EFPPS) of the impacts is based on quantitative and qualitative criteria. Possible losses resulting from the development or inappropriate use of models by reason of the inaccuracy or insufficiency Model of data or the incorrect preparation during its development. This method promotes the correct management of both the risks Contamination Possible negative impact on capital arising from adverse events in the equity interests that are not part of our Conglomerate. and the capital of the activities. Possible financial or reputation losses resulting from failure to comply with laws, regulations, internal rules, Compliance codes of conduct and guidelines established for our business and our activities. See more in the Risk Management Report Annual Report 2017 48 Processes and Strategies for Management Our risk management process involves a continuous flow of information, as shown in the following figure: Establishment of Strategies Formulation, approval and dissemination of strategies, limits, methodologies and risk measurement standards and ion D follo ecis sis endat ly m w, ion ana om ac o co n , ec rd t r D e i prep ata c y to ies ara oll teg rit tio ec ra tho n o tio st au ft n he g to h Preparation Decision n Monitoring Execution of g i in tat de or nit en cis Mo plem ion m the i on the to ng of imp rdi th act co e d of eci Ac sion Annual Report 2017 49 We also adopted – with the requirement to use – a corporate Credit process tool for Control and Assessment of Risks of Products, Services and Self-Service Channels (Carps), which aims to: Provide information to decision makers to add security for Establishment of Customer Risk and Credit Limit – ANC products, services and self-service channels to be launched on the market; Limit Risk Limit Identify and assess the types of risks in creating and revitalDocumentation Portfolio request determination establishment izing product/service/self-service channels; Seek control and compliance solutions that minimize the impacts; and Promote synergy between managers and stakeholders of Registration products/services/self-service channels, for the purpose of – MCI promoting operational efficiency. Operation Contract and Execution – COP See more in Chapter 2.5 of the Risk Management Report Preliminary Documentation analysis Study Approval Formalization and proposal Credit Risk Evidence of Release the use Supervision of credit Our lending process is preceded by advanced methodologies for calculation of risks, developed by us in line with the best management practices. Credit Risk Management/Control – ANC Annual Report 2017 50 Based on the identification of situations that may lead to credit Indexes of Credit Risk Measurement (R$ billion) losses, we assessed the condition of risk assumed and the best 2015 2016 2017 method to control and monitor it. We seek to safeguard the creProgress in 2017: ation of value to shareholders through stable maintenance of NPL+90D1 (%) 2.2 3.3 3.7 results, protection of funds and the quality of the credit offered, always in line with regulatory conditions and relevant internaDevelopment of a prototype of the mitigating instruments panel; Concentration2 (%) 27.5 26.1 25.5 tional conventions. Improvements in the management of the risk of concentration, Write-offs for Loss 17.4 25.8 24.7 with the development of stress testing; (R$ million) Our management strategy follows guidelines approved by the D  evelopment of exposure control panel with countries, mac(1) Relation between the operations past due for more than 90 days and the balance of the loan ro-sectors and agricultural exposures; portfolio classified. Board of Directors and guides the operating actions. For this (2) Concentration of the 100 largest debtors with regard to the total loan portfolio. purpose, it includes, among others, the approval of models for D  iversification of the limits of tolerance and system development for the definition of the credit risk appetite; management; the definition of goals for the quality of the loan Creation of a specific quantitative tolerance limit for socioenSee more in Chapter 6.1 portfolio; the establishment of limits of the risk of concentration vironmental risk; of the Risk Management Report and exposure; and maintenance of appropriate levels of capital Review of an econometric model for stress testing; and provisioning. Improvement of the safety of the data environment; and Consolidation of the flow of supply of database for modeling. We maintain a Specific Credit Policy that determines the use of instruments that mitigate that risk at all levels and at all stages of the management. Therefore, our operating units are provided with clear and comprehensive information to minimize credit risks in the entire cycle of operation. Our theme follow-up structure also allows us to verify the effectiveness of the mitigating instruments, with the correction of any shortcomings. We maintain a range of corporate policies and procedures for strategic and assertive management of the main risks to which we are exposed Annual Report 2017 51 Market Risk Net Position by Index (R$ billion) 2015 2016 2017 In order to measure the market risk, we adopted statistical and In order to optimize the risk/return ratio, we have an assets and lisimulation methods including metrics of sensitivities, Value at risk abilities management process, with the formulation, adoption and Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities (VaR) and stress testing. For the effective management, we estabmonitoring of strategies for interest rates, foreign exchange and fiscal Fixed 727.0 501.5 833.8 537.4 735.5 363.9 lished policies and strategies, as well as using systems that guarand tax efficiency, adopted by our High Committee for Risk, Assets, antee the management of positions recorded in the trading books Liabilities, Liquidity and Capital Management (CSGRC). Foreign Currency/Gold/RV 312.9 324.5 294.3 302.4 244.4 252.4 and non-trading books, in addition to the operations intended for CDI/TMS/FACP 290.6 345.6 275.0 363.4 251.5 380.3 the fulfillment of the objectives of hedge established (protection). The process of management of the portfolios of assets of the Treasury IRP/TBF/TR 169.6 265.6 163.4 298.4 168.7 308.5 The objective is to compensate for variations in market values of follows a formal contingency plan, revised every six months to ensure assets and reduce the possibility of loss resulting from fluctuations. our operation in any existing crisis situations, without compromising Long-Term Interest 29.5 29.2 24.8 26.6 24.8 36.7 We also managed possible mismatches from overseas investperformance, reliability, security and the availability of information. Rate (TJLP) ments to reduce the relevant foreign exchange exposures. Price Index 15.7 3.3 18.0 3.8 20.7 4.6 Liquidity Risk No index 192.8 268.4 92.0 169.3 86.5 185.7 We maintained appropriate levels of liquidity to commitments underTotal 1,738.1 1,738.1 1,701.3 1,701.3 1,532.1 1,532.1 Progress in 2017: taken by us and in line with our large and diverse base of depositors, the quality of our assets, the penetration of our network and our acSee more in Chapter 6.2 cess to the international capital market. There is a strict control of of the Risk Management Report Adoption of assets and liabilities management system such risk, in compliance with the Specific Liquidity Risk Policy, that for the external branches, with the adoption of a tool meets the requirements of the national banking supervision and the that allows the analysis of the balance sheet (separate rest of the countries in which we operate. Short-Term Liquidity (LCR) Indicator or consolidated balance sheets of the units) structure; 4Q16 4Q17 Simulations of structural changes in the balance sheet, We use and monitor instruments reported to Strategic Committees, under the aspect of indexers, fees and terms, in order including: liquidity projections, with prospective evaluation of the LCR (%) 234.5 350.5 to allow the assessment of the impact on net interest effect of mismatching between fundraising and investments; stress income; and testing; liquidity risk limits; and liquidity contingency plan.  Improvement in pricing dynamics, with greater See more in Chapter 6.3 competitiveness and efficiency. We also measured the Short-Term Liquidity (LCR) indicator, required of the Risk Management Report for banks with total assets above R$100 billion. On the average in 2017, our LCR was 278%, compared to 388% assessed in 2016. Annual Report 2017 52 Operational Risk Our operational risk management follows a Referential Model of Lines of Defense that involves our entire structure, at its various levels. Progress in 2017: Improvement of the categorization of specific limits, 1st Line: composed of the 2nd Line: is organized to advise our man3rd Line: composed by the with the identification and appointment of new manaproduction chain, in which agers in the identification and mitigation Internal Audit, a body respongers of the processes related to operating losses for there is the identification of of operational risks and to assess the imsible for the independent asnon-electronic foreign fraud category; processes, products and serpacts identified through the quantification sessment of the governance,  egregation and redistribution of losses among the S vices risks, with the establishof exposure; measure and control expothe management of any immanagers responsible for fragility (root cause) of the occurrence; and ment of controls for mitigating sure; monitor the adequacy and effectivepacts and internal controls. Issuance of technical recommendations for mana and monitoring the effectiveness of the operational risk management; gers of products/services for the proposition of preness and performance. and report their results. ventive measures in order to correct or prevent failures, deficiencies, or inadequacies in the processes that can generate risks and operational losses. Operating Losses Breakdown (%) We also use Operational Risk Panel to manage losses and monitor the classification in the Over2015 2016 2017 all Limit and the Specific Limits established. The Business Failures (0.9) 52.0 52.4 results of the panel are reported monthly to our Executive Internal Control and Risk Management Labor Issues 61.6 29.2 31.6 Committee (CEGRC) and the High Committee for External Fraud and Theft 25.7 14.2 12.3 Risk, Assets, Liabilities, Liquidity and Capital Management (CSGRC), and quarterly brought to the Process Failures 10.8 4.2 2.6 attention of the Board of Directors. Physical Assets Damage 0.3 0.1 0.6 Internal Fraud 2.1 0.3 0.5 System Failures 0.4 0.0 0.0 See more in Chapter 6.4 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 of the Risk Management Report Annual Report 2017 53 Internal Audit Crisis and Business Continuity Management Through our Internal Audit, we raise the main risks to which our Conglomerate In order to minimize the impacts of suspensions in strategic processes in is exposed. They are evaluated at least every year or, at most, every three diverse scenarios, we adopted the methodology of Crisis and Business years, according to the severity. Continuity Management (GCN). We also invested in the improvement of strategic and tactical skills so that we could plan and respond to incidents We also developed the Innovation of Internal Audit Program (iNovAudit), which adds and interruptions. actions to stimulate the proposition and implementation of innovative projects. Audit Work Performed 1951 196 172 Progress in 2017: Over 10 thousand employees qualified in GCN; 584 processes assessed with regard to the severity in case of interruption, with subsidies for defining business continuity strategies; and 14 tests of Business Continuity Plan (PCN) promoted in order to evaluate the effectiveness of business 2015 2016 2017 continuity strategies adopted. (1) Up to 2015, the duration of the audit work coincided with the duration of the calendar year. Since 2016, some works are initiated in a given year and completed in another. In order to avoid dubious interpretations or duplicity of data, we adjusted the information published in the previous report, considering only the work completed in the course of each year. Annual Report 2017 54 Information Security and Cyber Attacks We have a Specific Information Security Policy, which has its own Since the creation of the specific channel of Management of Informamethodology for classification of corporate information in order to ensure the correct treatment and appropriate protection of the tion Security Incidents, in 2015, 18 reports were received, of which five can be classified as possible breach or loss of customer data. Protection of Customers data. We determined that suppliers and contractors also know and disseminate the Security Policy. In order to guarantee the information security and to prevent cyIn 2017, as a reinforcement to the protection of the customers in selfservice channels, we intensified the incentive for the use of strong ber-attacks, there are the following initiatives: credentials, such as BB Code – expanded to the Corporate and There is also an Information Security Management System (ISMS), which Government audiences – and biometrics. As a result, we expanded aims to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of corporate by 160% the number of users of BB Code on the internet and exceeded information and inform those involved about their responsibilities. the mark of 29 million customers with biometrics registered. We also improved the transaction monitoring systems with the use of big data integrated with a proprietary system of monitoring, which increased the precision of the rules and optimized the detection time of transactions that are not compatible with the behavior of the customer. Security management and governance structures; Teams dedicated to the identification and agile response to incidents; Crucial in this regard is the Safe Behavior project, whose rules are S  ervice continuity plans, tested and audited periodically; updated constantly. In addition to the traditional means of communication Penetration/vulnerability testing; to customers, we kept tips and guidelines on our security page and Use of encryption in the life cycle of sensitive information; promoted campaigns on social networks. Another context was the S  ecurity infrastructure for the protection of communication network, intense internal communication for employees to notify customers about safe behavior, encouraging them to use strong credentials. systems and applications; Access control in systems and IT resources; and In the year, within the scope of the Ombudsman’s Office, no demands Regular audits (internal and external) related to the theme. related to the violation of privacy and the loss of customer data were identified or treated. 418-1 Annual Report 2017 55 Socio-environmental Risk 102-11 | 412-3 Our socioenvironmental risk management structure follows poliWe are signatories of the Equator Principles since February environmental monitoring reports are also required at regular intercies and processes approved by Senior Management. Our goal is 2005. Therefore, we submit the industrial projects and large vals, covering the deployment and operation of the project, during to identify, measure, assess, monitor, report, control and mitigate infrastructure projects to a set of requirements based on the the term of the financing. social risks resulting from impacts on the well-being of our stakePerformance Standards of Socioenvironmental Sustainability, of holders; as well as environmental risks relating to the possibility of International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Guidelines for We do not finance customers included in the list of employers who adverse effects caused by us. the Environment, Health and Safety, of World Bank Group. submit their workers to degrading forms of work or keep them in conditions similar to slavery disclosed by the Ministry of Labor We have a Specific Socioenvironmental Responsibility Policy We conditioned the extension of rural credit in the Amazon and Employment. We do not take credit risk with customers who (PRSA), which takes into account our work in conjunction with Biome to the evidence of environmental and land regularity practice sexual exploitation of children or child labor. For these companies, Governments and society in the definition of initiatives of the properties, not financing producers included in the list topics, we protected ourselves with contractual clauses which aimed at reducing risks and leveraging opportunities related to soof embargoed areas due to deforestation or irregular burninclude prerogative of suspension of the release of installments cioenvironmental issues, including climate changes. Our loan oping disclosed by Ibama. Financing proposals that benefit rural and acceleration of the expiration of the contract in the cases erations are also guided by the Sustainable Credit Guidelines for properties located in the Amazon Biome have their analysis referred to above. eight sectors of the economy and consider cross-sectional issues, centered on expert teams, not linked to the branches that such as forests and biodiversity, water and climate change. originate these proposals. Such centralization ensures comWe do not extend credits in activities that do not have the formal pliance with all legal requirements. authorization of the competent body. Among others, such situation includes activities that require environmental resources or projects For projects covered by the Equator Principles, we require socapable of causing environmental degradation. Learn about our Guidelines here cial and environmental compliance evaluations, conducted by independent consulting firms, if a risk is indicated in the analysis In addition to the Equator Principles, we adopted socioenvironconducted by our responsible area. Such evaluation covers lemental criteria in the evaluation of the study of the credit limit of We apply the precautionary principle, taking into account the gal requirements applicable to the management of health and companies and investment projects. In 2017, we reviewed such analyses carried out in the lending process, in compliance with occupational safety and health, the conditions of environmental procedures and introduced a new criterion that considers first the the applicable legislation, self-regulation, compacts and voluntary permits and the implementation of the Basic Environmental Plan companies or economic macro-sector groups with greater socommitments that we assumed. We base ourselves, mainly, on the for compensation and mitigation of social and environmental imcial and environmental impact, and then checks the amount of applicable legislation and voluntary commitments undertaken such pacts, as well as the other criteria set out in the Equator Princithe Gross Operating Income (GOI). Investment projects with an as the Green Protocol, the Equator Principles and the Compact for ples, if they are more demanding than the law. For projects with amount funded by BB equal to or greater than R$2.5 million are the Eradication of Slave Labor. social and environmental impacts of high magnitude, social and also evaluated. Annual Report 2017 56 We use contractual clauses of extraordinary/accelerated maturiWe also commit ourselves, among others, to: Guidelines of the Orty for cases of violation of laws and regulations concerning the ganization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Risk Factors Amazon Biome, environmental licensing, crime against the envifor multinational companies; Business Letter for Human Rights ronment, slavery-like labor, child labor, discrimination of race or and Promotion of the Decent Work; Women Empowerment PrinciWe detail the factors so that potential buyers of our securities are gender, bullying, sexual harassment or criminal advantage of prosples; Caring for Climate; Gender Equity; Fund for the Defense of aware of the specific risks related to them. Thus, the information titution, property located in archaeological heritage preservation Children’s and Adolescents’ Rights. 201-2 that can influence investment decisions are public and can be area, land of traditional people and communities. found in section 4 of our Reference Form. Controversial Issues In the process of credit risk management, in addition to quantitative Download the Progress in 2017: limits, we established qualitative restrictions to operations that can Reference Form promote reputational damages or whose socioenvironmental risks Preparation of social and environmental rating as are high. These guidelines are formalized in the Specific Creda tool of socioenvironmental risk management and it Policy, which considers, in addition to the risks inherent in our maintenance of a level of excellence in practices business, the corporate socioenvironmental responsibility and the related to the topic; capacity to generate employment and income with regard to the Implementation of the Survey of Evidence of counterparty. According to the document, we do not take credit risk See our Socio-environmental Directives for Controversial Subjects here Contamination (LIC) to check for evidence of in the following situations with customers that: contaminated areas in the properties listed in the proposals for loan operations; and  re involved in crimes of money laundering or concealment of propA Progress in the construction of the bases of erty, rights and values; socioenvironmental losses from the credit and Engage in any illegal activity; operational risks.  rovide guarantees from, directly or indirectly, illicit activities; P  re responsible for intentional damage to the environment; A See more in Chapter 6.5 Subject workers to degrading forms of work or keep them in of the Risk Management Report slavery-like conditions;  ractice sexual exploitation of minors and/or child labor; and P  re part of a political party. A Annual Report 2017 57 Emerging Themes Climate Changes 201-2 We manage the risks arising from climate change within the scope comply with the recommendations of the Agricultural Climate of socioenvironmental impacts, considering that the profitability of Risk Zoning of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Food our business may be affected as a result of this exposure. We beSupply, reviewed annually, which indicate the municipalities lieve that climate changes may not only interfere with our operawith climate and soil adequacy for certain crops and the most tions, but also in various economic sectors. adapted cultivated plant varieties. We also performed a Monitoring of Climate Risk throughout the national territory based Our management of the effects of climate changes is closely reon Weather Events Alerts issued by the network of agribusilated to our Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB, with regard to ness advisors that are registered in the Crop Monitoring Panel, the development of initiatives and adoption of practices that conwhich allow us to observe the recurrence of extreme events tribute to mitigating the effects of our operations against the soand changes in the local climate pattern and adopt preventive cioenvironmental aspects. Our actions in sustainable development measures to mitigate the loss of crop. are related to our General and Specific Policies and Sustainable Credit Guidelines, in synergy with the international commitments Over 2017, 2,915 Weather Events Alerts were registered for assumed by the Federal Government, among them, those related 1,252 Brazilian municipalities. We also supported initiatives dito mitigation and adaptation of climate change effects. rected to mitigation of climate change, such as the Low-Carbon Agriculture Program (ABC Program), in which we identified In order to mitigate the impacts arising from the theme, we use positive financial implications with the contracts of operations tools such as the Agricultural Climate Risk Zoning (Zarc) and the in 2017 in the amount of R$1 billion, at a contracting cost of Technical Agricultural Reference (RTA) System, through which we R$3.8 million. We made available to our customers a portfolio follow up the entire national territory. of products such as Agricultural Insurance, Agricultural Revenues Insurance, Proagro and Proagro Mais. In the second half This care is essential, since we are crucial in lending to agribusiof 2016, first of 2016-2017 crop (crop year period: from July 1st, ness, with 60.0% of market share. Therefore, one of the most 2016 to June 30, 2017), 61.4% of all agricultural funding, in the significant risks is related to rural activity financed by us, due amount of R$19.89 billion, were insured through the Agricultural to its vulnerability to extreme weather events more and more Insurance and Proagro for mitigation of risk of loss of production recurrent and intense. As a way to minimize these risks, we due to extreme weather events. Annual Report 2017 58 reallocation of the portfolio of assets, as well as the greater increIn 2017, for the monitoring and management of processes considered ment of other sources of revenue, such as fees charged in banking relevant to the control environment, we adopted the Control Environservices. In order to be cautious, we increased the investments in ment Management (GAC) tool and maintained Internal Control Sysoperational efficiency, reducing expenses and optimizing processtem (SCI), so that the areas comply with the agreed deadlines: one of es for maintenance of our competitiveness. Focused on banking the aspects relevant for mitigation of risks. consumer behavior, we allocated funds to the quality and convenience of service, mainly through multichannel technologies and in Due Diligence 407-1 | 408-1 | 409-1 the development of products and services. Our Specific Socioenvironmental Responsibility Policy (PRSA) adopts and disseminates principles that take into account the pro60% We also worked to identify innovations in the financial industry (business models and technologies) and anticipate the trends to motion of human rights, the fundamental labor rights, the universalization of social rights and the respect for diversity. We are comOur participation in the ensure our perpetuity and longevity, which includes investments in mitted to recognized socioenvironmental responsibility practices agribusiness credit digital transformation and the creation of new relationship models. and, therefore, we do not finance customers included in the list of In addition, we created a Banco do Brasil Advanced Laboratory, employers who submit their workers to degrading forms of work or based in Silicon Valley, California (USA), for the purpose of incukeep them in conditions similar to slavery disclosed by the Ministry bating and developing innovative technology companies. We were of Labor and Employment. To this end, we maintain an updated regthe first large national bank to be present in one of the main creister of this audience in corporate system in order to prevent loan Entry of Non-Bank Competitors and Changes in Banking ative centers in the world, which gives us conditions to establish operations to be conducted with such customers. This premise is Consumer Behavior strategic partnerships to develop solutions. established in our Specific Credit Policy and we follow the prerogative of early termination of the contract if such cases are involved in The risk arises from the increased competitiveness in the banking Compliance a judgment of conviction which has become final. industry, affected by the intensification of the process of financial inclusion of the population, the beginning of the operation of forInternal Controls We are signatories of the Equator Principles and adopt the Performance eign institutions, the entry of non-bank competitors (especially in Our system of internal controls is based on documents and guideStandards of Socioenvironmental Sustainability, of IFC, and the Guidethe area of means of payment) and consumer behavior, who is lines widely recognized in national and international markets, such lines for the Environment, Health and Safety, of World Bank Group, for more informed, more connected and demanding. as the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadeway financial products in four modes that include large industrial and infrastrucCommission (COSO 2013) – Framework for the Evaluation of Inture projects, responsible for the generation of potential impacts on local In this scenario, we can be impacted with smaller gains in finanternal Control Systems and the Control Objectives for Information communities. They are evaluated and classified in a socioenvironmental cial intermediation due to the fall in profitability and the need for and Related Technology (CobiT). risk matrix, whereby we identify the magnitude of the risks and impacts. See more in GRI Appendix 407-1 | 408-1 | 409-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual Report 2017 59 Still, under the Equator Principles, we required from the projects covered In 2017, we were not aware of any operations and/or suppliers in which in categories A or B the presentation of the assessment of relevant 1 the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining were at socioenvironmental impacts and risks (Environmental Evaluation Docurisk but verified 23 breaches of labor legislation of a total of 14,795 ment) and the establishment of a Social and Environmental Management in force in the period with 2,723 companies, representing 0.15% of Adherence to the Supply System, including, among other things, the respect for human rights and non-compliance. These cases included no significant risk of events of labor issues, with forecast of preventive and mitigating actions. In these forced or compulsory labor, or child labor. Chain Program cases, the customer is obliged to create an easily accessible complaint mechanism at no charge for the complainant, to receive complaints We prepared ourselves in 2016 for the adoption of environmental due and comments about the social and environmental performance of the diligence process, when we joined the Carbon Disclosure Program One of the gains from the adherence to the Supply Chain Program of project and seek to meet the demands promptly. (CDP). We also had the advice of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) for CDP was the opportunity to meet the management of the suppliers the formulation of the social and economic analysis process. Thus, on the environmental dimension of their business, primarily on climate Due Diligence 407-1 | 408-1 | 409-1 | 412-3 | 414-2 in 2017, we invited 373 suppliers to assess the environmental, social change and use of water resources. The analysis of the results will Suppliers and economic dimensions. According to the established schedule, we allow the development of strategies of work with suppliers proactively. The commitment to legal compliance in our chain includes the analysis achieved a return rate of 20% in economic and social themes and 16% of evidence or complaints on possible violations and breaches by trading in the environmental dimension. Of the total respondents, 58% informed that the climate change theme partners. All partners commit themselves contractually to exercise their is inserted into BB’s strategy, while 38% reported that the subject is not activities in compliance with the applicable law (labor, social security Based on averages of response, we will know the level of maturity of included in their strategy and 4% did not respond. With regard to the and tax), to protect and preserve the environment and to respect the the partners with regard to socioenvironmental aspects of their busirisk analysis of the theme to the business, only 31% said they have no free trade union association and right to collective bargaining. Before ness. With the maintenance of the project, we will have enough data analysis or measurement methodology or document. However, 15% the payment of our suppliers, we require the submission of certificates to develop strategies focused on trading partners. assured they have specific targets for use of renewable energy. Anoand proof of settlement of labor and tax obligations. ther key aspect is the reporting of emissions: 11% reported that they In 2017, we began the first cycle of socioenvironmental risk assessment perform it systematically, of which 10% verified an annual increase in (1) Category A: projects that require the preparation of an Environmental Impact in our supply chain, which included 83 companies. From the averages emissions and 42% reported a reduction. Assessment (EIA) and which have potential for significant adverse socioof responses of each dimension, we will be able to know the level of environmental risks or impacts and that are multiple, irreversible or unprecedented, especially those related to at least one of the following themes: maturity of the suppliers with regard to socioenvironmental aspects of indigenous people, critical habitats, cultural heritage or large-scale resettlement. their business. No suppliers have been identified as having actual or Category B: projects for which the environmental licensing process requires the preparation of EIA or equivalent document, according to the applicable potential negative social impacts. environmental legislation, and that presents potential for limited adverse socioenvironmental risks or impacts, few in number, generally located, largely reversible and readily controlled through mitigating measures and not classified under category A. See more in GRI Appendix 407-1 | 408-1 | 409-1 | 414-2 Annual Report 2017 60 Transforming Role 05 Financial Corporate Value Creation Governance 62 Message from the Vice-President of Financial Management and Relations with Investors Risk 63 Business Segments Management 64 Net Interest Income Financial 65 Portfolio Quality Value Creation 66 Efficiency (MD&A) We are major 67 Capital (Basel) Social funders of brazilian 68 Shareholders – Dividends Value Creation development Glossary Environmental Value Creation Annual Report 2017 61 Capital Market Adjusted Net Income Our Corporate Strategy has been built so that we could generate sustainable results. We continue to play our R$11.1 billion role as the main agent promoting Brazilian development, with the provision of financial solutions for companies Our shares (BBAS3) maintained a presence in all trading sessions of B3 and large business conglomerates. S.A. – Brasil, Bolsa, Balcão (B3) and represented 3.3% of the Ibovespa In 2017, we achieved adjusted profit 54.2% higher than R$9.5 to 12.5 billion estimate index for the four months from September to December 2017. We also kept in the previous year and higher than in 2 years as a a 1-level ADR program (BDORY), traded in the over-the-counter market in result of a large effort made the entire Bank to generate the United States. business with a better risk-return ratio, efficiency and cost control. Our correct asset and liability management NII (Net of Recovery Organic We provided reports and information to CVM and on the website of Investor (ALM) enabled us to adequately deal with the intense of Write-offs) Domestic Relations. Often, we invite market analysts to conferences with our Mana-3.8 % change in the national financial scenario, caused by the reduction in the Selic rate from 14.5% to 7.0%. Loan Portfolio gement to clarify specific issues on the Bank. -3.2% -4 to 0% estimate In 2018, we expect recovery of the credit business, credit We maintain a service-dedicated team of analysts and investors, who serrisk reduction and improvement of customer profile in line All Expenses Net of -4 to -1% estimate ved 994 customers during the year, including participation in meetings and with the more positive economic scenario. We are going phone calls. to improve every quarter, with expenses rising below Recovery of Write-offs Individuals 2.7 % -R$20.1 inflation, and income from bank fees rising above inflation. 2 to -5 % estimate For service to an institutional investor, we carried out 956 meetings, including Legal -10.6% Bernardo de Azevedo Silva Rothe billion Entities -11 to -8% estimate participation in eight conferences in the country and eleven others abroad, Vice-President of Finance Management and -R$23.5 to -20.5 billion estimate eleven non-deal roadshows and one roadshow, in addition to promoting four Investor Relations (CFO) Rural 6.1% conference calls on results. 6 to 9% estimate Fee Income For the individual investor, we held meetings together with the Private offices 9.0% Administrative Expenses in Porto Alegre, Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, Salvador and São Paulo and two Apimec meetings. 6 to 9% estimate -3.1% -2.5 to 0.5% estimate TT Annual Report 2017 62 Result Business Segments 102-2 We recorded adjusted net income of R$11.1 billion in 2017, 54.2% growth in the period. The result was impacted primarily by the increase of the incomes from fees, reduction of the provision expenses and administrative expenses, compared to 2016. Deposits R$ 450.2 billion 57.88 25.94 R$ billion Equity Interbank Securities Application Sold under R$ 373.0 Private Securities and Repurchase Agreements 376.2 billion Banking Guarantees Acceptance R$ Investments and Issuance R$ 138.9 Fund management of Securities billion (25.27) billion Insurance, pension R$ 133.8 billion (31.79) 11.06 11.01 Classified and premium bonds Loan Portfolio  Means of payment Shareholders’ (15.70) (0.05) R$ 632.4 Operations Equity 98.7 Net Interest Allowance Fee Income Administrative Others Adjusted Net Extraordinary Accounting billion Others Income for Doubtful Expenses Income Items Net Income R$ 224.8 Accounts R$ Others billion 310.2 billion R$ billion See more in the Summary of the Performance Analysis Result 4Q17 See more in GRI Appendix 201-1 Annual Report 2017 63 Net Interest Income In comparison with 2016, our net interest income (MFB) of 2017 had a drop of 2.5%. The reduction of Financial Funding Expenses was See more in Chapter 5 of Performance Analysis 4Q17 from lower average balances of deposits and also the decrease of the cost of funding in the period. Var. (%) s/ Loan Operations Income Highlight Expenses Highlight R$ million 2015 2016 2017 2016 Net Interest Income 57,371 59,341 57,878 (2.5) Revenues from Loan Operations with Individuals had a drop as a result of the The fall in the Agribusiness Credit Financial Margin Without Recovery 53,012 54,770 52,706 (3.8) repositioning of the portfolio in lower-risk lines in a scenario of a lower Selic rate. Bill expenses accounted for 56.4% of the total funding expenses reduction Financial Income from Loan Operations 98,519 101,637 86,342 (15.0) In the case of income from Loan Operations with Companies, the reduction (R$6,710 billion). Financial Funding Expenses (42,841) (44,136) (32,441) (26.5) of average balances in Micro-Businesses and Small Businesses portfolio, Financial Institutional Funding Expenses (15,579) (13,834) (12,426) (10.2) notably in working capital products, negatively impacted the line. This drop was Treasury Result 13,213 11,103 11,232 1.2 partially mitigated by the growth of the portfolio in Government and Medium Loss Credit Recovery 4,059 4,571 5,172 13.1 and Large-sized segments. Components (R$ million) Spreads (%) 4.7 4.4 4.6 59,341 57,878 2.6 11,695 1,408 600 129 Spread Global 2.4 2.2 Risk-Adjusted Spread 2015 2016 2017 15.4 15.3 (15,295) 13.8 Individuals 7.5 6.9 7.3 Loan Operations 5.9 5.5 5.2 Companies 4.8 4.7 4.7 Net Interest Financial Income from Financial Funding Financial Institutional Credit Treasury Net Interest Income 2016 Loan Operations Expenses Funding Expenses Recovery Result Income 2017 Agribusiness 2015 2016 2017 Annual Report 2017 64 Portfolio Quality See more in Chapter 3.2 of Performance Analysis 4Q17 We maintain a consistent process of evaluation and monitoring of credit risk in operations with customers. NPL +90 days Coverage ALLL Expenses The default rate (NPL +90d) comprises the relation between the opeThe coverage ratio of the operations in arrears for more than 90 days, expresses Our PCLD expense reduced by R$6.3 billion compared to 2016, which rations past due for more than 90 days and the balance of the loan the ratio between the total balance of provision (minimum, complementary and represents a fall of 19.9%. portfolio classified. additional) to the balance of loans past due for more than 90 days. It is worth mentioning that we have sufficient provision levels to support eventual changes to scenarios, such as an increase in the level of defaults. % % 206.3 3.7 3.4 178.4 3.2 167.6 3.7 3.3 209.2 2.2 2017 154.9 2016 % 2015 167.7 R$ million BI + 90 days1 31,552 BB + 90 days NPL +90d – BB NPL +90d – BI 2,976 25,265 23,671 1,832 R$ million 634 36,070 36,686 988 3,359 33,577 2,949 1,535 2,175 20,436 3,228 15,102 14,619 34,535 34,612 30,349 4,632 6,308 6,653 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Provision Required Minimum Provision Supplementary Provision Additional Provision Abroad Agribusiness Companies Individuals (1) Indicator prepared through the Average Risk index, available on SGS (Central Bank of Brazil – Bacen). Annual Report 2017 65 Efficiency (MD&A) Fee Income We consistently seeks to improve its operating efficiency and productivity, keeping a strict control Fee income grew by 9.0% in 2017. This movement resulted from efforts to increase customer relationship and the qualification of checking of administrative expenses and the constant review of processes in order to make them more accounts with greater use of products and services, with special attention to the strategy to enhance the digital channel as instrument to effective. The cost-to-income ratio was 38.1% in 2017, decrease of 160 bpsin one year. provide more convenience to our customers. In 2017, our personnel expenses decreased by 6.2% compared to the previous year, mainly due Var. (%) to the 7.3% decrease in the average number of employees in the same period. R$ million 2015 2016 2017 2016 Our other administrative expenses grew by 1.8% compared to the year 2016, impacted mainly Fee Income 22,048 23,794 25,941 9.0 by the actions arising from the resizing of our structure which occurred during 2017. The closure of branches and service stations increased the other administrative expenses by R$197.4 million Checking Account Fees 5,224 6,229 6,956 11.7 compared to 2017/2016, due to the payment of a contractual penalty and expenses with restoration Asset Management Fees 3,887 4,267 5,397 26.5 for the return of the properties. This increase can be noticed in the real estate and property line. Insurance, Pension and Premium Bonds 2,915 3,123 3,048 2.4 Loan Fees 1,718 1,684 1,894 12.5 R$ million Efficiency Ratio (% in 12 months) Credit/Debit card¹ 1,806 1,828 1,881 2.9 Personnel Expenses Billings 1,699 1,679 1,448 13.8 41.6 Other Administrative Expenses 39.7 Collections 1,045 1,046 1,087 3.9 38.1 Capital Market 562 700 775 10.6 Consortium 427 544 725 33.3 31,645 32,817 31,789 National Treasury and Manag. of Official Funds 468 594 689 15.9 12,413 12,579 12,811 Interbank 353 180 154 14.4 Other 1,944 1,920 1,887 1.7 (1) Series revised in 3Q17 in accordance with Bacen Circular Letter No. 3,828/2017. 19,233 20,238 18,978 See more in Summary of the Performance Analysis Result 4Q17 2015 2016 2017 Annual Report 2017 66 Capital (Basel) See more in Chapter 9.1 of The capital ratio reached 19.6% in December 2017. The Level 1 capital ratio reached 13.8%, 10.5% of common equity capital and R$135.5 billion reference equity. Performance Analysis 4Q17 The focus is on the organic capital generation and credit growth in more attractive lines under the criterion of return versus risk and on strategic interests in the Bank’s core business. The goal of the Management is to keep the common equity capital above 9.5% in 2019, when the Basel III rules will be fully implemented RWA Composition (R$ million) in Brazil. In addition, according to the Statement of Risk Appetite and Tolerance and Capital Plan, for January 2022, the goal is to keep at least 11.0% of the common equity tier 1 capital. 840,509 36,389 Basel Index 705,851 18,347 689,857 R$ million Dec/15 Dec/16 Dec/17 43,793 55,738 Reference Equity (RE) 135,551 130,453 135,511 18,844 Tier I 95,714 90,284 95,228 17,296 Common Equity Tier 1 Capital 68,677 67,718 72,320 Prudential adjustments (10,737) (17,085) (23,848) Additional Tier I Capital 27,037 22,565 22,908 Tier II 39,837 40,170 40,283 785,773 Risk-Weighted Assets (RWA) 840,509 705,851 689,857 643,214 616,822 MRRE Margin (RE-MRRE) 92,456 69,703 63,812 Margin on the Minimum Required Reference Equity (PR-PRMR) 43,095 60,750 71,700 Tier I Capital Ratio (Tier I/RWA) – % 11.39 12.79 13.80 CET1 Ratio (CET1/RWA) – % 8.17 9.59 10.48 BIS Ratio (RE/RWA) – % 16.13 18.48 19.64 2015 2016 2017 Credit Risk (RWACPAD) Market Risk (RWAMPAD) Operational Risk (RWAOPAD) Annual Report 2017 67 Full implementation of Basel III rules Shareholders – Dividends 102-43 | 102-44 The following chart simulates the computation of the full implementation of Basel III rules and their impact onthe common equity capital of the Bank. This takes into account the capital base of December 31, 2017 It is worth mentioning the evolution of profit adjusted per share from R$2.84 in 2016 to R$3.91 in 2017. and follows three steps: Dividends and Interest on Equity1 a) First step: it considers, in the calculation of prudential adjustments, the premises of anticipation of the schedule of deductions (phase-in) and the use of goodwill and intangible assets not amortized until 2017; R$ million 2015 2016 2017 Federal Government 3,406.2 1,323.1 1,771.8 b) The second step considers the effects of the first step combined with the anticipation of the F factor (from 9.25% to 8.0%), for the portions of operational and market risk; and Individuals 319.5 164.1 192.4 Companies 780.1 380.8 553.7 c) The third phase considers the effects of the previous steps combined with the consumption of the tax credit of temporary differences in 17%, and that of the tax loss in 16% according to consumption Previ 611.3 242.8 296.7 estimates published by the Bank in the Notes to the Financial Statements. Foreign Capital 1,239.5 486.5 710.9 Total 5,745.7 2,354.6 3,229.0 Simulation of the Common Equity Tile 1 Capital (1) Amounts subject to 15% rate of Withholding Tax. with the Full Basel III Rules (%) 10.5 (0.6) 0.4 10.2 Market Ratios (ex-treasury shares) (0.2) 2015 2016 2017 Earnings per Share (R$) 5.05 2.85 3.91 Price/Earnings 12 Months 2.86 9.74 8.05 Price/Book Value 0.50 0.90 0.90 Market Capitalization (R$ billion) 41.2 78.2 88.6 Common Shares Price (R$) 14.7 28.1 31.8 Common Equity Tile 1 Anticipation of the Anticipation Tax Credit Consumption ICP Simulated with Capital – Dec/17 Schedule of Deductions of RWA Rules the Full Basel II Rules See more in Chapter 1 of Performance Analysis 4Q17 Annual Report 2017 68 Transforming Role Corporate Governance 06 Social Value Risk Creation Management 70 Joint Message 71 Customers Financial Value Creation 78 Internal Stakeholders 86 Suppliers Social Value We create value Creation to our relationship costumers Environmental Value Creation Annual Report 2017 69 66,017 We are recognized for transparency, ethics, presence and quality We have entered into a partnership with Facebook and IBM, which of our solutions. We invest in innovation and seek to combine the will allow our customers to make transactions through the social App Cliente convenience of full digital service with the possibility of face-to-face service in order to provide the best experience for people’s lives. network without the need to access the Bank application. Providing a comprehensive digital experience is one of our priorities. 360° Mobile, thousand customers. which can be downloaded on the cell In 2017, Year of Service, we seek the satisfaction of our customers, All this process of innovation and search for satisfaction and better phone and is another way for managers 36,417thousand developing more intuitive processes. We use cognitive intelligence experience of our customers was possible thanks to the dedication to interact with their portfolio. studies to optimize transactions and digital platforms. Thus, serof our employees. Therefore, 2017 was also marked as the year of vices are available more quickly and efficiently. We highlight the a great training process. There were over 8 million hours of courses functionality Minhas Finanças/My Finances of our app for budget and 3 million training completed. These qualifications enable our checking accounts: management, Conta Fácil/Easy Account, for opening bank account professionals to work autonomously, being even more responsible 34,098 thousand individuals and for companies by mobile phone, and the financing of vehicles made for managing our brand and for excellence in customer relationships. Fale Com seu 2,319 thousand companies. entirely by mobile phone. We seek to discover competencies and ensure the identification of more talents, in order to ensure that meritocracy is the driving force Gerente, which revolutionized We have established innovative programs in the government sector, of ascension. In addition, we believe in diversity as a competitive the digital service. By accessing via such as Municipal Efficiency, to help modernize public management; differential. We highlight the Game Develop involving the base of our the Internet or BB App, customers can BB Integra/BB Integrates, for consolidating information and data; employees in a process of voluntary training, behavioral character. and Município Mais que digital/Municipality More than digital for contact their Relationship Manager, cities to work in a more secure way. Antônio Gustavo Matos do Vale from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. 2018 is the Year of Relationship, focusing on the best customer experience and the generation of sustainable results. We are alert Vice-President of Technology Antônio Maurício Maurano 101,247 to new banking technologies and changes in the financial sector. Vice-President of Wholesale employees: The digital transformation strategy allows us to deliver more value 99,161 employees and and enhance the customer experience. José Eduardo Pereira Filho New solutions for means 2,086 interns. Vice-President of Government Affairs Our Purpose is to take care of what is valuable to people. Therefore, of payment that allowed we will continue to add comfort and convenience to the consumpMarcelo Augusto Dutra Labuto greater economic dynamism in tion of our products and services through digital solutions and our Vice-President of Retail Business partnership with municipalities. internal processes, which will increase our productivity. To be more assertive in offering solutions, we will have business intelligence Tarcísio Hübner tools (Robo-advisors), more qualified investment advice and service Vice-President of Agribusiness 73.4% specialization. We have intensified our activities in foreign trade with the creation of a specialized unit to conduct the subject matter. Walter Malieni Júnior Vice-President of Retail Distribution avnd Human Resources More than 1 million of Estilo Digital, customers, of total transactions were consolidating our leadership in the conducted through cell high-income market in Brazil. phones and the internet. Annual Report 2017 70 Agenda 30 BB – Challenges and actions taken Customers Challenge 3: to identify innovations in the financial sector (business We serve individual and corporate customers from all over and technology models) and anticipate the trends in order to ensure the perpetuity and longevity of Banco do Brasil. Brazil through a segmentation structure that enables us to ofAction 8: we established the Board of Customers with an interactive fer solutions more aligned with the diverse needs. format in order to facilitate the exchange of experiences with our customers, such as, evaluations and suggestions for improvement Year of Service about products, services, and advertising campaigns. Indicator: reduction of expenses from the digital transformation – the opening of a checking account through the app costs R$0.02 Focused on sustainability, we elected the year 2017 as the while the traditional process in physical branches costs R$24 0. Year of Service. This was a signal for the efforts of all employees to give priority to the customer journey. This targeting was Challenge 4: to enhance customer relationship management and materialized in executive actions, all of them focused on cusincrease the satisfaction and retention indices. tomer service and distributed in customer experience, innovaIndicator: overall satisfaction of customers of 63.7% and 82.9% tion, management, efficiency, business solutions and training. in digital channels – with 64.5 thousand service stations, we are present in 99.8% of Brazilian municipalities. The digital context will also transform the way we work, because our employees will be more assertive in their offerChallenge 11: to ensure greater proportionality of representation of ings and in the interaction with customers. However, we will gender and race in all the hierarchical levels of Banco do Brasil. continue investing in personal service, to meet the different Action 27: we structured a corporate action plan which sets out, among other actions, the increase in the participation of women in demands of customers and consolidate long-lasting relationfunctions with greater gender inequality, with the definition of indicators. ships. Therefore, we elected 2018 as the Year of Relationship. Indicator: proportion of women (41.4%) and minority groups (22.8%) in the staff. Challenge 14: to strengthen the role of Banco do Brasil with regard to human capital, considering the management of health, safety and wellness, the development and the retention of talents. Action 41: we conducted an Organizational Engagement and Climate Survey, which showed that 79.20% of our employees are satisfied. Indicator: turnover rate of 1.60% Annual Report 2017 71 Segmentation Customer Segmentation Companies1 Individuals On individual customer relationship management, we use a set of technologies and interactive processes capable of converting Large > R$1.5 bi > R$2 bi information into positive experiences. With these capabilities, we Corporate Annual > R$2 mi develop a segmentation strategy, which considers registration > R$10 mi > R$400 mi > R$600 mi and behavioral data (stage of life, value, use of channels and conCorporate < R$1.5 bi < R$2 bi Private sumption of products and services). Upper > R$120 mi > R$200 mi Monthly > R$150 thousand Middle Business < R$400 mi < R$600 mi > R$10 thousand < R$2 mi The segmentation enables to detect needs, consumption proEstilo2 > R$25 mi > R$25 mi pensity, behaviors and current and potential habits, allowing us to Middle Monthly > R$80 thousand < R$120 mi < R$200 mi Business > R$4 thousand to to < R$150 produce strategic documents that guide the actions in each marCustomized/ Exclusive2 < R$10 thousand thousand ket and adopt assertive initiatives, according to the delivery of the Company > R$ 5 mi to < R$25 mi value proposition for each model of relationship. Thus, we need Monthly ≥ R$ 2 thousand to R$ 5 thousand to < R$4 thousand < R$80 thousand that customers see us as a partner able to deliver the solutions Small Business > R$1 mi to < R$55 mi Retail they need, at the right time, in the appropriate manner and by the most suitable channels. < R$ 1 mi Emerging < Monthly R$2 thousand < R$ 5 thousand Micro-business Market Through BB Private, we guide our model of segmentation by Industry Services Income Investment turnover, operation niche and market segment, resulting in a (1) Based on the annual gross revenue. (2) Only digital service. unique and customized service. The purpose is to ensure customer satisfaction with offers that meet their expectations and in In the segmentation of companies, our segmentation strategy adds For micro and small businesses, the differentiated service is based order to leverage the potential of doing business. value to the relationship with customers to the extent that it enables on the profile and specific needs. According to the segment, this the deepening of knowledge about them and our market share and group of stakeholders is targeted to specialized teams, that serves The Rural Producer customer segmentation strategy classified positioning, the prioritization of opportunities for business and spethem both in person and remotely, by means of the digital channels. them in Small, Medium, Large and Mega – a segmentation adcialization of service. opted to define the ideal portfolios for each grouping. The meThe Public-Sector segmentation is established by the characterisga-producers, for example, are under specific management (priIn the Large Corporate segment, the main gains are the dialogue tics and demands at the federal, state and municipal levels and in vate); the medium and large ones are preferably inserted into only with us, the execution of strategies per market profile, the conExecutive, Legislative and Judiciary branches, also considering, on Estilo Agro portfolios; and the small ones are served in negoticentration of efforts to the achievement of the goals and the monian emphasized basis in the case of municipalities, the different popating groups. toring of the degree of satisfaction and relationship with customers. ulation profiles. Annual Report 2017 72 Customer Satisfaction and Relationship Model Result of the General Customer Satisfaction Survey We conduct frequent studies that allow us to meet customers in order Also, for corporate customers, the digital relationship combined with to establish sustainable relationships and increase loyalty and profitthe process of simplification of the bureaucratic procedures and digital The satisfaction surveys interview individual and corporate customers ability of our base. inclusion has been more and more a changing factor in the relationship. of the public and private sectors. The results are presented to the Methodologies such as Customer Relationship Management (CRM) are areas responsible for the relationship with customers and to managers The relationship by remote channels provides convenience and agiladopted, statistical models of analysis and verification of relationship with of the chain of branches, aiming at promoting improvement actions. ity in the solution of financial issues. The multichannel vision is the us are applied, competitive intelligence is used and market scenarios premise for the customer to realize the standardization and continuity are established. This data forms the basis for the creation of models of excellent service. of relationship with the Corporate Retail Market, reviewed annually Global Customer Satisfaction based on the quarterly satisfaction survey application and monitoring All new business or adjustment in transactions in the channels are of financial income. 75.24 74.38 performed based on user experience techniques and research. Un63.70 derstanding the customer’s journey is essential for processes to be In order to enhance customer satisfaction in the Public Sector, we dereviewed and simplified and ensure the best experience. veloped training sessions for employees working in the segment and provided the Public-Sector Service Trail, which aims to ensure further In 2017, we adopted actions for the improvement of services in contexts alignment of the training process to this corporate strategy. such as customer experience, innovation, management, efficiency, business solution and training of staff. In order to establish a dialogue with this group of stakeholders, listen and understand their needs and expectations, we established the Boards of Customers, whose interacResult of Digital Channels Research tion occurs through quarterly meetings. The Board is composed of 36 Digital channels achieve satisfaction individual customers, distributed among the segments served. The first of 82.9%, above the goal of 82% agenda was directed to the Face-to-face Service and Digital Service 2015 2016 20171 themes and introduced notes for matters such as standardization of service and response time of the demands. (1) In 2017, there was a change in the format (more concise questionnaires) and the channel used for obtaining the answers (from telephone interviews to online questionnaires), it was possible to gain efficiency and improve monitoring of improvement actions, but the In the context of strategic planning tools and execution of projects, we comparability of results with previous years was missed, since the developed, through BB Private, business models considering market questionnaire and the method of application are different. trends, scenarios analysis, mapping of customer’s journeys and banker. Annual Report 2017 73 External Ombudsman Proactive Solution Rooms Complaints Received The demands of our customers are input to identify new needs and, above all, based on their opinCreated in November 2017, the Proactive Solution Rooms 33,550 ions and complaints, to act on the corrections of processes and improvement of the products, to of our External Ombudsman bring together all managers of 31,641 make our service more responsive and efficient. In 2017, 98.9% of claimants sought our internal products and services, processes and branch chain, to seek 24,954 channels such as the Customer Service and the Ombudsman’s Office, and only 1.1% sought extersolutions that provide the best experience to their customers. nal channels, such as Bacen and Procon. With the actions in the rooms, it was possible to verify the We adopted initiatives in partnership with consumer protection bodies and other organizations, fominimization of impacts on the number of open complaints in cused on customer satisfaction and retention. Among the main ones in the year are the Customer Bacen, as well as in demands considered valid. This is also one Relationship Seminars (Semarc), the joint efforts of debt restructuring and the reconciliations in of the actions that have enabled us to be in the best position Consumer Protection Centers of Public Defender’s Offices (Nudecons). among the five largest banks in the country in the list of Bacen in the last quarter of 2017. 2015 2016 2017 Bacen Complaints Indicators Customer service (SAC) Bacen conducts, on a quarterly basis, the ranking of the comInformation, complaints, cancellation of products plaints of the institutions with more than four million customers. Complaints Considered Valid Average term for resolution in 2017: or services. Multichannel service (0800, APF In1.4 business days. In 2017, we improved, continuously, our position, changing 5,673 ternet, APF Cell Phone, Consumidor.gov, Reclafrom 1st to 5th position. Our purpose is not to be among the me Aqui, CNJ, Facebook, Twitter, Contact Us at In 2017, 92.4%, on average, of the four top positions. BB Portal – created in 2017). calls received were resolved in the first service. 3,875 3,205 Average term for resolution in 2017: 6.4 business days. BB Ombudsman Unresolved complaints in primary customer In 2017, 96.6%, on average, of service channels. It can be contacted by tecustomers had their problems resolved defilephone or at BB portalon the internet, with nitively and below the regulatory term of 10 2015 2016 2017 Protocol of the Customer Service. working days. Annual Report 2017 74 Digital Relationship Model D  igital Agricultural Investment: for rural producers to forward proposals for financing the acquisition of machinery and equipment intended for Individual Customers agricultural projects; Crop Monitoring Tool: to disseminate alerts of crop failure and deBanco do Brasil With the digital transformation, one of the main factors for the customer creased the ability to pay on the part of the producer; and Estilo Digital service clustering (grouping according to the degree of similarity) reSelf-Service Losses Communication (Proagro): to communicate fers to the possibility of adoption of a differentiated planning for each weather losses of a crop insured with Proagro. We exceeded the milestone of one million Estilo group, according to its behavior and time of consumption. customers, which consolidates our leadership in the Percentage of Transactions, Detailed high-income market in Brazil. This milestone was possible In order to provide a complete digital experience, we developed a from the implementation of the strategy of Banco do by Type of Transaction Strategic Plan for Digitization for the purpose of digitizing products Brasil Estilo Digital, implemented in May 2015. and services to make them available in the mobile channel, in addiThis strategy allows us to broaden the delivery of value tion to reviewing all of those already available in the application. In and improve the customer experience with the service this process, the possibility to contract Home Insurance, Ourocap model. Compared to the traditional model of service, Capitalization Bond, contract and renewal Vehicle Insurance, Life 73.4 provided in conventional branches, we have noticed Insurance and Purchasing Pool has already been made available in 65.9 the application. The Credit Card (for non-account holders) and Pension that customer satisfaction is, on average, 16% higher, 59.8 Plan provision is also expected. Real Estate Loans also advanced in since the digital service model allows the managed the digital perspective in 2017 with the offer to individual customers service of more customers without an impact on the 50.1 of a more intuitive and responsive simulator of financing. 45.3 cost to serve them and an increase between 20% and 40% in the profitability of the customers, due mainly to Other achievements of the year related to digitization were: 30.6 the increase in the number of customers with managed 27.3 service and the new business opportunities. 24 20.7 GeoMapa Rural: a free application that allows you to capture of the 22.6 18.2 geodesic coordinates of the areas financed and the transmission of this 19.5 14.6 15.9 information directly to our database; 11.9 Automatic Asset Valuation: a tool that automatically evaluates rural properties and their improvements; Digital Costing: a mobile solution for rural producers to forward pro2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 posals for agricultural and livestock funding; Mobile + Internet TAA Others (POS, correspondent banks in the Country and CABB) Annual Report 2017 75 Micro-Businesses and Small Businesses Customers had their requirement profile remodeled by the digital transformation, with emphasis on the use of interactive tools in the daily business activities and the evolution of platforms/service models/businesses to consumers and companies. In this scenario, it is worth mentioning the improvement in the process of opening of an account through http://bb.com.br, in which it is possible to begin the process of preparation of the registration. Also, in the pilot 2017 phase, there is the opening of a BB digital account referred to as Conta Fácil Microempreendedor, which will be performed entirely by phone and Creation of Legal Entity will enable deposits, withdrawals, transfers, payments and direct debits. Panel Financial Manager Another advance in 2017 was the creation of the Corporate Panel, which consolidates data such as balance, investments, future releases and available credit, in addition to a shortcut to perform transactions. Government Customers Corporate Customers Our digital transformation also aims to improve the experience of public Corporate customers appreciate our presence in their physical environentities in the relationship with us. Changes such as the Public-Sector ment, according to a satisfaction survey conducted with this group of Self-Service via smartphone demand time of adherence and changes to stakeholders. Still, for strictly operational interactions, they are directed some customer processes. Therefore, at the time of transition, niches or to digital channels. Transactions that do not require cash or check occlusters can be created, which favors the development of models able cur exclusively via digital means with the use of Financial Manager or to meet the needs of the most diverse types of customers with different exchange of files. levels of digitization. Annual Report 2017 76 Customer Service Channels BB Investment Platform (web and Mobile), and the Financial Manager for Rural Producers; Individual Customers Specialized Remote Cooperative Service, which benefits 1.5 thousand cooperatives with dedicated relationship managers, specialThe new instruments installed to strengthen individual customer serized in business with the segment and qualified to guide and supvice in 2017 include: port Retail Branches that have cooperatives in tradeable portfolios (Business and Small Business portfolio) that do not have specialFale Com seu Gerente, which revolutionized the digital service. ized service; and When accessing via the Internet or BB Application, customers can Rural Producer Financial Manager and the other tools delivered contact their Relationship Manager, from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. In adby the Digital Agricultural Project (Geo Mapas, Costing and Digital dition, an Agile Room was created to improve the tool and bring Investments), which consists of tracking and prior analysis of pronew features; posals via mobile. Digital Account, whereby customers open their account quickly and conveniently without the need to go to the branch or submit documentation physically; Chatbot, a service performed on Facebook through a virtual assistant that uses cognitive technology to receive messages via Messenger on our official page on that social network. When necEstilo Digital Service essary, the chatbot performs the transshipment of the service to an 100% of the Estilo network in the country employee of the Customer Service; with digital service; BB 3.0 Platform, which allows a new way to serve and do business 4.46 thousand qualified employees; with customers with more intelligence, speed, efficiency and, mainly, with significant improvement in both the customer experience Reorganization of the service model of the branches, and the employee experience. There is a block of business inducwith a greater focus on the relationship; and tion that helps to make the best offer, encourage the use of digital 71% of branches with centered night service, channels, leverage opportunities, resolve problems and show the which increases operational efficiency. customer qualification; In the relationship between bankers and customers of the Private segment, in addition to the use of traditional banking tools, BB Private developed the Portfolio of Investments solution, available at Annual Report 2017 77 Corporate Customers Regular Employees, by Region (unit) 20151 2016 2017 We seek the differentiated, timely and specialized service to each type of Offer of a set of information that enables diagnosis and advice in North 4,948 4,689 4,440 customer. In 2017, it is worth mentioning the following: the planning of public policies; Northeast 18,207 16,719 16,637 Cliente 360° Mobile application, which can be downloaded on the cell phone A wide range of training for the civil servants of the smaller muMidwest 17,342 16,349 16,748 and is another way for managers to interact with their portfolio; nicipalities; and Southeast 49,393 44,924 43,752 Videoconference with customers, instant messaging communication solution; Technological solutions applied in the interconnection of the courts Expansion of the use and the audience that adopts tools to support the with us, resulting in agility and security in the receipt, monitoring South 19,257 17,899 17,549 management of the relationship and intensify the digital communications and payment of judicial deposits. Overseas 44 42 35 with Micro-Business and Small Business customers; Total 109,191 100,622 99,161 Availability of the tool Fale com o seu Gerente for companies, which provides Internal Stakeholders (1) Number of employees in 2015 was revised to maintain standard reporting basis with other public modernity to the relationship model by allowing the exchange of messages documents published by BB. between the customer and the employee specialized in a web environment Our policies and practices in people management seek closer with guaranteed confidentiality and integrity of information; and ties with the staff and to promote the professional developEmployees, by Type of Employment 2015 2016 2017 and Gender (unit) Launch of the New Corporate Customer Profile on customer management ment of our businesses. platform, with consolidated information, essential to drive the service, the Full-time – Male 63,809 59,073 58,117 relationship and businesses. We are focused on actions that foster gender and race equiFull-time – Female 45,382 41,549 41,044 ty, as well as promote initiatives to strengthen the ethics and Government Customers anti-corruption. Total 109,191 100,622 99,161 Employees, by Type of Employment and Gender (unit)1 In addition to the chain of branches and specialized managers to serve In order to train and retain talents, there is a structure dedicatthe public sector, the development of solutions and digital portfolio, speed to the corporate education since 1965 and the Banco do 2017 – Consolidated 2017 – Statutory cific to the market, allows the demands of these customers to be served Brasil Corporate University (UniBB) since 2002. Labor Laws (CLT) anywhere. In these terms, the main actions taken in 2017 were: Staff Profile 102-8 Expansion of specialized service to the municipalities in the countryside, in + + all regions; We performed selections and external hiring according to the New solutions in means of payment that allowed greater economic dynaneed of people identified for each region. The level of qualifiMen Women Men Women mism in partnership with municipalities, in locations without the availability cation is determined on the basis of the requirements of the 58,117 41,044 35 1 of bank branches; position but considering the promotion of social inclusion. Total 99,161 Total 36 (1) BB’s own staff does not have any employees in the temporary regime. Annual Report 2017 78 Diversity of Staff 405-1 We adopt people management policy that emphasizes our commitAssessment and monitoring of occupants of management commissions The degree of engagement is measured through the Climate and Organizational ment to promote equity. We also have mechanisms for combating dison race or ethnicity and gender approach; and Engagement Survey, which occurs on an annual basis, seeking to measure the crimination practices, in addition to awareness-raising actions in the Adoption of a corporate goal of appointment of women to first business intensity with which employees identify themselves and build links with us and relationship chain. We also seek to raise awareness of our employees unit manager positions. the extent to which the work presents interest and personal satisfaction. Our for the topic related to gender equity in a diversified and comprehensearch for the next year is to increase the degree of engagement from 71.60, sive way through a Specific Communication Plan. Our diversity incluWe also adopted policy benefits, which seeks to promote equity, measured in 2017, to 73.40 in 2018. With regard to the percentual of satisfied sion policy is mainly focused on the care for the disabled person and and maintained mechanisms for combating discrimination pracemployees, our target is to return to the threshold of 80%. the implementation of the actions of the Gender and Race Pro-Equity tices, in addition to developing actions for the inclusion of underProgram. These commitments are entered into in documents such as represented staff groups. As an example, even if it is not a legal Climate and Organizational Engagement Survey our Code of Ethics, our Charter of Principles of Socioenvironmental requirement, in 2016, we regulated the use of the corporate name Percentage of Satisfied Employees Responsibility and BB’s General Policies. in the workplace with regard to distinctive characters. 82.3 82.3 79.2 The Gender and Race Pro-Equity Program, of the Federal GovernEmployee Satisfaction ment, disseminates ideas to achieve equality between women and men in the working world. Companies that propose and perform satisIn order to evaluate the quality of relations in our workplace, we confactorily gender and race equity actions are recognized with a specific ducted systematic monitoring of the climate, the satisfaction and comseal – we obtained the seals of all editions that we participated, since mitment of our teams. In this respect, in 2017, we provided: we joined it in 2007. Within the scope of the initiative and in line with 2015 2016 2017 our commitment to diversity, it is worth mentioning the following: Organizational Climate Management Workshop, with over 1,100 managers in face-to-face training; Data Coverage (percentage of total employees) Granting of 180 days in cases of maternity leave and/or adoption; O Clima e Você (The Climate and You) course, for 11,855 em56.0 56.0 58.8 Extension of the period of paternity leave to 20 days; ployees, via UniBB portal; Affirmative gender action in corporate programs of career advancement; Developing the Organizational Climate Methodology, with the parPerformance of the Internal Ombudsman in identifying situations of disticipation of over 1,000 employees in three meetings; and crimination against women; Roadmap to Improve the Organizational Climate, in meetings Creation, in 2010, of the Executive Ethics and Discipline Committee for analysis of Climate and Organizational Engagement Survey formed by members of the Executive Board and State Ethics Committees (see below) and structuring of action plans, with the presence of 2015 2016 2017 in each State of the Federation and the Federal District; 280 professionals. See more in GRI Appendix 405-1 | 405-2 See more in GRI Appendix 401-1 Annual Report 2017 79 Institutional Reorganization Belonging Careers and Succession 102-10 In 2016, we approved a set of measures to adapt to an increasingly dynamTo strengthen ties, recognize and increase the sense of Our actions of career advancement contribute to identifying and retaining talents ic and challenging scenario, which contributed to greater agility and compride of our active employees and retirees, we created, and, consequently, with the effectiveness of the succession program, always conpetitiveness. One of the measures of this institutional reorganization was in 2015, the Integration Program. The initiative comprises sidering the gender and race equity. The main actions were: the Extraordinary Stimulated Retirement Plan (PEAI), with the termination four components – education, citizenship, relationship and of 9,409 employees. business relationship – and specifically within UniBB, it B  em-Vindo ao BB (Welcome to BB) program, which aims to provide the new merges the performance of active and retired employees. hires with structured experiences of onboarding and development of professional skills for their insertion into our organizational culture and the achievement of For the filling of positions available, we established criteria for personnel After 2017, 482 retirees, hired upon expressions of interexpected results; movement for the purpose of democratizing the relocation opportunities est, participated in the educational activities. in various units. Through the Automatic Removal Competition System C  ontinuing Education, which includes scholarships (undergraduate, majors, master’s degree, doctorate, and languages); (SACR), the possibility of moving to all our units was offered. In addition, In addition, we have the Caminhos para Aposentadoria we maintained a hot site for information disclosure, with timely updates on (Path to Retirement) Program, by which we guide our emK  nowledge Certification program, that certifies certain knowledge of our the process of reorganization, and an exclusive call center; and we also ployees to a conscious and active retirement, contributing teams, subsidizing career advancement processes and consolidating our corporate education system (learn more in the table); adopted, as practices, the payment of personal advantage and the flexibility to the aging process and the preservation of mental and of the rules of removal and the grace period to exchange branches. physical health.  raining Program for Executives and Career Advancement – Executives T – Program, with actions developed to enhance the skills required to holders of executive functions; Another action as a result of the reorganization, focusing on health and quality Still valuing the knowledge of retirees, we entered into an of life, was the option for 6-hour journey and experiences of a home office, in agreement with Sebrae to re-introduce, in the labor market V  ocational Guidance Program, to stimulate reflection on career aspirations addition to the expansion of digital spaces. The reduction of the journey allows of the national banking system, the participants of the Senand personal and professional improvement, in addition to the construction of life project for retirement; the employee to perform the daily commuting in alternative schedules. hor Orientador (Mr. Mentor) program.  raining Program for the Executive Board, Board of Directors and Board of T See more in GRI Appendix 401-1 Auditors, with the provision of a booklet with the courses on topics such as corporate governance, business environment, customer relationship, management for results and innovation management. The members of those committees also have at their disposal a coaching program; and For 2018, our intention is to F  irst-Investiture Managers Workshop, which provides diplomas and training increase the engagement level to branch managers who are appointed as first managers of the branches. of our professionals to 73.40%, almost two percentage points above the assessment in 2017 Annual Report 2017 80 Knowledge Investment in Corporate Talent Development 2015 2016 2017 and Retention Programs (R$ million) Certification Program Amounts Invested in Corporate Programs to Develop 133.7 97.4 102.2 Built in 2006 to certify knowledge of all employees in and Retain Talents areas that we consider strategic, the action is valid for a period of five years and have an average of 42 thousand employees enrolled per semester. In 2017, the program underwent significant improvements, with an We also adopted individual performance evaluation processes, The evaluation of the performance of the members of the goveronline pilot through which around 31 thousand tests were conducted in 200 test centers in all Brazilian stawhich contribute to the assertiveness of training and professional nance bodies and the Executive Board is carried out through a spetes. The pilot was evaluated as “excellent” or “good” advancement actions. Our Professional Performance Management cific instrument of analysis of professional skills, based on concepts by 82% of the employees who performed the evalua(GDP) by Skills and Results enables us to identify development of corporate governance. There is both self-evaluation and evaluation of reaction. gaps. In 2017, GDP migrated to BB Platform, with an increase of tion by the immediate superior, so that the members of the Board 207.3% in feedback records – 127,931 in the evaluation cycle of the of Directors evaluate the President, who, in turn, evaluates the Vice In the year, approximately 96 thousand certifications second half of 2016 and 265,154 in the second half of 2017. Presidents, and so on. of knowledge were granted under the initiative, which totals more than 616 thousand internal certifications since the implementation. 404-3 Performance Evaluation1 2015 2016 2017 Number of Employees Who Underwent Performance Evaluation 104,582 106,772 103,784 Percentage of Employees Who Underwent Performance Evaluation 99.3 99.7 99.8 (1) Fluctuation arising from occasional absences greater than 90 days in each evaluation cycle, in addition to changes in the number of professionals of the staff. Annual Report 2017 81 Based on the needs for improvement identified and considering reinforce meritocracy and career advancement, in addition to the career aspirations, we guide employees in the development of the transparency and fairness in decisions of movements. In a Skills Development Plan (PDC), of voluntary adherence. In 2017, 2017, in the latest update of the results of Radar, more than 5 62,882 plans were developed, 54.7% more than in the last cycle. thousand General and Business Managers of the Retail Network and Government received the Management Certificate. Another initiative is Radar do Gestor (Manager’s Radar), a tool to track the performance of managers, with information on the results In 2017, within the scope of the corporate programs of career obtained by this audience in strategic issues. From these data, advancement, we also conducted 404-3 : we grant the Management Certification, used in promotions and to D  ivision Manager Career Advancement Program, with 2,481 employees enrolled, of which 807 were evaluated by Management Committees and 376 in person – of these, 176 BB Managing were approved and qualified. In line with our affirmative genOfficers Project der proposition, 53 vacancies were added for the participation of women in Management Committees’ Evaluation; and In 2016, we started the BB Managing Officers Project, E  xecutive, State Superintendent and Overseas Manin partnership with an external company, for candidates ager Career Advancement Program, with an enrollment for Senior Management positions. The objectives were of 1,096 employees, of which 597 were evaluated by the to evaluate and mitigate succession risks and guide Management Committees and 223 in person. In the end, 82 the development of the participants, in addition to candidates were qualified for the Executive Manager and subsidizing the promotion decisions. Superintendent Talent Base. Of these, 18 were also qualified for the Overseas Manager Talent Base. Regarding the Based on interviews and workshops with our statutory members, as well as considering the profile found in participation of women, 50% of the candidates evaluated equivalent functions in large companies, the behavioral obtained the qualification. skills needed in our staff were mapped. After this definition, we evaluated 268 leaders. See more in GRI Appendix 404-3 Annual Report 2017 82 Corporate Education 404-1 Investing in corporate education is strategic to reach our purpose and skills development intended for digital thinking and actions, which DesEnvolVer objectives, as well as strengthen our organizational values. To this end, consisted of the following initiatives: we adopted Diagnosis of Training Needs, Educational Planning, ImpleThrough UniBB, we launched, in 2017, the DesEnvolVer game, with the participation of 56 thousand employees. The purpose mentation and Evaluation of Results of Educational Actions. Workshops for the Executive Board, members of the Board of Diis to train, in leadership skills, employees who have not yet rectors, and the Board of Auditors and the Audit Committee, with assumed managerial functions, in addition to strengthening the We keep UniBB focused on skills development and on training the participation of experts in topics related to digital transformation; role. Composed of challenges and missions, the game is divided all the employees. Therefore, we offered face-to-face educational Production of video classes with the workshops carried out, availinto six phases: activities, in several Brazilian locations, and also virtually, in the able to all teams via UniBB Portal; UniBB Portal, improving training solutions by means of technologiInternational apprenticeship in digital business to our executives, 1st – Self-knowledge (21,299 participations); cal resources, such as tablets and smartphones. Our catalog of onwith visits to the largest digital companies of the world, such as 2nd – World of Work (18,440 participations); line courses consists of more than 460 solutions, in various formats those located in Silicon Valley, New York and Israel. The appren(e-learning, video classes, games and infographic, among others) ticeships aim to insert our top leaders in an innovative context; 3rd – Career Management (15,146 participations); and with collaborative environments. Since the launch of our portal, Coaching with a focus on identifying and changing limiting beliefs in 2013, we provided more than 10 million courses, of which 2.7 to the process of digital transformation. In 2017, 96 Vice Pres4th – People Management (10,187 participations); million in 2017. In UniBB Mobile application, more than 540 thouidents, Officers, General Managers, Executive Managers and sand training sessions were provided in the last three years. Superintendents performed 573 coaching sessions. Still in No5th – Process Management (16,760 participations); and vember, the coaching program was started for Private General 6th – Business Management (in progress). Managers and Regional Superintendents, with 100 participants 2018 included; and 2015 2016 2017 goals Learning Trail on Digital Transformation, with technical and behavAmount of Active Dependents of the 56,563 71,017 105,551 118,366 ioral content with 13 educational solutions concerning the theme. UniBB Family The training of our teams occurs through investments that we We have also maintained the Mentoring Program, for three years, in order to improve the Towards digital transformation, in 2017, we redesigned several edmake to scholarships. In 2017, we provided 1,500 undergradumanagement of Managers. The model provides for the participation of experienced manucational activities, such as Leadership Trails, restructured based ate program scholarships, 2,700 lato sensu and 65 stricto senagers to share their knowledge and experiences with the professionals who took over for on the pipeline model adopted by us. Since the launch, in June su graduate program scholarships, in addition to 1,000 English the first time the role, with emphasis on the development of interpersonal relationships. 2017, more than 21 thousand employees have already participatlearning scholarships, of which 400 are intended solely to clerks ed. We also developed a specific strategy to reach culture and and tellers. Annual Report 2017 83 404-1 Training 2015 2016 2017 2018 It is worth mentioning the following activities: Minimum annual training hours for each employee 34h 34h 34h 30h1 Environmental  Risk Prevention Program safety of staff and other occupants of the build(PPRA), which aims at safeguarding the health ings of our use; Percentage of employees who fulfilled and physical integrity of employees at work. Quality of Life at Work (QVT) Program, through 92.33 92.00 91.05 the minimum annual training hours Our Engineers and Technicians of Occupationwhich we provide funds for branches to stimulate al Safety, in visits to units, conduct a survey of the welfare in the professional environment with Target percentage of employees who must fulfill environmental conditions for quantitative and body massage, relaxation activities, nutrition, 90 90 90 90 the quantity of minimum annual training hours qualitative evaluation of physical, chemical and workplace exercise and educational lectures rebiological risks, and forward recommendations lated to healthy habits for life, among others; (1) The 30 hours of training include educational solutions available in the UniBB catalog, in the classroom and remotely. Employees are to the adjustments required; Communications and Self-Development Team  instructed to use part of these hours for courses considered strategic, in that year, for their area of expertise. Ergonomic Work Analysis (AET) to adapt working (Ecoa), with the function, among others, to supconditions to the psychophysiological characterport the Management Committee on the promoSee more in GRI Appendix 404-1 | 410-1 | 412-2 istics of employees, with approaches to issues tion of a healthy environment, in order to stimusuch as: furniture; equipment and environmental late teamwork and reduce interpersonal conflict; Health, Well-being and Safety 403-1 conditions such as noise, temperature, quality Program for Assistance to Victims of Robbery and humidity of indoor air and lighting; and Kidnapping (Pavas), with medical, psychoWe follow in our actions for the management of health and safety professionals and its main assignments are: Safety inspection, with a focus on determining logical, legal and security support to the populaand safety at work the Brazilian legal assumptions and advisory service on ergonomics (furniture, equipment, risks inherent in the environment through the tion victimized or under threat in robberies and consider international policies, such as the World Health environment, organization of work, etc.), adaptation of verification of floors, carpets, stairs, doors and kidnappings aimed at our assets. In 2017, 482 Organization (WHO) and the International Labor Organiworking conditions to disabled employees; identification environmental signage, among others; employees were served through Pavas; and zation (ILO). Thus, we contribute to prevent and mitigate of risks of accidents at work and occupational diseases; Control procedures to exit the buildings in emerFace-to-face workshops for managers dealing risks, which are managed through our network of Serassistance in implementation of Internal Accident Pregency situations, with support from Grua, comwith organizational climate, to reduce stress in vices Specialized in Safety Engineering and Occupavention Commissions (Cipa); and training and impleposed of professionals trained to preserve the the workplace. tional Health (Sesmt), present in all Brazilian states and mentation of Evacuation Groups (Grua), for actions in the Federal District. Our Sesmt currently has 140 health emergency situations. Annual Report 2017 84 2015 2016 2017 2018 goal ergonomics, health and quality of life. The Ergonomics and Posture Instructions course, directed to all employees, benefited, from September Vaccinated Employees 2015 to December 2017, 68,697 people. 62.28 67.20 60.40 61.00 Against the Flu (%) See more in GRI Appendix 403-1 | 403-2 Through Trilha Bem-Estar (Well-Being Path), available on the Absenteeism Health and Safety UniBB Portal, we seek to raise the awareness of our employees to adopt a healthier lifestyle from 18 educational solutions that inFor the purpose of reducing absenteeism and achieving increased perforat Work Management clude topics such as: nutrition and health, overweight and obesity, mance, satisfaction with work and productivity, we prepared the Structured cardiovascular risk, stress and sleep quality, time management, Stress Management at Work Program. conflict management, resilience, organization and ergonomics We comply with the directives (professional guidelines). We also launched Trilha de AprendizaWhen researching the causes of sick leaves, we identified mental disorders of the World Health Organization gem Saúde e Segurança no Trabalho (Occupational Health and as the main cause, followed by exposure to occupational risk factors in sit(WHO) and International Labor Safety Learning Trail), which brings together a set of training sesuations covered by Pavas. Traumatisms and fractures are also relevant, in Organization (ILO) sions relating to occupational risks, labor, and social security law, addition to musculoskeletal injuries. 403-1 | 403-2 Absenteeism Rate1 2015 2016 2017 Total Absenteeism Due to Health Issues From the regulation of Telecommuting, introduced in the Consolidation 3.48 3.30 2.95 (% of total scheduled days) of Labor Laws (CLT), we evaluated the expansion of a pilot project of Absenteeism Total Due to Occupational Health and Safety 0.33 0,32 0.22 remote and voluntary action, adopting as a premise the prioritization of Issues (% of total scheduled days) women, disabled people (PCD) and people in professional rehabilitation Absenteeism Due to Non-occupational Health Issues 3.15 2.98 2.74 after a sick leave. In the first phase of the pilot project, 98% of those who (% of total scheduled days) participated approved the project, which brings gains in quality of life and Absenteeism Not Caused by Illness 2,64 4.90 1.95 (% of total scheduled days) reduction in the emission of greenhouse gases (GHG). Total Absenteeism 6.12 8.20 4.47 The promotion of well-being includes periodic health exams – 107,798 (1) The reduction in absenteeism due to occupational health issues and absenteeism due to non-occupational health issues was impacted were performed from March to December 2017, of which 63,094 were by the reduction in the number of hours planned in view of the termination plan occurred at the end of the year 2016. Additionally, the fall of the percentage with regard to occupational health reflects the actions of prevention and pro-quality of life at work developed by Sesmt men and 44,704 women. In addition to the consultation with an occunetwork and under the QVT program of BB. pational physician, according to age and gender, professionals undergo complementary exams. See more in GRI Appendix 403-2 Annual Report 2017 85 Suppliers Supplier Segmentation In the relationship with suppliers, we promote respect for ethical, We select our suppliers through the bidding process, according to Act integrity and sustainability principles, with an emphasis on human No. 13,303/2016(State-Owned Companies Act) and its new Regulation of rights and social and environmental management. We seek to enBids and Contracts. Among the legal aspects, to choose the most advansure fair competition and cost competitiveness with the highest qualtageous proposal, are better technique, lowest price or best combination Tactical: low value Leverage: high value Critical: low value Strategic: high value contracted and low risk in contracted and low risk contracted and high risk contracted and high risk ity of raw materials, inputs, and services. These guidelines are proof technique and price. Our supply chain covers a number of sectors and the branch of the activity in the branch in the branch in the branch vided for in the Suppliers Policy, revised in 2017 to consider the fight activities, including the supply of goods (e.g. furniture and equipment), against discrimination in the workplace and stimulate the manageservice provision (surveillance, consulting, engineering and architecture, ment practices that promote gender equity. During the year, we also among others) and rental of real estate. 102-9 Such socioenvironmental responsibility instrument registers the contractual commitment by supperformed the first cycle of social and environmental assessment of pliers with environmental preservation practices and social development, as well as compliance our suppliers (see more in chapter Risk Management). In all purchase processes, managers must speak formally about the with the labor and social security and anti-corruption laws. Another condition for the signing of the establishment of environmental standards or justify the irrelevance contract is the submission, by the company selected, of a statement declaring there is no minor In 2017, we kept 13,847 contracts in force, entered into with 2,723 supof such criteria. Therefore, since 2016, we have been maintaining in employee in its staff. 414-1 pliers. The total of payments released was approximately R$7.9 billion. our Bylaws, specific standards for sustainable contracts. They include Of the total, R$13.9 million were paid to nine suppliers domiciled abroad standard purchase document and sustainable disposals, in compliance In addition, we included among the criteria for judgment the best destination of goods sold, which arising from 11 contracts – 0.18% of payments released. 102-9 with the legal requirements and social and environmental commitments represents a breakthrough in the aspect of social responsibility. There are also contractual obligations assumed by us. related to human rights, such as: no use of illegal work and/or slavery-like labor; no use of negative We adopt a kind of management intended for the control and mondiscrimination and restrictive practices to access and maintain employment; no use of corrupt and/ 102-8 itoring of the provision of services and the quality of the products or unethical practices aimed at obtaining or giving unfair advantage, directly or indirectly; among Total Number of Outsourced delivered. Therefore, we rely on criteria such as: 2017 others. The non-compliance with any of these requirements subject the supplier to administrative Employees, by Region1 North 1,875 liability, which may, after the process in which its right to fair hearing is ensured, undergo sanctions Cost-benefit ratio; Northeast 6,303 as a warning, fine or suspension. 414-1 Operating capacity; Midwest 4,954 Quality; By means of invitations to bid, we inform all our suppliers and other stakeholders about the restrictions Southeast 15,601 Good standing; aimed at ensuring the various principles governing the contracts, notably those of equality, morality, South 6,078 Socioenvironmental responsibility; and legality. We also disclosed guidelines and information on the Prevention and Fight Against Total 34,811 Security and risk; and Corruption theme to our 2,723 suppliers (100%) on the Relationships with Suppliers page. 205-2 (1) The number of outsourced employees is restricted to the services performed Compliance with the legal requirements, especially labor and those on an ongoing basis (for example, brigade contracts inspection, cleaning, etc.) and does notinclude data on temporary contracts or contracts without associated with business continuity. assignment of labor. See more in GRI Appendix 407-1 | 408-1 | 409-1 Annual Report 2017 86 Transforming Role Corporate Governance 07 Enviromental Value Risk Creation Management 88 Message from the Vice-President of Services, Infrastructure and Operations Financial 88 Environmental Management Value Creation 89 Environmental Management System We effectively use 92 Ecological Footprint Index Social natural resources 92 Value Creation Certifications Environmental Value Creation Annual Report 2017 87 Among our various actions aligned to a commitment to sustainaEnvironmental Management ble performance, the main one in the period is our Solid Waste Reduction of the total consumption of Managing Plan, through which we gave an environmentally water by 10.3% in the year 2017. appropriate destination to 1.5 ton of unserviceable assets. Our environmental management focuses on eco-efficiency, With the success of the program, we started, in 2017, a Civil so that it minimizes the consumption of natural resources, Construction Waste Management Plan. waste generation, emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) and, The reduction of electric power consequently, our ecological footprint (learn more on topic We aim always to the efficient use of natural resources, esconsumption avoided an expense Ecological Footprint Index). We adopted as assumptions to: pecially energy and water, plus we prioritize remote means of communication, such as video conferencing, to reduce comof R$36 million. muting and, consequently, CO2 emission. The guideline also  Train employees in socioenvironmental responsibility; has a positive impact on our expenses and productivity and  Spread eco-efficiency concepts and practices; well-being of our staff. With these initiatives and products with Reconditioning of 105 thousand  Adjust areas and equipment to rationalize the use and concartridges (which corresponds to 97.58% environmental protection features, we were awarded prizes such as Latin America Green Finance and we are among the sumption of natural goods; 30 Latin American companies that are leaders in sustainability. of the total used in 2017) which provided  Analyze processes under the prism of eco-efficiency; This recognition of the proper course of our actions motivates savings of R$91.8 million.  Adopt contractual clauses to protect the environment; and  Improve our systems and maintain processes and scopes us to keep the search for intelligent and efficient use of our resources, whether human or material. certificated in ISO 14,000 series, among other standards. 1,704 branches with the Selective In 2018, we will focus on especially the issue of operational Our programs and initiatives of the Environmental Management efficiency. Using in the smartest way possible our resources, Waste Collection Program implemented. System (EMS) consist of a set of objectives, assumptions, whether human or material. This will continue to be a focus of rules, requirements, programs, and initiatives that aim at the action: sustainable reduction of expenses. This process brings environmental and economic gains, in addition to the image of Digital transformation constant improvement of our environmental performance. the institution by the commitment to the environment. strategy, which contributed to reducing For its relevance, our EMS follows the best environmental paper consumption by 628 tons. practices and is aligned with our Specific Socioenvironmental Responsibility Policy. Carlos Hamilton Vasconcelos Araújo In the first half of 2017, 42% (2,021 Vice-President of Services, Infrastructure units) of the branches evaluated reached the and Operations target set for IPE. Already in the second semester, 51% (2,902 units) reached the indicator – a increase of 9% in compared to the first half. Annual Report 2017 88 Environmental Management System Through our Environmental Management System (EMS), prepared in reference to the Brazilian Standard ABNT NBR ISO 14,001:2015, we arrange and follow actions of control of the environmental impacts of our activities. Therefore, we coordinate efforts systematically to improve our performance. As a result, it is worth mentioning the following:  The management promoted under the Rational Water Consumption  The Selective Waste Collection Program, which covers the management -10.3% 1,704 Program (Purágua), which allowed the monthly figures of all branches of recyclable non-hazardous solid waste (paper, plastic, metal, and glass), to be tracked individually, with a total consumption reduction of 10.28% ended 2017 with 1,704 branches, 4.66% greater than in the previous period. in 2017 compared with 2016, which would enable to supply a population of 2,904 inhabitants for a period of one year..  Our digital transformation strategy and the commitment of BB employ-10.3% ees that contributed to reducing paper consumption by 628 tons, which  The Power Consumption Rationalization Program (Procen), which comcorresponds to approximately 13.3 trees not cut down. -13.6% prised, during the year, internal awareness actions and the adequacy of operation of lighting and air conditioning, and enabled to avoid an  The reconditioning of 105,112 cartridges (which corresponds to 97.58% -11.6% expense of R$36 million. Those 95.5 million kWh saved are enough to of the total used in 2017) carried out within the scope of the Cartridge provide electric power to over 50 thousand houses in the year. and Toner Reconditioning Program (Prorec), which resulted in savings of R$91.8 million. Since 2008, we carry out an inventory of GHG emissions and, for the quality and reliability of the We also have a database for the collection and systematization of the information of each environprocess, we were awarded the Gold Seal of the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program, in addition to being mental consumption indicator and, for the beginning of 2018, the adoption of the pilot project of the included in the Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2) of B3 S.A. – Brasil, Bolsa, Balcão (B3). model of an environmental scan of our branches is expected in the Federal District. See more in GRI Appendix 301-1 | 302-1 | 302-3 | 302-4 | 303-1 | 306-2 Annual Report 2017 89 Eco-Efficiency 302-1 | 302-4 | 303-1 At the end of 2017, a study on electric power matrix and expenditure was Turn off printers, stabilizers, computers, and monitors after the close of office hours; under development so we could migrate from the regulated contracting Turn off the lights of environments that are not being occupied and places with good natural environment (ACR) to the free contracting environment (ACL) in our 200 lighting; and largest power-consumer units. The purpose is to find more sustainable Turn on the ventilation system of air-conditioning devices only on cold days. alternatives, in addition to reducing costs. The cost-effective units will be the object of a bidding process for contracting a company that will be responsible for the management and implementation of the migration and Power Consumption – Comparative 704 609 purchase of electric power with the Board of Electric Energy Commer103 Total Expenditure – millions 102 cialization (CCEE) – with savings of up to 20% expected in the amount paid for electric power in these buildings. Electric Power Consumption – GWh 480 444 With a focus on rational consumption, we adopted, in 2017, regional Total Employees – thousands parameters, with the establishment of actions to achieve the proposed Total Branches – thousands 5 amounts, which vary according to weather differences of each region. 4 We also foresee, in case of non-compliance, the preparation of studies 2016 2017 to adjust the profile of electric power consumption. Throughout the year, we also stipulated the following measures to achieve Water Consumption – Comparative greater energy efficiency: 103 Total Expenditure – millions 102 Comply strictly with the schedule for turning the air-conditioning devicWe also carried out, during the months of October and November Water Consumption – millions of liters 1,565 es on and off, since this system is responsible for 60% of our electric 2017, two campaigns: one of clarification (Electric Power Respon1,405 power consumption; sible Usage Campaign) and another designed to eliminate the Total Employees – thousands 32.2 33 Adjust the air-conditioning system in 23 °C to meet the Brazilian stancharge of fines on the electric power bill (Zero Fine Campaign). dards in force; Total Branches – thousands 5 4 Periodically check the operation of the timers of lighting and air-condi2016 2017 Our water comes from public utilities and we also adopt efficient tioning systems of the self-service; regionalized consumption parameters. Between 2013 and 2017, a reduction of 47% was achieved in water consumption. See more in GRI Appendix 301-1 | 302-1 | 302-3 | 302-4 | 303-1 | 306-2 Annual Report 2017 90 Solid Wastes 306-2 In 2015, we approved our Integrated Solid Waste Management Plan (PGRS), which seeks to Implementation of an internal application, covering all of our 47% foster and aggregate internal initiatives and meet the parameters of the National Solid Waste Policy (PNRS). In 2017, we expanded the coverage of branches with the selective waste branches and allowing the reuse of idle assets in order to avoid unnecessary acquisitions; Reduction of water collection and improved the waste disposal process. To this end, the main initiatives were: Donation of 17,837 furniture and equipment items in conditions of consumption between use to public institutions and nonprofit civil society organizations; 2013 and 2017  Creation of a team to prepare an inventory of the logistics stock of unserviceable assets; Improvement in the process of maintenance of furniture, with the adapt the procedures provided for in the regulations; adopt standardized models for the consequent increase of the useful life and reduction of expenditure donation and allocation of unused assets; and develop initiatives such as awareness, on purchases; Greenhouse Gases (GHG) dissemination of knowledge and training on sustainable waste disposal; Recycling of more than 156 thousand unserviceable assets, equiva Reuse of assets and development of management strategies that prioritize the reuse lent to 1,420 tons of materials that returned to the production cycle. We are the founders of the Empresas pelo Clima – EPC (Businesses for (see figure); In 2017, 169,080 unserviceable assets had the environmentally Climate) Program and the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program, both intended appropriate destination and were recycled; for reflection and proposal of anti-climate change actions. We integrate the MANAGEMENT STRATEGY ALTERNATIVES Reduction of expenses with spaces and transportation of unserThematic Chamber of Climate Changes (CT Clima), an initiative coordinated viceable assets; No generation by the Brazilian Corporate Council for Sustainable Development (CEBDS) Publishing of a guidebook internally on the main forms of disposal in order to assist companies in adopting strategies to take advantage of Reduction of unserviceable assets, in addition to offering, in UniBB, a course opportunities and mitigate risks and restrictions on GHG emissions. Reuse by BB: “Bens em disponibilidade” on solid wastes; application Mitigation of legal and image risks resulting from the inappropriate Reuse: idle assets In 2017, we sought greater comprehensiveness and reliability of our GHG Reuse with commercial value: auction disposal of assets; and in conditions of use Avoid emissions inventory, which follows the methodology of the Brazilian GHG Logistic inventory of unserviceable assets, segmented per branch, Reuse with social nature: donation, Protocol Program and can be accessed on the website of the Public new purview of branches with the identification of the need for environmentally appropriate Registry of Emissions. Maintenance recovery: disposal of 2,309 tons. Reuse: damaged assets servicing agreement For the evolution of our management in the theme, we hired a company that For the coming years, we listed as challenges to adapt processes Sustainable disposal Disposal by the centralized contract is specialized in environmental audits for external verification of our invenof irrecoverable assets of storage of movable assets and hire a specialized company for Disposal by the own branch – tory, in accordance with ISO 14,064 and the GHG Protocol methodology. (recycling) environmentally appropriate final disposal and/or recycling of 2,535 new purview tons of waste of unserviceable assets. Transfer of assets to a warehouse for subsequent environmentally appropriate disposal See more in BB 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-3 | See more in GRI Appendix 306-2 Annual Report online 305-4 | 305-5 Annual Report 2017 91 Ecological Footprint Index In order to expand the coverage of the Selective Waste Collection Program, enhance the reduction of GHG emis2015 2016 2017 2018 Goal sions and minimize the consumption of water, electric To expand the power, and paper, we adopted the Ecological Footprint Branches with Selective selective waste 1,458 1 1,628 1,704 2 Index (IPE), an instrument by which we evaluate all of Waste Collection Implemented collection program to another 100 branches. our branches. The actions occur as follows: Certifications (1) There was no goal. (2) The implementation of the selective waste collection requires cooperatives or associations of waste Water: evaluation by the accumulated average of At the end of 2017, we kept the following certifications attesting our pickers or public selective waste collection in the municipality. In 2017, there was an increase of other monthly consumption records of the branch, with a concommitment to environmental preservation: 152 branches with selective waste collection implemented, overcoming the target (100 branches) sumption target equal to or less than the established by 52%. However, there was the closure of 76 branches that already had selective waste collection regional pattern;  Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), a seal implemented, which totaled 1,704 units with the Selective Waste Collection program implemented. Electric power: evaluation by the accumulated average related to the sustainable construction granted by the Green Building of monthly consumption records of the branch, with a Selective waste collection: evaluation by the monthly record of the volume of waste disposed Council, of the United States, in our head office of Brasília (DF); and consumption target equal to or less than the established of selectively (paper, plastic, metal, and glass) and sent for recycling.  ISO 14,064, in our Inventory of GHG Emissions. regional pattern; Paper: goal of linear reduction of 2% in consumption In the first half of 2017, 42% (2,021 units) of the branches evaluated reached the target set for Our Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB includes the goal of acquiring in comparison to the same period of the previous year IPE. In the second half, 51% (2,902 units) reached the indicator – a 9% advance in comparison ISO 14,001 in strategic buildings in Brasilia: for 2018, it is expected for for Strategic, Tactical and Operational Units and Retail with the first half. This result was due to actions of communication, guidance, and monitoring of the headquarters building of Banco do Brasil and, by 2019, for CCBB Branches; and the performance of the units. and the Technology Complex – headquarters building IV. Annual Report 2017 92 102-3: Location of the organization seat Conselho Caring for Climate – coordinated by the United Nations Setor de Autarquias Norte, Quadra 5, Lote B, Organization (UNO); Edifício Banco do Brasil, Brasília, Distrito Federal, Brazil Carbon Disclosure Program (CDP) Technical Council; FEBRABAN’S Committee for Social Responsibility and Sustainability; 102-6: Markets where the organization operates Federação Brasileira de Bancos (FEBRABAN); We closed 2017 with 64.5 thousand points of service between propFederação Nacional dos Bancos (FENABAN); er, shared, and corresponding networks, and thus we are present in Federação das Indústrias do Estado de São Paulo (Fiesp); 99.8% of the Brazilian cities. Associação Brasileira das Entidades de Crédito Imobiliário e For more information on the network of branches by region, please Poupança (Abecip); refer to the Q4/2017 Performance Analysis (page 98).  Associação Brasileira das Empresas de Cartões de Crédito e The credit portfolio by economic activity sector can be found in exServiços (Abecs); planatory note No. 10 (Credit Operations) on the 2017 Consolidated Associação Nacional das Instituições de Crédito, Financiamento e Financial Statements (page 53). Investimento (Acrefi); Our customer base can be referred to in Chapter 6 of the Q4/2017 Associação Brasileira de Empresa de Leasing (Abel); Performance Analysis (page 84). Associação Brasileira das Entidades dos Mercados Financeiro e de Capitais (Anbima); 102-12: Initiatives developed externally Instituto Brasileiro de Relações com Investidores (Ibri); Our public sustainability commitments and initiatives are available Associação dos Analistas e Profissionais de Investimento de Meron our website. cado de Capitais (Apimec); Instituto Ethos de Responsabilidade Social Empresarial (Ethos); 102-13: Participation in associations Associação Brasileira de Instituições Financeiras de DesenvolviThe following are the main bodies, entities, or associations of which mento (ABDE); GRI we are members or representatives: Associação Brasileira de Administradores de Consórcios (Abac); Conselho Empresarial Brasileiro para o Desenvolvimento Sustentável Associação Nacional de Bancos (Asbace); Appendix (CEBDS); Confederação Nacional das Empresas de Seguros Gerais, Previdência Câmara Temática de Finanças Sustentáveis coordinated by the Conselho Privada e Vida, Saúde Suplementar e Capitalização (CNseg); Empresarial Brasileiro para o Desenvolvimento Sustentável (CEBDS); Associação Brasileira de Comunicação Empresarial (Aberje); Brazilian Committee for the Global Pact – coordinated by the United Nations Organization (UNO); Annual Report 2017 93 102-13: Participation in associations which will enable increased gains in terms of reliability, investments, our result in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) selection process Associação Brasileira de Private Equity e Venture Capital (Abvcap); and economic growth rates in the medium and long term. Within this every year, as well as the rendering of accounts on the actions developed Associação Brasileira das Companhias Abertas (Abrasca); and context, the credit market should undergo significant recovery. within the scope of our Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB. It should be Associação Brasileira do Agronegócio (Abag). stressed that these actions are set forth to help us meet the challenges 102-19: Delegation of authority prioritized by the several relationship audiences. 102-15: Main impacts, risks, and opportunities Authority is delegated by the Board of Directors to the executives in the Quantitative and qualitative reports are submitted on a biannual basis to The main opportunities identified by us are associated with the overExecutive Board as defined in article 21, item X and article 28 of our the CA, containing all accusations, complaints, and suggestions submitted coming of the economic recession episode, which caused the CounBylaws, which set forth that it is up to the Board of Directors to set the by customers in our service channels (CABB, SAC, and Ombudsman try to resume gradual growth in 2017. The main sectors at this level number, select the members, and define the assignments of the ExecService), and proposing actions to solve the existing issues. of activity showed signs of recovery, with an emphasis on the perforutive Board, and that the latter, in turn, must complete the assignments Our Audit Committee (Coaud) relies on a communication channel in mance of agriculture, which reported a record grain crop, and in the defined by the Board of Directors, always in accordance with the principles our website. To assist shareholders, analysts, and investors, we rely transformation industry. The drop in inflation and interest, and the of good banking technique and good corporate governance practices. on the Fale com a RI channel. improvement noted in the job market favored the retail sector, which Specifically with respect to the environmental and social topics, this increased family consumption, and raised the levels of reliability in theme is addressed by the Board of Strategy and Organization, 102-27: Collective knowledge on the highest goverseveral economic segments. The gross formation of fixed capital which is directly linked to our CEO, who is responsible, among othnance body showed a positive result after 15 quarters of decline. ers, for the management of topics associated with the socio-environThe key approach in the training of our directors and counselors in Mainly favored by the drop in food prices, there was a relevant dismental responsibility, and by the Board of Governance. 2017 was the digital transformation process in the economy, and esinflationary shock on economy, which inflation, as measured by the pecially, in the banking sector. We provide lectures with international IPCA, closed the year with a variation below the goals interval floor. 102-21: Consultation with stakeholders on economic, experts, in addition to making available to Directors, General ManThe high level of idleness in the economy and the colling in prices environmental, and social topics agers of Strategic Units, Board of Directors, and Tax Department, associated with factors less sensitive to the monetary policy, such as Our audiences of interest actively participate in the construction a portfolio containing nearly 20 courses in open classes, offered by services, contributed in this direction. of our socio-environmental responsibility management model. In local and international business schools, also on the corporate govThe fall in prices generated positive vectors for the Brazilian economy, 2016, for the sixth time, we updated the Banco do Brasil Sustainernance, business environment, customer relations, management which was crucial for continuity of the monetary policy easing proability Plan – Agenda 30 BB for the period between 2017 and 2019. for results, and innovation management. cess, which resulted in a reduction of the Selic to 7.0% p.y., its lowest The prioritization of the challenges and the definition of the susIn addition to these specific actions, our high management, as well level on record. Lower interest rates and an increase in the real family tainability actions for Agenda 30 BB included a virtual consultation as our counselors, have access to the UniBB website and to the income encouraged the demand for credit by this segment. with stakeholders of all mapped categories, in addition to in-depth UniBB Mobile application , which are available in several courses In addition to the recently promoted structural changes, such as the interviews with priority audiences, and events gathering executives and learning tracks on multiple topics. In 2017, the highlight was approval of the Long-Term Rate (TLP), the law on the ceiling for puband collaborators. the launching of the High Management on Focus video class, which lic expenses, and the labor reform, the continuity in the advancement On a yearly basis, we report our socio-environmental performance to the addresses topics such as Anticorruption Act, Corporate Legislation, of the reforms agenda will be crucial for equating public accounts, Board of Directors (CA). The content of the referred report is based on and Information Confidentiality and Disclosure. Annual Report 2017 94 102-29: Identification and management of the economic, environmental, and social impacts Upon demand, the Board of Directors will deliberate, within the scope of its activities, upon We also manage our impacts, risks, and opportunities through the contributions received from topics intended to enhance our socio-environmental performance. our stakeholders by our Ombudsman Office and by the Coaud directly linked to the CA. The main functions of the Board of Directors (CA) are to define the guidelines for BB’s activity, Our audiences of interest also subsidize the management of the Corporate Socio-Environapprove the Banco do Brasil Corporate Strategy,a nd follow up, on a monthly basis, the company’s mental Responsibility in the collective construction of our Sustainability Plan updated in 2016 economic and financial performance. This follow up encompasses all issues regarding its statutory (Agenda 30 BB) through online consultations, in-depth interviews, thematic panels, and oncompetences, including the impacts, risks, and opportunities arising from economic, environmental, site events. Environmental, social, and economic risks, impacts, and opportunities that proand social questions, and is conducted by means of mechanisms for following up the strategic vide support to Agenda 30 BB were identified in these interactions. The rendering of accounts actions approved for the company, as well as other specific reports prepared and submitted to the on our socio-environmental performance takes place on a yearly basis. Council on a regular basis by the relevant departments. In this sense, the CA also gives guidance In those cases in which the need for due diligence is verified, our CA will order the relevant on decisions and sets forth actions and goals for all received questions. department to start the process. Rendering of Accounts – Agenda 30 BB Challenges Actions Maturity Report 4. To establish an Eligibility Committee for the appointment and assessAction completed within the term. In the CA meeting held March 20, 2017, we approved the expansion of the scope ment process, linked to the Board of Directors, to assist shareholders Challenge 1 12/31/17 of activity of the Remuneration Committee, which is now referred to as Remuneration and Eligibility Committee in appointing members for the Board of Directors, the Tax Council, the (Corem). The Corem Internal Regulation is available in the Investor Relations website. Executive Board, and the CA advisory committees. 5. To constitute a Sustainability Committee, or include the sustainability Action completed within the term. We created the Risk and Capital Committee (Coris), which purpose is to advise Challenge 1 topic as a topic under the formal responsibility of an already existing 12/31/17 the CA on the exercise of its functions associated with risk management, among which, the socio-environmental committee linked to the CA, containing at least one member of the CA. and the capital risks, in a unified manner, for institutions joining Banco do Brasil’s Prudential Conglomerate. Annual Report 2017 95 Rendering of Accounts – Agenda 30 BB (continued) Challenges Actions Maturity Report Action completed within the term. The Customer Council was instituted for the following segments: High-Income 8. To develop a continuous engagement system with a focus on the Natural Person, Natural Person – Other, Wholesale Legal Entity – Middle, Wholesale Legal Entity – Upper Middle, Challenge 3 customer experience, to collect suggestions on innovations/improve12/31/17 and Corporate. Comprised by no more than 12 customers, its main objective is to strengthen and improve BB’s ment of BB’s businesses and processes. customer relations management. Action completed within the term. We considered it relevant to implement the process for the external check of 9. To assess the implementation of the process for the external check of Challenge 4 12/31/17 information on the number of customers using online financial services. Therefore, as of 2018, we will work on information on the number of customers using online financial services. making this process feasible. 20. To define and implement procedures based on the identification Action completed within the term. We adapted our management information systems with the purpose of prosChallenge 7 12/31/17 of business opportunities in the supplier chain. pecting new businesses upon the signing of agreements with suppliers. 21. To review the Sustainability Track for all hierarchic levels with an Action completed within the term. We revised our Sustainability Track, including courses on the topic Social BusiChallenge 7 12/31/17 emphasis given to content on Social Businesses. nesses, with content updating. Action in continuous development. We structured a corporate action plan that consists of two action lines (internal 27. To strengthen gender equality at BB based on the development and external audiences) divided into three axes. We identified opportunities to increase the participation of women Challenge 11 of a corporate action plan defining indicators and goals by organizaStill Annual in functions in which the highest percentage of gender inequalities was verified, and thus indicators for inducing tional unit. the appointment of this audience were created. 36. To establish a process for communicating and/or negotiating with Action completed within the term. We established, in partnership with confederations and unions, thematic and Challenge 14 06/30/17 confederations and unions in case of organizational changes. negotiation round tables with the purpose of maintaining the continuity of the communication process. Action completed within the term. In 2017, we launched a set of educational solutions for several audiences of 39. To strengthen actions for developing competences for digital transemployees, such as the MBA in Bank Innovation and Digital Business Strategy, the Knowledge Track – Digital Challenge 14 12/31/17 formation, operational efficiency, and people management. Transformation, and the Develop Game, in addition to a round of lectures by the MIT associated with digital transformation and innovation for BB Executives. Annual Report 2017 96 Rendering of Accounts – Agenda 30 BB (continued) Challenges Actions Maturity Report Action completed within the term. We conducted an Research on Organizational Engagement and Environment 41. To measure employee satisfaction based on a statistically reliable Challenge 14 12/31/17 between May 2 and June 9, based on data obtained from a representative sample. The final result was 79.20% representative sample of the population of BB employees. of satisfied employees in 2017. Action in continuous development. We will intensify the use of the mobile channel. Among the actions, emphasis 46. To prospect and assess the feasibility of proposing, in conjunction with should be given to Vehicle Credit, which volume was increased by 32% between January and December 2017, customer and product managers, financial solutions and business models which represented, as a result, a reduction in 180,000 print sheets. In addition, with the purpose of reducing social Challenge 16 that promote transition to a Green and Inclusive Economy specific for Still annual inequality and fostering investments in environmentally sustainable solutions, we implemented the business model the several business pillars of Banco do Brasil (Wholesale, Legal Entity “Município mais que digital”, as well as developed a technical/economic arrangement for forest recovery in legal Retail, Natural Person Retail, Agribusiness, Government, and Private). reserve areas with one of BB’s commercial partners. 06/30/17 – construction 64. To develop routines and procedures to identify, classify, assess, of a socio-environmenmonitor, mitigate, and control environmental risks in operations, in tal rating based on the Action completed within the term. On June 20, 2017, in the Internal Controls and Risk Management Executive Challenge 19 accordance with the provisions in CMN No. 4,327, article 8th; and in application of questionCommittee, we approved the construction of the Socio-Environmental Rating. SARB No. 14, articles 3th, 7th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th, 15th, 16th, naires and construction 17th, and 18th. of a risk matrix. 66. To update, on an annual basis, BB’s Sustainability Guidelines for Action in continuous development.We updated and published the Sustainability Guidelines for Credit on December Challenge 19 Still annual Credit, two by sector and one by topic, and make them public. 26, 2017 in the BB website. 76. To review BB Guidelines on Private Social Investment in integration Action completed within the term. We approved the new BB Guidelines on Private Social Investment on December Challenge 24 12/31/17 with the BB conglomerate. 26, 2017. The document was published on the website of Banco do Brasil. Action completed within the term. In conjunction with the FBB, we identified and evaluated ISP assessment methods 78. To identify and institute, in conjunction with Fundação Banco do and methodologies. The FBB submitted the Effectiveness Program methodology, which provides for the analysis Challenge 24 12/31/17 Brasil, the best Private Social Investment assessment models. of the projects in which it invests, through indicators assessed both on zero milestone (start of the project) and on subsequent milestones. Annual Report 2017 97 Commitments for 2018 – Agenda 30 BB Action Origin of the Proposal Deadline PROSPERITY PILLAR OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Challenge 2: to identify and manage mediumand long-term non-financial and/or emerging risks that could significantly impact Banco do Brasil’s businesses. 7. To develop sectoral studies comparing the risk and return of green economy and high-impact acAction originating from the process for updating the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB 2017-2019. 06/30/18 tivities for submission to the customer/product management departments. PARTNERSHIP PILLAR OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Challenge 6: To strengthen the prominence of Banco do Brasil in the conduction of social businesses through comprehensive, efficient, and innovative solutions and in alignment with public policies. 12. To review processes associated with social businesses with an emphasis on digitalization, to gain Action originating from the process for updating the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB 2017-2019. 06/30/18 efficiency and coverage. 13. To structure a model for fund raising, management, and investment in social business with high Action originating from the process for updating the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB 2017-2019. 12/31/18 social and environmental impact. 15. To develop and implement actions in training on social businesses, with a focus on the use of digital Action originating from the process for updating the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB 2017-2019. 12/31/18 media for potential customers for social businesses and ISP, and for the internal audience. Annual Report 2017 98 Commitments for 2018 – Agenda 30 BB (continued) Action Origin of the Proposal Deadline PEOPLE PILLAR OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Challenge 11: to ensure proportionality in the representation of gender and race at all hierarchic levels of Banco do Brasil. 26. To develop and implement actions in training the operational staff on human rights in order to create Action originating from the process for updating the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB 2017-2019. 06/30/18 opportunities in terms of gender, race, and color. 27. To strengthen gender equality at BB based on the development of a corporate action plan defining Action 44 of Agenda 21 BB 2015-2017. Still annual indicators and goals by organizational unit. Challenge 14: to strengthen Banco do Brasil’s activity with respect to human capital, considering the management of health, safety and welfare, and the development and retention of talents. 38. To develop an action plan and implement measures that increase the levels of health and wellbeing of employees (to develop a model for prevention of stress in the workplace, improving quality of life Action originating from the process for updating the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB 2017-2019. 12/31/18 in the workplace and the satisfaction of employees). Challenge 15: to strengthen Banco do Brasil’s activity with respect to the ethics and corruption fighting theme. 42. Reassess and enhance communication plans and training actions associated with the topic ethics, Action originating from the process for updating the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB 2017-2019. 06/30/18 with a focus on Human Rights and the fight against corruption, for BB and its Linked Entities. Annual Report 2017 99 Commitments for 2018 – Agenda 30 BB (continued) Action Origin of the Proposal Deadline PLANET PILLAR OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Challenge 16: To develop financial solutions and business models that promote a transition to a green and inclusive economy. 44. To develop actions in training the internal audience on inclusive and green economy, with a focus Action originating from the process for updating the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB 2017-2019. 12/31/18 on business opportunities by market segment. 46. To prospect and assess the feasibility of proposing, in conjunction with customer and product managers, financial solutions and business models that promote transition to a green and inclusive Action originating from the process for updating the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB 2017-2019. Still annual economy specific for the several business pillars of Banco do Brasil (Wholesale, Legal Entity Retail, Natural Person Retail, Agribusiness, Government, and Private). Challenge 19: To improve socio-environmental risk management based on socio-environmental criteria in the granting of funds, also considering controversial topics. 12/31/18 – construc65. To define the technical specifications and demand the development of an IT system to support tion of a base for Action 61 of Agenda 21 BB 2015-2017. socio-environmental risk management. Socio-Environmental Risk losses. 66. To update, on an annual basis, BB’s Sustainability Guidelines for Credit, two by sector and one Action originating from the process for updating the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB 2017-2019. Still Annual by topic, and make them public. Annual Report 2017 100 Commitments for 2018 – Agenda 30 BB (continued) Action Origin of the Proposal Deadline PEACE PILLAR OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Challenge 24: To improve integration between Private Social Investment and the business strategy. 79. To apply the methodology instituted by BB and FBB for assessing Private Social Investment using Action 6 of Agenda 21 BB 2015-2017. 12/31/18 the beneficiary bases obtained on zero milestone. 82. To assess the possibility of defining and implementing a fund raising system for the FBB with the Action originating from the process for updating the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB 2017-2019. 12/31/18 companies in the Conglomerate and costumers in the Wholesale and Retail pillars. 102-36: Proceeding adopted to determine the remuneration In addition, the study observes the activities, responsibilities, and 102-42: Identification and selection of stakeholders The remuneration of our employees corresponds to the sum of percommand magnitude, among other factors associated with the The 2018-2022 Strategic Planning process includes an analysis of the valsonal funds, and if applicable, funds associated with the exercise of functions/positions/commissions. To assess the external balance, ue chain for identifying those stakeholders which participation would be sigtheir functions. Personal funds are calculated on an individual basis, the annual remuneration research conducted by the Consultancy nificantly relevant in the formulation of the Corporate Strategy. Two groups and when enforced, become irreducible, varying according to the Company Mercer Human Resource regarding the banking segment, were identified: one consisting of directors, and the other comprising shareemployee in function of the career, function/commission background issue 2017. There is no participation of independent remuneration holders, customers, collaborators, Linked Entities, and regulators. and date of tenure. The amounts of those funds associated with consultants in our management in this process. With respect to the process for prioritizing the challenges in sustainability the exercise of functions are defined according to the assignments, to update the actions of the Sustainability Plan and direct the content of the hierarchic level, complexity, area, and category, among other factors 102-38: Ratio of total annual remuneration Annual Report, we set forth our stakeholders map in four prioritization levlinked to each function/commission, and thus may be terminated or The ratio of total annual remuneration for the best-paid individual els, considering the nature, the businesses, and the activities of our Comchanged at any time. at BB for the average total annual remuneration for all employees pany. All categories were invited to participate in the virtual consultation With the purpose of providing remuneration compatible with that of (excluding the best-paid employee) in Brazil was 17.16. process and those relationship audiences considered to be the priority and the main competitors, among other financial institutions, we convery important answered the in-depth interview. The contributions of each ducted a study on both internal and external wage balances. The 102-41: Collective bargaining agreements category were consolidated according to the weight on the influence and internal balance study takes into account the remuneration scale The percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining impact axes, and their relevance was attributed according to the priority in for functions and positions included in our organizational structure. agreements is 100%. the stakeholders map. Annual Report 2017 101 102-43: Approach adopted by the organization to were held in 2016 and resulted in priority challenges to our manmodel impacts the variable remuneration of employees through involve stakeholders | 102-44: Main raised topics agement. With the purpose of integrating the report to the manthe payment of profit sharing (PLR). and concerns agement, the material topics that subsidize the content of the AnThis cycle is completed once we have rendered accounts on the actions Our stakeholders are involved on a regular basis in different consulnual Report correspond to the sustainability challenges listed in developed and associated with the material challenges to the audiences tive and decision making moments, with an emphasis on the prepaour Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB, which has been directly of interest through the Annual Report. ration of the BB Corporate Strategy, the BB Sustainability Strategy, collaborating to improve governance practices and to incorporate and for the customer satisfaction survey. socio-environmental variables in the company’s management Satisfaction Research and businesses. The satisfaction surveys interview customers who are natural BB Corporate Strategy The method used to engage relationship audiences was virtual persons, legal entities in the private sector, and legal entities in Our Corporate Strategy is formulated based on Banco do Brasil’s consultation and in-depth interviews to prioritize sustainability chalthe public sector. In general, the surveys assess the satisfacStrategic Planning, which includes, among its premises, the active lenges. This approach method enabled the expansion of the relation of customers with personal relationship, service channels, participation of stakeholders and the holding vision. In the 2018tionship audience, which generated opportunities for participation and general satisfaction with our services. We adopt the expe2022 Strategic Planning cycle, there were significant advancements of employees, customers, shareholders/investors, and suppliers rience accumulation satisfaction methodology, through which associated with the expansion of its coverage through more active nationwide. The consultation included the participation of 7,145 customers answer the questionnaire based on the last year of participation of stakeholders, such as Banco do Brasil’s shareholdstakeholders, of which 7,117 were on-line and 28 through in-depth banking relationship. ers, employees, leaderships, and representatives of Entities Linked interviews. In addition, a Special Sustainability Forum was held and Preserving unbiasedness, we contracted marketing survey into Banco do Brasil (ELBB). attended by executive managers with the purpose of assessing our stitutes members of the Associação Brasileira de Empresas de A total of 45 interviews were conducted with executives, directors, management maturity in the light of the 25 mapped sustainability Pesquisa (Abep) or to the European Society for Opinion and and members of the Steering Board and the Board of Directors, an challenges, and validating the materiality matrix resulting from the Marketing Research (ESOMAR), to conduct satisfaction surveys. electronic survey with more than 150 executives, state or regionvirtual consultation and in-depth interview process. The research is conducted in two phases: a qualitative phase, al superintendents, nine workshops with employees and statutory Considering the prioritized challenges, the directors, general manwith the purpose of surveying the satisfaction attributes, and perofficers, an electronic survey with approximately 32 thousand emagers, and executive managers of the Strategic Units assessed ceptions of customers on the Bank, which occurs an average of ployees and 18 work sessions with strategic units in the step for and defined the actions addressed to each challenge, those in three times per year; and a quantitative phase, conducted on a formulating indicators and goals. charge, and their respective completion deadlines. As a result of yearly basis with the purpose of measuring the satisfaction perthis process, the Steering Board approved the Sustainability Plan – ceptions and attributes surveyed in the qualitative step. BB Sustainability Strategy and Annual Report Agenda 30 BB for 2017-2019, which includes 82 actions. In general, the attributes most valued by customers in the compoOur Sustainability Plan is reviewed every two years to be kept upThese actions are included in the Employment Agreement (ATB) of sition of their degree of satisfaction are those associated with their dated and in line with the demands of audiences of interest. Severthe departments in charge of developing initiatives, and comprise relationship with the Bank employee in charge of their account. al events to engage stakeholders for the definition of the materiality one of the indicators that measure the performance of the manageThe results are presented to the departments in charge of the relaand updating of the Plan for the period between 2017 and 2019 ment of our Units with respect to the goals set. This assessment tionship with customers and managers of the network of branches. Annual Report 2017 102 102-46: Definition of the content of the report and limProcess for Consultation and Analysis of Material Topics Consultation with relationship audiences through online process and its of material topics | 102-47: List of material topics | Our materiality is defined based on two of GRI’s premises: the impact of each interviews. The consultation process was broad and included the 103-1: Explanation of the materiality and its limit challenge and its influence on the perception of the stakeholders, as follows: participation of 7,145 stakeholders, of which 7,117 were on-line and In 2016, we reviewed our materiality in accordance with the GRI Influence 28 through in-depth interviews. Based on our stakeholders map, we guidelines and fully met the steps involving the identification, priInterviews with external stakeholders; analyzed and consolidated the contributions according to the priority oritization, and validation of relevant topics for defining the conOnline survey with external stakeholders; of each category. In this step, ten challenges were initially prioritized; tent of this report. Media survey (perception); and In the 27th Sustainability Forum, our executives assessed and discussed It should be stressed that, with the objective of integrating the Sectoral studies. the 25 sustainability challenges, and after the validation process, 13 report to the management, our material topics represent the susImpact challenges were defined as relevant to direct the content of this report. tainability challenges listed in our Sustainability Plan, entitled Consultation with executives; Challenges 2, 19, and 24 were added to those identified as prioritized Agenda 30 BB, in line with the 2030 Global agenda and the ODS. Consultation with internal audience; in the first step. Minor adjustments were made in the texts and the Our challenges are mapped based on the assessment of local Competitors; most impacted challenge was challenge 19, in which a addendum and international sustainability trends, market indexes, demands Assessment of BB’s strategy and sustainability departments; and on controversial topics was included. Still, the other challenges will of the society in general, and mainly, the connection of our busiMegatrends. continue to be addressed in our corporate routine; and ness strategies with the ODS. In accordance with the challenge prioritization steps and the definition In our 6th Sustainable Development Workshop the result of our mateWe also take into consideration our Corporate Strategy. As a result of of the actions for updating our Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB, the riality matrix was presented to the High Management of BB with the this assessment, 25 sustainability challenges were identified distribmovements for engagement with our relationship audiences also subsidized purpose of subsequently defining actions to enable achievement of the uted between the five pillars of the Sustainable Development Goals: the preparation of the content of this report. The following are the results sustainability challenges expected for the coming three years. Prosperity, Partnership, People, Planet, and Peace. of this process: Annual Report 2017 103 102-46: Definition of the content of the report and limits of material topics | Materiality Matrix 102-47: List of material topics | 103-1: Explanation of the materiality and its limit Our Materiality Process Accountability Review of the Challenges 15 Half-yearly reporting to the Assessment of trends and 16 Relevant challenges Board of Officers demands of sustainability and 6 according to the process Annual reporting to the society in general of materiality Board of Directors Corporate Strategy 22 7 4 Annual reporting to 1 21 Influence Relevant challenges the stakeholders in 14 added to the the Annual Report 3 validation process 13 2 11 19 18 25 Irrelevant challenges 10 23 17 12 9 20 8 24 Planning and Consultation and Action Analysis Process Assessment Assessment of the Impact of 25 challenges materiality with online for establishing consultations and The following are definitions for the limits of the aspects. actions for the next interviews three years Analysis of internal To capture the perception of stakeholders presented in the GRI guidelines, we proposed the assessment of the chaland external lenges as having impacts both inside and outside BB. The impact group had been assessed in three subdivisions: documents Customers; Validation Suppliers; and Validation of challenges Other (addresses collectivity outside the commercial scope, such as institutional partners and non-governmental prioritized by executives on BB organizations (NGOs), local communities, governments, the environment, etc.). Sustainability Forum The application of mathematical logic based on the created divisions, allowed for the definition of challenges in a meThis process, which occurs every two years, resulted in our Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 thodical manner within three major limits: inside, outside, and both. BB for 2017-2019. Annual Report 2017 104 102-46: Definition of the content of the report and limits of material topics | 102-47: List of material topics | 103-1: Explanation of the materiality and its limit Material challenges are presented in numerical order in the following table: Prosperity Limit Sublimit Partnership Limit Sublimit Challenge 1: to align Banco do Brasil’s governance with the best international pracChallenge 6: to strengthen the prominence of BB in the conduction of social businesses tices and strengthen the role played by the Senior Management in the sustainability Internal Internal through comprehensive, efficient, and innovative solutions and in alignment with public Customers, strategy. 102-14 | 102-18 | 102-19 | 102-27 | 102-29 policies. 416-1 | 102-43 | 102-44 | 417-3 | 418-1 | 419-1 (Customer health and External Suppliers, safety, Labeling of products and services, Marketing communications, Customer privacy, and Other Challenge 2: to identify and manage mediumand long-term non-financial and/or and Product or service compliance aspects) emerging risks that could significantly impact BB’s businesses. 102-15 | 102-11 | Internal Internal 201-2 | 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-3 | 305-4 | 305-5 | FS6 | FS9 (Economic perforChallenge 7: to strengthen BB’s initiatives towards production development, entremance, Emissions, and Products and services aspects) preneurship, and the promotion of social and financial inclusion. 203-1 | 203-2 | External Customers FS13 | FS14 (Indirect economic impacts and Local communities aspects) Challenge 3: to identify innovations in the financial sector (business models and technologies) and anticipate trends in order to ensure BB’s continuity and longevity. Internal Internal People Limit Sublimit 302-4 | 418-1 (Energy and Customer privacy aspects) Challenge 11: to ensure proportionality in the representation of gender and race at all Challenge 4: to improve the management of relationship with the customer and hierarchic levels of Banco do Brasil. 102-8 | 405-1 | 405-2 | 406-1 (Employment, Internal Internal increase satisfaction and retention rates. 416-1 | 417-2 | 102-43 | 102-44 | Diversity and equal opportunities, Remuneration equality between women and men, 417-3 | 418-1 | 419-1 (Customer Health and safety, Labeling of products and Internal Internal and Non-discrimination aspects) services, Marketing communications, Customer privacy, and Product or service Challenge 14: to strengthen BB’s activity with respect to Human Capital, concompliance aspects) sidering the management of health, safety and welfare, and the development and retention of talents. 102-41 | 401-1 | 402-1 | 403-1 | 403-2 | 404-1 | Internal Internal 404-3 | 410-1 | 412-1 (Employment, Labor relations, Health and safety in the workplace, Training and education, Safety practices, and Assessment in human rights aspects) Challenge 15: to strengthen BB’s activity with respect to the ethics and corruption fighting theme. 102-16 | 102-17 | 205-1 | 205-2 | 205-3 (Fight against Internal Internal corruption aspect) Annual Report 2017 105 102-46: Definition of the content of the report and limits of material topics | 102-53: Contact for questions about the report 102-47: List of material topics | 103-1: Explanation of the materiality and its limit Investor Relations Unit Strategy and Organization Board Setor de Autarquias Norte, Quadra 5, Lote B Setor de Autarquias Norte, Quadra 5, Lote B Torre Central – 4 floor th Torre Sul – 12th floor Planet Limit Sublimit Asa Norte Asa Norte Challenge 16: to develop financial solutions and business models that promote a Internal, Zip code: 70040-912 Zip code: 70040-912 transition to a green and inclusive economy. 201-2 | 302-4 | 305-5 (Economic Both Other and Brasília (DF) Brasília (DF) performance, Energy, Emissions, and General aspects) Customers E-mail: ri@bb.com.br E-mail: direo.sustentabilidade@bb.com.br Challenge 19: to improve socio-environmental risk management based on socio-environmental criteria in the granting of funds, also considering controversial topics. External Customers FS1 | FS2 | FS3 | FS4 | FS5 | FS9 | FS12 | FS10 | FS11 Peace Limit Sublimit Challenge 21: to develop the process of social (including human rights and labor practices) and environmental due diligence to assess the impacts of BB’s transactions and commercial relationships. 412-3 | 412-2 | 406-1 | 407-1 | 408-1 | 409-1 | 410-1 | 412-1 | 414-1 | 414-2 | 413-1 (Local communities, Mechanisms for concerns and complaints regarding impacts on the society, Investments in human Internal Internal rights, Non-discrimination, Freedom of collective association and negotiation, Child labor, Forced or slave labor, Safety practices, Assessment based on human rights, Assessment of suppliers based on human rights, and Mechanisms for concerns and complaints regarding human rights aspects) Challenge 24: to improve integration between private social investment and the busiCustomers ness strategy 203-1 | 203-2 | 413-1 (Economic performance, Indirect economic External and Other impacts and Local communities aspects) Annual Report 2017 106 103-1: Explanation of the materiality and its limit | 103-2: Management approach and its components | 103-3: Assessment of the management approach Challenge 1: to align Banco do Brasil’s governance with the best international practices and strengthen the Challenge 4: to improve the management of relationship with the customer and increase satisfaction role played by the Senior Management in the sustainability strategy. and retention rates. Associated topic: Sustainability Strategy and Governance Associated topic: Customer satisfaction Pages 36-37, 39, 42 Pages 40, 71-78, 93 Challenge 2: to identify and manage mediumand long-term non-financial and/or emerging risks that could Responsible area for management of the challenge in the company: Board of Individual Customer, Unidade Private Bank, significantly impact Banco do Brasil’s businesses. Board of Small and Medi­um-sized Enterprises, Board of Corporate Bank and Board of Governance Associated topic: Medium-and long-term emergent risks Challenge 6: to strengthen the prominence of Banco do Brasil in the conduction of social businesses through comprehensive, efficient, and innovative solutions and in alignment with public policies. Pages 42, 48-50, 58, 59 Associated topic: Prominence in social businesses Challenge 3: to identify innovations in the financial sector (business models and technologies) and anticipate trends in order to ensure Banco do Brasil’s continuity and longevity. Pages 25-29, 32-33, 42, 93 Associated topic: Identification of innovations Challenge 7: to strengthen Banco do Brasil’s initiatives towards productive development, entrepreneurship, and the promotion of social and financial inclusion. Pages 18-20, 27, 71-78, 93 Associated topic: Social and financial inclusion Pages 29, 42, 25-33, 93 (continues) Annual Report 2017 107 103-1: Explanation of the materiality and its limit | 103-2: Management approach and its components | 103-3: Assessment of the management approach (continued) Challenge 11: to ensure proportionality in the representation of gender and race at all hierarchic Challenge 19: to improve socio-environmental risk management based on socio-environmental criteria in the levels of Banco do Brasil. granting of funds, also considering controversial topics. Associated topic: Race and gender equality Relevant topic: Socio-environmental risk in the granting of loans Pages 78-79 Pages 42, 56-58 Responsible area for management of the challenge in the company: Board of Magement People Responsible area for management of the challenge in the company: Board of Risk Management Challenge 14: to strengthen Banco do Brasil’s activity with respect to Human Capital, considering the manageChallenge 21: to develop the process of social (including human rights and labor practices) and environmenment of health, safety and welfare, and the development and retention of talents. tal due diligence to assess the impacts of BB’s transactions and commercial relationships. Associated topic: Health and safety Relevant topic: Social and Environmental Due Diligence Social in the transaction Pages 84-85 Pages 42, 60, 86 Responsible area for management of the challenge in the company: Board of Magement People Relevant topic: Social and Environmental Due Diligence in credit and financing Associated topic: Development and retention Pages 56-57 Pages 78, 80-84, 93 Pages 59-60 Challenge 15: to strengthen Banco do Brasil’s activity with respect to the ethics and corruption fighting theme. Challenge 24: to improve integration between Private Social Investment and the business strategy. Associated topic: Ethics and fight against corruption Relevant topics: Private Social Investments Pages 40-45 Pages 42, 25-33 Challenge 16: to develop financial solutions and business models that promote a transition to a green and Responsible area for management of the challenge in the company: Board of Governance inclusive economy. Objectives and goals related to the challenges are available between pages 95 to 101. Relevant topic: Development of solutions for inclusive and green economy We evaluated the effectiveness of the management approach during the review of Agenda 30 BB (p. 23) and the CorPages 28-33, 42 porate Strategy BB (pages 17 and 18). As a result of the evaluation of the management approach, we set the challenges of Agenda 30 BB (pages 95 to 101). The policies that directed BB’s socially and environmentally responsible activities through our business lines are availOur commitments to management of the challenges are available at http://www.bb.com.br/pbb/sustentabilidade/goverable at: http://bb.com.br/pbb/sustentabilidade/governanca-politicas-e-diretrizes#. nanca-politicas-e-diretrizes/pactos-e-acordos#/ Annual Report 2017 108 201-1: Generated and distributed direct economic value 205-1: Operations assessed for risks associated with corruption We assessed our processes, taking into consideration situations in which we could be classified as potential actors or potential victims of harmful acts qualified as corruption, the degree 2015 2016 2017 of the risk involved, and the corresponding mitigating actions, whether developed or under Generated Direct Economic Value (revenue) (R$ million) 181,966 160,317 140,461 development. This essay, completed in 2017, assessed 389 BB processes (which are equivalent to 100% of our processes). During that year, the risk management of 35 of the main Distributed Economic Value (R$ million) 39,437 44,342 45,764 Entities Linked to Banco do Brasil (ELBB) was also assessed with a focus on the prevention and fight against corruption. Personnel (employees’ wages and benefits) 19,994 21,340 19,496 We are exposed to risks that employees, third parties, or intermediaries of any nature, acting to their own benefit or interest, could practice harmful acts qualified as corruption, Remuneration of Third Parties’ Capital 1,308 1,442 1,567 against the public, national, or foreign administration, provided for in Law No. 12,846/2013, Remuneration of Own Capital 16,142 9,709 12,661 or in any applicable legislation, with transnational coverage, and those ruling over the jurisdictions where we operate. Taxes, Fees, and Contributions 1,993 11,851 12,041 The main risks verified, with respect to the possibility of being classified as actors of the corruption act are present in the business involving public entities as a counterpart, through the Net Profit (R$ million) 14,400 8,034 11,111 action of direct agents or third parties acting on our behalf. The risks inherent to negotiations with legal entities as a result of bidding processes, contract management, and access to credit in lines with rates below those offered by the market were also verified as being relevant, and of which we are potential victims in an act of corruption. 202-1: Variation of the proportion between the lowest wage, discriminated by gender, and the local minimum wage 2015 20161 2017 Variation of the Proportion Between the Lowest Wage, Discrim2.83 2.83 2.90 inated by Gender, and the Local Minimum Wage in Important Operational Units (1) The amount reported in 2016 was corrected. The wage floor is applied, regardless of the gender, to all employees starting their career with us. Annual Report 2017 109 Total Number and Percentage of Employees Who Received at Least 1 Training Course on the Fight Against 205-2: Communication and training on anticorruption policies and procedures Corruption, Discriminated by Functional Category and Region Training Region Functional Category Number Percentage The training on Prevention and Fight Against Corruption is available in the UniBB Website, accessible by all employMidwest High Management 91 45.50 ees. The objective of the training is to enable employees to identify situations or businesses that show evidence of Midwest Advisory 2,780 63.33 corruption, using the definition of harmful acts committed against the public administration, in accordance with legal Midwest Miscellaneous Management 2,103 47.62 requirements. In 2017, 44,906 employees (45.3% of the total) completed the training. Midwest Operational 3,318 64.78 In 2017, UniBB also made available the video class High Management on Focus. In addition to the Anticorruption Act, the solution addressed topics, such as Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct, Anticorruption Act, Internal Controls, Midwest Technician 1,946 71.07 Capital Market, Corporate Legislation, and Information Confidentiality and Disclosure. By the end of 2017, it was atNortheast High Management 3 33.33 tended by 37 of the 59 statutory officers, counselors, and members of the audit and remuneration committees, which Northeast Advisory 248 53.22 corresponds to a 62% adherence. Northeast Miscellaneous Management 2,328 40.84 Northeast Operational 5,339 51.56 Northeast Technician 42 75.00 North High Management 2 33.33 North Advisory 80 61.54 North Miscellaneous Management 756 45.99 North Operational 1,490 56.68 North Technician 7 70.00 Southeast High Management 23 46.94 Southeast Advisory 1,479 68.22 Southeast Miscellaneous Management 7,063 47.41 Southeast Operational 15,634 60.99 Southeast Technician 821 81.29 South High Management 2 33.33 South Advisory 378 65.74 South Miscellaneous Management 2,972 51.84 South Operational 6,869 62.42 South Technician 165 76.74 Annual Report 2017 110 205-2: Communication and training on anticorruption policies and procedures 301-1: Materials used, discriminated by weight or volume | 301-2: Recycled materials used High Management on Focus Course Non-renewable Material Region Functional Category Number Percentage Cartridge and Toner Recycling 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Midwest High Management 33 16.50 Program (Prorec – in units) Midwest Advisory 46 1.05 Total Consumed Cartridges 106,371 110,517 115,105 121,849 107,712 Midwest Miscellaneous Management 13 0.29 Recycled Cartridges 102,867 107,178 112,800 119,218 105,112 Northeast Miscellaneous Management 1 0.02 Percentage of Recycled Cartridges 97 97 98 98 98 Northeast Operational 1 0.01 Southeast High Management 5 10.20 Renewable Material Southeast Miscellaneous Management 3 0.02 Use of Paper 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 South Miscellaneous Management 2 0.03 Total Consumed Paper (ton) 8,644 8,516 6,601 6,082 5,454 Recycled Paper (ton) 951 865 577 408 386 Percentage of Recycled Paper 11 10 9 7 7 The fluctuation occurred in 2017 in the consumption of materials included in the above categories was directly influenced by reason of the campaigns for awareness on the use of paper products, increase in transactions via electronic means, such as mobile and Internet, and actions for reviewing the technical specifications of materials, with the purpose of improving the referred materials. Annual Report 2017 111 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization | We manage our electric energy consumption through an Energy Conservation Program (Procen), 302-3: Energetic intensity | 302-4: Reduction in energy consumption which provides information to the entire Conglomerate. As the main objective of the management, in addition to reducing expenses with electric energy inputs, it is relevant to stress that the activity is Energetic Intensity 2015 2016 2017 focused on achieving regional energy consumption goals. Information regarding electric energy consumption are obtained through a corporate system and Electric Energy Intensity (total consumption of electric 6,220 6,291 5,971 made available to the entire Conglomerate. A new way of submitting data through the Spot Fire energy/employee/year) (kWh/employee/year) application is being implemented to allow more speed and efficiency in obtaining information, with more effective actions in place. The regional electric energy consumption parameters adopted for 2017 include the following values Electric Energy Consumption (GWh)1 2015 2016 2017 (kWh/m²): North region (21), Northeast region (20), Midwest region (17), Southeast region (16), and South region (14). We adopted amounts which application was implemented in 2014, and which Total Electric Energy Consumption 724,215 704,551 609,073 undergo annual reviews for adequacy to the new consumption profiles gradually achieved. (1) In 2017, 77.42% of consumed energy by BB was generated by renewable sources The amounts obtained for 2017 were estimated considering that we are in the process of changing the data capturing system, previously made by engineering platforms, and currently, with the http://ons.org.br/Paginas/resultados-da-operacao/historico-da-operacao/geracao_energia.aspx. linking of the payment to the simultaneous registration of consumption data, made by the paying premises themselves.  Therefore, the amount estimated for electric energy consumption at BB for 2017 was 609 GWh, with Values referring to only the electricity purchased from the concessionaire. supply through energy concessionaires with contracts met by the captive electricity market, which in comparison with the electricity consumption of 704 GWh reported in 2016, enabled percentage Fuels (liters)1 2015 2016 2017 savings estimated at 13.5%. With respect to the amounts paid over the past years, it is noted that the expense in 2017 was R$444 million/year; which when compared with the amount of R$480 million Total Automotive Diesel Consumption 42,400 58,129 63,833 reported in 2016, enable a R$36 million reduction in expenses, which corresponds to 7.5% of the amount reported in the previous year. Total Generator Group Diesel Oil Consumption 550,980 392,722 340,870 Total Gasoline Consumption 2,409,250 2,200,062 2,097,684 Total Ethanol Consumption 578,194 518,281 419,792 (1) In 2015, the method for calculating diesel oil consumption was changed. In the previous years, the survey took into account the products Diesel S10 and Diesel, without considering other options available in the market. Therefore, as of 2015 we chose calculation based on the type of engine using this fuel, which in this case, are vehicles and energy generators. Annual Report 2017 112 303-1: Total water consumption by source The amounts obtained for 2017 were estimated considering that we are in the process of changing the data capturing system, previously made by engineering platforms, and cur2015 2016 20171 rently, with the linking of the payment to the simultaneous registration of consumption data, made by the paying premises themselves. 1. Total Water Consumed (thousand m3) 1,678 1,566 1,405 Therefore, the amount estimated for our water consumption in 2017 was 1.4 billion liters of water, with supply by water supply concessionaires, when compared with the total conPublic or private water supply (thousand m3) 1,678 1,566 1,405 sumption of 1.6 billion reported in 2016. (1) Estimated amount. We do not use recycled water in our premises. Water is supplied by water supply concessionaires. With respect to the amounts paid over the past years, it is noted that, until 2015, the figures were around R$28 million/year, went up to R$32 million in 2016, and remained at this level Our water consumption is managed through the Reasonable Water Use Program (Purágua). The management of the in 2017, in spite of the increases in the tariffs occurred during this period. program sets forth actions for those premises with water consumption exceeding the goals set, with an emphasis on To obtain the estimated water consumption, an average increase of 1.11% in the tariff was the inspections in the water installations to determine the causes for the high water consumption, especially for leakconsidered, with an amount of R$22.89/m³ for 2017, in comparison with the average tariff age of any nature. in effect during 2016, of R$20.62/m³. Efficient regionalized water consumption parameters are used with the following amounts (litters/person/day): North region (64), Northeast region (63), Midwest region (58), Southeast region (53), and South region (48), which evolution along the years can be verified in the following table. Region 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 North 50 54 54 64 64 Northeast 50 45 45 63 63 Midwest 50 50 45 58 58 Southeast 50 45 45 53 53 South 50 50 36 48 48 Annual Report 2017 113 306-2: Total weight of residues, discriminated by type and disposal method In 2016, we made the first inventory to define the amount of residues of movable property stored in our premises. The questionnaire was answered by 2,979 premises and enabled the Weight of Harmful Residues, Discriminated by Type of Disposal1 2016 2017 recycling, in 2017, of those assets that were stored. The inventory was made again in 2017, and the questionnaire was answered by 3,374 premises. The variation verified is associated Other (chemical reaction and decontamination) – ton 18.6 with the number of premises participating in the inventory of residues of movable property. (1) The data regarding harmful residues refer to the collection and disposal through a movable property, lamp, and battery Another relevant factor regarding the variation in the numbers was the creation of an internal recycling contract. application to manage the sustainable disposal of useless movable property. Those assets that cannot be reused are recycled by a specialized company, in compliance with the National Policy on Solid Residues instituted by Law No. 12,305/2010. 401-1: New hires of collaborators and turnover Weight of Non-harmful Residues, Discriminated by 2016 2017 Type of Disposal (ton) Turnover by Gender 2015 2016 2017 Reuse – Donation (unit) 17,837 Number of Employees 109,1911 100,622 99,161 Reuse – Internal (unit) 114,000 Recycling (ton) 1.3 1,494 Female 45,382 41,549 41,044 Local Storage (ton) 1,542 2,534 Male 63,809 59,073 58,117 Public Collection (mixed or non-recyclable residues generated by the 549.3 529.8 Dismissals in the Period 7,032 10,474 1,587 premises participating in the BB Selective Collection Program) Female 2,596 4,470 474 Male 4,436 6,004 1,113 Weight of Non-harmful residues, Discriminated by Turnover Rate (%) 6.442 10.41 1.60 2016 2017 Type of Disposal (ton) Plastic 252.1 221.8 Female (%) 2.68 4.44 0.48 Metal 63.6 34.8 Male (%) 3.76 5.97 1.12 Glass 46.7 27.5 Paper 2,067.3 2,390,.4 (1) Number of employees in 2015 revised to maintain a standard reporting basis with other documents published by BB. (2) R  otativity of 2015 revised to maintain a standard reporting basis with other documents published by BB. Annual Report 2017 114 401-1: New hires of collaborators and turnover Turnover by Region 2015 2016 2017 With respect to the number of dismissals, the numeric fluctuation is due to the fact that, in 2016, there were several Dismissals in the Period 7,032 10,474 1,587 dismissals in function of the Extraordinary Encouraged Retirement Plan (Peai), which was the reason for the reduction in the number of dismissals in 2017. Many employees advanced their retirements to 2016, which reflected in a reducSouth 1,159 1,570 243 tion in dismissals in 2017. Southeast 2,727 4,649 670 Turnover by Age Bracket 2015 2016 2017 Midwest 1,200 1,833 305 North 311 344 76 Dismissals in the Period 7,032 10,474 1,587 Northeast 1,635 2,078 293 Up to 30 Years 364 318 214 Turnover Rate (%) 6.44 10.41 1.60 30 to 50 Years 1,183 2,186 814 South (%) 1.14 1.56 0.24 Over 50 Years 5,485 7,970 559 Southeast (%) 2.91 4.62 0.68 Turnover Rate (%) 6.44 10.41 1.60 Midwest (%) 1.03 1.82 0.30 Up to 30 Years (%) 0.83 0.32 0.22 North (%) 0.29 0.34 0.08 30 to 50 Years (%) 4.54 2.17 0.82 Northeast (%) 1.07 2.07 0.30 Over 50 Years (%) 1.07 7.92 0.56 New Hires by Gender 2015 2016 2017 New Hires in the Period 4,883 1,424 287 Female 1,757 509 98 Male 3,126 915 189 Hiring Rate (%) 4.42 1.42 0.29 Female (%) 1.59 0.51 0.10 Male (%) 2.83 0.91 0.19 Annual Report 2017 115 401-1: New hires of collaborators and turnover 402-1: Minimum term for notifying operational changes In addition, we verified that over the past years, the number of dismissals was not equivalent to the number of new Our operational changes in Brazil are not specified in collective bargaining agreements. hires. It is noted that during this period, year after year, we had more dismissals than new hires. 403-1: Representation of workers through formal health and safety committees Our Internal Accident Prevention Committees (Cipa) are proper for units with more than 100 employees, as set forth in New Hires by Age Bracket 2015 2016 2017 Regulatory Standard No. 5 of the Ministry of Labor and Employment. All other premises rely on a person in charge of New Hires in the Period 4,883 1,424 287 accident prevention (RPA), who receives the same training offered to Cipa members. Therefore, 100% of the premises Up to 30 Years 3,239 889 166 include representatives in the area of Occupational Health and Safety. 30 to 50 Years 1,535 516 117 403-2: Types and rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and number Over 50 Years 109 19 4 of work-related deaths Hiring Rate (%) 4.42 1.42 0.29 2015 2016 2017 Employees (own workers) Up to 30 Years (%) 2.93 0.89 0.17 Men Women Men Women Men Women 30 to 50 Years (%) 1.39 0.51 0.12 0.01 0.01 0.00 Total Over 50 Years (%) 0.10 0.02 0.00 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.01 Rate of Injuries North 0.03 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.00 New Hires by Region 2015 2016 2017 (No. of injuries/No. of Northeast 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 employees) Midwest 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.00 New Hires in the Period 4,883 1,424 287 Southeast 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.01 South 1,029 124 6 South 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.00 Southeast 1,874 282 15 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total Midwest 815 311 101 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Rate of Occupational North 253 146 11 North 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Diseases (frequency Northeast 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Northeast 912 561 154 of the disease/No. of Midwest 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Hiring Rate (%) 4.42 1.42 0.29 employees)1 Southeast 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 South (%) 0.93 0.12 0.01 South 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Southeast (%) 1.69 0.28 0.02 (1) The rates of occupational injuries and diseases of 2015 were recalculated to the same standard of calculation of the other Midwest (%) 0.74 0.31 0.10 years (2016 and 2017). North (%) 0.23 0.15 0.01 (continues) Northeast (%) 0.83 0.56 0.15 Annual Report 2017 116 403-2: Types and rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and number of work-related deaths (continued) 2015 2016 2017 Employees (own workers) Men Women Men Women Men Women 0.38 0.41 0.37 Total 0.32 0.47 0.35 0.50 0.30 0.46 Rate of Lost Days – % North 0.49 0.63 0.46 0.58 0.41 0.58 (lost days /expected 1 Northeast 0.42 0.59 0.42 0.58 0.34 0.49 days) Midwest 0.34 0.62 0.36 0.62 0.31 0.58 Southeast 0.33 0.47 0.34 0.46 0.30 0.43 South 0.25 0.43 0.27 0.42 0.24 0.39 844,593 828,760 739,258 Total 412,840 431,753 414,363 414,397 357,463 381,795 North 26,941 23,501 25,777 22,161 21,759 21,322 Lost Days 1 Northeast 93,219 71,137 91,072 67,729 74,907 57,388 Midwest 72,641 75,855 74,652 75,204 66,811 72,161 Southeast 167,741 197,826 166,245 186,805 144,546 173,193 South 52,298 63,434 56,617 62,498 49,440 57,731 3.48 3.30 2.95 Total 2.76 4.17 2.81 3.99 2.44 3.68 Rate of Absenteeism – % North 3.93 5.01 3.7 4.66 3.27 4.61 (Lost days /expected 1 Northeast 3.35 4.69 3.34 4.65 2.73 3.89 days) Midwest 2.76 4.93 2.89 4.99 2.49 4.63 Southeast 2.66 3.74 2.70 3.68 2.40 3.45 South 2.00 3.44 2.18 3.34 1.94 3.09 (1) Lost days on health-related leave with occupational and non-occupational causes. Total 2 0 1 0 1 0 (2) Deaths refer to commuting accidents, i.e. they are not associated with work conditions. North 0 0 0 0 0 0 Work-Related Northeast 0 0 0 0 0 0 Note: data on the Rate of injuries and the Rate of occupational diseases surveyed with respect to 2015 indicate deaths2 (units) Midwest 0 0 0 0 0 0 regional and by-gender indexes different from those already provided, considering that the data survey methodology Southeast 2 0 1 0 1 0 at that time was different from that used as of 2016. Therefore, we opted to provide 2015 data based on the same South 0 0 0 0 0 0 methodology used for 2016 and 2017. Annual Report 2017 117 403-2: Types and rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, 404-1: Average number of training hours per year per employee and number of work-related deaths One of the factors that explain the variation in the rate of lost days verified in 2016 is a result of the reduction in the Consolidated Training 2015 2016 2017 Indicators number of employees within a short period of time (dismissal programs), and consequent reduction in the number of Final Capacity 109,191 100,622 99,161 expected days (denominator) verified on December 31, 2016. The rate of health-related absenteeism shows successive reductions over the past three years. This could be a reflex Trained Individuals 107,887 99,999 98,984 of the consistency and continuity of the actions to prevent occupational diseases that have been performed by the SESMT since 2012. Training Sessions 2,043,766 2,275,615 2,937,065 Rate of injuries: this indicator takes into account those injuries caused by typical accidents, i.e. those occurred during the Hours 8,261,981 7,271,306 7,933,426 performance of work, as well as commuting accidents, which are those occurred during home-work-home displacement. It includes all accidents, regardless of seriousness, leave, or death. Percentage of Trained Individuals 98.81 99.38 99.82 Rate of occupational diseases: here, all cases of occupational diseases investigated by the company and recognized Training Sessions per Employee 18.72 22.62 29.62 as being related to work are taken into account. The statistics includes all cases of occupational diseases, regardless of seriousness or the need for leave. Hours per Employee 75.67 72.26 80.01 Indicators of Rate of lost days, Lost days, and Rate of absenteeism: they refer to the total health-related absenteeism, which includes, in addition to occupational leave, sick leave due to non-work-related diseases. 2015 2016 2017 Training Sessions Men Women Men Women Men Women by Gender and Function NonNonNonNonNonNonManagerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Managerial Final Capacity 23,506 40,303 12,782 32,600 21,469 37,604 11,521 30,028 20,879 37,238 11,324 29,720 Trained Individuals 23,347 39,642 12,720 32,178 21,441 37,238 11,517 29,803 20,848 37,175 11,318 29,643 Training Sessions 417,562 765,603 229,812 630,789 497,886 833,163 270,073 674,493 624,316 1,082,289 336,953 893,507 Hours 1,811,867 3,054,828 956,420 2,438,866 1,633,626 2,697,812 855,433 2,084,435 1,975,267 2,785,139 954,984 2,218,036 Percentage of Trained Individuals 99.3 98.4 99.5 98.7 99.9 99.0 100.0 99.3 99.85 99.83 99.95 99.74 Training Sessions per Employee 17.8 19 18 19.4 23.2 22.2 23.4 22.5 29.9 29.06 29.76 30.06 Hours per Employee 77.1 75.8 74.8 74.8 76.1 71.7 74.3 69.4 94.61 74.79 84.33 74.63 Annual Report 2017 118 404-1: Average number of training hours per year per employee High Management Management Advisory Operational Technician Note* 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Final Capacity 229 240 238 36,059 32,750 31,966 7,989 7,270 7,835 60,779 56,122 54,979 4,135 4,240 4,143 Trained Individuals 218 228 225 35,849 32,730 31,942 7,952 7,242 7,818 59,752 55,572 54,861 4,116 4,227 4,138 Training Sessions 1,708 1,925 2,367 645,666 766,034 958,933 135,522 136,398 182,205 1,194,065 1,297,105 1,698,277 66,805 74,153 95,283 Hours 13,881 10,094 12,595 2,754,406 2,478,965 2,917,710 539,433 424,873 527,911 4,740,158 4,120,437 4,208,391 214,103 236,937 266,819 Percentage of Trained Individuals 95.20 95.00 94.54 99.42 99.94 99.92 99.54 99.61 99.78 98.31 99.02 99.79 99.54 99.69 99.88 Training Sessions per Employee 7.46 8.02 9.95 17.91 23.39 30.00 16.96 18.76 23.26 19.65 23.11 30.89 16.16 17.49 23.03 Hours per Employee 60.62 42.06 52.92 76.39 75.69 91.28 67.52 58.44 67.38 77.99 73.42 76.55 51.78 55.88 64.40 * The variation in the total number of employees (1,461 between 2016 and 2017) is a result of the dismissals, mainly those for retirement purposes. The increase of approximately eight hours in the average of training hours per employee is a result of the availability of new training actions and educational programs, among which the following deserve mention: The Credit Training Program, intended for the first managers of all business units, and the Develop Game, intended to prepare operationaland technical-level employees to assume leadership functions. 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving career development and performance analyses on a regular basis Employees Who Participated in the 2014 2015 2016 2017 GDP by Functional Level and Gender1 Female Male Female Male Female Percentage Male Percentage Female Percentage Male Percentage Managerial 12,875 23,842 12,782 23,506 11,521 27.7 21,469 36.3 11,262 28.39 21,365 37.05 Technician 1,806 3,639 1,757 3,544 1,651 4.0 3,555 6.0 1,255 3.16 2,937 5.09 Operational 10,381 10,061 10,497 9,746 9,774 23.5 8,932 15.1 8,265 20.83 7,544 13.08 Advisory 2,849 4,385 2,750 4,073 2,528 6.1 3,776 6.4 3,015 7.60 4,615 8.00 Others 18,453 23,337 17,596 22,940 16,075 38.7 21,341 36.1 15,877 40.02 21,208 36.78 Total 39,674 100.00 57,669 100.00 (1) Percentages calculated in relation to the the number of assessable employees. The total number of assessable employees is less than the total number of employees due to health or maternity leaves. Annual Report 2017 119 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving career development and performance 405-1: Diversity of the groups in charge analyses on a regular basis of governance and between collaborators Performance Diversity in Governance (%)1 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Assessment By Gender Number of Assessable 100,766 106,354 93,012 99,904 97,558 Employees Female 5.56 3.39 4.84 Number of Employees Male 94.44 96.61 95.16 Who Underwent 111,688 107,500 104,582 106,772 103,784 By Age Bracket Performance Assessment Up to 30 Years 0.00 0.00 0.00 Percentage of Employees 30 to 50 Years 48.15 61.02 58.06 Who Underwent 98.66 99.49 99.30 99.68 99.78 Performance Assessment Over 50 Years 51.85 38.98 41.94 By Minority Groups Native Brazilian 0.00 0.00 0.00 Development 2014 2015 2016 2017 assessment Black 1.85 1.69 1.61 1st semester 20,231 22,731 43,229 62,882 Brown 1.85 6.78 4.84 Number of Employees Who Underwent (1) Considered to be members of the Board of Directors, Executive Board, Tax Council, and Audit and Development Assessment 1 Remuneration Committees. 2nd semester 10,585 36,154 40,647 52,237 Percentage of Employees 1st semester 18.50 20.90 40.20 63.40 Who Underwent Development Assessment 2nd semester 9.71 34.21 37.70 53.10 Annual Report 2017 120 405-1: Diversity of the groups in charge of governance and between collaborators General Indicators of Staff Staff Diversity in 2017 (%) Managerial Technician Operational Advisory Others 2015 2016 2017 Diversity (%) By Gender (in relation to the total workforce of each functional category) By Gender Female 35.16 30.05 53.04 40.35 43.19 Female 41.56 41.29 41.39 Male 64.84 69.95 46.96 59.65 56.81 Male 58.44 58.71 58.61 By Gender (in relation to BB’s total workforce) By Age Bracket Female 11.42 1.25 8.48 3.15 17.10 Up to 30 Years 12.81 11.19 11.24 Male 21.06 2.90 7.50 4.66 22.49 30 to 50 Years 70.52 75.26 73.37 By Age Bracket (in relation to BB’s total workforce) Over 50 Years 16.67 13.55 15.39 Up to 30 Years 1.81 0.32 2.19 0.36 6.57 By Minority Groups 30 to 50 Years 26.73 3.18 11.70 6.61 25.16 Native Brazilian 0.22 0.21 0.20 Over 50 Years 3.94 0.65 2.09 0.84 7.86 Black 2.62 2.79 2.81 By Minority Group (in relation to BB’s total workforce) Brown 19.12 19.62 19.83 Native Brazilian 0.04 0.01 0.04 0.02 0.10 Black 0.83 0.12 0.45 0.18 1.22 Brown 5.99 0.87 2.65 1.37 8.95 Annual Report 2017 121 405-1: Diversity of the groups in charge of governance and between collaborators Diversity 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Race and Ethnicity Black, Brown, or Native Brazilian 23,688 24,071 23,979 22,765 22,654 Leading Position Black, Brown, or Native Brazilian 7,105 7,283 7,319 6,808 6,801 Physically Disabled Persons Disabled Persons #ND 1,319 1,495 1,537 1,571 405-2: Mathematical ratio of minimum wage and remuneration between men and women Average Remuneration by Gender 2015 2016 2017 and Functional Level (R$) Male Female Male Female Ratio Male Female Ratio Managerial 10,619 9,038 11,157 9,513 1.17 11,643.35 9,826.61 1.18 Technician 9,412 8,741 10,117 9,308 1.09 10,622.62 9,631.57 1.10 Operational 4,747 4,632 4,910 4,820 1.02 5,274.62 5,057.01 1.04 Advisory 11,423 11,040 12,123 11,617 1.04 12,423.24 11,614.50 1.07 Others 3,813 3,695 3,882 3,767 1.03 4,617.38 4,071.95 1.13 Information on average remuneration by gender and functional level only cover our operations in Brazil. With respect to the base wage, there are no fluctuations between men and women, as there is no distinction between base wage for men and women: the ratio between them is 1 to 1. We defined reference values for each existing function. The purpose of the Reference Value is to establish a minimum remuneration amount for any employee, regardless of the gender, who performs a particular function. However, the monthly remuneration may vary from employee to employee, even when performing the same function, depending on their individual career. Along their career, employees may obtain personal funds, which are calculated on an individual basis. Annual Report 2017 122 406-1: Discrimination incidents and corrective measures taken Suppliers We adopt selection, contracting, and assessment criteria in an unbiased and transparent 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 manner, which allow for plurality and competition between suppliers. These criteria and activity prerogatives include the right of free association and collective bargaining reserved the Total Number Discrimination 3 6 3 7 27 suppliers’ employees. Our Code of Ethics provides for a section specific to supplier relations. Incidents Known by BB The prerogatives expressly include compliance with the labor, social security, and tax legislaIncidents Being Investigated by BB 0 0 0 0 0 tion – including the non-utilization of child or slave labor. We also stated in our Policy on Supplier Relations, in a section on our relationship with supIncidents Investigated by BB 3 6 3 7 27 pliers, that we do not establish relationships with suppliers involved in the exploitation of child, Incidents Yet to be Investigated by BB 0 0 0 0 0 degrading, or slave labor. Compliance with labor and social security obligations is a contractual and legal duty. Therefore, Incidents Judged Valid 0 0 0 0 0 prior to payment, we check compliance with labor, social security, and tax obligations of their Incidents Judged Invalid suppliers and analyze indications or allegations of eventual violations and noncompliance. 3 6 3 7 27 (not subject to the measure) The contracts include clauses in which the supplier states and undertakes the following: a) To perform its activities in compliance with the (labor, social security, or tax) legislation in effect; The variation between incidents investigated in 2016 and in 2017 is a result of a new type of accusation, implemented b) Not to use, whether directly or indirectly, through its suppliers of products and services, to handle potentially offensive comments in the internal news agency. illegal labor or the exploitation of child, degrading, and/or slave labor; We repudiate this conduct and intensify training and communication actions, as well as disciplinary treatment for provc) Not to employ, whether directly or indirectly, through its suppliers of products and services, en cases, and the absence of discrimination within the institution is expected. persons under 18 years of age in night, dangerous, or unhealthy work; and During 2017, no judicial or administrative proceedings originated from discrimination against race, color, gender, relid) not to employ, whether directly or indirectly, through its suppliers of products and services, gion, political opinion, national extraction, or social origin, were identified. persons under 16 years of age, except as apprentices and with assurance of school attendance In addition to relying on a contract inspector and a service inspector, we make Internal Om407-1: Operations and suppliers identified, where the right to free association and collective budsman services available to workers from contracted companies so that they may also bargaining could potentially be violated | 408-1: Operations and suppliers identified as a risk of report complaints regarding their employment agreement. the occurrence of child labor | 409-1: Operations and suppliers identified as a significant risk of the occurrence of forced or slave labor | 412-1: Operations subject to review or assessment of their impact on human rights Own Operation We respect free union association and seek to conciliate the Company’s interests with those of the employees and their representative entities in a transparent manner, adopting negotiation as a permanent practice. There is no risk of the occurrence of child or slave labor in BB’s own operations. Annual Report 2017 123 407-1: Operations and suppliers identified, where the right to free association and collective bargaining BB Operations/Customers 2015 2016 2017 could potentially be violated | 408-1: Operations and suppliers identified as a risk of the occurrence of child labor | 409-1: Operations and suppliers identified as a significant risk of the occurrence of forced Number of Operations/Customers which or slave labor | 412-1: Operations subject to review or assessment of their impact on human rights Records Contain Notes on the Occurrence 31 27 54 During the performance of the agreement, if it is verified that the supplier violated the contractual or legal provisions reof Slave Labor garding its performance, an administrative proceeding is filed with the purpose of applying an administrative sanction, or ultimately, the unilateral termination of the contract. In 2017, 23 cases of noncompliance with the labor legislation These notes block the credit limit investigation (analysis and/or renewal) and the approval of operations in our operating were verified in contracts with suppliers, out of a total of 14,795 contracts in effect in that period, which represents systems, which materializes a constant prohibition in our Specific Credit Policy. 0.15% of verified noncompliance. Taking into consideration the preventive and inhibitory measures adopted in the conduction of purchasing and contracting processes, as mentioned above, in the 14,795 administrative contracts, distributed among 2,834 suppliers kept in BB’s corporate systems in 2017, no operations and suppliers with significant risk of the occurrence of forced or 410-1: Persons who work with security, who received training on the organization’s policies or slave labor were identified, and no complaints involving the exploitation of degrading or slave labor were reported to procedures on human rights the Internal Ombudsman Office. In 2017, we did not become aware of any operations and/or suppliers posing a risk to We require in an agreement that 100% of the employees of companies contracted in the security area are trained on the right of free association and collective bargaining. vigilance with material ratified by the Federal Police Department, which includes aspects of human rights and relations. Customers We do not assume credit wit customers who exploit child labor or who submit workers to degrading forms of labor or maintain them in slave-like labor conditions. These premises are set forth in our Specific Credit Policy. 412-2: Training collaborators on policies and procedures on human rights The contractual clauses of credit transactions include the prerogative of the early termination of the contract, with immediate enforcement of the debt and immediate suspension of reimbursements, in case of a final conviction rendered 2015 2016 2017 by a relevant authority, which regards the exploitation of child labor or the practice of slave labor, moral or sexual haTotal Number of Training Hours 253,421 166,645 178,997 rassment, or criminal exploitation of prostitution. Dedicated to the Formation of We investigate the records of employers who have submitted workers to conditions similar to slave labor, as disclosed Policies/Procedures on Human by the Ministry of Labor and Employment, upon the credit analysis and proposals for operations with our customers. Rights Relevant to the Operations Percentage of Employees Trained on 73 60 67 Policies/Procedures on Human Rights Relevant to the Operations Annual Report 2017 124 413-1: Operations with implemented programs for engaging the local community, Voluntariado BB 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 impact assessment, and local development Our activity is guided based on a previously defined strategy and on the strategic plan of Fundação Banco do Brasil Ongoing Actions 171 2,951 10,873 6,611 4,411 (FBB), our Private Social Investment arm. When working in the communities, we seek to effectively contribute to the generation of employment and income for the development of the Country on sustainable bases. This work must extrapolate Completed Actions 71 2,396 9.845 5,932 4,032 the traditional community investment actions by intending efforts to make investments with social impact and businesses. The monitoring and assessment of programs and projects are considered management tools, and their results are The use of the Voluntariado BB Website as a tool for centralization of all actions and enrollment of volunteers started used to direct the developed work and improve the actions taken, in addition to offering subsidies to decision making in 2013, given the low number of actions. However, the reduction in the actions performed in 2016 was due to the enand the understanding of the projects’ success factors. couraged retirement plan occurred at BB, which resulted in 9,400 employees leaving the company. The new reduction In 2017, as a complementation to monitoring, FBB also selected a sample of 107 projects subject to additional layers in 2017 is due to restructuring in course in the company. of monitoring. Of the total, 84 projects responded to remote requests for information and 23 received an on-site visit of a technician in the Monitoring and Assessment department. In addition to identifying the stage of development Ação Infância e Vida of the project and the eventual need for corrections in its direction, this additional layer of monitoring also sought to The Ação Infância e Vida Program consists of a set of our and our partners’ initiatives intended to fight childhood and assess questions such as the participation and engagement of young individuals and women, the acquisition of new teenage cancer, which objective is to strengthen the entities affiliated to the Confederação Nacional das Instituições knowledge and development of skills, compliance with aspects related to Human Rights, and the establishment of new de Apoio e Assistência às Crianças e Adolescentes com Câncer (Coniacc), which assist children and adolescents with partnerships for the development of the project and/or assistance to its participating audience. cancer and their families. The program has as activity axes the donation of financial resources, mobilization of our volunteers, and education actions for the early diagnosis of the disease. Voluntariado Our Voluntariado Program introduces and consolidates the concepts and assumptions of volunteering in the organiÁgua Brasil zational culture, supporting and encouraging the involvement of the company’s employees, whether active or retired, The Água Brasil Program is in line with our strategy and was created to strengthen our institutional position in sustainfamily members, and friends, for the provision of volunteer services. ability. Currently in its second stage, which comprises the period between 2016-2019, it is structured on three activity For greater interaction by the audiences, we made available a platform on the Internet (http://voluntariadobb.com.br), axes. Axis 1 – Green Economy – Water and Agriculture – acts in engaging the local community, which increases water which facilitates communication and contact between Voluntariado BB, institutions, citizenship committees, Gepes, availability and efficiency, expands native vegetation coverage, and trains and mobilizes the local communities of the and the general public. In 2017, the Voluntariado BB Website – a communication and management platform of the covered micro-watersheds. The objective is to improve quality and increase the amount of the waters and the natural Voluntariado BB Program – reached 27,698 users enrolled as volunteers, 21,316 voluntary performed actions, and vegetation coverage in the pilot micro-watersheds (Pipiripau – GO, Guariroba – MT, Descoberto – DF, and Peruaçu – 2,703 enrolled social entities. MG), through sustainable agriculture and social technologies. The resources intended to the management of Axis I total R$5.4 million for the period between 2016 and 2019, of which R$4.8 million were disbursed by FBB and R$627 thousand by BB. The mechanism for interaction with the parties interested in/impacted by the topic (rural producers and workers, technicians, community leaders, NGOs, the public and private sector, universities, specialists, associations, cooperatives, the local community) takes place through specific projects submitted by WWF-Brazil or other legally organized and non-profit institutions. Annual Report 2017 125 413-1: Operations with implemented programs for engaging the local community, 417-2: Cases of noncompliance regarding product and service information and labeling impact assessment, and local development During 2017, we did not identify any cases of noncompliance with voluntary codes and regulations regarding product The perspective of community development is included in the context of the environmental conservation approaches and service information and labeling. of the program actions. In the organization cooperatives and associations of rural producers, one of the guidelines is to encourage gender equality and promote actions that involve the effective participation of the community. 417-3: Cases of noncompliance regarding marketing communications The program results are disclosed both in the partners’ institution communication channels, and to the general public During 2017, we did not identify any cases of noncompliance with voluntary codes and regulations regarding marketing through publications on the website, social media, newspapers, and local and international events. communications, including publicity, promotion, and sponsorship. 414-2: Negative social impacts on the supply chain and actions taken 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the economic and social areas In 2017, we started the first cycle of socio-environmental risk assessment in our supplier chain, which In 2017, no case of a significant fine (over R$1 million) arising from legal and administrative proceedings included 83 companies. From the average responses of each dimension it will be possible to know the level of was identified. However, we recorded the amount of R$4.5 million, which refers to the sum of maturity of suppliers in relation to the socio-environmental aspects of their business. Not was identified non-compliance with laws and regulations relating to the provision and use of products and services and charges suppliers with real or potential negative social impacts. relative to the time in the queue. 416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts caused by the product and service categories FS6: Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro, medium, on customers large) and by sector In all conducted architecture and engineering interventions, we based ourselves on internal regulations and on the Information available in Explanatory Note 10 – Credit Operations, in the document Financial Statements (http://bb.com.br/ri) legislations in effect, including those of the Fire Department, environmental bodies, and the Historical Heritage. and in the Banco do Brasil Guidelines on Sustainability for Credit (http://bb.com.br/portalbb/page4,8305,19212,0,0,1,6.bb). We meet legal regulations in 100% of the cases. Annual Report 2017 126 FS7: Monetary amount of products and services developed to deliver a specific social benefit to each business line, discriminated by purpose | FS8: Monetary amount of products and services developed to deliver a specific environmental benefit to each business line, discriminated by purpose Social Businesses Description Total in Portfolio for Number of Transactions Product (purpose, product description, and when applicable, the target social group) 2017 (R$ million) Made in 2017 Pronaf Intended to professionalize producers and their family members, modernize the production system, and value the family rural producer. 43,190 493,466 Intended to provide financial support to agricultural and livestock and non-agricultural and non-livestock activities exploited by directly employing the rural producer family workforce. BB Crédito Acessibilidade BB Crédito Acessibilidade is a credit line intended to finance assistive technology assets and services, focused on promoting social 163.6 8,248 inclusion and allowing for equal opportunities for persons with disabilities. Launched in February 2012, within the scope of the National Plan for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities – Viver sem Limite, is the main action in the Program Accessibility axis. The credit line is subsidized by the Federal Government and regulated by Law No. 12,613/2012, by CMN Resolution No. 4,000, dated August 25, 2011 and by MF Ordinances No. 240 and No. 570. Fundo de Financiamento Estudantil (Fies) The Fundo de Financiamento Estudantil (Fies) is a program by the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) intended to finance gradua49,626.91 43,558 tion in the higher education of students enrolled in paid institutions, instituted by Law No. 10,260, dated December 7, 2001. All students enrolled in higher education courses with positive results in the assessment processes conducted by the MEC are eligible to apply for the loan. We are one of the financial agents of the program. Programa Minha Casa Minha Vida It provides for the financing of projects that fulfill requirements, such as the inclusion of the elderly and persons with special needs; en21,331 14,466 (PMCMV)2 vironmental standards and attitudes, such as the use of equipment and solutions; fulfillment of recommendations in the execution of the construction works; and promotion of discussions and diffusion among its members of knowledge on the recycling of materials, rational use of natural resources, alternative low cost measures for water heating/degradable materials for construction or other uses, and risks arising from lack of environmental preservation, among other relevant issues. BB Microcrédito A credit line intended to customers who are natural persons (PF) and legal entities (PJ) in line with the National Directed Production Mi305.2 243,395 Empreendedor cro-Credit Program (MPO), intended to provide working capital or investments, focused on meeting the financial needs of entrepreneurs of small-sized production activities. It uses a methodology based on direct relationship with entrepreneurs, with the purpose of giving guidance on and monitoring the business. (1) The total portfolio amount refers to the sum of the amount contracted in each operation. (2) In the Natural Person segment 14,455 operations were completed, which results in a portfolio of R$21,026 million. Whereas in the legal entity segment, 11 operations were completed totaling R$305 million. Annual Report 2017 127 FS7: Monetary amount of products and services developed to deliver a specific social benefit to each business line, discriminated by purpose | FS8: Monetary amount of products and services developed to deliver a specific environmental benefit to each business line, discriminated by purpose Credit Description Total in Portfolio for Number of Transactions Product (purpose, product description, and when applicable, the target social group) 2017 (R$ million) Made in 2017 Taxi Driver Employee Support A line to finance vehicles which fuels are renewable, intended to natural persons. This line uses FAT funds and favors the generation 369.1 3,402 Fund (FAT) of employment and profit. BB Giro Rápido A pre-approved credit line to meet the working capital needs of microand small-sized enterprises. The line comprises two credit types 894.42 3,717 – overdraft protection and reusable fixed credit, which aggregates social value for making available market differentials to microand smallenterprises. The product offers advantages, such as a simplified credit granting process, and contracting with guarantees from the Operation Guarantee Fund (FGO), which facilitates access to credit, including via mobile. Proger Financing line intended to microor small-sized enterprises for investment projects, with or without associated working capital, which 1,694.99 5,844 enable the generation or maintenance of employment and income in the urban area, with the purpose of rendering the sustainable development of microand small-sized enterprises feasible, and in line with Proger Urbano. Annual Report 2017 128 FS7: Monetary amount of products and services developed to deliver a specific social benefit to each business line, discriminated by purpose | FS8: Monetary amount of products and services developed to deliver a specific environmental benefit to each business line, discriminated by purpose Investments Description Net Equity in Product Profitability in 2017 (%) (purpose, product description, and when applicable, the target social group) 2017 (R$ million) BB Previdenciário Ações Governança A fund intended to proper social security regimes instituted by the Federal Government, by the states or by the cities. Follows the B3 218.5 28.801 Corporate Governance Index (IGC), which consists of companies recognized for good corporate governance practices, which actions are negotiated at levels I and II of corporate governance in the New Market. Programa Modernização da Administração Supports investment projects of the municipal public administration intended to modernize tax administration and improve the quality of 165.4 3 Tributária e da Gestão dos Setores Sociais public expenditures, with the purpose of enabling efficient public management that generates an increase in revenues and/or a reducBásicos (PMAT) tion in the unit cost of the services provided to the collectivity. BB Financiamento Setor Público Financing, with the transfer of external or proper funds, of programs and actions provided for in the strategic planning of the states. 27,686.7 4 (operations with states) It causes social impacts for improving the quality of life of the population. Programa Eficiência Municipal Supports investment projects or the individual purchase of assets and services for the municipal public administration intended to im37.8 20 prove infrastructure and efficiency in public management, the quality of public services, and contribute to the economic development of the cities and the quality of life of the communities. BB Ações Carbono Sustentável FIA Follows the Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2), created by the BNDES and B3, comprising shares from companies participating in the IbrX 4.1 22.15 50, which adopt transparent practices with respect to their emission of greenhouse effect gases (GEG). Annual Report 2017 129 FS7: Monetary amount of products and services developed to deliver a specific social benefit to each business line, discriminated by purpose | FS8: Monetary amount of products and services developed to deliver a specific environmental benefit to each business line, discriminated by purpose Description Net Equity in Product Profitability in 2017 (%) (purpose, product description, and when applicable, the target social group) 2017 (R$ million) BB Previdenciário Ações Governança A fund intended to Proper Social Security Regimes instituted by the Federal Government, States, or Cities. Seeks to follow the theo218,5 28,80 retical portfolio of the IGC – an index comprised of shares of companies recognized for good corporate governance practices. These companies must be negotiated in the New Market of be classified in B3 Levels 1 or 2. BB Multimercado Global Acqua Invests part of your equity in Brazilian and global companies that include water treatment or processing in their production process. 385,3 12,15 LP Private FI BB Ações ISE Jovem FIC Transfers 20% of the management fee to FBB in order to benefit the initiatives of the Água Brasil Program. The Corporate Sustainability 8,7 15,12 Index (ISE) portfolio comprises shares of companies that submit a comprehensive corporate responsibility proposal that considers good governance aspects, economic efficiency, environmental balance, and social justice. BB Referenciado DI Social 50 Transfer of 50% of the management fee to FBB, in order to benefit social projects. 754,9 7,31 (1) This is profitability generated for the customer. Annual Report 2017 130 FS7: Monetary amount of products and services developed to deliver a specific social benefit to each business line, discriminated by purpose | FS8: Monetary amount of products and services developed to deliver a specific environmental benefit to each business line, discriminated by purpose Payment methods Description Number¹ of Cards Product Growth 2016/2017 (%) (purpose, product description, and when applicable, the target social group) Issued in 2017 Ourocard Origens Reciclado Our first card produced with recycled plastic. At every requested card, the customer donates R$5.00 to Instituto Terra, which promotes the 13,778 (25.8) recovery and the sustainable handling of Atlantic Forests, automatically adheres to the invoice rounding-up service, and contributes to the plantation of one of the 400 trees required to promote the recovery of a water spring. Cartão de Pagamento da Defesa Civil A card intended for the payment of expenses with help actions, assistance to victims, and reestablishment of essential services, exclusively 3,039 7.68 (CPDC) used in emergency situations or in a state of public calamity, and which is recognized by the National Secretariat for Civil Defense. Arredondamento de Fatura A customer holding an Ourocard who adheres to this service will have the amount of his/her invoice rounded up to the subsequent integer 12,5394 (1.49) amount above, and the cents corresponding to this difference will be donated to a partner non-profit institution. Currently, the donations are exclusively intended to Instituto Terra, which promotes the reforesting of deforested areas in the Atlantic Forest, and is responsible for the recovery of more than 40 million square meters. (1) Total number of cards as of December 31, 2017 (stock). (2) Invoicing – total value of the transactions carried out by thematic cards (purchases and withdrawals in the credit and debit function). The billing is not related to the amount passed to Instituto Terra. (3) Amount collected through the invoice rounding process. (4) Number of card accounts with at least one invoice rounding service in 2017. Annual Report 2017 131 FS7: Monetary amount of products and services developed to deliver a specific social benefit to each business line, discriminated by purpose | FS8: Monetary amount of products and services developed to deliver a specific environmental benefit to each business line, discriminated by purpose Insurances and capitalization Participation in the Total Description Number of Products Revenue in 2017 Revenue from Insurances Product (purpose, product description, and when applicable, the target social group) Sold in 2017 (R$ million) and Capitalization in 2017 (%) Ouro Vida Transfers to Fundação Banco do Brasil (FBB) 50% of its stipulation revenue to be invested in this enti664,491 1,448 10.7 ty’s social programs. BB Seguro Vida Mulher Transfers to FBB 50% of its stipulation revenue to be invested in this entity’s social programs. 121,170 448 3.3 Ouro Vida Grupo Especial Transfers to Federação Nacional de Associações Atléticas do Banco do Brasil (FENABB) 2.19% of the 0 822 6.1 stipulation percentage. Personalizado Transfers a stipulation percentage to FENABB. 16,469 240 1.8 Ourocap Torcida Education – transfers to FBB the percentage of 0.25% of the total funds obtained in the payment by 0 213 1.6 Pagamento Mensal the subscribers of the capitalization bonds between R$600 and R$1 thousand by debit from an account and credit card. Ourocap Torcida Brasil Education – transfers to FBB the percentage of 0.25% of the total funds obtained in the payment by the 0 784 5.8 Pagamento Mensal subscribers of the second monthly installment, and 0.25% of the third monthly installment of the capitalization bonds by debit from an account and credit card. Ourocap Estilo Flex Environment – transfers to FBB the percentage of 0.25% of the total funds obtained in the payment by 455 12 0.1 the subscribers of the 48 monthly installments of the PP 93 E capitalization bonds between R$250 and R$500 by debit from an account. Annual Report 2017 132 FS7: Monetary amount of products and services developed to deliver a specific social benefit to each business line, discriminated by purpose | FS8: Monetary amount of products and services developed to deliver a specific environmental benefit to each business line, discriminated by purpose Agribusiness credit Description Total in Portfolio for Number of Transactions Product (purpose, product description, and when applicable, the target social group) 2017 (R$ million) Made in 2017 Programa ABC Its main objectives are to reduce GEG emissions arising from agricultural and livestock activities and deforestation, and to encourage 8,784 3,092 the recovery of degraded areas. Pronaf Florestal Intends to support investments in projects that fulfill the requirements defined by the Family Agriculture Secretariat/Ministry of Agricultur155.2 143 al Development for: agroforestry systems; ecologically sustainable extraction exploitation; forest handling and handling plan, including costs associated with the project implementation and maintenance; and enhancement of areas that already have a diversified forest coverage with the planting of one or more forest species native of the biome. Pronaf Agroecologia Credit line intended for agriculturists eligible to the Pronaf for investments associated with specific agroecological or organic production, 11.5 89 including costs associated with the project maintenance and implementation. Pronaf Eco-Dendê/ Seringueira Credit line intended for agriculturists eligible to the Pronaf for investments in the implementation of oil palm or rubber tree, with associ12.8 0 ated funding for the maintenance of the culture. Pronaf Eco A line intended for agriculturists eligible to the Pronaf, who wish to implement, use, recover, or adopt renewable and/or environmental 203.9 315 energy technologies, water storage, minor hydro-energetic utilization, forestry, or practices for the conservation and correction of soil acidity and fertility. Moderagro A line of fixed credit intended for agricultural and livestock investments with funding from the Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento 660.1 336 Econômico e Social (BNDES). Fosters actions associated with animal defense and the implementation of animal tracking systems for human food. The program supports soil recovery, in addition to fomenting the production, processing, industrialization, and storage of apiculture, aquaculture, poultry, chinchilla breeding, cuniculture, floriculture, fruit farming, horticulture, fishing, sheep and goat breeding, dairy farming, frog breeding, sericulture, and pig breeding. Pronamp A program intended for the financing of regular funding and investment expenses, with the purpose of promoting the development of 24,369 104,731 rural activities of medium producers and enable an increase in income and the generation of jobs in the field. Annual Report 2017 133 FS7: Monetary amount of products and services developed to deliver a specific social benefit to each business line, discriminated by purpose | FS8: Monetary amount of products and services developed to deliver a specific environmental benefit to each business line, discriminated by purpose Description Total in Portfolio for Number of Transactions Product (purpose, product description, and when applicable, the target social group) 2017 (R$ million) Made in 2017 Programa de Construção e Ampliação de Intends to support necessary investments to the expansion and construction of new warehouses. Therefore, it contributes to improve 3,729 343 Armazéns (PCA) the income of rural producers and the distribution and storage of foods produced in the Country, as well as supports food safety. Semiárido Financing for the Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast Region (Sudene) with reduced financial charges in relation to 21,843 100,995 the rural loans for the other regions in the Country. The Sudene area has as a main feature the frequent droughts, which can be characterized by the absence, scarcity, and high spacial and temporal variability of rains. Droughts that last for years are not rare. Custeio Agrícola com Plantio Direto Financing using the direct plantation system, which follows the logic of the forests. As much as organic material falls from trees and 19,249 150,587 becomes a rich natural fertilizer, the straw from previous crops decomposed by macro and microorganisms become soil “food”. The advantages are a reduction in the use of chemical inputs and the control of erosive processes, as water infiltration becomes slower through the permanent soil coverage. The Direct Plantation on Straw System (SPDP) contributes to keep the soil from being taken by erosions and stores more nutrients, fertilizers, and correctors. Inovagro The Program to Encourage Innovation in Agricultural and Livestock Production (Inovagro) supports necessary investments for the incor2,512 1,993 poration of technological innovation in rural properties and aims to increase productivity, the adoption of good agricultural and livestock practices, and rural property management, as well as the competitive insertion of rural producers in different consumer markets. FS9: Coverage and frequency of audits to assess the All this planning provides for the conduction of audits in conclusive cycles, at The scope of the audit work performed in 2017 was neither excludimplementation of socio-environmental policies and least once per year and no more than every three years, in which, among others, ed nor limited with respect to the categories and sizes used by the risk assessment procedures adherence to the corporate socio-environmental policies and socio-environmental socio-environmental risk manager. Our Internal Audit assesses risk management actions, and the fitcommitments assumed by us, as is the case of the Equator Principles. The audit works were performed by our internal auditors. ness of internal controls, the inspection of their quality, sufficiency, The Socio-Environmental Responsibility-Specific Policy (SER) forms an inCMN Resolution No. 4,327/14: guidelines that must be met by the compliance, and efficiency. tegral part of a set of documents that comprise the Institution’s governance establishment and in the implementation of the Policy on Socio-EnTherefore, we prepare, on a yearly basis, the strategic and tactic architecture, and which are assessed by the Internal Audit within the scope vironmental Responsibility (PRSA) by financial institutions; and planning of our activities (with pluriannual and annual plans), in comof Corporate Governance and Management. Conama Resolution No. 237, dated December 19, 1997, which pliance with the requirements of the Ministry of Transparency – OfThe socio-environmental risk assessment is conducted by the Internal Audit provides for the review and complementation of the procedures fice of the Federal Comptroller General (CGU). within the scope of the Risk Management process. and criteria used in environmental licensing. Annual Report 2017 134 FS9: Coverage and frequency of audits to assess the implementation of socio-environmental Project Finance Contracted Based on the Equator Principles in 2017 policies and risk assessment procedures Sector Category A Category B Category C The audit verifications that need improvement will be handled through the issuance of recommendations, with the apMining 0 0 0 pointment of a manager in charge and a deadline for implementation compatible with the associated risk level. Recommendations issued will be followed by the Internal Audit until implementation. Henceforth, the corrective actions Infrastructure 0 0 0 adopted by the managers will be assessed, and if sufficient, the recommendation is certified by the Audit. Oil and Gas 0 0 0 Energy 1 0 0 FS10: Percentage and number of companies kept in the organization’s portfolio with which Other (Industry) 0 0 1 the organization interacts on environmental and social questions In 2017, we analyzed three operations based on the Equator Principles, of which two were the Project Finance (projSubtotal 1 0 1 ects which total capital cost is equal to or greater than US$10 million), and one was the Bridge Loan (with a term shortRegion Category A Category B Category C er than two years to be refinanced by the Project Finance or Corporate Finance Intended for Projects). Americas 1 0 1 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 Asia 0 0 0 Subtotal 1 0 1 Country Designation Category A Category B Category C Designated country 0 0 0 Non-designated country 1 0 1 Subtotal 1 0 1 Independent consultancy Category A Category B Category C Yes 0 0 0 No 1 0 1 Subtotal 1 0 1 Total 2 Annual Report 2017 135 FS10: Percentage and number of companies kept in the organization’s portfolio with which Bridge-Loans Contracted Based on the Equator Principles in 2017 the organization interacts on environmental and social questions Sector Category A Category B Category C Mining 0 0 0 Project Finance Advisor Services Based on the Equator Principles in 2017 Infrastructure 0 0 0 Sector Number Oil and Gas 0 0 0 Mining 0 Energy 0 1 0 Infrastructure 0 Other (Industry) 0 0 0 Oil and Gas 0 Subtotal 0 1 0 Energy 0 Region Category A Category B Category C Others 0 Americas 0 1 0 Total 0 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 Region Number Asia 0 0 0 Americas 0 Subtotal 0 1 0 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 Country Designation Category A Category B Category C Asia 0 Designated Country 0 0 0 Total 0 Non-designated Country 0 1 0 Subtotal 0 1 0 Independent Consultancy Category A Category B Category C Yes 0 0 0 No 0 1 0 Subtotal 0 1 0 Total 1 Annual Report 2017 136 FS10: Percentage and number of companies kept in the organization’s portfolio with which FS11: Percentage of assets subject to environmental or social screening the organization interacts on environmental and social questions (both positive and negative) Through BB Gestão de Recursos DTVM S.A., we administer, manage, and distribute funds and managed portfolios. According to the fund management ranking of the Associação Brasileira das Entidades dos Mercados Financeiros e de Equator Principles 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Capitais (Anbima), BB DTVM closed 2017 with an amount of R$864.5 billion in third parties’ funds, representing a 18.27% Number 8 8 15 3 3 growth per year. Of the total of resources, R$1.4 billion is allocated in funds with socio-environmental characteristics. With respect to the total percentage of assets, the volume of R$1.4 billion refers to the total volume of the funds with The amounts listed above characterize the projects as being large-sized, which by definition, require a combination of socio-environmental characteristics managed by BB DTVM. However, BB DTVM conducts a comprehensive screenfavorable conditions associated with economic and strategic aspects for study, planning, feasibility, and implementation. ing involving a greater number of assets that compose its total portfolio. In December 2017, 2.33% of the total of BB In addition to the Equator Principles, we adopt socio-environmental criteria in the assessment of the investigation DTVM’s assets was subject to positive screening. on the credit limit of companies and investment projects. Currently, these procedures are applied to companies To meet Bacen Resolution No. 4,327/2014, as well as the PRI guidelines, BB DTVM developed a methodology for or economic groups with a verified or expected Gross Operating Income (GOI) greater than R$200 million and to incorporation of environmental, social, and corporate governance aspects in its analyses, which exclusively refer to investment projects with an amount financed by us that is equal to or greater than R$2.5 million. In 2017, 3,778 third parties’ funds. The methodology encompasses general indicators (governance structure, social aspects, environassessments were conducted for the investigation on the credit limit of companies, while 43 assessments were mental aspects, and the position of the company in relation to the sustainability indexes, as well as its alignment with conducted for investment projects. the GRI standard) and specific indicators (according to the needs of each area). The assessments are made available to the managers so that the may apply practices that favor the integration of environmental, social, and corporate governance topics. In late 2017, the methodology was reviewed so that the result of the analysis could now directly influence the decisions on corporate debt credit limit. Therefore, based on regular reviews of the credit limits, all limits of emitters will be impacted by the analysis. The methodology has as a basis the use of the best-in-class/positive filter. Currently, the negative is not applied. Annual Report 2017 137 FS13: Access points in areas with low populational density or economically unfavored, discriminated by type We closed 2017 with 64.5 thousand points of service between proper, shared, corresponding networks, being present in 99.8% of the Brazilian cities. State Number of Points of Service (proper Populational Density (Number of points of Variation in the number of In 2017, we underwent institutional reorganization, which promoted network + third parties stations) (inhab/km ) 2 service/inhabitant) x 10,000 points of service adaptations in the physical network, in an attempt to reduce expensAcre 223 0.005 2.69 (38) es and increase operational efficiency. Santa Catarina 2,580 0.073 3.69 (254) Espírito Santo 1,213 0.087 3.02 (28) Roraima 3,689 2,330 70.58 (67) FS14: Initiatives to improve access to financial serAmazonas 230 2,587 0.57 (7) vices by unfavored/disabled persons Mato Grosso 6,069 3,702 18.15 (113) We physically adapted our premises (main floor) to ensure accesTocantins 598 5,584 3.86 (27) sibility by persons with reduced mobility, visually impaired persons, Amapá 932 5,586 11.68 4 and wheelchair users. We closed 2017 with 99.9% of the floors Pará 1,406 6,704 1.68 (73) adapted – the last pending units will be completed/adapted by the Mato Grosso do Sul 988 7,597 3.64 (39) end of 2018. We also purchased furniture for servicing disabled perRondônia 226 7,601 1.25 0 sons, obese individuals, with 80% of the premises benefited by the Piauí 3,638 12,799 11.30 (240) end of 2017. Counters, accessible teller windows and service tables, Goiás 2,290 19,933 3.38 (79) Maranhão 1,424 21,086 2.03 15 wheelchairs, tactile map supports, and furniture adapted for obese Bahia 4,319 27,048 2.81 135 individuals are among the purchased items. Minas Gerais 1,084 36,008 0.51 (32) Rio Grande do Sul 1,309 40,188 1.16 (113) Paraná 2,360 56,799 2.08 (38) Ceará 2,491 60,611 2.76 (36) Rio Grande do Norte 5,166 66,424 14.73 (396) /Paraíba 1,360 71,142 3.38 (8) Pernambuco 1,118 96,359 1.18 45 Sergipe 15,205 104,432 66.45 (448) Alagoas 975 121,572 2.89 (17) São Paulo 573 181,681 0.13 (373) Rio de Janeiro 441 382,620 0.26 (29) Distrito Federal 2,058 523,861 6.77 201 Annual Report 2017 138 Requirement Page (or Link) or Omission External Check Global Compact SDG GRI 102: Divulgação geral 2016 Organizational Profile 102-1: Name of the organization 3 Yes 63 102-2: Activities, brands, products, and services More information available in Yes Art. 4 of Bylaws 102-3: Location of headquarters 93 Yes 102-4: Location of operations 3 Yes 102-5: Ownership and legal form 3 Yes 102-6: Markets served 93 Yes Large-sized company. 102-7: Scale of the organization More information on Yes pages 5 and 6 102-8: Information on employees and other workers 78 and 86 Yes 6 8 102-9: Supply chain 86 Yes 80 More information available in 102-10: Significant changes to the organization and Explanatory Note 2 – Corporate Yes its supply chain Restructuring, in the document Financial Statements 102-11: Precautionary Principle or approach 56 No 102-12: External initiatives 93 Yes GRI Content 102-13: Membership of associations Strategy 93 and 94 Yes Index 102-14: Statement from senior decision-maker 102-15: Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 11 and 12 17, 22, 47, 48 and 94 No Yes Ethics and Integrity 102-55 13 102-16: Values, principles, standards, and norms Information available at Yes 16 of behavior About Us e Ethic and Integrity Annual Report 2017 139 Requirement Page (or Link) or Omission External Check Global Compact SDG 102-17: Mechanisms for advice and concerns 40 to 42 Yes 16 about ethics Governance 102-18: Governance structure 22 and 36 Yes 102-19: Delegating authority 22 and 94 Yes 102-21: Consultation with stakeholders on economic, 94 Yes 16 environmental, and social topics 102-27: Collective knowledge of highest 94 No 4 governance body 102-29: Identifying and managing economic, 39 and 95 Yes 16 environmental, and social impacts 102-36: Process for determining remuneration 101 Yes 102-38: Annual total compensation ratio 101 Yes Stakeholder Engagement 102-40: List of stakeholder groups 13 Yes 102-41: Collective bargaining agreements 101 No 3 8 102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders 13 and 101 Yes 102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement 17, 23, 24, 68 and 102 Yes 102-44: Key topics and concerns raised 15, 23, 68 and 102 Yes Reporting Practices Information available in Explana102-45: Entities included in the consolidated tory Note 3 – Presentation of FiYes financial statements nancial Statements (p. 31), in the document Financial Statements 102-46: Defining report content and topic Boundaries 103 to 106 Yes 102-47: List of material topics 103 to 106 Yes Annual Report 2017 140 Requirement Page (or Link) or Omission External Check Global Compact SDG 102-8: page 78 202-1: page 109 401-1: page 1141 102-48: Restatements of information No 401-1: page 1142 403-2: page 116 (see notes 1 and 2 on page 114) There were no changes in comparison with the previous reporting period with respect to 102-49: Changes in reporting No the Materiality Matrix. This year, we focused on the reporting of essential requirements Our Report is published on a No yearly basis, and in this issue, No 102-50: Reporting period it covers the entire period be102-51: Date of most recent report tween January 1 and December 102-52: Reporting cycle No 31, 2017. The previous report was published in 2017 102-53: Contact point for questions regarding the report 106 No This report has been prepared 102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with in accordance with the GRI Yes the GRI Standards Standards: Core option 102-55: GRI content index 139 Yes 102-56: External assurance 152 Yes Economic Standards GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1: Direct economic value generated and distributed 109 No 2|5|7|8|9 201-2: Financial implications and other risks and 57 and 58 Yes 7 13 opportunities due toclimate change Annual Report 2017 141 Requirement Page (or Link) or Omission External Check Global Compact SDG GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 202-1: Ratios of standard entry level wage 109 No 6 1|5|8 by gender compared to local minimum wage GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-1: Infrastructure investments and services supported 33 Yes 2 | 5 | 7 | 9 | 11 203-2: Significant indirect economic impacts 29 to 31 Yes 1 | 2 | 3 | 8 | 10 | 17 Annual Report 2017 142 Requirement Page (or Link) or Omission External Check Global Compact SDG GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1: Operations assessed for risks related 44 and 109 Yes to corruption 205-2: Communication and training about 41, 44, 86, 110 and 111 Yes anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and 44 Yes actions taken Environmental Standards GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1: Materials used by weight or volume 111 Yes 7|8 8 | 12 301-2: Recycled input materials used 111 No 8 8 | 12 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 90 and 112 Yes 7|8 7 | 8 | 12 | 13 302-3: Energy intensity 112 No 8 7 | 8 | 12 | 13 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 90 and 112 Yes 8|9 7 | 8 | 12 | 13 Annual Report 2017 143 Requirement Page (or Link) or Omission External Check Global Compact SDG Environmental Standards GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No Water 303-1: Water withdrawal by source 90 and 113 Yes 7|8 6 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No Emissions 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Information not available the No 7|8 3 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 data will be disclosed in the 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions online version of the Report No 7|8 3 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 Annual 2017 in May 2018 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Information not available – the No 7|8 3 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 305-4: GHG emissions intensity data will be disclosed in the No 8 13 | 14 | 15 online version of the Report 305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions Annual 2017 in May 2018 No 8|9 13 | 14 | 15 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No Effluents and Residues 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method 91 and 114 Yes 8 3 | 6 | 12 | 14 Annual Report 2017 144 Requirement Page (or Link) or Omission External Check Global Compact SDG Social Standards GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover 114 to 116 Yes 6 5|8 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 402: Labor Relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding 116 No 3 8 operational changes GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-1: Workers representation in formal joint management-worker health and 84, 85 and 116 No 8 safety committees 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of 85, 116 to 118 Yes 3|8 work-related fatalities Annual Report 2017 145 Requirement Page (or Link) or Omission External Check Global Compact SDG GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 83, 84, 118 and 119 Yes 6 4|5|8 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular per81, 82, 119 and 120 No 6 5|8 formance and career development reviews GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunities 2016 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 79, 120 to 122 Yes 6 5|8 405-2: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of wo122 Yes 6 5 | 8 | 10 men to men GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 406: Non-Discrimination 2016 406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective 123 Yes 6 5 | 8 | 16 actions taken Annual Report 2017 146 Requirement Page (or Link) or Omission External Check Global Compact SDG GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1: Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may 59, 60, 123 and 124 No 3 8 be at risk GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 59, 60, 123 and 124 No 5 8 | 16 incidents of child labor GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 59, 60, 123 and 124 No 4 8 incidents of forced or compulsory labor GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Annual Report 2017 147 Requirement Page (or Link) or Omission External Check Global Compact SDG 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 410: Safety Practices 410-1: Security personnel trained in human rights po124 No 1 16 licies or procedures GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1: Operations that have been subject to human 123 and 124 Yes 1 rights reviews or impact assessments 412-2: Employee training on human rights policies 124 Yes 1 or procedures 56 and 60 412-3: Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent Yes (Socio-Environmental Risk) human rights screening Reference Form – Section 8 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, 125 and 126 Yes 1 impact assessments, and development programs Annual Report 2017 148 Requirement Page (or Link) or Omission External Check Global Compact SDG GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1: New suppliers that were screened using 86 2 social criteria 414-2: Negative social impacts in the supply chain 60 and 126 Yes 2 and actions taken GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 126 No product and service categories GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning product 126 No 16 and service information and labeling 417-3: Incidents of non-compliance concerning mar126 No 16 keting communications Annual Report 2017 149 Requirement Page (or Link) or Omission External Check Global Compact SDG GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 418: Customer Privacy 418-1: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 55 Yes 16 of customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in 126 Yes the social and economic area GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No Sector Supplement – Financial Services Product Portfolio FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. Micro/SME/Large) and 126 Yes 1|8|9 by sector FS7 Monetary Value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business 127 to 134 Yes 6 1 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 line broken down by purpose FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each 127 to 134 Yes 6 business line broken down by purpose. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Annual Report 2017 150 Requirement Page (or Link) or Omission External Check Global Compact SDG 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No G4: Audit FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies 134 and 135 Yes and risk assessment procedures (former FS9) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No G4: Active Ownership FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organi135 to 137 Yes 10 sation has interacted on environmental or social issues FS11 Ppercentage of assets subject to positive and 137 Yes 10 negative environmental or social screening. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 to 108 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 107 and 108 Yes 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 107 and 108 No G4: Local Communities FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically 138 No 7|8 1 | 8 | 10 disadvantaged areas by type FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services 138 Yes 8 1 | 8 | 10 for disadvantaged people Annual Report 2017 151 102-56: External assurance Independent Auditors’ Limited Assurance Report Banco do Brasil S.A. To Independent Auditors’ Limited Assurance Report The Board of Directors, Shareholders and Management KPMG Auditores Independentes Banco do Brasil S.A. SBS Qd. 02 Bl. Q Lote 03 Salas 708 a 711 Brasília DF Edifício João Carlos Saad 70070-120 Brasília/DF Brasil Caixa Postal 8587 CEP 70312-970 Brasília/DF Brasil Introduction Telefone +55 (61) 2104-2400, Fax +55 (61) 2104-2406 We have been engaged by Banco do Brasil S.A. to present our limited assurance report on the compilation of the information www.kpmg.com.br related to sustainability included in the Annual Report of Banco do Brasil S.A., for the year ended December 31, 2017. Responsibilities of Banco do Brasil’s Management The management of the Banco do Brasil is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the information related to sustainability included in its Annual Report in accordance to the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative – GRI Standards and for such internal controls as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of information free of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Independent auditors’ responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the information related to sustainability included in Annual Report, based on our limited assurance engagement carried out in accordance with Technical Communication (CT) 07/2012, issued by the Federal Accounting Council (CFC), based on Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000, “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits and Reviews”, also issued by the CFC, which is the equivalent to the international standard ISAE 3000, issued by International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements, including independence requirements, and perform our engagement to obtain limited assurance that the information related in the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is free from material misstatement. Annual Report 2017 152 A limited assurance engagement conducted in accordance with NBC TO 3000 The limited assurance engagement also included tests to assess compliance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initia(ISAE 3000) mainly consists of making inquiries of management of Banco do tive’s Sustainability Report and criteria to preparation of the information related to sustainability included in the Annual Report. Brasil and other Banco do Brasil’s professional involved in the preparation of the information in the Annual Report, as well as applying analytical procedures We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance to obtain evidence that allows us to issue a limited assurance conclusion on the conclusion. information, taken as a whole. A limited assurance engagement also requires the performance of additional procedures when the independent auditor becomes Scope and limitations aware of matters that lead the auditor to believe that the information in the Annual The procedures applied in a limited assurance engagement are substantially less detailed than those applied in a reasonable Report, taken as a whole might present significant misstatements. assurance engagement, the objective of which is the issuance of an opinion about the information included in the Annual Report. Consequently, we are not able to obtain reasonable assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters The procedures selected are based on our understanding of the issues related that might be identified in an assurance engagement, the objective of which is the issue of an opinion. If we had performed to the compilation and presentation of the information included in the Annual an engagement in order to express an opinion, we might have identified other matters and possible misstatements in the Report, other circumstances of the engagement and our analysis of the areas information included in the Annual Report. Therefore, we are not expressing an opinion about these matters. in which significant misstatement might exist. The procedures consisted of: Non-financial data are subject to more inherent limitations than the financial data, due to the nature and diversity of the mea) planning of the work, taking into consideration the relevance, volume of quanthods used to determine, calculate or estimate this data. Qualitative interpretations of the relevance, materiality and accuracy titative and qualitative information and the operating and internal control of the data are subject to individual assumptions and judgments. systems that were used to prepare the information included in the Annual Report of Banco do Brasil; Furthermore, we did not consider in our engagement the data reported for prior periods, nor future projections and goals. b) understanding of the calculation methodology and the procedures adopted for the compilation of the indicators through interviews with the personnel in The objective of our work was to apply limited assurance procedures on the sustainability information disclosed in the Annual charge of the preparation of the information;; Report of Banco do Brasil, not including its greenhouse gas emissions data, neither the assessment of the appropriateness c) a pplication of analytical procedures to quantitative information and making of its policies, practices and sustainability performance. inquiries regarding the qualitative information and its correlation with the indicators disclosed in the information included in the Banco do Brasil’s Annual Report; and d) c omparing the financial indicators with the financial statements and/or accounting records. Annual Report 2017 153 Conclusion KPMG Auditores Independentes Based on the procedures performed, described in this report, no matter SBS Qd. 02 Bl. Q Lote 03 Salas 708 a 711 has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information Edifício João Carlos Saad contained in the Annual Report 2017 of Banco do Brasil S.A., has not been 70070-120 Brasília/DF Brasil compiled, in all material respects, in accordance with the Sustainability ReCaixa Postal 8587 CEP 70312-970 Brasília/DF Brasil porting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Standards. Telefone +55 (61) 2104-2400, Fax +55 (61) 2104-2406 www.kpmg.com.br Brasília, April 26, 2018 To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of do Banco do Brasil S.A. KPMG Auditores Independentes Brasília DF CRC SP-014428/O-6 F-DF Brasília, Apr 26, 2018 Original report in Portuguese signed by Marcelo Faria Pereira In connection with the action to be taken with respect to the issuance of the Independent Auditors on the sustainability inforAccountant CRC RJ-077911/O-2 mation disclosed in the Annual Report of the Banco of Brasil SA, related to the year ended December 31st 2017 we declare that KPMG is independent in relation to the Banco do Brasil S.A. and there was no conflict of interest in the verification of environmental and social data on the sustainability information in accordance with the rules of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics and local rule CFC Resolução CFC 1.312/10. Very truly yours, KPMG Auditores Independentes CRC SP-014428/O-6 F-DF Original report in Portuguese signed by Marcelo Faria Pereira Accountant CRC RJ-077911/O-2 Annual Report 2017 154
