GRI Document 2017 Sustainability reporting information Table of contents Sustainability at UBS Our employees 3 Introduction 56 The UBS workforce in 2017 3 Chairman’s statement 56 Our workforce at a glance 3 Environment 4 Employees and communities Our sustainability track record 4 Human rights 62 Our sustainability track record 5 Anti-corruption 5 Risk evaluation Assurance and certification 64 Independent assurance report by EY UBS and Society 66 ISO 14001 certificate (section from UBS 2017 Annual Report) 68 ISO 50001 certificate Our employees Appendix (section from UBS 2017 Annual Report) 70 Our Code of Conduct and Ethics 74 Charter of the Corporate Culture and Stakeholder management and engagement Responsibility Committee 26 Materiality under GRI standards 75 UBS and Society constitutional document 34 Direct economic value generated and distributed 78 Environment and social risk policy framework by UBS Group AG consolidated in 2017 86 Health and safety statement 34 Our stakeholders 87 UBS sustainability objectives and achievements 2017 and sustainability objectives 2018 How we do business 101 GRI content index 38 Governance and policies 123 Non-financial disclosures in accordance with 39 Sustainable performance and compensation German law implementing the of EU directive 40 External commitments and memberships 2014/95 40 Training and raising awareness 41 UBS and Society management indicators 42 Our climate change strategy 44 In-house environmental management 51 Responsible supply chain management How we support our clients 52 Calculating and reporting on climate changerelated financing and advisory activities 52 Stewardship / voting rights 52 Suitability 53 Accessibility 53 Financial literacy How we support our Communities 54 Achievements 2017 55 Measuring impact 1 UBS Group AG consolidated About this GRI Document Contacts UBS strives to report openly and transparently about our firm’s UBS Corporate Responsibility Management (CRM) sustainability approach and activities. We have included the The CRM team manages UBS’s sustainability disclosure and also most significant information in our Annual Report 2017, notably acts as information provider for sustainability-related enquiries. in the “UBS and Society” and “Our employees” sections. This cr@ubs.com GRI Document brings together that information with additional information on sustainability at UBS and constitutes the core of our sustainability reporting. Except where clearly identified, all of UBS's sustainability information included in this GRI Document is presented for UBS Group and its consolidated subsidiaries. Information on our consolidated subsidiaries can be found in Note 28 Interests in subsidiaries and other entities in our Annual Report 2017. UBS AG consolidated information does not differ in any material respect from UBS Group AG's consolidated information. We use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as the basis for our sustainability reporting and apply a careful process weighing up the materiality and relevance of the information reported and the expectations of all our stakeholders. This document also includes our group’s disclosures of nonfinancial information required by Germany's implementation law of EU directive 2014/95 (CSR-Richtlinie-Umsetzungsgesetz / CSRRUG) (nichtfinanzieller Konzernbericht). A table at the end of this document provides the references to such non-financial information. UBS’s reporting on sustainability, including this GRI Document has been reviewed by Ernst & Young Ltd (EY) against the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (limited assurance). The content has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards, Comprehensive option, as evidenced in the EY assurance report. Both, the GRI content index and the assurance report, have been included in this document and can also be downloaded from www.ubs.com/gri. 09 March 2018 UBS Group AG and UBS AG 2 Sustainability at UBS Introduction means understanding which topics our stakeholders regard as most relevant to our firm. We do so in various ways, notably In this document we discuss our approach to key sustainability through our annual UBS Materiality Assessment, as defined by topics of environment and human rights, employees and the GRI. In 2017, the CCRC again carefully considered the communities, and anti-corruption, on the basis of our analysis of results of this assessment, which was based on a major online the risks and the feedback from stakeholders. We do so by survey. It provided us with valuable insights into how effective including the “UBS and Society” and “Our employees” sections our firm’s efforts already are, and how we can continue our from our Annual Report 2017, which provide the key journey towards long-term sustainable value creation. information on these topics. We have complemented them with additional information, to provide an enhanced view of our UBS’s commitment to the UN Global Compact position. UBS was among the first companies to sign the UN Global Information on the business model of UBS can be found in Compact in 2000 and is committed to its principles on human the Operating environment and strategy section of our rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. We Annual Report 2017. are also a member of the UN Global Compact Network → Refer to UBS's Annual Report 2017 available at Switzerland. As reflected in detail in this document, we have a w w w.ubs.com/ investors comprehensive set of commitments and activities in place pertaining to the principles of the UN Global Compact. Chairman’s statement Environment In this statement, UBS Chairman and Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee (CCRC) Chairperson Axel A. Weber Our environmental management system covers the entire scope provides his views on UBS’s sustainability efforts: of UBS's products, services and in-house operations that may Sustainability is a cornerstone of our business. UBS give rise to an environmental impact. It is externally audited commenced 2018 with a clear signal about our firm belief in the annually and re-certified every three years. need to promote global economic development that is We view the proper management of our firm’s own sustainable for the planet and humanity. This is the overarching environmental footprint and our supply chain as important proof goal of the 17 United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development points for how we do business in a sustainable manner. This is Goals (SDGs) and these in turn, are the key theme of the White equally true of our comprehensive management of ESR. Our inPaper we launched in January at the World Economic Forum. house environmental management, our responsible supply chain The SDGs provide a roadmap to solve our common management (RSCM), and our ESR standards and management sustainability challenges and investments are crucial to it, with are aligned with the UBS and Society strategy and enforced firmUSD 5–7 trillion of annual investment needed globally, according wide. to UN estimations. To achieve these ambitious goals, we believe We constantly strive to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) we need radical new approaches to philanthropy and sustainable emissions, our waste production, energy and paper consumption investing. As the world’s largest wealth manager, UBS is and water usage. uniquely placed to help achieve the SDGs by joining forces with We aim to reduce negative environmental and social effects clients, corporations, NGOs and the public sector, to mobilize the of the goods and services UBS purchases, and we engage with private capital needed for such an ambitious plan. suppliers to promote responsible practices. Our RSCM principles These approaches, alongside other important activities, embed UBS’s ethics and values in our interactions with our including our management of environmental and social risks suppliers, contractors and service partners. (ESR), are firmly embedded in our firm's strategy on We apply an ESR framework to identify and manage potential sustainability. We see a strong business rationale for catering to adverse impacts to the environment and to human rights, as well the growing importance of and demand for sustainability. UBS, as the associated environmental and social risks to which our under the leadership of our Group Executive Board and overseen clients’ and our own assets are exposed. UBS’s comprehensive by the CCRC, which I chair, has clearly positioned itself to deliver ESR standards are aligned with the principles expressed in the on it. UBS and Society constitutional document, govern client and We recognize that it is important to understand key societal supplier relationships, and are enforced firm-wide and applied to challenges and opportunities, to consider their relevance to UBS all activities. and to identify potential (mid-to-long-term) actions our firm may need to take. UBS is committed to creating long-term positive impact for clients, employees, investors and society as a whole. Last but not least, a successful sustainability strategy also 3 Sustainability at UBS Climate change is one of the most significant challenges of We aim to be a high-quality employer, with our values our time. In order for investors to better price climate-related embedded in all of our people management practices. We offer risks, and to support a smooth rather than disruptive transition competitive benefits to all employees that include insurance, to a low-carbon economy, the Financial Stability Board has pension, retirement and personal leave, according to market established the Task Force on Climate-related Financial practices. These benefits often go beyond legal requirements or Disclosures (TCFD). In June 2017, the TCFD provided its market practice, and we regularly review them to ensure they recommendations, calling on companies to disclose the impacts meet our employees’ needs. of climate change on their businesses. As of December 2017, Our employees are also key to the success of our community more than 230 organizations worldwide have affirmed their programs, notably via their volunteering activities. We encourage commitment to support the recommendations, including private employees to support our local communities by facilitating companies across industry sectors (including UBS), regulatory employee volunteering and offering employees up to two days a authorities, and various governments. UBS plans to further align year to volunteer. its disclosure within the five-year pathway outlined by the TCFD At UBS, we recognize that our long-term success depends on and has embarked on this early. We see growing client and the health and prosperity of the communities of which we are a investor demand for such information. part. Our approach is to build sustainable and successful → Refer to Our climate change strategy below partnerships with non-profit organizations and social enterprises to ensure that our contributions have a lasting impact. Our Employees and communities community programs seek to overcome disadvantage through long-term investment in education and entrepreneurship in the Our employees’ skills, experience and commitment are key to communities within which we operate delivering on our business strategy. Our HR strategy therefore seeks to hire, develop and engage employees at all levels who Human rights have the diverse backgrounds and capabilities to advise our clients, develop new products, manage risk and adapt to As outlined in our Code of Conduct and Ethics, UBS is evolving regulations. We invest in our employees and promote committed to respecting and promoting human rights, through initiatives intended to build engagement and a cohesive, our business activities, supply chain management, and as an collaborative culture. employer. We believe this is a responsible approach underlining Having a strong culture is vital to our sustained success. In our desire to reduce as far as possible potentially negative 2014, we introduced the three keys to success – our Pillars, impacts on society. Principles and Behaviors. They help us achieve our vision and Both our firm's approach to human rights and our execute our strategy, shaping how we work together and commitment to our employees (as reflected in our human influencing everything we do. Since then, we have continuously resources processes and policies) are overseen by the Board of focused on driving cultural change and embedding our core Directors, notably by the CCRC. Within the parameters set by values more deeply into the identity of the firm. the CCRC, human rights issues at GEB-level are overseen by the Our ongoing success in increasing diversity and inclusion Global ESR Committee. The CCRC regularly reviews the across the firm is part of our culture. Workforce diversity is a assessments and steps taken by the Global ESR Committee business imperative for us. In our experience, teams with towards executing UBS's human rights commitment. diversity in gender, race, age, ethnicity, education, background, Products, services and activities deemed to have significant sexual orientation and other aspects better understand and environmental or human rights risk potential are subject to relate to our equally diverse clients’ needs. Likewise, diversity of procedures and tools for the identification, assessment, and thought, opinion and experience helps us make better decisions monitoring of such risks in client onboarding, transaction due and drives innovation, while we believe that an inclusive work diligence, supply chain management, operational activities and environment attracts high-quality people and makes the firm a investment decisions. better place to work. Our HR policies and procedures underscore UBS aims to reduce negative environmental and human rights our commitment to a diverse and inclusive workplace, with effects of the goods and services it purchases and we engage equal opportunities for all employees. with suppliers to promote responsible practices. Since 2008, a We promote our employees' understanding of the goals and firm-wide guideline has provided systematic assistance on actions of UBS and Society through a wide range of training and identifying, assessing and monitoring supplier practices in the awareness-raising activities, as well as performance areas of human and labor rights, environmental protection and management. Through these activities we ensure that our corruption. A central component of this guideline is the UBS employees understand their responsibilities in complying with Responsible Supply Chain Standard to which our suppliers are our policies and the importance of our societal commitments. bound by contract. 4 We are convener of the Thun Group of Banks – an informal work closely with the Financial Action Task Force, an intergroup of bank representatives that work together with the governmental body that helps develop national and primary purpose of (i) furthering understanding of the UN international policies on preventing money laundering and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) terrorist financing through consultation with the private sector. within the context of banking, and (ii) considering how they may be applied across the range of different banking activities. Since Risk evaluation its first meeting in 2011, the Thun Group’s focus has been on sharing expertise and experience to support the integration of Combating money laundering and terrorist financing has been a the UNGPs into the policies and practices of banking institutions. major focus of government policy relating to financial institutions in recent years. The US Bank Secrecy Act and other Anti-corruption laws and regulations applicable to UBS require the maintenance of effective policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent We take a rigorous risk-based approach in our commitment to and report money laundering and terrorist financing, and to combatting money laundering, corruption and terrorist financing verify the identity of our clients. Failure to maintain and and we have implemented policies, procedures and internal implement adequate programs to prevent money laundering, controls that are designed to comply with such laws and and terrorist financing could result in significant legal and regulations. We have developed extensive policies intended to reputation risk. Additionally, we are subject to laws and prevent, detect and report money laundering, corruption and regulations in jurisdictions in which we operate prohibiting terrorist financing. These policies seek to protect the firm and corrupt or illegal payments to government officials and others, our reputation from those who may be intending to use UBS to including the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK legitimize illicit assets. Anti-corruption policies and procedures Bribery Act. that aim to prevent bribery occurring throughout our operations We may be unable to retain and attract qualified employees. are in place for all business divisions. These policies are derived The amount and structure of our employee compensation is from the standards set out in the Group Policy Against affected not only by our business results but also by competitive Corruption and the Group Policy on Gifts and Business factors and regulatory considerations. In recent years, in Entertainment. response to the demands of various stakeholders, including We adhere to strict Know-Your-Client rules and use advanced regulatory authorities and shareholders, and in order to better technology to help identify suspicious transaction patterns. If align the interests of our staff with those of other stakeholders, suspicious activities are discovered, they are promptly escalated we have made changes to the terms of compensation awards. In to independent control units and external authorities, as addition, constraints on the amount or structure of employee required by law. We annually assess the money laundering, compensation, higher levels of deferral, performance conditions bribery and corruption and sanctions risks associated with all our and other circumstances triggering the forfeiture of unvested business operations against our control framework, and take awards may adversely affect our ability to retain and attract key actions to further mitigate that risk. employees. The loss of key staff and the inability to attract We are a founding member of the Wolfsberg Group, an qualified replacements, depending on which and how many association of global banks that aims to develop financial roles are affected, could seriously compromise our ability to services industry standards for policies on preventing money execute our strategy and to successfully improve our operating laundering and terrorist financing, and on Know-Your-Client and control environment and may affect our business principles. The Wolfsberg Group brings together banks globally performance. at its annual forum and regional reach-out meetings focused on → Refer to the “Risk factors” section of UBS's Annual Report 2017 anti-money laundering (AML) topics and works on guidance for more information papers in key areas of AML. Together with the other members of the Wolfsberg Group we 5 UBS and Society (section from UBS 2017 Annual Report) UBS and Society UBS is committed to creating long-term positive impact for our UBS and Society covers our activities and capabilities related clients, employees, investors and society. In doing so, we aim to to sustainable investing, philanthropy, environmental and human continually improve our efficiency and effectiveness in protecting rights policies governing client and supplier relationships, our the environment, respecting human rights and ensuring environmental footprint and community investment. responsible behavior in all aspects of our operations. We intend to make sustainable performance the standard We want to be the financial provider of choice for clients across our firm and part of every client conversation. We work wishing to drive capital toward investments that support the with a long-term focus on providing appropriate returns to all of achievement of the United Nations’ (UN) Sustainable our stakeholders in a responsible manner. To underline our Development Goals (SDGs) and the transition to a low-carbon commitment to UBS and Society, we provide transparent targets economy. Our cross-divisional organization UBS and Society and report on progress made against them wherever possible. To focuses our firm on this direction. this end, we assess our progress against the following aims. We aim to be A leader in sustainable investing (SI) for private and institutional clients as demonstrated by size of SI assets under management (AuM) and goals, for which UBS: – Has set ambitious internal targets to increase AuM for core SI products and mandates – Has set a target of USD 5 billion of client assets invested into new impact investments by the end of 2021 A recognized innovator and thought leader in philanthropy as shown by key stakeholder – employees, clients and society – engagement, and work to support positive social impact, for which UBS: – Aims to achieve 40% of employees volunteering by the end of 2020, of which 40% of volunteer hours will be skills based – Combines expertise with capital and networks to increase social impact, as the partner of choice for philanthropists – Pioneers new ways to bring substantial funding to the SDGs An industry leader in sustainability by retaining favorable positions in key environmental, social and governance (ESG) ratings and driving optimization in areas that are important to ESG investors, wherein UBS: – Supports the transition to a low-carbon economy as laid out in our climate change strategy 6 UBS and Society’s goals are implemented in three ways: how corporate culture. The CCRC also monitors and reviews societal we do business, how we support clients and how we support trends and other developments on a forward-looking basis and communities. assesses their potential relevance to the Group. → Refer to “Download center” at www.ubs.com/ubsandsociety The Group Chief Executive Officer (Group CEO) proposes the for further documents pertinent to sustainability at UBS UBS and Society strategy and annual objectives to the CCRC, → Refer to “Annual reporting” at www.ubs.com/investors for the supervises their execution and informs the Group Executive UBS 2017 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Document containing Board (GEB) and CCRC, as appropriate. Reporting to the Group key sustainability information CEO, the Head UBS and Society is UBS’s senior-level representative for sustainability issues. The Group CEO and the How we do business Head UBS and Society are permanent guests of the CCRC. Chaired by the Head UBS and Society, the UBS and Society Strong, well-understood principles and policies are the Operating Committee is responsible for the execution of UBS foundation for empowering our employees to operate in a and Society strategy across divisions and regions. Chaired by the manner that meets the expectations of our stakeholders. We Group Chief Risk Officer, the Global Environmental & Social Risk also recognize that we have a role to play in leading debates on Committee defines an environmental and social risk (ESR) important societal topics and in collaborating with other firms framework and independent controls that align UBS’s ESR and industry bodies to set high standards in and beyond our appetite with that of UBS and Society. The business divisions are industry. responsible for developing, providing resources for and executing the UBS and Society annual objectives in their division Governance as they relate to client relationships, product development, Our Board of Directors’ (BoD) Corporate Culture and Responsibility investment management, distribution and risk management. Committee (CCRC) approves UBS and Society’s overall strategy and → Refer to “Board of Directors” in the “Corporate governance” monitors the current state and implementation of the Group’s section of this report for more information programs and initiatives pertaining to corporate culture and → Refer to the Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG at corporate responsibility. It also regularly reviews stakeholder www.ubs.com/governance for the charter of the CCRC expectations and concerns about UBS’s societal performance and 7 UBS and Society (section from UBS 2017 Annual Report) Key principles and policies Every year, we conduct a materiality assessment, as defined The principles and standards set out in our Code of Conduct and by the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Ethics (Code) apply to all aspects of our business and the way most widely used sustainability reporting framework, to collate we engage with our stakeholders. The Code supports a culture stakeholder views on key topics pertaining to our firm’s where ethical and responsible behavior is part of our everyday financial, economic, social and environmental performance. In operations. All employees have to confirm annually that they 2017, the assessment was supported by a major online survey, have read the Code and other associated key documents and which was completed by nearly 1,600 stakeholders (with clients policies. In 2017, we continued our educational program about making up nearly half of this amount). The results are captured the Code, including a mandatory conduct and culture training in a GRI-based materiality matrix that covers 26 topics, the topmodule. rated being client protection, combating financial crime, conduct The CCRC oversees the annual review of the Code by the and culture, financial stability and resilience, and digital GEB and the BoD. Following the 2016 / 2017 review, the current innovation and cyber security. Code was published in mid-2017. For the first time, we also included a question on the SDGs in → Refer to the Code of Conduct and Ethics of UBS at the survey. The SDGs are a set of 17 non-legally binding goals, www.ubs.com/code for more information which aim to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure prosperity for all by 2030, as part of a global sustainable The Code incorporates key components of UBS and Society, development agenda. Stakeholders were asked which SDGs UBS notably managing environmental and social risks, investing should contribute most to, and the most frequent response was sustainably and contributing to the well-being of our local quality education, followed by climate action. communities to promote our goal of generating long-term, Awareness and expertise play an important role in sustainable and measurable benefits for our clients, shareholders implementing our goals. UBS promotes its employees’ and communities. understanding of the goals and actions of UBS and Society The scope, principles, responsibilities and structure of UBS through a wide range of training and awareness-raising activities and Society are set out in more detail within our UBS and Society and performance management. For example, in 2017, our constitutional document. program on sustainable investing was delivered to around 3,500 employees in our wealth management businesses. In addition, Stakeholder relations and employee engagement employee volunteering activities across all regions help raise The activities we describe in this section are designed to identify awareness of UBS and Society and our sustainability goals. the key points at which UBS is able to exert a positive impact on → Refer to the “Our employees” section of this report for more society and the environment. Our regular engagement with a information on our firm’s culture and employees wide range of stakeholders and many significant external organizations and initiatives, supports us in this important process. Advancing sustainability in the financial sector – UBS’s key activities in 2017 Initiative Focus topic Role / activity of UBS Key outcome of initiative in 2017 Financial Stability Board (FSB) Task Climate change Member of TCFD and feedback provider Recommendations to companies to Force on Climate-related Financial Commitment to review and align UBS disclose the impacts of climate change on Disclosures (TCFD) disclosure with TCFD recommendations their activities and strategy Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders Climate change Joint statement by our CEO and the alliance Continued support for the TCFD members to urge G20 governments to act on recommendations the recommendations of the TCFD UN Environment Programme Finance Climate change Collaborates in developing approaches to Scenario analysis and stress testing Initiative (UNEP FI) help banks disclose their exposures to approach under development climate-related risks and opportunities, as envisioned by the TCFD 8 Advancing sustainability in the financial sector – UBS’s key activities in 2017 (continued) Initiative Focus topic Role / activity of UBS Key outcome of initiative in 2017 Swiss Energy and Climate Summit Climate change Premium partner Key annual Swiss SME event on climate and energy topics Natural Capital Finance Alliance Natural capital Project partner to pilot test drought scenarios Drought stress testing tool and report in bank portfolios developed Member of technical advisory panel of the Database and multi-regional input-output Advancing Environmental Management analysis to assess natural capital Project dependencies G20 Green Finance Study Group Green finance Presented stress testing approach at GFSG Synthesis report, as well as background (GFSG) workshop in Beijing papers on various topics, presented and acknowledged at G20 leaders’ summit in Hamburg Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) Sustainable finance Member of SSF board Major events and projects to promote sustainable finance in Switzerland Association for Environmental Sustainable finance Member of VfU board Major events and projects to advance Management and Sustainability in Host and co-organizer of annual VfU / UNEP sustainable finance in Germany, Austria Financial Institutes (VfU) FI flagship roundtable and Switzerland Sustainability Accounting Standards Sustainable finance UBS Asset Management represented on First reports by group of US public Board (SASB) SASB Institutional Advisory Group and companies issued in accordance with SASB participated in various committees on metrics Thun Group of Banks Human rights Convener of Group Paper on the implications of UN Guiding Principles 13b and 17 and stakeholder event to discuss the paper International Capital Market Green and social Member of ICMA and on ICMA board Guidance for the governance of the Green Association (ICMA) bonds Bond Principles and Social Bond Principles Organisation for Economic CoDue diligence Member of advisory group of OECD Publication of the OECD RBC guidance for operation and Development (OECD) Responsible Business Conduct (RBC) project institutional investors Policy Outlook (POLO) platform Sustainability Co-convener of platform Platform’s second annual roundtable regulation (convened by UBS) WWF Banking on World Heritage UNESCO (natural) Participant in WWF-organized workshops and Reporting paper (includes UBS best Sites world heritage sites speaker on launch event panel practice case study) Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Natural capital / Member of RSPO financial institutions task Review of the updated RSPO Principles and (RSPO) palm oil force and on RSPO complaints panel Criteria Panel speaker at RSPO EU Roundtable 2017 and the RSPO Roundtable (RT 15 in Indonesia) Banking Environment Initiative (BEI) Soft commodities Member of BEI Soft Commodities Compact Bi-monthly meetings Soft Commodities Compact implementation group 9 UBS and Society (section from UBS 2017 Annual Report) Environmental and social risk assessments For the year ended % change from 31.12.17 31.12.16 31.12.15 31.12.16 Cases referred for assessment1 2,170 2,671 2,192 (19) by region Americas 305 395 295 (23) Asia Pacific 604 556 520 9 Europe, Middle East and Africa 253 341 257 (26) Switzerland 1,008 1,379 1,120 (27) by business division Wealth Management 485 429 396 13 Wealth Management Americas 22 20 20 10 Personal & Corporate Banking 795 1,226 980 (35) Asset Management 7 2 0 250 Investment Bank 852 971 776 (12) Corporate Center2 9 23 20 (61) 1 Transactions and client onboarding requests referred to the environmental and social risk function. 2 Relates to procurement / sourcing of products and services. Management of environmental and social risks These processes are geared toward identifying clients, We apply an ESR framework to identify and manage potential transactions or suppliers potentially in breach of our standards, adverse impacts on the environment and to human rights, as or otherwise subject to significant environmental and human well as the associated environmental and social risks to which rights controversies. We use advanced data analytics on our clients’ and our own assets are exposed. UBS’s companies associated with such risks, integrated into our webcomprehensive ESR standards are aligned with the principles based compliance tool, before we enter into a client or supplier expressed in the UBS and Society constitutional document, relationship or transaction. This significantly enhances our ability govern client and supplier relationships, and are enforced firmto identify potential risk. In 2017, 2,170 referrals were assessed wide. by our ESR unit, of which 80 were rejected or not further We have set ESR standards in product development, pursued, 395 were approved with qualifications and 18 were investments, financing and for supply chain management pending. Measures to optimize the control framework led to a decisions. As part of our due diligence process we engage with 19% year-on-year decline in such referrals. clients and suppliers to better understand their processes and policies and to explore how any environmental and social risks We will not do business if We will only do business under may be mitigated. We avoid transactions, products, services, associated with severe stringent criteria in the following activities or suppliers if they are associated with material environmental or social damage to areas: environmental and social risks that cannot be properly assessed or through the use of: or mitigated. Our ESR standards include the description of controversial – UNESCO world heritage sites – Soft commodities: palm oil, soy, activities and other areas of concern we will not engage in, or – Wetlands, endangered species timber, fish and seafood we will only engage in under stringent criteria, as outlined – High conservation value forests, – Power generation: below. In 2017, we introduced new guidelines for companies in illegal logging and use of fire coal-fired power plants, large the fishing industry and require them to demonstrate that they – Child labor, forced labor, dams, nuclear power are not involved in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. indigenous peoples’ rights – Extractives: hydraulic fracturing, Our standard risk, compliance and operations processes oil sands, arctic drilling, coal involve procedures and tools for identifying, assessing and mining, precious metals, monitoring environmental and social risks. These include client diamonds onboarding, transaction due diligence, product development and investment decision processes, own operations, supply chain management and portfolio reviews. 10 Climate change In 2017, the Financial Stability Board’s balance sheet has been identified. Asset Management for equity portfolio (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related – We support our clients’ efforts to managers to examine the carbon Financial Disclosures (TCFD) published its assess, manage and protect themselves footprint of their portfolios, the launch of recommendations to help investors better from climate-related risks by offering an innovative Climate-Aware rules-based price climate-related risks and to support innovative products and services in fund and an engagement strategy around a smooth transition to a low-carbon investment, financing and research. climate-related topics. We also offer our economy. The recommendations are We have developed several products research capacity on climate change applicable to all sectors and cover an that allow clients to identify the issues to our clients. organization’s governance, strategy and weighted carbon intensity of their risk management, as well as metrics and investments and / or to align them Mobilizing private and institutional targets related to climate change risks and with the Paris Agreement. capital: opportunities. UBS, along with 230 other – We mobilize private and institutional We mobilize capital to support organizations worldwide, affirmed its capital toward investments that environmental and social issues, including commitment to support the voluntary facilitate climate change mitigation the transition to a low-carbon economy. recommendations. We plan to further and adaptation and we support the For example, Wealth Management aims align our disclosure within the five-year transition to a low-carbon economy as to include a sustainable investing pathway outlined by the TCFD and a corporate advisor and / or with our optionality in its mandate offerings for collaborate within the industry to close lending capacity. private clients and we have committed to gaps. – We continue to reduce our greenhouse join other major institutions in an initiative gas (GHG) emissions and increase the to create an investing and philanthropic Governance firm’s share in renewable energy. platform focused on addressing funding Our climate change strategy is overseen gaps for the SDGs. Asset Management by the CCRC as part of the UBS and Risk management established a comprehensive approach to Society governance. This oversight role of environmental and social factors and to the CCRC has been embedded in the Protecting our own assets: corporate governance across investment Organization Regulations of UBS Group We have limited our risk appetite for disciplines. The Investment Bank provides AG since March 2018. Within the carbon-related assets, for example, in the capital-raising and strategic advisory parameters set by the CCRC, climateareas of coal mining and coal-fired power services globally to companies offering related opportunities are overseen by the plants, as well as forestry and agriculture. products that make a positive UBS and Society Operating Committee In order to manage our own, and our contribution to climate change mitigation and climate change risks by the Global clients’, risk derived from both the and adaptation, including those in the ESR Committee. The CCRC regularly and physical and transition risks associated solar, wind, hydro, energy efficiency, critically reviews the assessments and with climate change, we have performed waste and biofuels, and transport sectors. steps taken by these management bodies both top-down balance sheet stress We also strive to be the preferred toward executing the climate change testing and targeted, bottom-up analysis strategic financial partner for transactions strategy. of specific sector exposures. In doing so, relating to Switzerland’s Energy Strategy we identified challenges ranging from the 2050. Strategy suitability of climate scenarios for banking We believe the transition to a low-carbon risk modeling to data availability. To Reducing our direct climate change economy is vital and we are focused on address these challenges, we have impact: supporting our clients in preparing for committed to work toward alignment and We set quantitative targets and continue success in an increasingly carbonknowledge-sharing within the industry. to reduce UBS’s Group-wide GHG constrained world. As a leading global Sixteen banks, including UBS, and the UN emissions and increase our share in financial services provider, we do this in Environment Programme Finance Initiative renewable energy in line with our four different ways: (UNEP FI) have partnered to collaboratively commitment to RE100, a global initiative – We seek to protect our assets from develop analytical tools that will help that encourages multinational companies climate change risks by limiting our risk banks disclose their exposures to climateto make a commitment to using 100% appetite for carbon-related assets and related risks and opportunities, as renewable power by 2020. This will by estimating our firm’s vulnerability to envisioned by the TCFD. reduce the firm’s GHG footprint by 75% climate change risks using scenarioby 2020 compared with 2004 levels. based stress testing approaches and Protecting our clients’ assets: other forward-looking portfolio We offer innovative products and services, analyses. So far, no material risk on our including, for example, capabilities in 11 UBS and Society (section from UBS 2017 Annual Report) Climate-related metrics 2017 Protecting our own assets Financial impact from climate-related No significant financial risk on our balance sheet identified in past stress tests. A group of 16 banks, including risks and opportunities UBS, and UNEP FI have partnered to refine methodologies for risk and opportunities Carbon-related assets CHF 6.5 billion, or 2.8% of total net credit exposure1 Protecting our clients’ assets and mobilizing private and institutional capital Products and services supporting a CHF 72 billion, or 2.3% of UBS clients’ total invested assets2 lower-carbon economy Total deal value in equity or debt capital market services related to climate change mitigation and adaptation: CHF 43.3 billion, and CHF 5.4 billion in financial advisory services Four strategic transactions in support of Switzerland’s Energy Strategy 2050 Support of 82% of climate-related shareholder resolutions3 Reducing our own climate change impact Greenhouse gas emissions GHG footprint4: 148 kilotons CO2e Target to reduce our GHG footprint by 75%, by 2020 (based on 2004 levels) Weighted carbon intensity of the Climate Aware equities strategy: 117.45 t CO2e per million of USD revenue (44% lower than its benchmark, the FTSE Developed World Index) 1 As of 31 December 2017. Total net credit exposure across Personal & Corporate Banking and the Investment Bank, includes traded and banking products, net of allowances, provisions and hedges. As recommended by the TCFD, carbon-related assets are defined as assets tied to the energy and utilities sectors Global Industry Classification Standard. Non-carbon-related assets, such as renewables, water utilities and nuclear power, are excluded. For grid utilities, the national grid mix is applied. 2 Invested assets of products such as sustainably managed properties and infrastructure, and renewable energy companies. 3 Of the proposals we supported, all were voted against the recommendation provided by the issuer. 4 GHG footprint equals gross GHG emissions minus GHG reductions from renewable energy and GHG offsets (gross GHG emissions include: direct GHG emissions by UBS; indirect GHG emissions associated with the generation of imported / purchased electricity (grid average emission factor), heat or steam and other indirect GHG emissions associated with business travel, paper consumption and waste disposal). A breakdown of our GHG emissions (scope 1, 2, 3) is available in our GRI Document at www.ubs.com/ubsandsociety. Legend: CO2e = equivalent CO2 emissions In-house environmental management Responsible supply chain management We manage our environmental program through an We aim to reduce negative environmental and social effects of environmental management system, in accordance with the ISO the goods and services UBS purchases, and we engage with 14001 standard, while our environmental indicators (energy, suppliers to promote responsible practices. Our responsible travel and paper) and GHG emissions data is externally verified supply chain management (RSCM) principles embed UBS’s ethics on the basis of ISO 14064 standards. In addition, in 2017 we and values in our interactions with our suppliers, contractors and received our first ISO 50001 certification (energy management) service partners. We apply an RSCM framework to identify, for European locations. assess and monitor supplier practices with regard to human and Our environmental program encompasses investments in labor rights, the environment, health and safety, and antisustainable real estate and efficient information technology, corruption principles. In 2017, remediation measures were energy and water efficiency, paper and waste reduction and requested for 23% of suppliers of newly sourced goods and recycling, the use of environmentally friendly products, such as services with potentially high impact to improve their adherence renewable energy or recycled paper, and business travel and to UBS’s RSCM standards. employee commuting reduction. In 2017, we further reduced UBS’s GHG emissions by 11%, or 10% per full-time employee, year on year. We recorded a total reduction of 59% from baseline year 2004. We reduced our energy consumption 5% compared with 2016 and 19% compared with 2012. Of UBS’s worldwide electricity consumption, 56% was sourced from renewable energy. 12 Sustainability ratings and recognitions1 Ratings and recognitions Scope UBS result Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) Environmental, social and governance (ESG) Industry group leader performance Index member of DJSI World and DJSI Europe CDP Climate change Climate A List Sustainalytics ESG performance Leader score within our industry 97th percentile ranking MSCI ESG performance A rating Top three among primary peer group2 Oekom ESG performance Corporate responsibility prime status FTSE4Good Index ESG performance Index member Euromoney Private Banking Global Philanthropic advice Winner Award 2017 Euromoney Private Banking Global SRI / Social impact investing Winner Award 2017 The Banker Investment Banking Awards Corporate social responsibility (CSR) Winner – Most innovative investment bank for CSR 2017 The Banker Global Private Banking Philanthropy services globally Winner – Best private bank for philanthropy services Awards 2017 globally GRESB Real Estate, Debt and Sustainability performance of real asset portfolios Submitted 22 funds across all three GRESB assessments Infrastructure assessments worldwide Ten funds (with total AuM of over CHF 33.1 billion) awarded five-star ratings, with seven funds ranking first in their respective peer groups Principles for Responsible Investing Property and infrastructure Received A+ grades Assessment Report 2017 Pensions and Investments World Pension Innovation and investment awards UK National Employment Savings Trust (NEST) awarded Summit 2017 for UBS Climate Aware European Fund Launch of the Year Received for UBS Climate Aware award Bloomberg New Energy Finance Renewable energy and cleantech financing Ranked third in league table on public markets Lord Mayor’s Dragon Awards (UK) Community investment Winner – Accelerator Award 2017 for social entrepreneurship program Corporate Engagement Awards (UK) Community investment Gold winner – Best community involvement during a CSR program National CSR Awards (UK) Community investment Runner-up in the Best Partnership in the Community category Commonwealth CSR Award (Taiwan) Community investment Winner 1 All information provided is as of 31 December 2017. 2 As defined in the UBS Compensation Report 2017. 13 UBS and Society (section from UBS 2017 Annual Report) Ratings and recognitions How we support our clients In 2017, UBS continued to gain industry recognition for its commitment to improving performance under ESG criteria and We strive to systematically incorporate the economic impacts of for its efforts in offering clients world-class expertise and ESG issues into the products and services we provide to clients. sustainable products. In 2017, our firm also maintained its We support corporate and institutional clients who want to leadership position in the Diversified Financial Services and generate positive environment and social impact using our Capital Markets industry group of the DJSI, the most widely corporate advisory expertise or by directing capital through our recognized sustainability rating, for the third year running. The lending or investment capacity. We assist private and DJSI evaluates companies’ sustainability practices and recognizes institutional clients in their desire to invest in accordance with the best performers. The RobecoSAM Industry Group Leader their own social and environmental objectives and we are Report notes that UBS continues to lead in its industry on proactive in discussing these issues with them. As a preferred sustainability efforts, which are directed through UBS and partner for global philanthropists, we work toward achieving the Society. It highlights the large choice of sustainable investment UN’s ambitious SDGs. Our experts and in-house foundation offer solutions UBS offers to its clients, such as impact funds, longclients unique access to social and financial innovation and term theme funds, renewable energy and cleantech financing, philanthropic advice, as well as tailored program design, cogreen bonds, eco-mortgages and energy check-ups for small funding and co-development opportunities. and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Other major achievements include MSCI ESG Research Sustainable investments upgrading UBS to an A rating, Sustainalytics ranking UBS as an As of 31 December 2017, sustainable investments increased to industry leader and CDP awarding UBS a position on the Climate over CHF 1.1 trillion, representing nearly 35% of our total A List. invested assets, compared with CHF 976 billion as of the end of 2016. Major increases in relative terms were observed for our investments in the integration and third-party categories, which increased 95% and 43%, respectively, compared with 2016. More details can be found in the “Sustainable investments” table further below. 14 Key sustainable investing products and services in 2017 (select)1 Product / service Business division Key features The Rise Fund Wealth Management – USD 325 million raised (WM), Wealth – Invests in seven sectors – education, financial services, health care, infrastructure, Management energy, food and agriculture, and IT – with a dual mandate: generating competitive Americas (WMA) financial returns and measurable positive societal outcomes Rethink Impact Fund WMA – USD 75 million raised – Direct-access social impact private equity fund that invests in earlyto growth-stage, high-impact companies, primarily in the United States. The fund focuses on four themes: health care, economic opportunity, environmental sustainability, and education OrbiMed Asia Partners III WM – USD 85 million raised – Growth investments in health care companies in China and India, focusing on biopharmaceuticals, medical technology and health care services UBS Long Term Themes Equity Fund WM, Asset – USD 1.5 billion held in Long Term Themes Fund and mandates UBS Long Term Themes Portfolio SMA Management (AM) – Invests in companies that are solution providers for challenges such as water scarcity, emerging market infrastructure and health care, waste management and recycling Climate Aware AM – Innovative rules-based equities strategy to address carbon risk in portfolios UBS Clean Energy Infrastructure AM – Launched in September 2017, with capital commitments of CHF 200 million as of the Switzerland 2 end of 2017 – Solution for institutional investors seeking an exposure to the renewable energy and energy infrastructure space with focus in Switzerland Global Impact Fund AM – Exposure to global equity markets in stocks with material exposure to impact categories like climate change or health that are also sustainable stocks, i.e., those selected based on strong ESG analysis and traditional valuation discipline US Sustainable Equity Fund AM – Combines price-to-intrinsic value investment philosophy with careful consideration of companies’ sustainability profiles SI-focused UBS Manage solutions WM – Several investment mandate solutions investing in instruments with a high sustainability rating (to the extent possible) – Launched for market France ESG Portfolio Analyzer WMA – Provides transparency and analysis of ESG topics in client portfolios UBS Sustainability Analytics WM, Personal & – Enables clients to achieve full transparency by screening their portfolio for potentially Corporate Banking harmful industry exposure and, if appropriate, to make exclusions to protect it (P&C) against reputational risks Philanthropy Advisory WM, WMA – A total of approximately 370 ultra high net worth individuals or philanthropists attended UBS Philanthropy Forums in the Americas, Asia and Switzerland – Advisory services for over 400 clients UBS Optimus Foundation CC – CHF 59.5 million raised in donations / CHF 58.5 million grants to partners approved – Pioneering Educate Girls Development Impact Bond (DIB): on track to meet its enrollment and education targets – World’s first large-scale DIB launched (Maternal and Newborn DIB) Social Investment Toolkit WM – Guide for social entrepreneurs with eight modules ranging from impact story to creating an investor pitch (developed with Ashoka) 15 UBS and Society (section from UBS 2017 Annual Report) Key sustainable investing products and services in 2017 (select)1 (continued) Product / service Business division Key features Program-related investment WM, CC (UBS – Investments in the form of a loan, enabling donors to regain the initial investment plus Optimus a rate of return and allowing philanthropic capital to be recycled Foundation, – Loans for the UBS UK Donor-Advised Foundation and UBS Optimus Foundation UK Community successfully completed with two charities. Product offering being made available to Affairs) clients UBS Unique ETF WM – Invests in companies based on 19 equality standards, including gender balance, equal compensation and work–life-balance, policies, transparency and accountability – Donation of 5% of management fee to a portfolio of SDG5-related projects managed by the UBS Optimus Foundation Voting (on behalf of clients) AM – Provided instructions (based on AM’s corporate governance principles) to vote on 100,069 separate resolutions at 9,877 company meetings Green and sustainable bonds Investment Bank – Seven green and sustainable bond transactions supported (IB) LGBT Career Equality and Military Veterans IB, WMA – Companies selected include leaders in giving opportunities and support to veterans and indices have top scores in the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index Global Sustainability Leaders index IB, WMA – Companies selected include leaders with regard to the UN Global Compact principles Renewable energy and cleantech financing IB – Participation in significant renewables and cleantech deals globally, for both established utilities clients and innovative growth stage companies 2 Energy check-up for SMEs P&C – UBS SME efficiency bonus for energy reduction plan with overall energy savings of 78,590 MWh / a, equivalent to the annual energy consumption of approximately 4,000 single-family homes Preferred strategic partner for advisory and P&C – Supports energy utilities in raising capital on international capital markets to progress financing transactions related to their quest for renewable energy Switzerland’s Energy Strategy 2050 – Four strategic transactions executed for Switzerland’s Energy Strategy 2050 1 All information provided is as of 31 December 2017. 2 Information provided is as of 31 December 2016. Wealth Management aims to systematically include an SI and TPG’s The Rise Fund), thereby establishing UBS as a key optionality in its mandate offerings and to provide clients with player in this area. Within listed markets, Asset Management’s impact investing products and sustainable mutual fund long-term themes strategy was launched, and a number of new solutions. Enhanced UBS Manage Sustainable InvestingTM third-party solutions were added to strengthen the platform. A offerings with 100% (excluding liquidity) sustainable and impact variety of educational initiatives were rolled out, as raising investments went live in early January 2018. These offerings are awareness among financial advisors remains a critical focus to based on our global Chief Investment Office’s (CIO) UBS House support the growth of the SI business. View. In 2017, it further expanded its SI optionality to core Our global CIO regularly translates key societal and affluent and high net worth clients by launching a dedicated environmental concerns into investment themes as part of its offering for French clients. Wealth Management also arranges Longer Term Investments series and global Research-based platforms, roundtables and networking events for our clients to Advice. In 2017, some notable examples of this were the World exchange ideas and gather know-how. Economic Forum 2017 white paper on mobilizing private wealth Wealth Management Americas expects to see considerable for public good, the development of the first 100% sustainable growth in SI assets. A key focus for Wealth Management investing cross-asset portfolio, gender lens wealth, business with Americas is the expansion of its solutions platform. In 2017, two impact or the social innovator toolkit, a guide for social impact investment deals were successfully closed (Rethink Impact entrepreneurs. 16 Asset Management is committed to integrating sustainability Personal & Corporate Banking clients have access to into its entire investment approach. We are convinced that appropriate and relevant products from Asset Management and sustainable and impact investing can add value to portfolios Wealth Management that follow our Group-wide approach to within the same risk / return profile. Investment strategies SI. We also support Swiss SMEs in their energy-saving efforts and customized to address particular sustainability objectives, such as transition to a low-carbon economy. SMEs benefit from reducing carbon risk or tilting a portfolio toward specific initiatives such as energy check-ups or leasing bonuses (financial environmental, social or governance factors, in combination with contributions toward enhancing environmental performance) for traditional financial and risk / return expectations are increasingly utility vehicles and production machines. popular. Over the last decade, Asset Management has developed Having the financial expertise, networks and access to the capabilities to provide customized solutions to meet the specific capital required to build or support innovative financial products, goals and needs of individual investors. It offers a wide range of we remain committed to introducing and funding innovative SI strategies across various asset classes, integrating sustainability financial solutions. Examples include: The Rise Fund, a major and impact into its entire mainstream offerings, including in private equity impact investment vehicle, and the substantial active equities, fixed income, hedge funds, infrastructure and funds raised for OrbiMed. private equity, real estate and passive strategies. As of 31 December 2017, we also held green bonds in the The Investment Bank provides capital-raising and strategic amount of CHF 565 million in our high-quality liquid assets advisory services globally to companies offering products that portfolios under the management of Corporate Center – Group make a positive contribution to climate change mitigation and Asset and Liability Management. adaptation, including those in the solar, wind, hydro, energy → Refer to ww w.ubs.com/ sustainableinv esting for more efficiency, waste and biofuels, and transport sectors. In 2017, information the total deal value in equity or debt capital market services relating to these areas was CHF 43.3 billion, and CHF 5.4 billion in financial advisory services. Sustainable investments1 For the year ended % change from CHF billion, except where indicated GRI2 31.12.17 31.12.16 31.12.15 31.12.16 Core SI products and mandates FS11 176.3 145.4 138.5 21 Integration3 FS11 10.8 5.5 3.4 95 Integration / RPI4 FS11 61.6 54.6 49.1 13 Impact investing5 FS11 3.2 2.5 0.8 27 Exclusionary screening6 FS11 91.2 76.1 79.2 20 Third-party7 FS11 9.6 6.7 6.1 43 Norms-based screening8 FS11 927.5 830.4 795.1 12 Total sustainable investments FS11 1,103.8 975.8 933.5 13 UBS total invested assets 3,179 2,821 2,689 13 SI proportion of total invested assets (%) FS11 34.7 34.6 34.7 1 All figures are based on the level of knowledge as of January 2018. 2 FS stands for the performance indicators defined in the Global Reporting Initiative Financial Services Sector Supplement. 3 Applies to the active selection of companies, focusing on how a company’s strategies, processes and products impact its financial success, the environment and society. This includes best-in-class, thematic investments or the systematic and explicit inclusion of environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors into traditional financial analysis. 4 UBS Asset Management Responsible Property Investment (RPI) strategy. 5 Impact investments are targeted investments with a financial return and a clear social and / or environmental return objective. 6 Includes customized screening services (single or multiple exclusion criteria). 7 SI products from third-party providers applying either integration, impact investing and / or exclusionary approach. 8 Reporting scope expanded in 2015 to include all actively managed discretionary segregated mandates. Duplication with other SI categories was subtracted to avoid double counting. 17 UBS and Society (section from UBS 2017 Annual Report) Philanthropy We play a role in the stewardship of a healthy social and Building on our award-winning track record and 13 years of financial future for our communities, working in partnership experience, we have a global team of in-house experts in place with clients, as well as the public and philanthropic sectors. who specialize in all areas of philanthropy and strategic Examples include: charitable giving. We support clients as they develop their own – Promoting and strengthening the vocational education philanthropic approach, from offering objective, independent system and providing access also to disadvantaged youth. and tailored advice, to providing them with the opportunity to Within SwissSkills, a new public-private partnership, UBS attend dedicated events and access a global network of likevolunteers delivered meaningful advice at job fairs across minded individuals with whom to collaborate and share their Switzerland. ideas and knowledge. – UBS Japan’s Rural Investment in the Community & → Refer to www.ubs.com/philanthropy for more information Environment (RICE) project, with over 7,000 primary school children having received environmental education and UBS Optimus Foundation undertaken biodiversity research. The UBS Optimus Foundation is an award-winning grant-making – Partnering with the Bridge Academy secondary school in foundation that helps our clients use their wealth to drive London, a national exemplar of business partnership in positive and sustainable social change for children. The education driving social mobility through excellent and foundation connects clients with inspiring entrepreneurs, new inclusive education, rooted in the local community. technologies and proven models that help improve the lives of – Project Entrepreneur, an initiative to increase the number of children in a variety of ways. It selects and continuously monitors female-founded high-growth companies in the US, with over programs that improve children’s health, education and 1,500 women entrepreneurs trained, and currently expanding protection and that have the potential to be transformative, to include more accelerator participants and additional scalable and sustainable. As UBS covers all of the Foundation’s resources and startup services for venture competition administrative costs, it guarantees that 100% of all donations go applicants and alumni. to the support programs. In 2017, the Foundation’s work helped improve the well-being of 2.1 million children globally. Since 2014, our impact reporting has incorporated the Effective philanthropy is about more than simply funding London Benchmarking Group’s standard model. UBS operates existing programs. It is also about long-term thinking. That is according to a global framework to deliver community and why the Foundation also supports partners in building their business impacts, through a regionally devolved model, allowing capacities, enabling them to reach more children more for effective evaluation, while aligning programs to address local effectively and efficiently, funds research to better understand community issues and meet local business priorities. We are the issues that prevent children from thriving, and undertakes continuing to enhance and develop this framework, which, advocacy efforts with partners to promote wider adoption and together with global coordination of reporting, allows us to scaling of the most promising programs. effectively evaluate and focus our programs. In 2017, UBS made → Refer to www.ubs.com/optimus for more information direct cash contributions totaling CHF 39 million, including support through its affiliated foundations in Switzerland and the How we support our communities UBS Anniversary Education Initiative. Over 89% of UBS’s Community Affairs grants were made in the areas of education At UBS, we recognize that our long-term success depends on and entrepreneurship. 31% of our employees volunteered in our the health and prosperity of the communities of which we are a communities compared with 30% in 2016. Additionally, UBS part. Our approach is to build sustainable and successful contributed a total of CHF 5.5 million to the UBS Optimus partnerships with non-profit organizations and social enterprises Foundation. to help our contributions have a lasting impact. Our Community Our Community Affairs program benefited 126,279 young Affairs programs seek to overcome disadvantage through longpeople and entrepreneurs across all of the regions in which we term investment in education and entrepreneurship in the operate. communities within which we operate. We provide focused financial and human support, including UBS Global Visionaries through the use of skills-based employee volunteering programs In 2017, we merged the best of our Social Innovators program and client participation where appropriate. Our employees are at into the UBS Global Visionaries program to strengthen our the heart of the program delivery and act as role models for support for social entrepreneurs. The program aims to support young people and as mentors for social entrepreneurs. UBS social entrepreneurs who are shaping our future and connect provides employees with up to two days of paid leave for them to our employees, partners and clients to jointly change volunteering annually. the society we live in. 18 19 Our employees (section from UBS 2017 Annual Report) Our employees Overarching aims and objectives Build engagement and strengthen our corporate culture – Invest in large-scale culture programs across the organization – Measure, foster and recognize culture-building behaviors Remain an employer of choice for people at all career stages – Maintain attractiveness to external talent and a highly motivated workforce – Focus on internal mobility and provide long-term career prospects Strengthen our diverse and inclusive workplace – Aspiration to increase the ratio of women in management roles to one-third – Support activities focused on increasing the inclusiveness of our culture Effectively develop, manage and retain our talent – Provide a wide range of learning opportunities to meet the needs of employees at all levels – Prepare current and future leaders for enhanced responsibilities and leadership excellence Our employees’ skills, experience and commitment are key to Attracting and recruiting talent delivering on our business strategy. Our human resource (HR) strategy therefore seeks to hire, develop and engage talented A positive, cohesive culture is both advanced and sustained employees at all levels who have the diverse backgrounds and through individuals who share our vision and core values. capabilities to advise our clients, develop new products, manage We source such employees through a variety of channels. Our risk and adapt to evolving regulations. We invest in our first priority is to consider current employees for open roles. employees and promote initiatives that build engagement and a Internal mobility builds connections across the firm and enables cohesive, collaborative culture. employees at all levels to leverage existing skills and develop new ones. In 2017, we introduced a new, in-house-built tool Building our culture that matches employee career preferences with open roles and helps identify high-quality internal candidates. Having long-term Having a strong culture is vital to our sustained success. In 2013, career prospects with us is an important driver of career we introduced the three keys to success – our Pillars, Principles satisfaction for existing employees and it attracts external talent. and Behaviors. They help us achieve our vision and execute our strategy, shaping how we work together and influencing everything we do. Since then, we have focused on strengthening our culture and embedding our core values more deeply into the identity of the firm. In 2017, we continued with our firm-wide culture-building program, working closely with senior managers from all divisions, functions and regions. A key initiative remains our very successful Group Franchise Awards (GFA) program, which we implemented in 2016 to recognize culture-building behavior. The GFA program allows us to track cross-business collaboration and develop ideas for simplifying our processes. The program has maintained strong momentum in terms of both the number and the quality of submissions from across the entire firm. 20 Externally, we source candidates directly and through and nearshore employees accounted for approximately 21% of employee referrals, job boards, social media, advertisements and our global Corporate Center workforce. external recruitment agencies. In 2017, we launched our Hiring and training entry level talent is a priority for all employer value proposition (EVP) globally, which explains what business divisions. In 2017, we hired 394 new university we stand for as an employer and what differentiates us. Our EVP graduates into our graduate talent programs, as well as 578 is aligned with our corporate strategy, the three keys to success interns for various roles. In Switzerland, we hired 294 and our brand. As an employer of choice, we received more apprentices for business and IT roles, and 171 trainees into our than 730,000 applications in 2017 and hired a total of 9,881 bank entry programs for high school graduates. external candidates at all career stages. → Refer to www.ubs.com/careers for more information and to Throughout 2017, we continued to hire employees and see follow our careers blog growth in our Business Solutions Centers (BSCs) in the US, → Refer to www.ubs.com/awards for more information on UBS’s Switzerland, India, China and Poland. All UBS Corporate Center rankings as an employer functions are represented in our BSCs; this co-location of teams enhances collaboration and efficiencies. At year-end, offshore Top-employer honors in 2017 – World’s Most Attractive Employers (Universum): global top 50 – Switzerland’s Most Attractive Employers (Universum): ranked second by business students – Global Ideal Employers, Global Female Ideal Employers (eFinancialCareers): top 10 – Bloomberg Financial Services Gender-Equality Index member – Ideal Employers (eFinancialCareers): Asia top 5; Europe top 10; North America top 20 – Working Mother 100 Best Companies (Working Mother, US) – Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality (Human Rights Campaign, US) – The Times Top 100 Graduate Employers (The Times, UK) 21 Our employees (section from UBS 2017 Annual Report) Diversity and inclusion The UBS Career Comeback Program is an initiative we Workforce diversity is a business imperative for us. In our launched in Switzerland and the US in 2016 and extended to the experience, teams with diversity in gender, race, age, ethnicity, UK in 2017. The program supports professionals who wish to education, background, disability, sexual orientation and other return to corporate jobs after a career break and features onaspects better understand and relate to our equally diverse the-job experience, classroom learning and mentoring. The clients’ needs. Likewise, diversity of thought, opinion and program has proven successful: so far, Career Comeback has experience helps us make better decisions and drives innovation, given 65 women and two men the opportunity to relaunch their while an inclusive work environment attracts high-quality people careers. and makes the firm a better place to work. Our HR policies and In addition to our strategic initiatives, every year we support procedures underscore our commitment to a diverse and numerous activities in each business division and region focused inclusive workplace, with equal opportunities for all employees. on increasing the inclusiveness of our culture through coaching We are committed to hiring, retaining and promoting more and education, for example, to raise awareness of and reduce women across the firm. In 2017, we continued to build on our unconscious bias. Integral to this effort are our employee aspiration to increase the ratio of women in management roles networks, which regularly host events on gender, culture, life to one-third. We embedded management accountability at all stage, sexual orientation and other topics. In 2017, we levels for supporting this goal and continued to develop and sponsored 43 employee networks globally, with more than refine career support, HR processes and technology solutions to 17,000 members. help us better retain women at all career stages. In order to → Refer to www.ubs.com/diversity for more information better understand and address the motivations of voluntary senior leavers, we undertook a landmark global attrition study in mid-2017, surveying nearly 2,000 former employees. Results are being examined at a divisional level and actions are being defined. Personnel by region As of % change from Full-time equivalents 31.12.17 31.12.16 31.12.15 31.12.16 Americas 20,770 20,522 20,816 1 of which: US 19,944 19,695 19,897 1 Asia Pacific 8,959 7,539 7,539 19 Europe, Middle East and Africa 11,097 10,746 10,505 3 of which: UK 5,274 5,176 5,373 2 of which: rest of Europe 5,662 5,402 4,957 5 of which: Middle East and Africa 161 167 176 (4) Switzerland 20,427 20,581 21,238 (1) Total 61,253 59,387 60,099 3 22 1,800 young people each year, including apprentices, interns and high school and university graduates. In 2017, our permanent employees participated in approximately 765,500 development activities, including mandatory training on compliance, business and other topics. This was an average of 12.2 training sessions, or 2.3 training days, per employee. Our key talent programs prepare high-potential employees for line management or senior leadership roles. Training for client-facing staff in 2017 included a Master in Wealth Management degree program and a rigorous training program for aspiring financial advisors in the US. All employees and managers are also asked to consider development activities and career planning in regular, two-way discussions. At UBS, development includes experience, exposure and education. Line managers are expected to actively support both development and internal mobility, as they are key factors for professional growth, engagement and retention. Managing performance Developing and managing our workforce Effective people management is key to sustaining a highperforming organization. Our annual performance reviews We expect our leaders to be champions for our strategy and assess both performance and behavior. Measuring what was culture as well as effective managers and advocates for their achieved and how those results were achieved underscores the employees. We develop current and future leaders through a importance of the firm’s Behaviors for individual and Group leadership program suite that spans from first-level line success, and both ratings are considered in development, reward managers to senior leadership levels. Programs like our Senior and promotion decisions. Leadership Experience for our most senior executives and the Senior Leadership Program for managing directors help define Rewarding performance our expectations for leadership excellence, build confidence in Our compensation philosophy is to align the interests of our our strategy and increase commitment to the firm’s three keys employees with those of our clients and investors, building on to success. our three keys to success – our Pillars, Principles and Behaviors. A skilled workforce to execute our business strategy is crucial Our Total Reward Principles establish a framework that balances to our success. We provide learning and development sustainable performance and prudent risk-taking with a focus on opportunities to all our employees to support them in enhancing conduct and sound risk management practices. their knowledge and skills at all ages and career stages. For → Refer to the “Compensation” section of this report for more example, we offer development programs, business education information and role-specific training. Furthermore, as one of the top educators of entry level talent in Switzerland, we train more than UBS University Knowledge is what sets us apart and new corporate university – UBS University, specialized training and certification keeps us flexible and competitive, as a a one-stop shop for all learning and programs for specific business areas and firm and as individuals. Learning plays a development at UBS. Its offering ranges support for continuous, lifelong learning. crucial role and that is why at UBS we from online and in-person training to help In total, we offer more than 2,400 create an environment where employees all employees and line managers develop e-learning and classroom-based trainings. can grow and develop. At the center is our their professional skills, to highly 23 Our employees (section from UBS 2017 Annual Report) Gender distribution by employee category 1 Officers (Director and above) Officers (other officers) Employees Total By headcount, as of 31.12.17 Number % Number % Number % Number % Male 17,986 76 13,046 60 7,129 42 38,161 61 Female 5,651 24 8,716 40 10,030 58 24,397 39 Total 23,637 100 21,762 100 17,159 100 62,558 100 1 Calculated on the basis that a person (working full time or part time) is considered one headcount (in this table only). This accounts for the total UBS employee number of 62,558 as of 31 December 2017, which excludes staff from UBS Card Center, Hotel Seepark Thun, Wolfsberg and Hotel Widder. Our responsibilities to capture their feedback on how we are doing as a firm. In 2017, we conducted two surveys, in which 74% and 80% of We aim to be a high-quality employer, with our values eligible employees, respectively, participated. In both surveys, a embedded in all of our people management practices. We offer significant majority of respondents agreed that they are proud to competitive benefits to all employees that include insurance, work at UBS and would recommend the firm to family and pension, retirement and personal leave. These benefits often go friends. They think the firm has a positive work environment and beyond legal requirements or market practice, and we regularly the learning and career opportunities offered are continuously review them to confirm that they meet our employees’ needs. improving for employees at all levels. Our ongoing ambition For example, in 2017 we enhanced our Family Care Leave policy remains to have a highly motivated workforce that models in the US and Puerto Rico to offer employees four paid weeks of integrity, collaboration and challenge in their daily work. We leave per year to care for a relative with a serious health also want to be the clear employer of choice in the financial condition. We also increased our paternity leave options in services industry. Our goal is to maintain overall engagement Switzerland in 2017. In addition to the current 10-day paid ratings in the top quartile. leave, new fathers can either take up to four weeks of unpaid leave or reduce their workload to 80% for up to six months. At Grievances and whistleblowing protection UBS, all new parents can take paid time off after the birth or We are committed to maintaining high legal, regulatory and adoption of a child. Our parental leave policies meet the legal ethical standards. We have long-standing procedures in every standards in all locations and exceed them in most. We also region to help us resolve employee grievances, and employees support flexible working arrangements, including are strongly encouraged to speak with their line manager or HR telecommuting, part-time roles, job sharing and partial about any concerns. Our global whistleblowing policy and retirement. procedures offer multiple channels for staff to raise concerns, A wide range of resources are available to help employees either openly or anonymously, about any suspected breaches of navigate work-life issues and personal challenges. For example, laws, regulations, rules or other legal requirements, or of our assistance programs in every region offer support and counseling Code, policies or professional standards. for challenges such as illness, conflict, bereavement, → Refer to the “Risk management and control” section of this psychological health and elderly care. In addition, we have report for more information redeployment and outplacement programs in every region, as well as clear policies and processes for handling redundancies. Employee representation Our Code of Conduct and Ethics (Code) is the basis for all HR As a responsible employer, we maintain an open dialog with our policies, guidelines and procedures. It includes a commitment to formal employee representation groups, all of which are in the health and safety of employees and external staff. Europe. The UBS Employee Forum for Europe represents 16 → Refer to www.ubs.com/healthandsafety for more information countries and considers pan-European issues that may affect our performance, operations or prospects. Similar regional and Employees have a voice in shaping our culture country level groups discuss topics such as business transfers, pensions, workplace conditions, health and safety, and We want our employees to be engaged and to share their views redundancies. Collectively, these groups represent approximately on the status quo and our culture. We also want to give them 50% of our global workforce. the opportunity to have an impact on the firm’s future. Since 2016, we have regularly surveyed all our permanent employees 24 25 Stakeholder management and engagement Stakeholder management and engagement Materiality under GRI standards The overall result of the materiality assessment is expressed in the UBS 2017 materiality matrix below. The matrix ranks topics GRI-based materiality assessment by their relevance to UBS stakeholders and their impact on UBS's We put great emphasis on learning the views and values of our performance. Among the 26 topics, the top-rated are client stakeholders with regard to the business activities of UBS and its protection, digital innovation and cyber security, combating role in society. Every year, we conduct a materiality assessment, financial crime, financial stability and resilience, and conduct and as defined by the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative culture. (GRI), to collect stakeholder views on key topics pertaining to The UBS materiality assessment team also considered our our firm’s financial, economic, social and environmental firm's significant economic, environmental and social impacts. It performance. Our materiality assessment draws on formal and concluded that these impacts are directly reflected in the topics informal monitoring, from our dialog with stakeholders and deemed most material in the GRI-based materiality assessment from relevant external studies and reports. and that these impacts are overwhelmingly concerned with Requested and supervised by the UBS Corporate Culture and economic impacts. These topics fall within two significant impact Responsibility Committee (CCRC), UBS’s comprehensive areas of our firm, ensuring the provision of high-quality services materiality assessment process is managed by a UBS-internal, to clients; and actively managing potential major risks to clients cross-business division and cross-regional materiality assessment as well as other stakeholders. Jointly, these two significant team. The team consists of a group of experts who – due to impact areas of our firm are reflected in the highly ranked topic their function deal with stakeholder expectations and concerns of digital innovation and cyber security. on a daily basis. The team is responsible for delivering the As shown in the matrix, stakeholders do not currently regard outcome of the materiality assessment to the CCRC on an the impact of environmental and social topics (climate change, annual basis. community investment, environmental footprint, etc.) as We regularly invite stakeholders to directly share their views. substantially influencing their assessments and decisions. The In 2017, the materiality assessment was supported by an online relevance of these topics is, however, acknowledged, as is the survey that was completed by nearly 1,600 stakeholders (with likelihood (as evidenced by the answers to the survey question clients making up half of this amount). on the SDGs) that some of these topics might be of increasing For the first time, we also included a question on the SDGs in relevance to UBS in coming years. the survey. The SDGs are a set of 17 non-legally binding goals As in previous years, the overall result of the assessment was aiming to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure reviewed by the CCRC. It also becomes part of the decisionprosperity for all by 2030, as part of a global sustainable making processes of this Board of Directors committee with a development agenda. Stakeholders were asked which SDG UBS particular focus on those topics that were assessed as very should contribute most to and the most frequent response was relevant or have considerably increased their relevance since the quality education followed by climate action. preceding year. 26 UBS materiality matrix 2017 27 Stakeholder management and engagement Material GRI topics 2017 Additionally, we have identified material topics that are not part For the purpose of the GRI Standards materiality assessment we of the official GRI topics list. These are: map the GRI topics to UBS's materiality matrix and we identify – Conduct and culture the most material topics on the basis of their significance to – Brand reputation stakeholders and impact on sustainable performance. For 2017, – Digital innovation and cyber security we have identified the following material topics: – Financial stability and resilience – GRI 201: Economic Performance – Macroeconomic and political environment – GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts – Operational efficiency and effectiveness – GRI 205: Anti-Corruption – Quality and price – GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior – Demographic development – GRI 302: Energy – Occupational health and well-being – GRI 305: Emissions – Working conditions – GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment – Social cohesion and stability – GRI 401: Employment – GRI 404: Training and Education All material topics are relevant to all entities consolidated – GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunities within UBS. Information describing any relevant impacts of the – GRI 406: Non-Discrimination topics outside UBS is provided as part of the description of the – GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment respective GRI indicator or material topic in the following pages. – GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling The following table provides an overview of all topics on the – GRI 418: Customer Privacy UBS materiality matrix and their subtopics. In the following – GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance pages we also address the relevant management approaches. – GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures: Product Portfolio – GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures: Audit – GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures: Active Ownership 28 Material topics Sub topics GRI topic Governance – data confidentiality – transparency (clear terms and conditions of products) – fair pricing schemes GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling Client protection – easy-to-understand products & services GRI 418: Customer Privacy – anti-corruption & anti-money laundering Combating financial crime – crime and manipulation detection processes GRI 205: Anti-corruption – compliance with laws, rules and regulations – integrity of the financial system – code of conduct & ethics – forward-looking engagement with risk topics and risk prevention GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior Conduct and culture – behaviors and principles GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance – internal policies and guidelines – governance structure Corporate governance – strategy GRI 102: General Disclosures – shareholders as ultimate decision makers of the company – implementation of all relevant regulatory requirements pertaining to Shareholder participation rights shareholders’ rights GRI 102: General Disclosures Financial and Economics – enhancing and protecting the brand Brand reputation – be the first choice of clients – innovation lab – digital transformation – digital product and service offering Digital innovation & cyber security data confidentiality and cyber security – Net profit growth – Cost / Income ratio – return on tangible equity – Return on assets (gross) Financial results – Net new money growth GRI 201: Economic Performance – going concern leverage ratio (phase-in, %) – common equity tier 1 capital ratio – manage Risk weighted assets within increasingly stringent risk framework Financial stability and resilience – clear strategy – research & analysis – governmental and regulatory relations – interest rate environment Macroeconomic & political environment – emerging market developments – cost and process efficiency – focus on core competencies – flexibility to adapt to changing regulatory environment – outsourcing / nearshoring / offshoring – automation – location strategy Operational efficiency & effectiveness – product and execution excellence – excellence – above-average performance Quality and price – best services and practices 29 Stakeholder management and engagement Material topics Sub topics GRI topic Employees & Workplace – compensation structure – bonus and executive payments Compensation and benefit structure – reward long-term performance GRI 401: Employment – career and retirement planning Demographic development – multi-generation representation in workforce – diverse work force – inclusive culture – equal employment conditions and opportunities – women in management – age diversity within teams GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity – flexible working conditions GRI 406: Non-Discrimination Diversity and inclusion – diverse client base GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance – health protection – health of employees Occupational health and well-being – health and safety in the supply chain – talent attraction – employee training on particular skills – internal mobility – management of talent pipeline and succession planning – talent and leadership development programs Talent management, incl. attraction and development – provision of apprenticeships and vocational training GRI 404: Training and Education – flexible working times – availability of remote working and / home office – collaborative and supportive company culture Working conditions – work-life balance Environmental & Social – commitment and strategy for the topic of climate change – climate-related investments, financing and research – climate-related risk management GRI 201: Economic Performance – reducing our firm's greenhouse-gas emissions GRI 305: Emissions Climate change – external disclosure on the topic Financial Supplement (FS): Product Portfolio – identify and manage potential negative effects on the environment and human rights – standards in environmentally and socially sensitive industries and activities – standards in product development, investments, financing and for supply FS Audit Environmental and social risk management chain management decisions FS Product Portfolio – Increasing energy efficiency and reducing CO2 emissions – reduction of resource (energy, paper, water) consumption and increased resource efficiency – educating and empowering employees on environmental matters GRI 302: Energy Environmental footprint / protection – reduction and proper handling of waste materials GRI 305: Emissions – sourcing from suppliers that adhere to social and environmental standards – managing the supply chain responsibly GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment Responsible supply chain management – knowing your suppliers GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment – employee engagement through employee volunteering – support of non-profits, charitable organizations and social enterprises (positive impact on communities) – supporting education and entrepreneurship in local communities Community investment – financial inclusion GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts – inclusive societies and economies – reducing inequalities Social cohesion & stability – enhancing opportunities for disadvantaged people – sustainable finance – combination of societal and financial returns – sustainable investment criteria – impact investing FS Product Portfolio Sustainable and impact investing – ESG integration FS Active Ownership – client foundation Philanthropy services – philanthropy advisory FS Product Portfolio 30 Information for management approaches content index below. for material topics Macroeconomic & political environment Information relevant to all material topics This is essentially an external topic that within UBS we mainly engage with through our CIO and Governmental Affairs Governance activities. See section Board of Directors and sustainability below Indirect economic impacts Grievance mechanisms This topic is linked in part to the topic of social cohesion & For employees, we have a global whistleblowing policy and stability , notably through UBS's community affairs activities. procedures (plus an internal website, hotlines and other However, there is a much larger component that includes the resources), as referenced in our Code of Conduct and we ask all financing of companies by the Investment Bank worldwide as employees to promptly speak up about any conduct that might well as the specific (economic) role UBS holds as the largest bank breach policies, laws or regulations. We also provide mandatory in Switzerland. In Switzerland, UBS's indirect economic impact is training for all employees to ensure everyone understands our determined for instance through its business relations to commitment, procedures and responsibilities. 120,000 companies (including 90% of the largest 250) or to We have various feedback channels for external stakeholders 75% of the 100 largest pension funds. Further indirect in place. Our Corporate Responsibility team can be contacted for economic impact is realized through its employees throughout all sustainability inquiries and issues via the UBS and Society the country (around 20,000) and the CHF 2.5 billion of goods website. Client feedback (including that which is collected and services our firm purchased from more than 13,500 supplies through our Quality Feedback management system) enables the in 2017. firm to act and continuously improve products and client service standards in order to provide the best client experience. Digital innovation and cyber security Cyber security is at the forefront of operational resilience, and Evaluation of management approaches we continue to invest in preemptive and detective measures to We assess the effectiveness of the approaches as listed in the defend against evolving and highly sophisticated attacks. We management approach section (GRI 103-2) of each material GRI have set our cyber security objectives in line with prevailing topic in the GRI content index through a number of measures, international standards and our investment priorities focus on most visibly through: behaviors, readiness to address a cyberattack, data protection, – Performance against targets and application and infrastructure security. – Internal and external audits (e.g. ISO 140001 certification) We provide a Group-wide framework that supports – External ratings (e.g. environmental, social and corporate identifying, assessing and mitigating material operational risks governance (ESG) ratings), employer awards/honors (including cyber risk) and their potential concentrations, to – Stakeholder feedback (e.g. employee and client surveys) achieve a suitable balance between risk and return. The – Reputation measurement (through UBS-internal approaches) divisional Presidents and the Corporate Center function heads – Measurement systems (e.g. UBS-internal reporting, are ultimately accountable for the effectiveness of operational management reviews, impact measurements) risk management and for implementing the operational risk – Assessment and testing of controls framework. Management in all functions is responsible for ensuring a robust operational risk management environment, Results from such evaluations may lead to potential including establishing and maintaining robust internal controls, adjustments to our approaches. No significant adjustments were effective supervision and a strong risk culture. made in 2017. Compliance and Operational Risk Control (C&ORC) provides an independent and objective view of the adequacy of Information relevant to specific material topics operational risk management across the Group, and is responsible for ensuring that all our operational risks are Social cohesion and stability understood, owned and managed to the firm’s risk appetite. This is essentially an external topic that within UBS we mainly try UBS's investments in digitalization are designed to enhance to engage with through our Community Affairs, Philanthropy and differentiate the client experience and product excellence Services and Sustainable and Impact Investing activities. the firm offers, while accelerating effectiveness and efficiency. Of pertinence to this topic are the management approaches Digital innovation is a focus across the firm, both within the for GRI Indirect Economic Impacts , GRI G4 Financial Services business divisions (e.g. product development) and Corporate Sector Disclosures: Product Portfolio and GRI G4 Financial Center (notably within the Chief Operating Officer area). Services Sector Disclosures: Active Ownership , as per the GRI 31 Stakeholder management and engagement Employee topics The BoD’s CCRC regularly and critically reviews developments This section covers the management approach for the following in key HR areas, notably diversity and inclusion and health and topics: employment, training and education, diversity and equal safety. The oversight role of the CCRC has been included in the opportunity, non-discrimination, demographic development, Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG (see below ). occupational health and well-being, and working conditions. With regard to evaluating our management approach, and in The following information is provided in addition to the 'Our addition to the measures outlined above, where results indicate employees' section, where we describe these topics and how we we could do better, we undertake focused initiatives to identify manage them. The purpose of our management approach is to where we need to improve and take action. Each initiative has engage and enable our employees to meet clients' needs while, associated analysis, internal reporting, communication and in general, positively impacting our employees. accountability elements to ensure that we can continue to build Group policies are global and apply to all employees. on strengths but especially so we can improve on areas of Additionally, there are local policies to address specific local relative weakness or concern. This may also include changes to requirements, where applicable. Refer to “Key policies and goals or specific targets. For example, in 2017 we completed a guidelines” section for further information. landmark global attrition survey of 2,000 UBS alumni to gain a Our objectives are provided in the Our employees section solid understanding of areas to improve as an employer. as well as in the 'Objectives and Achievements' document. Beyond the employee space the topic of demographic The firm's BoD, GEB, Group COO and Group Head of HR development is also of relevance to client offerings, including for specifically have responsibility for defining and executing an HR example in the research work undertaken by CIO, retirement and strategy aligned to UBS's objectives and positioning the firm as inheritance solutions offered by our firm, or succession planning an employer of choice. This includes advisory HR services to undertaken for company owners. employees as well as strategic advice to managers and executives, supporting them in attracting, engaging, developing and retaining talent. 32 Impact of material GRI topics This table lists those GRI topics that we have identified as material and additional topics identified as material in the UBS GRI-based materiality assessment (see above). The table shows the level of involvement we believe our firm has with the economic, social or environmental impacts (positive or negative) that may occur from the respective material topic. For every topic, the table shows our assessment of whether UBS's involvement with the impacts of such topic upon the economy, society or environment is direct, indirect or limited. Where the impact occurs Economy Society Environment Material GRI topic GRI 201: Economic Performance GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 205: Anti-Corruption GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 302: Energy GRI 305: Emissions GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 401: Employment GRI 404: Training and Education GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunities GRI 406: Non-Discrimination GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling GRI 418: Customer Privacy GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures: Product Portfolio GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures: Audit GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures: Active Ownership Conduct and culture Brand reputation Digital innovation & cyber security Financial stability & resilience Macroeconomic & political environment Operational efficiency & effectiveness Quality & price Demographic development UBS's involvement with the impacts Occupational health and well-being direct Working conditions indirect Social cohesion & stability limited 33 Stakeholder management and engagement Direct economic value generated and distributed by UBS Group AG consolidated in 2017 CHF million 31.12.2017 Operating income 29,067 Operating expenses 23,800 of which Personnel expenses 15,889 of which Community investments 44 2016 dividends paid on UBS shares 2,229 Tax expenses, excluding deferred taxes 875 Economic value retained 2,163 Our stakeholders branches), through social media and via the Swiss banking Ombudsman. We engage with our stakeholders, both key groups (clients, Client feedback, including complaints and suggestions, is of investors, employees and governments / regulators) and others, crucial importance to UBS as it supports the development and on a regular basis and on a wide range of topics. This introduction of new products and services as well as the engagement with stakeholders yields important information on adaptation of our offering in a client-oriented manner. By their expectations and concerns and offers critical contribution addressing client feedback we strive to strengthen client to our understanding and management of issues with potential relationships, restore client satisfaction, and make a tangible (positive and negative) relevance to our bank. By actively improvement to client service and overall banking services. fostering such interactions we are in a position to address Having a wide variety of quality feedback from our clients stakeholder expectations and concerns in an informed and enables us to systematically evaluate and review our actions. By effective manner. sharing their views, clients contribute to make targeted quality Our relationships with stakeholders are multi-faceted and improvements at all levels. include major stand-alone interactions with large groups UBS strives to respond directly to each individual who (e.g. the employee survey), regular communications throughout provides feedback. On significant topics and key developments, the year with representatives from a particular group (e.g. UBS also provides a collective response in its external reporting. media), as well as dialogue meetings with single individuals (e.g. In 2017, key topics and developments included some targeted client enquiries). products and services mostly centering around the functionalities of digital banking and stemming in particular from requests and Clients improvement suggestions for existing features and queries Clients are the reason for our existence and hence at the center regarding access and security. Moreover, certain client feedback of our activities. We are committed to building and sustaining pertained to support lines and debit cards. relationships with clients based on trust and integrity. Having Feedback from employees (i.e. quality tips and ideas / regular dialog with clients and collecting their feedback ensures proposals that arise from their knowledge and experience in that we understand their expectations. improving and updating products, processes and services) helps Our clients increasingly want financial advice as well as the to foster creativity and innovation arising from their knowledge right products in order to use their resources to address societal and experience in improving and updating products, processes issues. As the world’s largest wealth manager, we are well and services. placed to provide this support, based on a consistent Groupwide approach. We use our manifold interactions with clients to Shareholders / investors better understand their needs. Client feedback (including that Investor Relations serves as the point of contact for UBS’s which is collected through our Quality Feedback management investor community. Our senior management and the Investor system) enables the firm to act and continuously improve Relations team regularly communicate with investors, financial products and client service standards in order to provide the best analysts and rating agencies. The Investor Relations and client experience. Corporate Responsibility Management teams also interact with shareholders focused on sustainability to discuss topics such as Quality feedback management system compliance, corporate culture, and climate change. UBS strives In Wealth Management and Personal & Corporate Banking, the to achieve a consistently fair valuation for its shares through Quality Feedback system provides a comprehensive and best-in-class disclosure, transparency and communication systematic platform to receive and process feedback and practices. suggestions from both clients and employees. Feedback is received in a wide range of formats, including written, electronic, verbal (e.g. comments made to employees in UBS 34 Employees counter OTC derivative reforms, US FATCA/OECD Exchange of Our employees are the link between us and our clients, and the Information and the EU Markets in Financial Instruments key to achieving sustainable success. We therefore strive to Directive and Regulation (MiFID / MiFIR). ensure our employees are well informed and engaged as With regard to corporate responsibility and sustainability partners in the firm's long-term success. issues, we actively participated in discussions with government As a responsible company and employer of choice, we inform bodies. UBS actively participates in industry discussions employees about our strategy, priorities and policies, as well as concerning the implementation of the commitments made at topics such as goal setting, career development, new the Paris Climate Change Conference and in the SDGs. In technologies and required training. We also highlight addition, we, contribute to the Financial Stability Board (FSB) collaboration and efficiency initiatives such as our Group Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD). On a Franchise Awards, key diversity initiatives like our UBS Career regional basis we engaged with the EU High-level Expert Group Comeback program, and community efforts such our work with on Sustainable Finance. In our home country Switzerland, we lower-income and first generation college-goers in the US continue to actively contribute to pertinent sustainability through UBS NextGen Leaders. We communicate through a discussions with various government bodies. number of news and information channels such as our intranet, → Refer to UBS's quarterly reports and annual reports available at UBS Connections (our internal social network), UBS TV, and w w w.ubs.com/ investors for more information on regulatory interactive help / information sites. topics. Direct interaction with employees also takes place through personal meetings, emails, all-staff sessions, large and smallPoliticians and political parties scale employee surveys, and the firm's Quality Feedback system. We maintain a regular dialogue with politicians globally and In 2017, employees in all businesses and regions attended strive to establish long-term relationships with political numerous town halls and small group meetings to discuss representatives. relevant issues directly with senior management. For example, UBS complies with legal requirements on disclosing political regular Ask the CEO events allowed employees in every region donations, as applicable in the relevant jurisdiction. However, to learn about (and ask questions on) topics such as the firm's UBS does not provide financial support to political parties strategy and direction. outside Switzerland. In the US, eligible employees may make In March and September 2017, all employees were asked to financial contributions through a federal Political Action participate in a global survey. Of specific interest was employees' Committee (PAC), the UBS Americas Fund for Better views on whether our firm's principles and behaviors are being Government. The PAC then makes contributions to federal lived up to, our strategy effectively communicated and a positive candidates. Therefore these contributions do not constitute and empowering work environment provided. Employees were political donations by UBS. informed of the results of the survey, which we use to help us continuously improve. Support of the Swiss militia system In 2017, we sponsored 43 employee networks globally, with UBS appreciates the important role of political parties in the more than 17,000 members. Our networks help employees build Swiss democratic system, which is the foundation of state, cross-business relationships and support an open workplace. The politics and society in Switzerland. Swiss citizens actively and Women's Business Network, for instance, is a group of more voluntarily engage in political institutions at all three levels of the than 2,500 UBS employees in Switzerland that supports Swiss state (federal, cantonal and local) as public officials (e.g. women's personal and professional development through members of parliament, members of commissions and executive networking, mentoring and education. mandates), while they continue to pursue other professional → Find out more about topics of interest to employees and activities. This arrangement – citizens taking on public tasks and potential employees at w ww .ubs.com/ employees mandates on a part-time basis – is referred to as the militia system. Governments and regulators In Switzerland, political parties do not receive state funding, Financial market stability is largely dependent on the overall and members of parliament in Switzerland are (usually) not economic, regulatory and political environment and the conduct professional politicians. It is for this reason that UBS views the of the firms within the sector. We actively participate in political support of the militia system as a crucial component of its discussions to share our expertise on proposed regulatory and societal responsibility in its home market Switzerland. In supervisory changes including corporate responsibility-related recognition of the vital function of Switzerland’s political parties, issues such as culture and conduct, and sustainability issues. UBS provided a total of CHF 0.63 million to political parties in In 2017, discussions regarding the regulatory framework for 2017 as a contribution to their operational costs. Financial financial institutions continued to figure prominently among the contributions are calculated based on the number of major topics of the intense dialogue between UBS senior parliamentary seats the respective party holds at the federal and management and specialized functions, governments, regulators cantonal level. Swiss parties are eligible to apply for a financial and supervisory bodies. Topics included further changes to the contribution if they commit to free competition and the market prudential framework for banks, recovery and resolution economy, have a national focus and either form a parliamentary planning, and market and product reforms including over-thegroup in the federal parliament or are represented in at least one 35 Stakeholder management and engagement cantonal government. UBS views its contribution to political → Refer to w ww .ubs.com/ community for further information and parties in Switzerland as a long-term commitment, which is, data of relevance to the communities we do business in however, subject to regular reviews. Suppliers Annual “Political Forum“ for employees who hold elected public In 2017 UBS spent CHF 9.9 billion on a broad range of products office in Switzerland and services. A large proportion of this expenditure comprises UBS expressly supports the political involvement of its real estate, outsourcing, IT as well as consultancy and legal fees. employees. About 300 employees currently hold political office Our sourcing and procurement services are provided by an at federal, cantonal and local level. If necessary, employees may external company, Chain IQ, which applies UBS’s responsible spend a certain amount of their working time on their public supply chain management (RSCM) framework and processes. duties. UBS organizes an annual “Political Forum“ at which The experienced procurement and sourcing specialists at Chain senior management and political office holders discuss topics of IQ perform supplier due diligence and establish remediation relevance to UBS in Switzerland. measures, supported by a centralized team of experts within → Refer to w ww .ubs.com/ gga for more information on UBS. governmental topics pertaining to Switzerland We aim to ensure that our social and environmental values are being followed throughout the supply chain. A firm-wide Peers RSCM guideline provides systematic assistance on identifying, We actively engage in regular discussions on corporate assessing and monitoring supplier practices in the areas of responsibility and sustainability issues with specialists in peer human and labor rights, the environmental protection and banks, and more widely through trade bodies and associations. corruption. A central component of this guideline is the UBS Sharing experiences and assessments of corporate responsibility Responsible Supply Chain Standard to which our direct suppliers issues helps us to compare and improve our strategy, approach are bound by contract. UBS expects its suppliers to apply the and tools. same standards in the relationships with their suppliers. UBS is a founding member of the Wolfsberg Group, an → Refer to Responsible supply chain management in the “How we association of global banks that aims to develop financial do business” section of this GRI Document further below services industry standards regarding anti money laundering, Know Your Client and counterterrorist financing policies. ESG rating and research agencies Meeting regularly, the Wolfsberg Group also works closely with We actively engage in dialog with analysts at rating and research the Financial Action Task Force. agencies. The assessment of specialized agencies helps to In 2011, UBS was a driving force behind the establishment of evaluate our sustainability performance and activities, and the Thun Group of Banks, which has published two discussion provides a useful means for benchmarking. papers that seek to establish a framework to facilitate the In 2017, we provided detailed information on our identification of the key challenges and best practice examples sustainability performance to a range of agencies, either in for the banking sector’s implementation of the UN Guiding response to questionnaires or via meetings or calls (with Principles on Business and Human Rights. The Thun Group environmental, social and governance analysts). Our UBS and maintains regular discussions, both in calls and in annual Society website regularly serves as a key source of information meetings at the UBS Conference Center in Thun, Switzerland. for these agencies. Communities Non-governmental organizations At UBS, we recognize that our long-term success depends on We regularly interact with non-governmental organizations the health and prosperity of the communities of which we are a (NGOs) and appreciate their input and insight, as it helps the part. Our approach is to build sustainable and successful firm consider its approach to, and understanding of, societal partnerships with non-profit organizations and social enterprises issues and concerns. to help our contributions have a lasting impact. Our Community NGOs have long established themselves as the most critical Affairs programs seek to overcome disadvantage through longwatchdogs of companies, both scrutinizing and challenging how term investment in education and entrepreneurship in the we address a broad range of environmental, social and human communities within which we operate. rights concerns. In 2017, discussions with NGOs focused on the Through local execution and partnerships, which operate subjects of human rights, climate change, and the financing of under a global framework and with coordination across regions, controversial weapons. we endeavor to deliver business and community impact by identifying innovative and high-quality programs that are aligned International organizations and initiatives to the business. We provide focused financial and human UBS participates actively in several organizations and initiatives support, including through the use of skills based employee that promote the advancement of corporate responsibility and volunteering programs and client participation where sustainability. We are among the thought leaders in appropriate. UBS is an active member of the London sustainability in banking. Benchmarking Group, an internationally recognized standard for These memberships and commitments include the UN Global measuring corporate community investment. Compact, the GRI, the UN Environment Program Finance 36 Initiative, the CDP and the PRI. Our representatives participate in regional and local topics. Senior management (BoD and GEBexternal meetings, events and conferences and use these level) also regularly gives account to journalists, predominantly platforms to exchange ideas, promote joint actions among through interviews. In addition to the interviews at our firm’s participants and gain valuable input for the development of our corporate events (i.e. quarterly and annual reporting and Annual approach to corporate responsibility and sustainability. General Meeting) senior management conducted many other In 2017, UBS representatives participated in major corporate interviews in 2017. responsibility and sustainability events, see table Advancing We also communicated with media representatives – through sustainability in the financial sector – UBS’s key activities in 2017 interviews or background talks – on a broad range of corporate on page in the UBS and Society section above. responsibility or sustainability topics such as climate change, food speculation and environmental and social risks. Media → Refer to w ww .ubs.com/ media for further information on UBS Our media teams maintain direct and long-term relations with media relations media representatives across all our business regions and provide them with timely information on a wide range of global, 37 How we do business How we do business This information should be read in conjunction with the The GEB oversees our efforts to combat money laundering, information contained in the “UBS and Society” and “Our corruption and terrorist financing. These efforts are led by a employees” sections above. dedicated financial crime team of anti-money laundering (AML) compliance experts. Also overseen by the GEB is our approach to Governance and policies diversity and inclusion. We have a global head of diversity and inclusion to drive a group-wide strategy complemented by Board of Directors and sustainability divisional and regional initiatives. The Board of Directors (BoD) decides on the strategy of the Group upon recommendation by the Group Chief Executive Key policies and guidelines Officer (Group CEO) and is responsible for the overall direction, supervision and control of the Group and its management, as Code of Conduct and Ethics well as for supervising compliance with applicable laws, rules The UBS Code of Conduct and Ethics (Code) sets out the and regulations. The BoD exercises oversight over UBS Group principles and practices that UBS expects all of its employees and AG and its subsidiaries and is responsible for establishing a clear directors to follow both in form and intention. The principles Group governance framework to provide effective steering and and standards set out in the Code should characterize all of supervision of the Group, taking into account the material risks UBS’s business activities and all its dealings with the firm’s to which UBS Group AG and its subsidiaries are exposed. The stakeholders including clients, colleagues, shareholders, BoD has ultimate responsibility for the success of the Group and regulators and business partners. It is the basis for all UBS for delivering sustainable shareholder value within a framework policies, guidelines and statements relating to each of the firm’s of prudent and effective controls. It also approves all financial employees’ personal commitment to appropriate and statements for issue and appoints and removes all Group responsible corporate behavior. Executive Board (GEB) members. → Refer to w ww .ubs.com/ code and the “Appendix” section of this The BoD of UBS Group AG is responsible for setting our firm’s GRI Document for the full text of the Code values and standards and ensuring we meet our obligations to our stakeholders. Both the Chairman of the BoD and the Group UBS and Society constitutional document Chief Executive Officer (Group CEO) play a key role in It is UBS's ambition to be an industry leader in driving long term safeguarding our reputation and ensuring we communicate positive impact for clients, employees, investors and society. The effectively with all our stakeholders. UBS and Society constitutional document defines the principles All BoD committees have responsibilities and authorities of and responsibilities for promoting this commitment direct relevance to our goal of creating sustainable value. The systematically across all relevant businesses and for Governance and Nominating Committee, for instance, supports implementing the ethical standards defined in the Code of the BoD in fulfilling its duty to establish best practices in Conduct that govern UBS's interaction with society and the corporate governance across the UBS Group. The Compensation environment. Committee supports the BoD in its duties to set guidelines on → Refer to the Appendix section of this GRI Document for the compensation and benefits. While the Risk Committee oversees full text of the UBS and Society constitutional document and supports the BoD in fulfilling its duty to supervise and set an appropriate risk management and control framework (in the Combating financial crime areas of risk management and control, treasury and capital We have developed extensive policies intended to prevent, management, balance sheet management). detect and report money laundering, corruption and terrorist The Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee (CCRC) financing. These policies seek to protect the firm and our shoulders the main undertaking for corporate culture, reputation from those who may be intending to use UBS to responsibility and sustainability. The oversight role of the CCRC legitimize illicit assets. Anti-corruption policies and procedures has been embedded in the Organization Regulations of UBS that aim to prevent bribery from occurring throughout our Group AG. operations are in place in all business divisions. These policies are → Refer to the Appendix section of this GRI Document for the derived from the standards that are set out in the Group Policy CCRC charter Against Corruption and the Group Policy on Gifts and Business Senior-level committees in charge of key aspects of Entertainment. sustainability include the UBS and Society Operating Committee and the Global ESR Committee. 38 Whistle-blowing protection Clearly, managing our people well is key for our long-term As set out in the Code, employees are required to immediately success. Personal accountability and effective HR processes mean report any potential violations of the Code to their line manager that teams and businesses perform better, individuals can or local compliance officer. Employees can also report them advance in their careers, and ultimately, the firm can deliver its confidentially to their Legal or Compliance & Operational Risk strategy. Control teams, using whistle-blowing procedures. UBS's global Our global performance management process evaluates both whistleblowing policy and procedures offer multiple channels for performance and behavior, and employees receive two separate staff to raise concerns, either openly or anonymously, about any ratings in their year-end evaluations. This helps all of us take a suspected breaches of laws, regulations, rules or other legal close look at how well integrity, collaboration and challenge (the requirements, or of the Code, policies or professional standards. firm’s expected behaviors) are demonstrated in daily business UBS will never punish or reprimand anyone who reports these activities. It also makes our management, promotion and reward kinds of breaches or violations in good faith. processes more transparent. For 2017, 99% of eligible employees received a performance review. HR policies Objectives focusing on our key corporate responsibility and HR has global and country-specific policies designed to ensure sustainability commitments are set for managers and employees effective management of our workforce, a strong culture, and a in pertinent departments or units. Most notably, this would safe and respectful working environment. An overarching global include managers and employees in UBS and Society, corporate employment policy sets the minimum hiring and employment responsibility, anti-money laundering, human resources, standards for all UBS locations. It aims at providing fair, environmental and community affairs functions. consistent and transparent treatment for our employees while taking into account local legal requirements, market best Group Executive Board practice and shareholders' interests. Country-specific employee Annual performance awards for the Group CEO and other GEB handbooks supplement the global policies, providing local members are based on the GEB compensation determination information and clarification on the terms and conditions of process, and in aggregate, subject to shareholder approval at employment and the applicable HR programs, policies and the Annual General Meeting. procedures. We assess the GEB members’ performance against a number of quantitative and qualitative key performance indicators (KPIs). Sustainable performance and compensation The quantitative measures for the Group CEO are based on overall Group performance. For other GEB members, they are Total Reward Principles based on both Group performance and the performance of the Our compensation philosophy is to align the interests of our relevant business division and / or region; for those who lead employees with those of our clients and investors, building on Group functions, they are assessed on the performance of the our three keys to success – our Pillars, Principles and Behaviors. Group and the function they oversee. These quantitative Our Total Reward Principles establish a framework that balances measures together with qualitative measures (Pillars and sustainable performance and prudent risk-taking with a focus on Principles) account for 65% of the assessment. Behaviors conduct and sound risk management practices. account for 35% of the assessment. Our compensation structure is aligned with our strategic priorities. It therefore links the interests of our employees with Board of Directors those of our stakeholders and encourages our employees to As set out in the Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG, focus on our clients, create sustainable value and achieve the BoD members, as a group, must have the necessary highest standards of performance. Moreover, we reward qualifications, skills and diversity to perform all BoD duties and behavior that helps build and protect the firm’s reputation – must together possess financial literacy, experience in banking specifically integrity, collaboration and challenge. We strive for and risk management, international experience, including excellence and sustainable performance in everything we do. experience of international financial matters, and knowledge of Compensation for each employee is based on individual, team, the duties of directors. business division and Group performance, within the context of Performance and effectiveness of the Chairman, the Board as the markets in which we operate. a whole and each BoD Committee are assessed annually, a Our Total Reward Principles apply to all employees globally. process overseen by the Governance and Nominating They may vary in certain locations due to local laws and Committee (GNC). All BoD committees perform a selfregulations. assessment of their activities and report back to the full BoD. Managing a high-performing workforce We have salary ranges applicable to all employees with differentiation by location, rank and role, as set by our global role classification framework. 39 How we do business The Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee (CCRC) Environment & climate members, as a group, must have the necessary qualifications and – CDP (founding signatory in 2002 of the Carbon Disclosure skills to perform all of their duties. In particular the CCRC Project) members are expected to: (i) commit such time to the role as – UNEP FI working group on TCFD recommendations (founding may be necessary for the proper discharge of their duties. An member of working group) indication of the time expected for this purpose will be set out in – Banking Environment Initiative’s and Consumer Goods each of the CCRC members' letter of appointment; and (ii) have Forum’s Soft Commodities Compact (member since 2013) good knowledge of corporate culture and corporate – Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO – member since responsibility and relevant societal issues and such other 2012) experience as the BoD considers desirable in order to enable the – Zurich Energy Model (founding member in 1987) CCRC to perform its duties. The CCRC’s chairman is expected to – Swiss Energy and Climate Summit (Premium Partner since have good knowledge of the Committee’s relevant area of 2013) responsibility together with such other experience as the BoD – RE100 (member since 2015) considers desirable in the context of that Committee’s work. – ISO 14001 certified Environmental Management System → Refer to the Compensation section of UBS’s Annual Report – ISO 50001 certified Energy Management System 2017 for further information Transparency & reporting External commitments and memberships – Global Reporting Initiative (user of GRI Standards) – SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board, member of Corporate responsibility & sustainability board of directors since 2013) – UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative – ISO 14064 certified GHG Emissions (UNEP FI – member since 1992) – Principles for Responsible Investment Other (PRI – AM signatory since 2009) – Wolfsberg Group (founding member in 2000) – Swiss Sustainable Finance (members since 2015) – European Venture Philanthropy Association (EVPA – member – UN Global Compact (signatory since 2000) since 2007) – Global Compact Network Switzerland – Global Apprenticeship Network (GAN – member since 2013) – Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN – member since 2011) – Sustainable Finance Geneva (member since 2012) Training and raising awareness – Association for Environmental Management and Sustainability in Financial Institutions Overview (VfU, member since 1996) We actively engage in internal and external education and – Swiss Better Gold Association (member since 2014) awareness-raising on corporate responsibility and sustainability – Business in the Community (founding member) topics and issues. Through induction, education and broader – Institute of Business Ethics (IBE – subscriber since 1987) awareness-raising activities, we want to ensure that our – Conference Board employees understand their responsibilities in complying with – USSIF (member since 2015) our policies and the importance of our societal commitments. – CSFI (member since 2015) General information is published on our intranet and on our UBS and Society internet site. Human rights Throughout the year, we continued training and raising the – Thun Group of Banks (founding participant in 2011 and awareness of employees, including with respect to embracing convener) the Code. All employees have to confirm annually that they have – UNEP FI work / research on human rights (participant in read UBS’s key documents and policies, including the Code. project) Employees were also informed of the firm’s corporate – LBMA Responsible Gold Guidance (founding member of responsibility and sustainability activities through other training LBMA in 1987) and awareness-raising activities. – University of Zurich Competence Center for Human Rights → Refer to the UBS and Society management indicators table (UZHR – member of advisory board) below for detailed information. – Swiss Center of Expertise in Human Rights (SCHR – member of advisory board) 40 Combating financial crime Web-based training modules are regularly refreshed to Employees are required to undergo regular refresher training in address compliance issues, including anti-corruption standards. issues relating to anti-money laundering, sanctions compliance Employees in specific areas also receive targeted training on and anti-corruption. This includes online training, awareness client-related corruption, including the bank’s own corruption campaigns and seminars. risks in relation to intermediaries, gifts and entertainment, or The Code also focuses on preventing the misuse of the when major new developments require additional training. financial system, including in relation to bribery. The specific anti-corruption standards of conduct that apply to all employees are also set out in the Group Policy Against Corruption. The policy sets out our zero-tolerance stance towards corruption and prohibits all forms of bribery by the firm and our employees, including so-called facilitation payments. UBS and Society management indicators UBS and Society management indicators For the year ended % change from 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 31.12.2016 Personnel in specialized units/functions (full time equivalents) 1 108 90 91 20 Awareness raising Training participation (headcounts) 68,955 78,044 44,721 (12) Specialized training2 Training participation (headcounts) 9,460 13,931 4,533 (32) External audits3 Audit participation (headcounts) 203 100 91 103 Auditing time (calendar days on site) 35 13 15 169 Internal audits 4 Audit participation (headcounts) 537 292 243 84 Auditing time (person days) 875 592 194 48 1 Employees which are part of the UBS and Society organization and/or have specialized knowledge relevant for the UBS and Society management system. 2 Specialized training is provided to employees in frontoffice and support functions who are dealing directly with UBS and Society aspects in everydays business processes. 3 ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ISO 14064 and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 4 Audits / reviews conducted by specialized internal units. The implementation of environmental and social risk policies is also audited by Group Internal Audit. 41 How we do business Our climate change strategy Protecting our own assets: We seek to protect our assets from climate change risks by limiting our risk appetite for carbonIn June 2017, the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on related assets and by estimating our firm’s vulnerability to Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) provided its climate change risks using scenario-based stress testing recommendations on climate-related disclosures. They call on approaches and other forward-looking portfolio analyses. We companies to disclose the impacts of climate change on their have so far not found any material risk on our balance sheet. businesses. Investors and financial institutions would gain transparency to help them make better investment decisions Protecting our clients' assets: We support our clients' efforts to with a common set of data to assess the climate change risks assess, manage and protect them from climate-related risks by and opportunities of specific companies. We plan to further offering innovative products and services in investment, align our disclosure within the five-year pathway outlined by the financing and research. Our Asset Management division has TCFD and collaborate within the industry to close gaps. developed a string of products allowing its clients to identify the → Refer to the “Climate-related metrics 2017” table in the UBS and carbon intensity of their investments and / or to align them with Society section above for a summary of disclosed metrics the Paris agreement. → Refer to our CDP disclosure available at w w w.ubs.com/ ubsandsociety for more details Mobilizing private and institutional capital: We mobilize private and institutional capital towards investments facilitating climate Governance change mitigation and adaptation and in supporting the Our climate change strategy is overseen by the CCRC as part of transition to a low-carbon economy as corporate advisor, and/or the UBS and Society governance. This oversight role of the with our lending capacity. CCRC is embedded in the Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG since March 2018. Within the parameters set by the Reducing our direct climate change impact: We continue to CCRC, climate-related opportunities are overseen by the UBS reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and increase the and Society Operating Committee, and climate change risks by firm's share in renewable energy. the Global ESR Committee. The CCRC regularly and critically reviews the assessments and steps taken by these management Risk Management bodies towards executing the climate change strategy. It We manage climate change risks and opportunities via our approves UBS's annual climate change objectives and plans and certified EMS and we monitor implementation on an ongoing decides on the progressive alignment of our climate change basis. The EMS helps us to systematically reduce environmental disclosure pathway with TCFD’s recommendations. These annual risks, seize climate change / environment-related market objectives and plans are managed as part of our ISO 14001 opportunities and to continuously improve UBS's climate certified environmental management system (EMS) with defined change/environmental performance and resource efficiency. management accountabilities across the firm. UBS's management publicly supports international, Protecting our own assets: Our standard risk, compliance and collaborative action against climate change. Our Chairman is operations processes involve procedures and tools for signatory to the European Financial Services Round Table’s identifying, assessing and monitoring environmental and social statement in support of a strong, ambitious response to climate risks. These include client onboarding, transaction due diligence, change. Our Group CEO is a member of the Alliance of CEO product development and investment decision processes, own Climate Leaders, an informal network of CEOs convened by the operations, supply chain management and portfolio reviews. World Economic Forum and committed to climate action. Our These processes are geared toward identifying clients, Head Sustainable Equity Team at Asset Management is a transactions or suppliers potentially in breach of our standards or member of the TCFD. otherwise subject to significant environmental and human rights controversies, including climate change. Strategy We are committed to: We believe the transition to a low carbon economy is vital and – not financing new coal-fired power plant projects in highwe are focused on supporting our clients in preparing for income OECD countries; success in an increasingly carbon-constrained world. As a – only financing new coal-fired projects outside high-income leading global financial services provider, we do this in four OECD countries that use high-efficiency, low-emissions different ways: technologies; – only supporting other types of transactions of existing coalfired operators who have a strategy in place to reduce coal dependency or who adhere to strict internationally recognized greenhouse gas emissions standards; – severely restricting lending and capital raising to the coal mining sector and not supporting coal mining companies engaged in mountain-top removal (MTR) operations. 42 We have also established standards in the forestry sector to UBS is also involved in other activities to reduce gaps in support our clients’ efforts to achieve ‘zero deforestation’ in climate-related financial data. We support the CDP, as an their supply chains. investor member as well as a questionnaire respondent, in their In order to manage our own, and our clients’, risk derived aim to improve company disclosure of risks and opportunities from both the physical and transition risks associated with related to natural resources. We are also on the advisory panel of climate change, we have performed both top-down balance the Natural Capital Finance Alliance’s advancing environmental sheet stress testing, as well as targeted, bottom-up analysis of management project. specific sector exposures. In doing so, we identified challenges ranging from the suitability of climate scenarios for banking risk Protecting our clients’ assets: We offer innovative products and modelling to data availability. To address these challenges, we services in investment, financing and research. Examples include: have committed to work towards alignment and knowledge– Our Asset Management business has developed the capability sharing within the industry. Sixteen banks, including UBS and the for equity portfolio managers to examine the carbon footprint UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) have of their portfolios and comparing the relative carbon partnered to collaboratively develop analytical tools that will help footprints of their company holdings to that of the banks disclose their exposures to climate-related risks and benchmark. Carbon emissions data is also made available to opportunities as envisioned by the TCFD. This includes further all equity portfolio managers through the Portfolio refining scenario-based stress-testing methodologies. Optimization Platform, which allows portfolio managers and analysts to download carbon and carbon intensity data on Our experience with top down and bottom-up analysis so far: over 6,000 companies. – Our top-down approach consisted of a scenario-based stress – In 2017, our Asset Management business launched an test to assess UBS’s balance sheet vulnerability. Leveraging its innovative Climate Aware rules-based fund for UK investors. existing firm-wide top-down stress testing methodology, we The portfolio is oriented towards companies that are better developed a climate change scenario and its related prepared for a low carbon future while reducing exposure to, regulatory response to assess the impacts on financial assets, rather than excluding, companies with higher carbon risk, in operational income and physical assets. Financial impacts order to pursue strategic engagement with these companies. were moderate and in line with other stress scenarios, The strategy involves not only a reduction of the CO2 particularly those that foresee an oil shock component. The footprint of the portfolio but also an innovative approach to biggest risk from the regulatory response (i.e. transition risk) aligning the portfolio with the two degree carbon reduction was for exposures to large corporates that are most sensitive scenario in the future. to shocks in market variables like equity indices. The impact – Our Asset Management business engages with companies in on smaller unlisted companies, including the Swiss corporate which it invests on behalf of clients to discuss approaches to portfolio, was limited. The biggest risk from severe weather mitigating climate change risk, as well as actively voting on events (i.e. physical risk) was damage to properties in Zurich shareholder resolutions to improve transparency and due to the concentration of assets owned there. The disclosure around climate-related reporting. Specifically in the operational income impact was quite minimal. context of the Climate Aware fund, UBS Asset Management – We also assessed potential impacts of increasing climate has implemented an engagement program associated with change regulations and extreme weather events scenarios on the strategy in order to drive positive change at companies our energy and real-estate loan portfolios. The potential that are considered at highest risk for climate change. The financial impact on UBS was found to be moderate, primarily Climate Aware fund received the Fund Launch of the Year due to the relatively short-term maturity profile of these loan award from Funds Europe Magazine, and NEST (UK National portfolios and availability of insurance coverage for real Employment Savings Trust) received an innovation award for estate. Climate Aware from Pensions & Investments Magazine. – UBS also conducted a bottom-up stress test of its energy Climate Aware provides a unique way for investors to reduce lending portfolio in North America against the impacts of passive portfolio exposures to carbon risks. climate-change related drought. 43 How we do business Mobilizing private and institutional capital: We mobilize capital In 2017 UBS successfully passed the ISO 14001 recertification to support environmental and social issues, including the audit of its environmental management system. transition to a low carbon economy. For example: In addition, for the first time the energy management system – We offer 100% sustainable cross-asset portfolios for private of locations in the European Union was certified according to clients in Wealth Management, currently available in ISO 50001. Switzerland and Germany. → Refer to the Appendix section of this document for both certificates – Our wealth management business is developing a range of new thematic and pooled impact investments. GHG emissions and energy consumption – We participated in launching Align17 a WEF Young Global We adopt energy efficiency measures and we strive to increasing Leaders initiative an independent platform which stands out the proportion of renewable energy used across our building in connecting a wider range of public, institutional, and and data center portfolio. Emissions such as from business private wealth investors with SDG-related investment travel by air that cannot be reduced by other means are opportunities. offset. – Our Asset Management business established a comprehensive approach to environmental and social factors and to GHG emissions corporate governance across investment disciplines. The 2017 In 2017, we further reduced UBS’s GHG emissions by 11%, or Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) awarded 10.2% per full-time employee, year on year, a total reduction of ten of UBS Asset Management's real estate and infrastructure 59% from baseline year 2004. funds 5-star ratings, and seven funds ranked first in their respective peer groups. Energy consumption – Our Investment Bank provides capital-raising and strategic In 2017, we reduced our energy consumption by more than 5% advisory services globally to companies offering products that compared with 2016 and 19% compared to 2012. One of the make a positive contribution to climate change mitigation key drivers for this achievement is our Group-wide real estate and adaptation, including those in the solar, wind, hydro, strategy, which includes: energy efficiency, waste and biofuels, and transport sectors. – consolidating work space in larger and more energy-efficient – We strive to be the preferred strategic financial partner buildings with alternative workplace concepts, resulting in a relating to Switzerland’s energy strategy 2050. And the UBS smaller, less energy-intense real estate footprint of our Clean Energy Infrastructure Switzerland strategy offers operations; institutional investors unprecedented access to a diversified – investing in energy-efficient infrastructure, such as obtaining portfolio of Swiss infrastructure facilities and renewable green building certifications (Leadership in Energy and energy companies. Due to client's demand, a successor Environmental Design or similar) for our flagship buildings strategy was launched in September 2017. and – implementing established energy reduction measures, such as Reducing our direct climate change impact optimizing heating, air-conditioning and lighting controls in We set quantitative targets and continue to reduce UBS’s the buildings we occupy. Group-wide GHG emissions and increase our share in renewable energy in line with our commitment to RE100, a global initiative As an example, in 2017, at a US site we completed a full that encourages multinational companies to make a replacement of the cooling, air-conditioning and ventilation commitment to using 100% renewable power by 2020. This will system. This is expected to save 450,500 kWh and USD 86,000 reduce the firm’s GHG footprint by 75% by 2020 compared per year. In addition, the site installed new LED lighting controls with 2004 levels. on multiple floors and is expected to save 64,600 kWh and USD 12,000 per year. In-house environmental management Across our global building portfolio, 7 refurbishment projects achieved LEED Platinum or Gold CI certifications. Introduction UBS is globally certified according to the international Renewable energy environmental management standard ISO 14001. In 1999, UBS In 2017, 56% of UBS’s worldwide electricity consumption was was the first bank to obtain this certification for its worldwide sourced from renewable energy. We have been sourcing environmental management system. The management system electricity from 100% renewable sources in Switzerland already covers the entire scope of UBS’s products, services and in-house since 2007, in Germany since 2012, in the UK and Luxembourg operations that may give rise to an environmental impact. It is since 2016 (mainly hydropower and wind power). As part of our externally audited annually and re-certified every three years. RE100 commitment, we aim to gradually increase the These comprehensive audits verify that appropriate policies percentage of renewable electricity to 100% by 2020. and processes are in place to manage environmental issues, and that they are executed in day-to-day practice. 44 Offsetting CO2 emissions based on a reporting year of 1 July to 30 June. This is different In an effort to minimize our CO2 emissions in business travel, we from UBS's financial reporting period (1 January to 31 encourage our employees to choose alternatives to air travel, December). such as high-speed rail, and to use video-conferencing All GHG emission figures are in tons of carbon dioxide technology instead of travelling. Since 2007, we have been equivalents (CO2e) and include three of the six greenhouse offsetting all our CO2 emissions from business air travel. Projects gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol – carbon dioxide (CO2), we selected meet the requirements of the Gold Standard for methane (CH4), and Nitrous oxide (N2O). Hydrofluorocarbons voluntary emissions reductions. (HFCs) emissions have been omitted from our reporting as they are not a material source of greenhouse gases for the business. Paper, water and waste There are no GHG sources contributing to Perfluorocarbons Globally, over 90% of all paper consumption was from recycled (PFCs) and sulphurhexafluoride (SF6) emissions. or FSC certified sources. In 2017, waste assessments were The GHG emissions associated with the activities have been performed at various locations; these audits have led to determined on the basis of measured or estimated energy and improvements in waste management practices, regulatory fuel use, multiplied by relevant GHG emission factors. compliance and quality of environmental data. The continued Where possible fuel or energy use is based on direct implementation of bin-less offices in many larger locations has measurement, purchase invoices or actual mileage data, in other helped us reduce the waste per employee by 12% since 2012. cases it has been necessary to make estimations. By the end of 2017, our waste recycling ratio remained stable at Published national conversion factors and Global Warming 55%. We reduced our water consumption by 29%, compared Potentials (GWPs) were used to calculate emissions from with 2012. operations. In the absence of any such national data 'UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting’ Reporting standards and methodologies have been used for the calculation of GHG emissions. UBS’s environmental and greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) The GHG base year was set as 2004 (July 2003 to June 2004) reporting is intended to comply with the voluntary reporting as this was the first year UBS reported detailed GHG emissions requirements of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. The verified according to ISO 14064. The 2004 GHG footprint GHG reporting was prepared in accordance with the key baseline is 360,502 tons and consists of 41,858 t (scope 1), concepts and requirements stated by the International 219,727 t (net scope 2), and 98,918 t (scope 3) emissions. The Organization for Standardization in ISO 14064-1 (Specification appropriateness of the base year is reviewed on an annual basis. with guidance at the organization level for quantification and In 2006, we set for the first time global quantitative objectives reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals) and by for energy, paper, waste and water until 2009. They were revised World Business Council for Sustainable Development / World and extended three times so far and covered the periods 2009 Resources Institute in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Corporate until 2012, 2012 until 2016. The current quantitative objectives Accounting and Reporting Standard. have 2016 as a baseline and 2020 as target year. The environmental and GHG reporting has been prepared 45 How we do business In-house environmental management statistics Environmental targets and performance in our operations1 Target % change Progress / GRI2 2017 2020 Baseline from baseline Achievement7 2016 2015 Total net greenhouse gas emissions (GHG footprint) in t CO2e3 305 147,757 -75% 360,5014 -59.0  165,975 169,026 Energy consumption in GWh 302 627 -5 6615 -5.1  661 668 Share of renewable electricity 302 56.0% 100% 27.7% 4 102.2  55.6% 54.0% GHG offsetting (business air travel) in t CO2e 305 54,412 100% 04 100  67,056 73,592 Paper consumption in kg per FTE6 301 95 -5% 1145 -16.4  114 119 Share of recycled and FSC paper 301 90.8% 90% 89.5%5 1.4  89.5% 83.6% Waste in kg per FTE6 306 203 -5% 2065 -1.6  206 203 Waste recycling ratio 306 55.0% 60% 54.1%5 1.7  54.1% 52.8% Water consumption in m m3 303 0.87 -5% 0.965 -9.5  0.96 0.96 Legend: CO2e = CO2 equivalents; FTE = full-time employee; GWh = giga watt hour; kWh = kilo watt hour; km = kilometer; kg = kilogram; m m3 = million cubic meter; t = tonne 1 Detailed environmental indicators are available on the internet www.ubs.com/environment. Reporting period 2017 (1 July 2016 30 June 2017). 2 Reference to GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (see also www.globalreporting.org). 3 GHG footprint equals gross GHG emissions minus GHG reductions from renewable energy and GHG offsets (gross GHG emissions include: direct GHG emissions by UBS; indirect GHG emissions associated with the generation of imported / purchased electricity (grid average emission factor), heat or steam and other indirect GHG emissions associated with business travel, paper consumption and waste disposal). 4 Baseline year 2004 5 Baseline year 2016 6 FTEs are calculated on an average basis including contractors 7 Green: on track 46 Environmental indicators1 20172 20162 20152 Absolute Absolute Absolute GRI3 normalized4 Data quality5 Trend6 normalized4 normalized4 Total direct and intermediate energy consumption7 302 627 GWh ***  661 GWh 668 GWh Total direct energy consumption8 302 68 GWh ***  73 GWh 68 GWh natural gas 84.8% ***  86.9% 85.2% heating oil 10.4% ***  8.8% 10.1% fuels (petrol, diesel, gas) 4.4% ***  3.9% 4.6% renewable energy (solar power, etc.) 0.4% ***  0.4% 0.2% Total intermediate energy purchased9 302 559 GWh ***  588 GWh 600 GWh electricity 491 GWh ***  527 GWh 519 GWh electricity from gas-fired power stations 15.2% ***  15.9% 16.7% electricity from oil-fired power stations 2.5% ***  2.6% 2.9% electricity from coal-fired power stations 16.7% ***  15.9% 16.0% electricity from nuclear power stations 9.6% ***  10.0% 10.5% electricity from hydroelectric power stations 34.6% ***  33.5% 36.2% electricity from other renewable resources 21.4% ***  22.0% 17.8% heat (e.g. district heating) 68 GWh **  61 GWh 80 GWh Share of electricity from renewable sources 302 56% ***  56% 54% Total business travel 579 m Pkm ***  694 m Pkm 672 m Pkm rail travel10 1.9% ***  1.8% 1.9% road travel10 1.6% ***  1.4% 1.6% air travel 96.4% ***  96.8% 96.5% Number of flights (segments) 250,743 ***  296,234 289,956 Total paper consumption 301 5,866 t ***  7,077 t 7,358 t post-consumer recycled 14.9% ***  14.1% 16.1% new fibers FSC11 75.9% ***  75.5% 67.5% new fibers ECF + TCF11 9.2% ***  10.3% 16.3% new fibers chlorine bleached 0.07% **  0.13% 0.17% Total waste 306 12,543 t ***  12,858 t 12,546 t valuable materials separated and recycled 55.0% ***  54.1% 52.8% incinerated 16.9% ***  18.6% 19.3% landfilled 28.1% **  27.4% 27.9% Total water consumption 303 0.87 m m3 **  0.96 m m3 0.96 m m3 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions in CO2e 305 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 12 13,305 t ***  14,154 t 13,340 t Gross indirect GHG emissions (Gross Scope 2)12 161,349 t ***  185,026 t 179,082 t Gross other indirect GHG emissions (Gross Scope 3)12 76,763 t ***  91,276 t 101,394 t Total Gross GHG Emissions 251,417 t ***  290,456 t 293,817 t GHG reductions from renewable energy13 49,247 t ***  57,425 t 51,199 t CO2e offsets (business air travel)14 54,412 t ***  67,056 t 73,592 t Total Net GHG Emissions (GHG Footprint)15 147,757 t ***  165,975 t 169,026 t Legend: GWh = giga watt hour; Pkm = person kilometer; t = ton; m3 = cubic meter; m = million; CO2e = CO2 equivalents 1 All figures are based on the level of knowledge as of January 2018. 2 Reporting period: 2017 (1 July 2016 – 30 June 2017), 2016 (1 July 2015 – 30 June 2016), 2015 (1 July 2014 – 30 June 2015) 3 Reference to GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (see also www.globalreporting.org). 4 Non-significant discrepancies from 100% are possible due to roundings. 5 Specifies the estimated reliability of the aggregated data and corresponds approximately to the following uncertainty (confidence level 95%): up to 5% – ***, up to 15% – **, up to 30% – *. Uncertainty is the likely difference between a reported value and a real value. 6 Trend: at a *** /**/ * data quality, the respective trend is stable (à) if the variance equals 5/10/15%, low decreasing/increasing (æ,ä) if it equals 10 /20/30% and decreasing/increasing if the variance is bigger than 10/20/30% (â,á). 7 Refers to energy consumed within the operational boundaries of UBS. 8 Refers to primary energy purchased which is consumed within the operational boundaries of UBS (oil, gas, fuels). 9 Refers to energy purchased that is produced by converting primary energy and consumed within the operational boundaries of UBS (electricity and district heating). 10 Rail and road travel: Switzerland only. 11 Paper produced from new fibers. FSC stands for Forest Stewardship Council, ECF for Elementary Chlorine Free and TCF for Totally Chlorine Free. 12 Refers to ISO 14064 and the “GHG (greenhouse gas) protocol initiative” (www.ghgprotocol.org), the international standards for GHG reporting: scope 1 accounts for direct GHG emissions by UBS; gross scope 2 accounts for indirect GHG emissions associated with the generation of imported/purchased electricity (grid average emission factor), heat or steam; gross scope 3 accounts for other indirect GHG emissions associated with business travel, paper consumption and waste disposal. 13 GHG savings by consuming electricity from renewable sources 14 Offsets from third-party GHG reduction projects measured in CO2 equivalents (CO2e). These offsets neutralize GHG emission from our business air travel. 15 GHG footprint equals gross GHG emissions minus GHG reductions from renewable energy and CO2e offsets. 47 How we do business Environmental indicators per full-time employee Unit 2017 Trend 2016 2015 Direct and intermediate energy kWh / FTE 10,151  10,604 10,827 Business travel Pkm / FTE 9,377  11,141 10,898 Paper consumption kg / FTE 95  114 119 Waste kg / FTE 203  206 203 Water consumption m3 / FTE 14.0  15.3 15.5 CO2 footprint t / FTE 2.39  2.66 2.74 Legend: FTE = full-time employee; kWh = kilo watt hour; Pkm = person kilometer; kg = kilogram; m3 = cubic meter; t = ton Notes: FTEs are calculated on an average basis including FTEs which were employed through third parties on short-term contracts. 48 Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) footprint Energy consumption and related greenhouse gas emissions time series 49 How we do business Paper consumption time series Waste generation time series 50 Responsible supply chain management are assessed against the UBS Responsible Supply Chain Standard. If this assessment reveals any non-compliance with our We embed environmental and social standards into our sourcing standard, UBS defines and agrees, together with the supplier, on and procurement activities. Our responsible supply chain specific improvement measures which we monitor. Lack of management (RSCM) framework is based on identifying, improvement may lead to the termination of the supplier assessing and monitoring supplier practices in the areas of relationship. We also regularly screen active suppliers as part of human and labor rights, the environment, health and safety and our environmental and social risk control processes. anti-corruption, in line with our commitment to the UN Global Compact and the UBS and Society constitutional document. Suppliers of potentially high-impact goods or services, are requested to conduct a self-assessment on their responsible Committing suppliers to comply with our standards management practices and to provide corresponding evidence. We aim to reduce negative environmental and social effects of Actual and potential negative impacts that are considered in the the goods and services UBS purchases and we engage with impact assessment of purchased goods and services include: suppliers to promote responsible practices. A firm-wide RSCM – Adverse environmental impacts due to inefficient use of guideline has provided systematic assistance on identifying, resources (e.g. water, energy, biomass) and emissions during assessing and monitoring supplier practices in the areas of the lifecycle of the product human and labor rights, the environmental protection and – Hazardous substances, emissions, pollutants and limited corruption. A central component of this guideline is the UBS recyclability of products, adversely affecting people and the Responsible Supply Chain Standard to which our direct suppliers environment are bound by contract. The standard defines our expectations – Unfair employment practices, such as low wages, excessive towards suppliers and their subcontractors regarding legal overtime, absence of occupational health & safety measures compliance, environmental protection, avoidance of child and – Risks for consumer health and safety forced labor, non-discrimination, remuneration, hours of work, – Procurement and use of materials with a strongly negative freedom of association, humane treatment, health and safety environmental and/or social impact and anti-corruption issues and a whistleblowing mechanism to – Insufficient management of subcontractors regarding support and protect employees. sustainability aspects → Refer to the UBS and Society Download Center on w w w.ubs.com/ ubsandsociety to download the Responsible In 2017, 155 suppliers were classified as suppliers of newly Supply Chain Standard in various languages sourced goods or services with potentially high impacts. 23% of these suppliers were considered as in need of improving their Identifying, assessing and monitoring high-impact suppliers management practices. Specific remediation actions were agreed The RSCM framework includes an impact assessment of newly with all of them and the implementation progress has been sourced goods and services, which takes into account potential closely monitored. negative environmental and social impacts along the lifecycle of We also screened all our significant active suppliers for a product or a service, and all purchased goods and services are environmental and human rights issues and 9 suppliers with categorized accordingly. potential material risks were referred to our ESR unit for We identify high-impact suppliers when establishing new enhanced due diligence. In 2017, no UBS supplier relationship contracts or renewals based on the suppliers’ provision of goods was terminated as a result of RSCM assessments. This can partly and services that have either a substantial environmental and be related to the fact that we assess the supplier’s potential risks social impact or are sourced in markets with potentially high before entering into a contract with them. social risks. Such high-impact suppliers are requested to fulfill further requirements towards product and service provision and 51 How we support our clients How we support our clients This information should be read in conjunction with the corporate governance principles) to vote on 100,069 separate information contained in the “UBS and Society” and “Our resolutions at 9,877 company meetings. Information on such employees” sections above. resolutions and company meetings is provided in the Proxy Voting Dashboard (though it does not include their full scope). Calculating and reporting on climate change-related → Refer to www.ubs.com/global/en/asset-management/about/ financing and advisory activities sustainable-impact-investing.html and vds.issgovernance.com/vds/#/MjU0/ for more information and In 2017. the Investment Bank provided to clients that contribute for the Proxy Voting Dashboard. to climate change mitigation and adaptation equity or debt Since 2010, Asset Management in Switzerland has been capital market services for a total deal value of CHF 43.3 billion, offering UBS Voice, a service enabling holders of Swiss or acted as financial advisor for a total deal value of CHF 5.4 institutional funds to express voting preferences ahead of billion. shareholder meetings of major Swiss corporations. This provides The methodology behind these numbers consists first in additional shareholder input into the voting decisions of the identifying clients who, through the products and services they funds’ management company. 34% of invested assets for which offer, work to mitigate the effects of global climate change and UBS Voice is offered are covered by this service. help to adapt to changing climate impacts. We use internal → Refer to w ww .ubs.com/ v oice for more information on UBS expertise and external third party sources to identify these voice (only available in German) clients. Their activities span all industry sectors, including renewable energy generation and clean tech but also energy Suitability efficiency, waste management, transport, infrastructure renewal and development or water management. They reach from smallClients expect to be provided with products and services which cap and pure-play startups to large international and diversified are suitable for them. companies. In nearly all countries in which we do business this We then aggregate total CHF deal value of all global capital expectation has been turned into a legal or regulatory market deals in which UBS acted as lead manager or bookrunner requirement for banks acting as financial advisers. Most for these companies and aggregate total CHF value of deals jurisdictions also require the systematic assessment and where UBS acted as either buy-side or sell-side financial advisor. documentation of the suitability of products (including thirdThe data represents all our transactions with these clients and party products) and services, including compliance with not only to transactions that can be classified as directly climateapplicable eligibility criteria and sales restrictions. These related. standards are reflected in local policies and procedures as well as the respective local control framework. The European Union’s Stewardship / voting rights Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) is one example of the reflection and implementation by UBS of specific UBS Asset Management's stewardship policy is our commitment standards required by a regulator that are reflected in the to act as responsible stewards of assets held and managed on applicable local control framework. Other locations apply similar behalf of our clients. We recognize that clients expect us to standards as required by the relevant local regulators. ensure the alignment of our approach with their own To meet both client expectations and regulatory requirements, investment beliefs, policies and guidelines. We have a strong UBS has established comprehensive rules for assessing the interest in ensuring that companies in which we invest on behalf suitability of products and services. These rules are designed to of clients are successful and through our stewardship activities align the assets in the customer portfolio with the customer’s seek to encourage a high standard of corporate practices, defined risk profile, and the customer is advised in line with develop a relationship with investee companies and an his/her needs (Client Suitability). In addition, the rules require understanding of mutual objectives and concerns. In addition, that the product documentation contains appropriate and easily where clients of Asset Management have delegated to us the understood information on the product characteristics, the discretion to exercise the voting rights for shares they target audience and the settings in which the product is used, as beneficially own, we have a fiduciary duty to vote such shares in well as a balanced representation of the opportunities and risks the clients’ best interest and in a manner which achieves the (Product Suitability). best economic outcome for their investments. We maintain a comprehensive database of our meetings with companies and our voting activities. We review progress over time and follow up on issues identified. In the 12-month period ended 31 December 2017, we gave instructions (based on AM’s 52 Suitability framework Compliance & Operational Risk Control as Global Minimum Wealth Management (WM) and Personal & Corporate Banking Control Standards, part of the overall Compliance & Operational (P&C) have established a Suitability Policy applicable to all their Risk Control Framework. These controls focus on both a check locations. This sets out the structured advisory process that the checker approach, plus thematic, deep-dive reviews. The governs the way UBS advises, implements agreed solutions and third-level controls are exercised by Group Internal Audit, as part documents the steps taken during this process. It comprises of its annual audit plan. requirements for monitoring and control activities that aim to capture tail-risks, amongst others purposes. In 2018, the existing After-sales communications global WM and P&C Suitability Framework is being revised to The UBS Client Experience also includes after-sales reflect the evolving legal and regulatory landscape. communication. These communications are, again, supported by a number of tools and platforms, including ready-to-use Client suitability1 reporting and presentation material. With regard to the UBS Client Experience, WM and P&C have established a structured advisory process with four distinct steps Accessibility – understand, propose, agree and implement, and review. This process is supported by a number of forms and tools at the We aim to ensure that our facilities and services are accessible to disposal of the client advisors. In the first step (understand), everyone regardless of disability, capability or technology. We are these forms and tools support the initial identification of a continuously optimizing our websites as well as e-banking and client’s investor profile, including but not limited to investment mobile banking to fit the requirements for a AA rating for objectives and risk ability. In a second step (propose), they serve accessibility (WCAG 2.0). All cash machines have access key buttons to help client advisor identify an appropriate investment strategy and PIN keypads that have been made usable for the visually for a specific client portfolio. Furthermore, a number of tools impaired. Additionally, approximately 600 ATMs are enabled with and platforms have been established, to help client advisors voice output through clients’ headphones, covering all functions match a clients’ investment strategies with appropriate including cash deposits. Around 100 ATMs are positioned especially investment proposals and to support the review step. for people with restricted mobility. All of our 50 UBS free-standing cash machines correspond to the recommendations made by Product suitability2 Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines (ADAAG). Advisory platforms and tools divide products according to their risk UBS actively encourages people to focus on ability, not disability. characteristics and in doing so help clients and client advisors properly assess the impact of investment products and services on a Financial literacy client’s portfolio. Additional processes are in place to make product documentation available to both client advisors and clients that The topic is mainly relevant in Switzerland, the only country contains adequate and easy-to understand information on product where we offer comprehensive financial products and services to characteristics, balanced presentation of opportunities and risks, retail and small / medium enterprise (SME) clients. Many of our target audiences as well as scenarios for which a product could be products and services that contribute to the enhancement of used. Finally, specific legal documentation is required for certain financial literacy are therefore limited to our Swiss clients. products with specific risks (e.g. hedge funds). Additionally, UBS runs various community programs globally that enhance financial literacy. Examples include: Divisional approach to suitability – Financial check-up for young people and students Primary ownership of suitability risk and the responsibility for – Saving tips for young people and students addressing suitability risk is owned by the business. Divisional – Budget calculator for young people and students policies in Global WM and P&C, IB, and AM (EMEA) make this – Mortgage calculator clear. UBS has accordingly pursued a divisional approach to – UBS Key Invest provides know-how about structured products ensure compliance with rapidly changing regulatory regimes, as – UBS Dictionary of Banking well as to address particular suitability obligations and – Chief Investment Office Wealth Management Research remediation of identified gaps relating to the divisions. – Download center for SME offering a collection of our broad range of publications, documents and resources, such as Monitoring and controls succession planning checklists Monitoring and controls for suitability follow a three-tiered – UBS Social Investment Toolkit approach. The first-level controls are conducted by origination – UBS Elevating Entrepreneur under its Origination Control Framework a set of controls designed to prevent / detect operational risks that arise in Many of our skills-based volunteering activities across the key origination and to ensure that residual risk corresponds to risk themes of education and entrepreneurship also contribute to the appetite. The second-level controls are performed by enhancement of financial literacy. 1 Client Suitability means the alignment between the Investor Profile of the client and the Products and Services which are recommended or made available to the client (or already held in his/her portfolio), including risk information and disclosure. 2 Product Suitability means a consistent set of standards applied by a product management unit to define for which specific investors a Product may be suitable 53 How we support our communities How we support our communities This information should be read in conjunction with the information contained in the “UBS and Society” and “Our employees” sections above. Achievements in 2017 CHF 44.5 million 89% of UBS grant funding made in direct cash contributions, including the strategic themes of education and support through affiliated foundations entrepreneurship in Switzerland and the UBS Anniversary Education Initiative, and funds to the UBS Optimus Foundation. 31% of the UBS workforce 168,226 volunteer hours 126,279 beneficiaries reached volunteered (20,140 employees) (109,142 in work hours and 59,084 out of globally, from 134 community partners work hours) 54 Measuring Impact that UBS’s support has substantively improved or transformed the lives of 41,091 individuals in 2017. This represents 35% of Since 2014, we have enhanced our focus on measuring the the number of beneficiaries for whom the depth of impact was impact of our community programs by using the London reported. Benchmarking Group’s (LBG) standard model for measuring and UBS supported 37 intermediary organizations that are reporting on our community investment globally. This building the capacity of charities, social enterprises and social framework, together with global coordination of reporting, sector organizations. These organizations reported that UBS’s allows us to effectively evaluate and focus our programs. support helped them to reach 794 third-party organizations in We work with young people globally to help increase their 2017. These intermediaries increasingly evaluate how their work educational attainment, and to acquire workplace skills. We also is benefitting the organizations they work with. UBS now work with entrepreneurs to help them build and scale businesses captures this data on a globally consistent basis. that have social impact at the heart of their business model. We will continue to develop our portfolio analytics and work In 2017, we continued to build on the pilot global framework with our partners to ensure a greater number are able to report to measure, not just the number of beneficiaries, but also how on the nature of their impact measure in future years our support has benefitted them (i.e. the “LBG depth of impact scale” below). Measuring on the basis of this model indicates LBG Depth of Impact Scale The number of beneficiaries reached by an activity who can Connect report some limited change as a result of an activity (e.g., increased enjoyment of reading) The number of beneficiaries who can report some substantive improvement in their lives as a result of the activity (e.g. Improve actually able to read better). The number of beneficiaries who can report a long-term Transform change in their circumstances, or for whom a change can be observed, as a result of the improvements made (e.g. gained employment as a result of improved literacy). 55 Our employees Our employees This information should be read in conjunction with the contracts to fill positions on an interim basis. information contained in the “UBS and Society” and “Our – Also, 32,140 external staff were active at the end of 2017, employees” sections above. primarily in technology, operations and premises-related roles. Not all would have been onsite at any one time. The UBS workforce in 2017 – Switzerland is our largest cross-border importer of employees from other countries; China is our largest cross-border UBS reports in depth on its global workforce to enable a broad exporter. range of stakeholders to form a detailed picture of its philosophy – 1,380 employees changed business divisions in 2017; 648 and priorities as a high-quality employer and corporate citizen. changed regions. Our reporting covers the key statistics relevant to fulland parttime employees at all career stages, as well as basic data about UBS employees 2017 – by the numbers external staff who together rely on us to provide a safe, To give the most accurate view of our global and diverse respectful, collaborative workplace. workforce, HR reporting considers a person (working full time or part time) as one headcount. This accounts for the total UBS Our workforce at a glance1 employee number of 62,558 as of 31 December 2017 (respectively 60,785 as of 31 December 2016), which excludes As of 31 December 2017, we had 61,253 employees (full-time staff from UBS Card Center, Hotel Seepark Thun, Wolfsberg and equivalents/FTEs), 1,866 FTEs more than in 2016. This included the Widder Hotel. The following tables are all reported on this Swiss apprentices on three-year limited contracts who received basis, unless otherwise specified. The percentages in the tables equivalent benefits to permanent employees. An additional may not total 100 due to rounding. 2,774 FTEs were employed through third parties on short-term 1 All data was calculated on/as of 12/31/17, unless otherwise noted. 56 UBS employees: full-time and part-time employees Employees: full time / part time 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Number % Number % MALE Full Time 36,781 96% 35,954 96% Part Time 1,380 4% 1,332 4% Total 38,161 100% 37,286 100% FEMALE Full Time 20,650 85% 19,738 84% Part Time 3,747 15% 3,761 16% Total 24,397 100% 23,499 100% Grand Total 62,558 60,785 UBS employees: permanent and “limited employment period“ employees (by gender and by region) Employees: employment term / region 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Number % Number % AMERICAS Permanent 21,032 100% 20,795 100% Limited Term 0 0% 0 0% Total 21,032 100% 20,795 100% APAC Permanent 8,987 99% 7,560 99% Limited Term 58 1% 71 1% Total 9,045 100% 7,631 100% EMEA Permanent 11,433 100% 11,089 100% Limited Term 1 0% 3 0% Total 11,434 100% 11,092 100% SWITZERLAND Permanent 19,750 94% 19,938 94% Limited Term 1,297 6% 1,329 6% Total 21,047 100% 21,267 100% Grand Total 62,558 60,785 Employees: employment term / gender 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Number Number MALE Permanent 37,372 98% 36,462 98% Limited Term 789 2% 824 2% Total 38,161 100% 37,286 100% FEMALE Permanent 23,830 98% 22,920 98% Limited Term 567 2% 579 2% Total 24,397 100% 23,499 100% Grand Total 62,558 60,785 57 Our employees UBS employees: external hires External hires by age group 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Number % Number % Under 30 4,469 45% 3,616 46% Between 30 and 50 4,820 49% 3,790 48% Over 50 592 6% 480 6% Grand Total 9,881 100% 7,886 100% External hires by gender 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Number % Number % Male 5,748 58% 4,493 57% Female 4,133 42% 3,393 43% Grand Total 9,881 100% 7,886 100% External hires by region 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Number % Number % AMERICAS 2,601 26% 2,379 30% APAC 2,746 28% 1,489 19% EMEA 2,184 22% 1,887 24% SWITZERLAND 2,350 24% 2,131 27% Grand Total 9,881 100% 7,886 100% 58 UBS employees: employee turnover Turnover by age group 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 % % Under 30 20% 23% Between 30 and 50 12% 13% Over 50 11% 12% Grand Total 14% 14% Turnover by gender 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 % % Male 13% 14% Female 14% 16% Grand Total 14% 14% Turnover by region 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 % % Americas 12% 13% APAC 17% 20% EMEA 16% 16% Switzerland 12% 13% Grand Total 14% 14% Note: The turnover rate is calculated by dividing the number of employees who left by the total number of employees at the beginning of the period. UBS employees: age group Employees by age group 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 % % Under 30 19% 18% Between 30 and 50 59% 60% Over 50 22% 22% Grand Total 100% 100% 59 Our employees UBS employees: employee category (rank group) Distribution by employee category and gender 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Number % Number % Officers (Director and above) Male 17,986 76% 18,021 77% Female 5,651 24% 5,432 23% Total 23,637 100% 23,453 100% Officers (other officers) Male 13,046 60% 12,100 60% Female 8,716 40% 8,165 40% Total 21,762 100% 20,265 100% Employee rank Male 7,129 42% 7,165 42% Female 10,030 58% 9,902 58% Total 17,159 100% 17,067 100% Grand Total 62,558 60,785 Distribution by employee category and age group 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Number % Number % Officers (Director and above) Under 30 124 1% 125 1% Between 30 and 50 16,272 69% 16,425 70% Over 50 7,241 31% 6,903 29% Total 23,637 100% 23,453 100% Officers (other officers) Under 30 3,276 15% 2,870 14% Between 30 and 50 14,602 67% 13,640 67% Over 50 3,884 18% 3,755 19% Total 21,762 100% 20,265 100% Employee rank Under 30 8,280 48% 7,921 46% Between 30 and 50 6,104 36% 6,340 37% Over 50 2,775 16% 2,806 16% Total 17,159 100% 17,067 100% Grand Total 62,558 60,785 60 UBS employees: average training days (gender) Training by gender Average training days 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Female 2.34 2.24 Male 2.32 2.46 Grand Total 2.33 2.38 UBS employees: average training days (rank group) Training by rank group Average training days 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Officers (Director and above) 2.64 2.65 Officers (other officers) 1.91 1.98 Employee rank 2.44 2.48 Grand Total 2.33 2.38 UBS employees: parental leave taken Parental leave taken (by gender) 2017 2016 Male 1,907 1,967 Female 2,901 2,799 Total 4,808 4,766 All employees are entitled to take parental leave as indicated in their local HR policies. This table shows parental leave as recorded in the UBS HRi system; data aggregation is subject to limitations such as the disparate definitions and permutations of parental leave across the firm and the various leave and absence tools used in the 50+ countries in which we operate. 61 Our sustainability track record Our sustainability track record 1954 Beginnings of Community Affairs at Wealth Management US 1962 Establishment of Union Bank of Switzerland’s 100th anniversary foundation (since 1999: UBS Culture Foundation) 1971 Launch of A Helping Hand from UBS Employees (UBS Mitarbeiter helfen) in Switzerland 1972 Establishment of Swiss Bank Corporation’s 100-year anniversary foundation (since 1999: UBS Foundation for Social Issues and Education) 1978 Beginnings of Community Affairs in EMEA Establishment of first energy functional unit 1982 Co-founding member of Business in the Community in the UK 1988 First bank in Switzerland with the position of environmental officer 1989 First formal energy guidelines 1992 Among the first signatories of the United Nations Environment Programme bank declaration (UNEP FI) 1993 Introduction of first environmental policy 1994 Publication of first environmental report and introduction of environmental credit assessment procedure for Swiss corporate clients 1995 Introduction of employee volunteering at Wealth Management US and of matched-giving scheme for London employees 1996 Launch of first cohesive and branded Community Affairs program, “Tomorrow’s Adults“ 1997 Launch of Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Funds Establishment of the Investment Bank Community Affairs in Stamford (monetary and in-kind donations, and employee volunteering). 1998 Merger of Union Bank of Switzerland and Swiss Bank Corporation to create UBS 1999 Founding member of Wolfsberg Group First bank to obtain ISO 14001 certification for worldwide environmental management system in banking business and launch of Environmental Risk Policy in the Investment Bank Establishment of UBS Optimus Foundation 2000 UBS among first companies to sign UN Global Compact Wolfsberg Group Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Principles for Private Banking (revised 2002) UBS commences reporting on corporate responsibility in Annual Report 2001 Establishment of Corporate Responsibility Committee, a Board of Directors committee, and publication of first Corporate Responsibility section in Annual Report Establishment of a Global Diversity Steering Committee within the Investment Bank Founding member of European Social Investment Forum (Eurosif) Wolfsberg Group Commitment against Terrorism Employee volunteering time-off policy introduced for London employees 2002 Wolfsberg Group Statement on Fight against Financing of Terrorism and AML Principles for Correspondent Banking Launch of group-wide Diversity initiative Founding signatory of CDP (originally known as Carbon Disclosure Project) Commencement of joint Wealth Management and Investment Bank Community Affairs in Chicago Expansion of in-house environmental program to Corporate Services outside Switzerland 2003 First financial services firm to formally register interest as an academy sponsor in the UK (leads to the opening of the The Bridge Academy, Hackney, in 2007) Institution of NGO communications and analysis function 62 2004 Establishment of SRI Equity Research in the Investment Bank 2005 Establishment of coordination function for Community Affairs in Switzerland Setting up of UBS Tsunami Relief Fund UBS commences social reporting in Annual Report (section on employees) 2006 Introduction of climate strategy Adoption of UBS Statement on Human Rights Wolfsberg Group releases Investment Banking FAQs, Guidance for Mutual Funds and Pooled Vehicles, Correspondent Banking FAQs and Guidance on the Risk Based Approach 2007 Establishment of SRI Research in Global WMBB Wolfsberg Group Statement against Corruption and Wolfsberg Group Statement on Transparency in International Payments First company-wide volunteering at Wealth Management US 2008 Introduction of group-wide Responsible Supply Chain Guideline Wolfsberg Group Revised PEP FAQs 2009 UBS applies Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework to its 2008 non-financial disclosure UBS’s Sustainability Disclosure 2008 meets the requirements of level A+ of the GRI (continued in subsequent years) UBS Global Asset Management becomes a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 2010 Launch of UBS’s new Code of Business Conduct & Ethics Publication of UBS Position on Controversial Activities 2011 Convener of Thun Group of Banks on banking of human rights Establishment of UBS Environmental & Social Risk Committee Awarded with UK Big Society Award (established by the UK Prime Minister) 2012 UBS celebrates its 150th anniversary Setting up of the UBS International Center of Economics in Society at the University of Zurich Global roll-out of the Investment Bank’s environmental, social and governance (ESG) Analyzer 2013 Thun Group launches discussion paper on banking and human rights Renewal of climate strategy 2014 Introduction of UBS Environmental and Human Rights Policy Launch of UBS and Society, UBS’s sustainability organization Publication of UBS’s comprehensive Environmental and Social Risk framework document UBS’s Sustainability Disclosure 2013 meets the requirements of GRI G4 comprehensive 2015 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) industry group leadership 2016 DJSI industry group leadership maintained Introduction of UBS and Society Policy (replacing and expanding upon UBS Environmental and Human Rights Policy) 2017 DJSI industry group leadership maintained for third year running UBS and Society constitutional document (replaces UBS and Society policy) UBS unveils a blueprint for channeling private wealth towards the UN SDGs at the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting in Davos UBS joins UN working group on TFCD implementation to help banks disclose their exposures to climate-related risks and opportunities → Refer to w ww .ubs.com/ history for further information on the history of UBS 63 Assurance and certification Assurance and certification Independent assurance report by EY 64 65 Assurance and certification ISO 14001 certificate rise to an environmental impact. It is externally audited annually and re-certified every three years. UBS is globally certified according to the international These comprehensive audits verify that appropriate policies environmental management standard ISO 14001. and processes are in place to manage environmental issues, and In 1999, UBS was the first bank to obtain ISO 14001 that they are executed in day-to-day practice. certification for its worldwide environmental management In 2017 UBS successfully passed the ISO 14001 surveillance system. The management system covers the entire scope of audit on its environmental management system. UBS's products, services and in-house operations that may give 66 67 Assurance and certification ISO 50001 certificate 68 69 Appendix Appendix Our Code of Conduct and Ethics In this Code, the Board of Directors and the Group Executive Ignorance of the Code is no excuse Board set out the principles and practices that define our ethical As part of our training, everyone hears about the standards in standards and the way we do business. the Code and learns how to apply them. But we also strongly By following it, we will foster an ethical culture where encourage you to read the Code and get to know it. Not responsible behavior is second nature. We will protect our most knowing the Code is no excuse for violating it. important asset – our reputation. And, ultimately, we will create lasting value for our shareholders. The Code sets the standards Our Board is fully behind the Code – and needs the whole that help us to make that happen. business to be behind it, too It is based on three Principles: client focus, which is about The Code has the full backing of the Board of Directors and building relationships that create long-term value, focusing on Group Executive Board. And every one of us needs to make sure investment returns and anticipating and managing conflicts of our day-to-day actions and decisions follow the standards set interest; excellence in everything from our products and services out here. Above all, we must put the interests of UBS, our clients to how we collaborate across the firm to deliver the best of what and our shareholders above our own. UBS has to offer; and sustainable performance, which is about Of course, the Code cannot cover every possible situation. So working continuously to strengthen our reputation as a rockif you find yourself dealing with something unexpected, use your solid firm and provide consistent returns for shareholders. judgment and get guidance or help. It is essential that we all follow these Principles. In short, if we do business in the right way, we will be a better business, and an Thank you for your support. even more successful one. Axel A. Weber The Code applies to everything and everyone Chairman of the Board of Directors The Code covers our dealings with stakeholders, clients, counterparties, shareholders, regulators and business partners – Sergio P. Ermotti and each other. And it is the basis for all our policies, guidelines Group Chief Executive Officer and procedures. 70 Laws, rules and regulations Tax matters We follow all the laws, rules, regulations and treaties around tax Obeying the law that apply to us, all over the world – not just to the letter, but in We obey the laws, rules and regulations where we live, work their true spirit. We pay and report all taxes due. We report and do business – as well as our own UBS policies, guidelines information relating to our own tax position and that of our and procedures. clients and employees as required. And we cooperate with our regulators, being open and We will not help our clients avoid paying the tax that they transparent in our dealings with them. owe or reporting their income and gains, nor will we support any transactions where we know or shall presume that the tax Cross-border business outcome is dependent on unrealistic assumptions or the hiding When we are working across borders, we obey all pertinent of facts. laws, rules and regulations – both at home and abroad. If we are selling to, buying from, visiting or dealing with Behaving responsibly and ethically clients from outside our home country, it is our job to understand what rules, laws or policies apply – and follow Values and ethics them. We don’t just follow the laws, rules and regulations in everything we do. We do what is right. We don’t just ask Fair dealing and fair competition ourselves whether what we’re doing is legal, but whether it fits We succeed by outperforming our competitors fairly and with our three UBS Behaviors: integrity, collaboration and honestly, not by resorting to unfair or underhand tactics. challenge. We don’t stretch, distort or try to hide the facts or the truth. Nor do we use information we are not meant to have to gain an Client relationships unfair advantage over competitors. We look after our clients for the long term, winning their loyalty We act fairly, honestly and in good faith with everyone we by earning their trust. deal with: our clients, business partners, competitors, suppliers, We try to anticipate what our clients are going to need before the public and each other. they ask. We go out of our way to give them an exceptional And we respect all the laws, rules and regulations that are service. We make sure our products and services are adequate designed to create a level playing field for all – including for our clients and are sold in a way that is not detrimental to antitrust and competition laws. their interests. And we treat them fairly, and with the same courtesy and Fighting crime respect, however large or small they may be. We have a duty to contribute to the integrity of the financial system, as well as our own business. Conflicts of interest So we do whatever we can to combat money laundering, We put our clients’ best interests before our own – and UBS’s corruption and terrorist financing – including imposing global interests before our personal interests. And we never let UBS’s sanctions in line with our policy. or our personal interests influence our advice to a client, or our dealings with them. Money laundering We have systems to identify and manage potential conflicts We have rigorous systems in place to detect, report and stop any of interest. And as soon as we do identify any such conflicts, we suspected money laundering. raise them immediately with our line manager or with Legal or Compliance & Operational Risk Control. Corruption We have zero tolerance for corruption or any kind of bribery, including so-called “facilitation payments.” We don’t offer or accept improper gifts or payments in the course of our business. Criminal activity We carry out due diligence and keep a constant lookout for any suspicious activities, reporting them to senior management as soon as we discover them. And we follow strict know-yourcustomer regulations. 71 Appendix Sharing, using and storing information Creating the right culture Reporting and information sharing Diversity and equal opportunity When we share or report anything, especially financial We believe that people from different backgrounds, with information – to either the public or our regulators – we take different thoughts and opinions, make us a stronger business. great care to make sure it is accurate, up to date and as easy to They bring us valuable new ideas, approaches and experiences. understand as it can be (and in line with any legal or regulatory Regardless of their status, everyone has the same chance to requirements and best practice). get ahead at UBS – whatever their ethnicity, gender, national We maintain an internal control framework that is designed origin, age, ability, sexual orientation or religion. And we work to support the preparation and fair representation of to create a culture where everyone feels they are welcome, consolidated financial statements in accordance with respected and that they are a valuable part of our team – International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and that are whatever part of UBS they work in. free from material misstatement. We do not tolerate any kind of discrimination, bullying or Based on their audit work, our independent external auditors harassment. And we encourage each other to speak up and express an opinion on our internal controls over financial report it through clear channels, without fear of reprisals. reporting as well as on the financial statements themselves. Our internal audit function often provides support to our external Performance and professionalism auditors in discharging their responsibilities, and also assesses Our professionalism, integrity and pursuit of excellence are how the adherence to our strategy and the effectiveness of our we create value for our clients and shareholders. So our governance, risk management and control processes. compensation system is designed to reward long-term performance – not short-term gains. Inside information We know that our business is only as strong as our people. So We never use inside information (material information that is not we work hard to create a working environment where talent can public) to do anything other than what it thrive and reach its full potential. was given to us for in the first place. Having made every effort to ascertain whether information is Protecting our assets inside information, we only ever share such information on a We keep UBS’s assets safe and secure – from sensitive, need-to-know basis. That applies to people inside and outside confidential information about our business, plans and people to UBS, in line with our internal procedures, as well as any relevant our intellectual property, systems and equipment, as well as laws, rules and regulations. documents, information and other materials belonging to others that are entrusted or made available to us. That means making Client confidentiality sure that these assets are handled properly and used in line with Our clients trust us to keep the information they’ve shared with relevant laws and regulations and doing what we can to prevent us safe and secure and only use it in the ways we’ve agreed with them from being lost, stolen, damaged or misused. We retain them. data to fulfill regulatory retention and legal hold obligations. We follow the highest standards of information security to We will not use such assets for non-UBS business or for our keep our client information confidential and to protect own personal advantage. legitimate client privacy rights. We have strict data security standards and procedures designed to prevent data being Health and safety tampered with, seen or used by the wrong people, stolen, lost or We never do anything that might put people in danger or harm destroyed. them in any way – whether they’re colleagues, clients, partners, We never share our clients’ details with anyone, unless we competitors, visitors or anyone else. have their express permission to do so – or where we have a We keep our workplaces safe by following health and safety legal duty to share it with the relevant authorities. And even rules. Doing this makes sure we have safe and healthy working within UBS, we will only share client details with those conditions in which our dignity is respected. colleagues who genuinely need to see it to serve our clients’ best interests. 72 Society and the environment Upholding the Code Integrating financial and societal performance From our Board of Directors down, we live up to this Code at all We integrate financial and societal performance for the mutual times, with no exceptions. benefit of our clients and our firm. UBS will not accept any justification or excuse for breaking it, So we’re constantly looking for better ways to do business in whatever the reason – whether for profit, convenience or an environmentally sound and socially responsible manner. competitive advantage or because a client or someone else That includes monitoring, managing and reducing any asked for it. negative impact we might have on the environment and on human rights. It means managing social and environmental risks Changes to the Code that our own and our clients’ assets are exposed to. And it The Code defines the way we do business. It is reviewed means looking for sustainable investment opportunities, for regularly to make sure it is consistent with the rest of our ourselves and our clients. policies, as well as the law. Whenever there’s a change, a notice goes to every employee. Investing in our communities We constantly look for ways to contribute to the well-being of Performance reviews our local communities – by supporting charitable activities Each of us declares that we have not breached the Code, as part financially and non-financially, including through our of our annual performance review. volunteering efforts. Whistle-blowing Violating the Code We immediately report any potential violations to our line manager or local compliance officer. We can also report them Disciplinary procedures confidentially to our Legal or Compliance & Operational Risk Anyone who breaks the rules (whether it is our Code, UBS Control teams, using whistle-blowing procedures. policies or outside laws, rules and regulations) will face serious UBS will never punish or reprimand anyone who reports these consequences – from reprimands and warnings to demotions or kinds of breaches or violations in good faith. dismissal. And UBS expects its line managers to escalate and report any This includes not only the person who broke the rules, but violations of laws, rules, regulations, policies, professional also their line manager and anyone who knew about it but did standards and the principles of the Code. not report it. And where someone has broken the law, we will not hesitate Questions about the Code to report them to the relevant authorities. Any questions about any part of this Code, or what it means in practice, should go to the Group General Counsel or the Global Head of Compliance & Operational Risk Control. 73 Appendix Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee Excerpt from The Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG (Annex C – Charter for the Committees of the Board of Directors of UBS Group AG, p. 37) Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee 7.1 The CCRC supports the Board in its duties to safeguard and advance the Group’s reputation for In general responsible and sustainable conduct. Its function is forward-looking in that it monitors and reviews societal trends and transformational developments and assesses their potential relevance for the Group. In undertaking this assessment, it reviews stakeholder concerns and expectations pertaining to the societal performance of UBS and to the development of its corporate culture. The CCRC’s function also encompasses the monitoring of the current state and implementation of the programs and initiatives within the Group pertaining to corporate culture and corporate responsibility. 7.2 The CCRC’s responsibilities and authorities are to: Responsibilities (i) General: and authorities (a) monitor and advise the Board on current and emerging societal trends and developments of potential relevance for the Group; (b) review and assess the current state and implementation of the corporate culture and corporate responsibility programs and initiatives within the Group; and (c) monitor the consistent application of the behaviors of integrity, challenge and collaboration within UBS; (ii) Policies and regulations: (a) monitor and advise the Board on evolving external corporate culture and corporate responsibility regulations, standards and practices; (b) review the Code of Conduct and Ethics of UBS and make proposals for amendments to the Board; and (c) review and oversee that policies and guidelines of UBS pertaining to corporate culture and corporate responsibility are relevant and up to date; (iii) Strategy: (a) monitor the effectiveness of actions taken by UBS relating to the corporate culture and responsibility regulations and policies as well as objectives of UBS; (b) support the GEB, if required, in the adjustment of processes pertaining to corporate culture and responsibility; (c) approve UBS and Society's overall strategy and annual objectives and (d) support a strong and responsible corporate culture firmly founded in a spirit of longterm thinking; (iv) Programs and initiatives: oversee UBS’s corporate culture and corporate responsibility programs and initiatives, including: (a) UBS and Society; (b) sustainable and impact investing and philanthropy; (c) anti-corruption, anti-terrorist financing and anti-money laundering; (d) environmental and social (including human rights) risk management; (e) climate change; (f) diversity and inclusion; (g) health and safety; (h) in-house environmental management; (i) responsible supply chain management; and (j) community affairs; and (v) Communications: (a) advise the Board on the reporting of the Group’s corporate culture and responsibility strategy and activities, review the employees and UBS and Society sections of the Group’s annual report, and provide oversight of the annual UBS sustainability disclosure assurance audit process; and (b) monitor and review communications with stakeholders on corporate culture and corporate responsibility (including with relevant organizations and with sustainability rating and ranking bodies) and their effectiveness with regard to the reputation of the Group. 74 UBS and Society constitutional document Our Commitment – We apply an environmental and social risk (ESR) framework to identify and manage potential adverse impacts to the UBS is committed to creating long term positive impact for environment and to human rights, as well as, the associated clients, employees, investors and society. We plan to continue to environmental and social risks our clients' and our own assets go beyond our duty to protect the environment, respect human are exposed to. UBS's comprehensive ESR standards are rights, continually improve our systems to become more efficient aligned with UBS and Society, govern client and supplier and effective, and ensure responsible behavior in all aspects of relationships, and are enforced firm-wide and applied to all our operations. We strive to maximize positive outcomes in a activities proactive, purposeful, and accountable manner. Our goal is to – We set quantitative targets to reduce group-wide greenhouse be the financial provider of choice for clients wishing to drive gas emissions and the environmental impact of our financial capital towards investments that support the operations. Environmental programs include investments in achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and sustainable real estate and efficient information technology, the transition to a low carbon economy. Our cross divisional energy and water efficiency, paper and waste reduction and organization, UBS and Society, focuses our firm on this direction. recycling, the use of environmentally friendly products (such UBS and Society covers all the activities and capabilities as renewable energy or recycled paper), business travel and related to sustainable investing, philanthropy, environmental and employee commuting. UBS aims to reduce negative human rights policies governing client and supplier relationships, environmental and social impacts of goods and services it our environmental footprint, as well as, community investment. purchases and engages with suppliers to promote responsible Our ambition is to be: practices – A leader in sustainable investing for private clients – Awareness and expertise play an important role in – A leader in sustainable investing for institutional clients implementing our goals. UBS promotes its employees' – A recognized innovator and thought leader in philanthropy understanding of the goals and actions of UBS and Society – An industry leader in sustainability through a wide range of training and awareness raising activities and performance management We intend to make sustainable performance the standard across our firm and part of every client conversation. This means How we support clients that we will focus on the long term and work to provide appropriate returns to all of our stakeholders in a responsible UBS aims to be a leader in sustainable investing for private manner. In addition, we are transparent about our targets and clients and for institutional clients, as well as, a recognized progress wherever possible to demonstrate our commitment. innovator for driving global philanthropy. This means: – We strive to systematically incorporate the economic impacts Scope of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues into This document defines the principles and responsibilities for the research, advice, as well as, products and services we promoting this commitment in how we do business, how we provide to clients support clients, and how we support communities. Banking – We support corporate and institutional clients who want to activities, in-house operations, supply chain management and generate positive environment and social impact using our our firm's community interaction are subject to and must be corporate advisory expertise or by directing capital through conducted in compliance with this commitment. our lending or investment capacity – We assist private and institutional clients in their desire to Principles invest in accordance with their own social and environmental The following principles define how UBS and Society promotes objectives, in their invested funds, and will be pro-active in the implementation of its aspiration of being a leader in discussing these issues with them sustainability in the financial industry through three pillars; how – As a preferred partner for global philanthropists, we work we do business, how we support clients, and how we support towards achieving the United Nation's ambitious Sustainable communities. Development Goals (SDGs). Our experts and in house foundation offer clients access to social and financial How we do business innovation, philanthropic advice, as well as, tailored program design, co-funding and co-development opportunities – We report openly and transparently about UBS and Society, and seek to maintain open dialogue and active communications with our stakeholders 75 Appendix How we support communities and is composed of divisional, APAC, and Group COO EC members, as well as, UBS and Society EC members. OC At UBS, we recognize that our long-term success depends on members are nominated by their respective GEB members the health and prosperity of the communities of which we are and/or the Head of UBS and Society, and ensure plan and part. Our approach is to build sustainable and successful objective sign off by them. partnerships with non-profit organizations and social enterprises The Global Environmental & Social Risk Committee to ensure that our contributions have a lasting impact. Our defines an ESR framework and independent controls that align Community Affairs programs seek to overcome disadvantage UBS's environmental and social risk appetite with that of UBS through long-term investment in education and and Society. It is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, who is entrepreneurship in the communities within which we operate. responsible for the development and implementation of Through local execution and partnerships which operate under a principles and appropriate independent control frameworks for global framework and with coordination across regions, we environmental and social risks within UBS. endeavor to deliver business and community impact by: The Business Divisions are responsible for developing, – Identifying innovative and high quality programs that are providing resources to, and executing the UBS and Society aligned to the business and providing them focused financial annual objectives in their division as they relate to client and human support to maximize impact, including through relationships, product development, investment management, the use of skills based employee volunteering programs, and distribution and risk management. with client participation where appropriate The Regions are responsible for developing, providing – Playing a role in the stewardship of a healthy social and resources to, and executing objectives in their region relating to financial future for our communities, working in partnership Community Affairs, within the global framework of UBS and with clients, as well as, the public and philanthropic sectors Society. The Corporate Center is responsible for developing, Responsibilities and Structure providing resources to, and executing UBS and Society annual objectives as they relate to risk control, in-house environmental The Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee and supply chain management, and communications. (CCRC)1 supports the Board in its duties to safeguard and advance the Group’s reputation for responsible and sustainable Reporting and Controls conduct. It monitors UBS and Society's overall strategy and annual objectives, reviews that the UBS and Society Our commitment is implemented through a firm-wide constitutional document is relevant and up to date, and oversees management system steered by defined measurable objectives. the program's annual management review. Their achievement is reviewed on a semi-annual basis by the The Group CEO proposes the UBS and Society strategy and Head of UBS and Society, and on an annual basis by the annual objectives to the CCRC, supervises their execution, and Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee. informs the Group Executive Board (GEB) and Corporate Culture Progress made in implementing UBS and Society is reported and Responsibility Committee (CCRC) as appropriate. as part of UBS's annual reporting. This reporting is reviewed and The Head UBS and Society is UBS's senior level assured externally according to the requirements of the Global representative for environmental and sustainability issues. He or Reporting Initiative's (GRI) sustainability reporting guideline. she is nominated by the Group CEO, chairs UBS and Society UBS is certified according to ISO 14001, the international Operating Committee, is a member of the Global Environmental environmental management standard. This certificate attests Social Risk Committee, and is a permanent guest to the CCRC. that UBS's management system is an appropriate tool for He or she develops the UBS and Society strategy, leads in its evaluating compliance with the relevant environmental execution, and submits annual objectives to the CEO, as well as, regulations, achieving self-defined environmental objectives, and a management review to the CCRC. He or she is supported by maintaining continual improvement of environmental the UBS and Society Executive Committee (EC) in this effort. performance. The UBS and Society Operating Committee (OC) ensures The implementation of our commitment and principles, as execution of UBS and Society strategy across divisions and laid out in this document, are a process of continual regions. The Committee is chaired by the Head UBS and Society improvement. 1 Details of the responsibilities and authorities of the CCRC are set out in Annex C of the Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG 76 Standard Information human rights infringements. Environmental and social risks can also arise if UBS's operational activities and its employees (or The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) contractors working on behalf of UBS) fail to operate within In September 2015, with the support of 193 nations, the United relevant environmental and human rights regulations. Nations launched the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Environmental and social risks may result in adverse financial and Development to end poverty, combat climate change, and fight reputation impacts for UBS. injustice. Seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) went into effect in January 2016 to address global socio economic Sustainable Investments imbalances threatening the lives of people living in developing Sustainable investing is an approach that seeks to incorporate economies and the future of generations to come. environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations into investment decisions. Sustainable investing strategies seek to Environmental and social risk (ESR) achieve one or several of the following goals: achieve a positive Environmental and social risks are broadly defined as the environmental or social impact, align investments with an possibility that UBS supports clients, or sources from suppliers, investor's personal values, and/or improve portfolio risk and who cause or contribute to severe environmental damage or return characteristics. 77 Appendix Environment and social risk policy framework Comprehensive, Highest Industry Standards, Deeply As a global company, and the world’s largest wealth manager, Rooted in our Culture UBS is in a unique position to help address these challenges, both together with our clients and through our own efforts. Our principles and standards clearly define how we want to Our comprehensive environmental and social risk do things at UBS. They apply to all aspects of our business and framework is deeply rooted in our culture: the ways in which we engage with our stakeholders. Our Code • it governs client and supplier relationships and applies of Conduct and Ethics documents our corporate responsibility. firm-wide to all activities Our work in key societal areas such as protecting the • meets the highest industry standards as recognized environment and respecting human rights are part of this. Living by environmental, social, governance ratings up to our societal responsibilities contributes to the wider goal of sustainable development. As a global firm we take • is integrated in management practices and control responsibility to lead the debate on important societal topics, principles and overseen at the most senior level of our contribute to the setting of standards and collaborate in and firm. beyond our industry. Managing environmental and social risks is a key component This framework is aligned with our UBS and Society organization of our corporate responsibility. We apply an environmental and that coordinates all our activities and capabilities in sustainable social risk policy framework to all our activities. This helps us investing (SI) and philanthropy, environmental and human rights identify and manage potential adverse impacts to the environpolicies governing client and supplier relationships, our own ment and to human rights, as well as the associated risks environmental footprint, as well as our firm’s community affecting our clients and us. We have set standards in product investment. development, investments, financing and for supply chain management decisions. We have identified certain controversial Introduction activities we will not engage in, or will only engage in under We live in a world that is more interconnected, more interdestringent criteria. As part of this process we engage with clients pendent and more interactive than ever before. Rapid technoand suppliers to better understand their processes and policies logical advances in particular continue to have a profound effect and to explore how any environmental and social risks may be on the economic, political, cultural, environmental and social mitigated. landscape. These advances have changed the way we think and The foundation of UBS’s environmental and social risk policy act. They have altered the way we do business. framework is established in the Code of Conduct and Ethics of They have transformed the products and services we consume, UBS and the UBS and Society Constitutional Document. and reshaped the perceptions of the world around us. While this has brought with it significant benefits and opportunities, it has also created far greater awareness of the challenges we all face. 78 Our focus We recognize that this transition will take time and that fossil Our industry is playing an increasingly active role in addressing fuels will be the dominant energy source for some time to come. global issues such as human rights and the protection of our Nevertheless, we are determined to understand the risks that environment. Climate change impacts ecosystems, societies, and our clients’, and our own, assets are exposed to in the context economies worldwide, and we support clients achieving their of uncertain policy and technology developments. goals in support of the transition to a low-carbon economy. We focus our climate change strategy on risk management, Growing environmental and human rights concerns have resulted investments, financing, research and our own operations. We in a fast-changing regulatory and competitive landscape which is are committed to: affecting our firm, our suppliers and our clients. In response to – supporting renewable energy and clean tech transactions; these emerging risks and opportunities, we are shaping – not financing new coal-fired power plant projects in highappropriate solutions and commitments. income OECD countries; Twenty-five years ago, UBS was one of the first financial – only financing new coal-fired projects outside high-income institutions to sign the United Nations Environment ProOECD countries that use high-efficiency, low-emissions gramme’s “Statement by Financial Institutions on the Environtechnologies; ment and Sustainable Development”. We were also among the – only supporting other types of transactions of existing coalfirst companies to endorse the UN Global Compact, we were an fired operators who have a strategy in place to reduce coal original signatory of the CDP, and our Asset Management dependency or who adhere to strict internationally recogbusiness is an Investment Manager signatory to the Principles nized greenhouse gas emissions standards; for Responsible Investment. – severely restricting lending and capital raising to the coal In 2000, our firm was a founding member of the Wolfsberg mining sector and not supporting coal mining companies Group of banks which was originally set up to promote good engaged in MTR operations; practice in combatting money laundering. In 2011, the firm was – securing 100% of our electricity from renewable sources by a driving force behind the establishment of the Thun Group of 2020, thereby reducing our own greenhouse gas footprint by Banks, which has in the meantime published two discussion 75% compared to 2004 levels. papers that seek to establish a framework to facilitate the identification of the key challenges and best practice examples We publicly support international, collaborative action against for the banking sector’s implementation of the UN Guiding climate change: Principles on business and human rights. We are a member of – Our Chairman is signatory to the European Financial Services the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, and joined its Round Table’s statement in support of a strong, ambitious complaints panel in 2014. Also in 2014, we endorsed the response to climate change. Banking Environment Initiative’s and Consumer Goods Forum’s – Our CEO is a member of the CEO Climate Leaders, an alliance “Soft Commodities” Compact which reconfirms our commitment mobilized by the World Economic Forum. to developing and implementing responsible business standards. – Our Head Sustainable Investors at Asset Management is Our UBS and Society Constitutional Document is member of the FSB Taskforce on Climate-related Financial implemented through our global management system. We Disclosures. regularly report on the progress we are making in our annual – We contributed a case study on our climate change stress reporting. This is reviewed and assured externally according to testing to the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leaderthe requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) ship’s report to the G20 Green Finance Study Group on Sustainability Reporting Guideline. UBS is certified according to research challenges and best practices around risk analysis. ISO 14001, the international environmental management – We have joined RE100, a global initiative to get the world’s standard. most influential companies to use only renewable power. – We support the CDP, as an investor member as well as a Climate change questionnaire respondent, in their aim to improve company Climate change is one of the most significant challenges of our disclosure of risks and opportunities related to natural time. The world’s key environmental and social challenges – such resources. as population growth, energy security, loss of biodiversity and access to drinking water and food – are all closely intertwined → Refer to the “How we do business” section of this document for with climate change. This makes the transition to a low-carbon the full climate change strategy economy vital. We support this transition through our comprehensive climate change strategy. 79 Appendix Forests and biodiversity UNGPs. Deforestation and forest degradation can cause biodiversity to To this end, in 2013, UBS co-launched the Thun Group of decline. As approximately 80% of the world’s documented Banks’ first discussion paper on banking and human rights species are found in tropical rainforests, deforestation will which aims to support banks in mapping and analyzing their impact global biodiversity. Deforestation is, in fact, second only own potential adverse impacts in relation to human rights, and to the energy sector as a source of global greenhouse gas also looks at related risks including reputational, legal, emissions and accounts for up to 20% of emissions, more than operational and financial risks. The Thun Group has since the entire global transport sector. continued its deliberations and the sharing of knowledge and It is further estimated that more than 50% of tropical deforideas. A second discussion paper, launched in January 2017, estation is due to the production of soy, palm oil, timber and explores the meaning and reaches of UNGP 13b in a corporate beef. In human terms, millions of people rely directly on forests and investment banking context, and provides additional (small-scale agriculture, hunting and gathering, and harvesting guidance around Principle 17. Both discussion papers are also forest products such as rubber). Yet, deforestation continues to intended to inform other pertinent initiatives, in the specific case cause severe societal problems, sometimes leading to violent of the second the OECD’s proactive agenda on Responsible conflict. Business Conduct. UBS is a member of the Advisory Group to the OECD’s project. Recognizing these risks, we: – became member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Recognizing these risks, we: in 2012 and joined its complaints panel in 2014. – established a UBS Position on human rights in 2006. In 2013, – endorsed the Banking Environment Initiative’s and Consumer we revised the firm’s Environmental and Social Risk Goods Forum’s “Soft Commodities” Compact. In doing so, Framework to formalize accountability for human rights we commit to support the transformation of soft commodity issues. supply chains by expecting producers to be fully certified – stipulated that we will not engage in commercial activities according to applicable sustainability certification schemes, that make use of child labor and forced labor, or that infringe such as the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, by 2020. We the rights of indigenous peoples (section Controversial Activities acknowledge that land acquired without adequate – Where UBS will not do business). consultation, compensation, and consideration of customary – will continue our work internally, and externally with the land rights (commonly referred to as land grabbing), can Thun Group of banks and the OECD, to understand how best significantly impact local communities: often smallholders to implement the UN Guiding Principles across our who primarily rely on subsistence farming to sustain their operations. livelihood. – have identified and will not engage in certain activities that Our standards contribute to deforestation and its related impacts (sections UBS has set standards in product development, investments, Controversial Activities – Where UBS will not do business and financing and supply chain management decisions, which Areas of Concern – Where UBS will only do business under include the stipulation of controversial activities and other areas stringent criteria). of concern UBS will not engage in, or will only engage in under stringent criteria. Human rights UBS is committed to respecting and promoting human rights in Controversial Activities – Where UBS will not do business all our business activities. We believe this is a responsible UBS will not knowingly provide financial or advisory services to approach underlining our desire to reduce as far as possible corporate clients whose primary business activity, or where the potentially negative impacts on society. Our commitment in this proposed transaction, is associated with severe environmental or important area is long-standing. In July 2000, UBS was one of social damage to or through use of: 43 companies that pledged to adhere to the UN Global – World heritage sites as classified by UNESCO; Compact’s Principles on human rights, labor standards and the – Wetlands on the Ramsar list; environment. – Endangered species of wild flora and fauna listed in AppenThe principles of the Global Compact, today the largest dix 1 of the Convention on International Trade in Endancorporate responsibility initiative globally, stem from the gered Species; Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor – High conservation value forests as defined by the six cateOrganization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights gories of the Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC); at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development – Illegal fire: uncontrolled and / or illegal use of fire for land and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. The clearance; United Nations took a significant step in 2011 by endorsing the – Illegal logging including purchase of illegal harvested timber Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). At (logs or roundwood); this point, UBS together with other banks decided to jointly – Child labor according to ILO-conventions 138 (minimum age) consider these developments and conclusions and to share and 182 (worst forms); experiences and ideas regarding the implementation of the – Forced labor according to ILO-convention 29; and 80 – Indigenous peoples’ rights in accordance with IFC PerforPower Generation mance Standard 7. – Coal-fired power plants (CFPP): We do not finance new coalThe same standards apply when UBS purchases goods or fired power plant projects in high-income OECD countries. services from suppliers. Outside highincome OECD countries, we only finance new In addition, UBS does not directly or indirectly finance the coal-fired projects that use high-efficiency, low-emissions development, production or purchase of controversial weapons (HELE) coal technologies, as defined by the International of such companies determined to fall within the “Swiss Federal Energy Agency or the International Finance Corporation. For Act on War Materials”. other types of transactions, we only support companies On the topic of cluster munitions and anti-personnel mines: operating coal-fired power plants if they have a strategy in UBS does not provide credit facilities to, nor conduct capital place to reduce coal dependency or who adhere to strict market transactions for companies that are involved in the internationally recognized greenhouse gas emission development, production or purchase of cluster munitions and standards. anti-personnel mines. UBS does not include securities of – Large dams: Transactions directly related to large dams affected companies in its actively-managed retail and instituinclude an assessment against the recommendations made by tional funds and in discretionary mandates. UBS draws upon the World Commission on Dams (WCD) and the International external expertise to decide whether a company is subject to the Hydropower Association Sustainability Assessment Protocol. restrictions imposed by Swiss law. – Nuclear power: Transactions directly related to the construction of new, or upgrading existing nuclear power plants Areas of Concern – Where UBS will only do business under include an assessment on whether the country of domicile of stringent criteria the client / operation has ratified the Treaty on the NonSpecific guidelines and escalation criteria apply to transactions Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. with corporate clients engaged in the areas of concern listed below. The guidelines and escalation criteria apply to loans, Extractives trade finance, securities and loan underwriting transactions, and – Hydraulic fracturing: Transactions with companies that investment banking advisory assignments. practice hydraulic fracturing in environmentally and socially Transactions in the areas listed below trigger an enhanced due sensitive areas are assessed against their commitment to and diligence and approval process. In addition to the assessment of certification of voluntary standards, such as the American regulatory compliance, adherence to UBS’s controversial Petroleum Institute’s documents and standards for hydraulic activities standards, past and present environmental and human fracturing. rights performance, as well as concerns of stakeholder groups, – Oil sands: Transactions directly related to oil sand assets these transactions require an assessment of the following (open pit and in situ operations) are assessed against the criteria: company’s commitment to reducing energy use, greenhouse gas emissions and land footprint, reclamation Soft commodities activities, tailings management, water management and – Palm oil: Companies must be a member of the Roundtable on community relationships, as well as commitment to and Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), and not subject to any certification of voluntary standards, e.g. good practice unresolved public criticism from the RSPO. Companies must according to the IPIECA-OGP Biodiversity Working Group, further have some level of mill or plantation certification and the IPIECA Water Management Good Practice Guidelines and be publicly committed to achieving full certification by 2020 membership to industry initiatives such as COSIA and SCI). (evidence must be available). – Arctic drilling: Transactions involving oil and gas exploration – Soy: Companies producing soy in markets at high risk of and development in the Arctic are assessed against the tropical deforestation must be a member of the Roundtable company’s safety management capacity and track record as on Responsible Soy (RTRS), and not subject to any unresolved well as adequacy of the company’s spill response plans. public criticism from the RTRS. Companies must further be – Coal mining: Since 2010 UBS’s overall exposure to coal mining publicly committed to achieving full certification by 2020 companies has declined markedly. UBS will continue to (evidence must be available). significantly limit its lending and capital raising engagement – Timber: Companies producing timber in markets at high risk with coal mining companies. The firm no longer enters into of tropical deforestation must seek to achieve full certification new lending commitments or raises capital for coal mining of its production by 2020 according to the Forest Stewardship companies that are involved in mountain top removal Council (FSC) or a national scheme endorsed against the 2010 operations. Previous commitments to such firms will be Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) allowed to mature and not extended. meta standard for timber products. – Precious metals: Transactions directly related to precious – Fish and seafood: Companies producing, processing or metals assets that have a controversial environmental and trading fish and seafood must provide credible evidence of no social risk track record are assessed against the client’s illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in its own commitment to and certification of voluntary standards, such production and supply chain. as the International Council on Mining & Metals ICMM, International Cyanide Management Code. 81 Appendix – Diamonds: Transactions with companies that mine and trade rights like proxy voting and engagement with the rough diamonds are assessed on the client’s commitment to management of investee entities. and certification of voluntary standards, such as the – Own operations: our operational activities and employees, or International Council on Mining & Metals ICMM, and rough contractors working on UBS premises, are assessed for diamonds must be certified under the Kimberley Process. compliance with relevant environmental, health and safety, and labor rights regulations. Our processes and governance – Supply chain management: environmental and social risks are UBS applies an environmental and social risk framework to all assessed when selecting and dealing with suppliers. UBS also transactions, products, services and activities such as lending, evaluates goods and services which pose potential capital raising, advisory services or investments that involve a environmental, labor and human rights risks during lifecycle party associated with environmentally or socially sensitive (production, usage, and disposal) as part of its purchasing activities. The framework seeks to identify and manage processes. potential adverse impacts to the environment and to human – Portfolio review: at portfolio level, we regularly review rights, as well as the financial and reputation risks of being sensitive sectors and activities prone to bearing environassociated with them. mental and social risks. We assess client exposure and revenue in such sectors and attempt to benchmark the Integration in risk, compliance and operations processes portfolio quality against regional and or sector averages. Procedures and tools for the identification, assessment and Such portfolio reviews give us an accurate aggregated monitoring of environmental and social risks are applied and exposure profile and an enhanced insight into our integrated into standard risk, compliance and operations transaction and client onboarding processes. Based on the processes. outcome of these reviews, we can explore ways to improve – Client onboarding: potential clients are assessed for the future portfolio profile along a range of risk parameters. environmental and social risks associated with their business activities as part of UBS’s know-your-client compliance Clients, transactions or suppliers potentially in breach of processes. UBS’s position, or otherwise subject to significant environmental – Transaction due diligence: environmental and social risks are and human rights controversies, are identified as part of UBS’s identified and assessed as part of standard transaction due standard risk and compliance processes. Advanced data analytics diligence and decision making processes in all business on companies associated with such risks is integrated into the divisions and relevant product lines. web-based compliance tool used by our staff before they enter – Product development and investment decision processes: new into a client or supplier relationship, or a transaction. The financial products and services are reviewed before their systematic nature of this tool significantly enhances our ability to launch in order to assess their compatibility and consistency identify potential risk. In 2017, 2170 referrals were assessed by with UBS’s environmental and human rights standards. our environmental and social risk unit, of which 80 were rejected Environmental and social risks are also considered in or not pursued, 395 were approved with qualifications and 18 investment decision processes and when exercising ownership were pending. Measures to optimize the control framework led to a 19% year-on-year decline in referrals. 82 Environmental and social risk assessments Environmental and social risk assessments For the year ended % change from 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 31.12.2016 Cases referred for assessment1 2,170 2,671 2,192 (19) by region Americas 305 395 295 (23) Asia Pacific 604 556 520 9 Europe, Middle East and Africa 253 341 257 (26) Switzerland 1,008 1,379 1,120 (27) by business division Wealth Management 485 429 396 13 Wealth Management Americas 22 20 20 10 Personal & Corporate Banking 795 1,226 980 (35) Asset Management 7 2 0 250 Investment Bank 852 971 776 (12) Corporate Center 2 9 23 20 (61) by sector Agribusiness3 291 330 190 (12) Chemicals 87 93 64 (6) Financial4 617 957 862 (36) Infrastructure 53 88 25 (40) Metals and mining 233 221 217 5 Oil and gas 207 263 235 (21) Technology5 140 143 112 (2) Transport 53 45 33 18 Utilities 191 221 147 (14) Other6 298 310 307 (4) by outcome approved7 1,677 2,308 1,732 (27) approved with qualifications8 395 262 373 51 rejected or not further pursued9 80 101 87 (21) pending10 18 0 0 1 Transactions and client onboarding requests referred to the environmental and social risk function. 2 Relates to procurement / sourcing of products and services. 3 Includes e.g. companies producing or processing fish and seafood, forestry products, biofuels, food and beverage. 4 Includes e.g. banks, commodity traders, investments and equity firms. 5 Includes technology and telecom companies. 6 Includes e.g. aerospace and defense, general industrials, retail and wholesale (from 2017). Note that financial, technology and transport sectors were previously included in 'Other' in 2016 and 2015 Annual Reports. Therefore, numbers of category 'Other' for the years 2016 and 2015 have been restated. 7 Client / transaction / supplier subject to an ESR assessment and considered in compliance with UBS's ESR framework. 8 Client / transaction / supplier subject to an ESR assessment and approved with qualifications. Qualifications may include ring-fencing of certain assets, conditions towards client / supplier or internal recommendations. 9 Client / transaction / supplier subject to an ESR assessment and rejected or not further pursued. 10 Decision pending. Pending cases 2016 have been closed and reallocated to the other outcome categories. 83 Appendix Escalation and approval processes environmental and social risk unit for enhanced due diligence. Where business or control functions responsible for identifying If identified risks are believed to pose potentially significant and assessing environmental and social risks as part of due environmental or social risks, they are escalated according to the diligence processes determine the existence of potential material firm’s reputation risk escalation process. risks, they refer the client, supplier or transaction to a specialized Environmental and social risk escalation process Step 4 • Global issues/risks are escalated to the Global ESR Committee Escalation to group level Global ESR Committee Step 3 • Potential ESR deemed significant are Regional senior management Escalation to regional level escalated to regional senior management Step 2 • Criteria determining escalation by ESR unit Referral to control function for include: enhanced assessment and advisory Environmental and social risk unit – Association of client/transaction/supplier with controversial activities – High level of ESR due to poor environmental and social performance of client/supplier Step 1 • Identify and assess ESR as part of the client, Business or control function supplier or transaction due diligence Risk identification and initial analysis process. Determine potential material ESR 84 Governance and oversight It is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, who is responsible In view of the many environmental and social challenges for the development and implementation of principles and globally, these topics will continue to increase in relevance for appropriate independent control frameworks for environmental banks. These developments therefore require regular and critical and social risks within UBS. assessment of our policies and practices, based on an accurate All corporate responsibility and sustainability developments at monitoring and analysis of societal topics of potential relevance UBS are monitored and reviewed by the UBS Corporate Culture to UBS. and Responsibility Committee, a Board of Director’s committee. This process is the responsibility of a committee at Group The Committee supports the Board in its duties to safeguard Executive Board-level, the Global Environmental and Social Risk and advance UBS’s reputation for responsible corporate Committee, which sets the overall risk appetite for the firm and conduct. In this capacity it reviews and monitors the resolves transactional and policy matters relating to environmental implementation of UBS’s ESR framework. and social risks and their associated reputation risks. 85 Appendix Health and safety statement UBS is committed to ensuring that all staff have a working – We actively promote an open and respectful work environment that protects their health, safety and environment. wellbeing. – We strive to ensure that our working environment is as safe In fact, our Code of Conduct & Ethics includes a as possible, including addressing issues such as protection of commitment to follow health and safety rules and non-smokers, radiation exposure risk assessments, etc. implement best practices to ensure as safe a workplace as – We have measures in place to mitigate potential emergencies possible. in the workplace and while travelling on business. We have health and safety guidelines that stress the – Travel and security experts, crisis management committees, importance of having a physical infrastructure and working first aid providers, health specialists, social counselors and environment that support our staff in performing up to their other specialists are available to employees. potential. As work patterns and employee expectations have – UBS has a range of services and programs (for example, our changed, UBS has taken a proactive approach to ensure that our Employee Assistance Programs, Social Counseling and online work spaces continue to meet the needs of our businesses, our support materials) to help employees navigate through staff, our clients and our business partners, while also meeting various personal issues, including health, family care, our legal obligations. addiction and dependency problems. UBS complies with all health and safety standards and – Workplace issues can also impact employee wellbeing. We restrictions imposed by applicable laws in all the countries in have appropriate routes for employees to raise any concerns, which we operate. We also apply internal policies and guidelines including documented grievance, complaint and – both globally and regionally – which may go beyond the legal whistleblowing processes. health and safety requirements. An environment without incidents or accidents is in Measures Taken to Ensure Health & Safety everyone's interests. In addition to applying our own health and – UBS provides information to employees on topical issues and safety measures, we ask third parties conducting business with initiatives. us or operating on our premises to consider health and safety – Our line managers help to maintain a safe and healthy work matters too, and all vendors and contractors are required to environment and UBS gives them the information, and comply with our health & safety guidelines when dealing with support that is relevant to their role. us. – We regularly review our health and safety activities to ensure All of our staff are expected to conduct themselves in a way issues are effectively managed and improvements are made that helps to ensure their own health and safety and that of where necessary. Our reviews also include employee their colleagues. consultation (where appropriate). Health & Safety Principles Health & Safety Governance – We aim to maintain a working environment that supports the Responsibility for the governance and review of health and general health and well-being of all staff. safety sits with the Group Chief Operating Officer and the – We build and maintain innovative work places that allow Group Head Human Resources. employees to work efficiently and collaboratively. Day-to-day responsibility for health and safety matters is – Our flexible working options (and our leave and benefit shared between Group Corporate Services and HR Reward. arrangements) are designed to support employees' work and The Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee has personal lives. oversight of health and safety matters. 86 UBS sustainability objectives and achievements 2017 and sustainability objectives 2018 Objectives and achievements 2017 UBS and Society How we do business Material GRI topics Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 FS Product Portfolio; Develop KPI(s) to measure success in the sustainable investing As part of the 2018 objective setting process a set of internal FS Active Ownership product progress in parallel to assets under management targets has been defined to measure progress in sustainable investing area. Various Embed understanding of UBS and Society purpose and aim Visibility of UBS and Society throughout UBS was increased throughout the firm (including linkage to UBS cultures and behaviors) 1. Integrate UBS and Society into senior management • UBS and Society was partly integrated into senior training management trainings (e.g. Optimus Foundation at Senior 2. Propose at least one question on UBS and Society into the Leadership Experience (SLE)) bi-annual employee survey, to better understand the link • UBS and Society was not included in the employee surveys between UBS culture, employee engagement and the UBS and Society Program Various Retain favorable position of key ESG ratings • Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI): Industry Group Leader and index member of DJSI World and DJSI Europe • MSCI Environmental, social and governance (ESG): A rating, top three among primary peer group • Sustainalytics: Leader score within our industry and 97th percentile ranking • CDP: Climate A List FS Product Portfolio; Pass 2017 ISO 14001 re-certification audit. ISO 14001 re-certification audit passed. In addition, UBS FS Active Ownership; received its first ISO 50001 certification (energy management) FS Audit; for its European locations. GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment; GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment ; 87 Appendix Material GRI topics Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 GRI 302: Energy; GRI 305: Emissions Various Further move UBS Annual Review towards integrated • UBS's journey toward integrated reporting was continued reporting via the Annual Review 2016 • Integrated reporting journey will continued via a web-only report (currently in the planning phase) GRI 201: Economic Supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy through Performance; our comprehensive climate change strategy: GRI 305: Emissions; 1. Evaluate emerging climate-related risk analysis and 1. Evaluate emerging climate-related risk analysis and GRI 302: Energy; disclosure: disclosure: Macroeconomic and political • Contribute to G20 Green Finance focus under Germany's • Swiss input to German presidency provided for Green environment; Operational presidency Finance Study Group (GFSG) meetings. Presented scenario efficiency; based climate change stress testing at two G20 GFSG GRI 308: Supplier events hosted by University of Cambridge Center for Environmental Assessment; Sustainable Finance and by People’s Bank of China (Beijing). GRI 414: Supplier Social • Seek to align UBS's disclosure with outcome of Financial • We are committed to further aligning our disclosure with Assessment Stability Board (FSB) Task Force on Climate related TCFD's five-year pathway. Sixteen banks, including UBS, and Financial Disclosure (TCFD) the UN Environment Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) have recently partnered to collaboratively develop analytical tools that will help banks disclose their exposures to climaterelated risks and opportunities. 2. Execute on 2020 greenhouse gas reduction target and 2. In 2017, we further reduced UBS’s GHG emissions by 11%, operational environmental targets for energy, water, or 10% per FTE, year on year. We recorded a total paper and waste to maintain external ratings (including reduction of 59% from baseline year 2004. We reduced our execution of the RE100 implementation plan): energy consumption by 5% compared with 2016 and 19% • Reduce energy by 5% below 2016 level compared with 2012. Of UBS’s worldwide electricity consumption, 56% was sourced from renewable energy. • Increase share of renewable electricity to 100% Globally, over 90% of all paper consumption was from • Reduce Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 75% below recycled or FSC-certified sources. The continued 2004 level implementation of bin-less offices in many larger locations • Reduce water consumption by 5% below 2016 level has helped us reduce the waste per employee by 11% since • Reduce paper consumption per full-time employee (FTE) 2012, and exceed our 5% reduction target set for 2016. By by 5% below 2016 level the end of 2017, our waste recycling ratio remained stable • Increase share of sustainable Forestry Stewardship Council at 55%. We reduced our water consumption by 22%, (FSC) / recycled paper to 60% compared with 2012, thus outperforming our 2016 target. • Increase share of recycled and FSC paper to 90% 88 Material GRI topics Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 • Reduce waste per FTE by 5% below 2016 level • Increase waste recycling ratio to 60% 3. Continue to support small and medium-sized enterprises 3. UBS SME efficiency bonus for energy reduction plan with (SMEs) in their upgrade to reduce CO² emissions (e.g., overall energy savings of 78,590 MWh / a, equivalent to the SME energy check, UBS leasing initiative for vehicles, UBS annual energy consumption of approximately 4,000 singleleasing initiative for production machines, e-Mobility family homes. UBS industry bonus for SME launched: Swiss initiative, UBS GEAK) SMEs that lease new production facilities benefit from a bonus of up to CHF 4,500. UBS leasing bonus initiative expanded to include commercial vehicles and production machines. FS Product Portfolio; Contribute to the Organization for Economic Cooperation UBS is member of the advisory group of OECD RBC project. Macroeconomic and political and Development’s (OECD) Responsible Business Conduct First phase concluded with publication of the OECD RBC environment (RBC) project in the financial sector guidance for institutional investors. Second phase, looking at due diligence guidance in corporate lending and underwriting, kicked off in Q4/17. FS Audit; Contribute to development of methodologies to quantify Drought project completed and report published. Also, UBS FS Product Portfolio environmental risk (participate in work of Natural Capital participated in panel of regional launch event in New York City. Financial Alliance (formerly the NCD)) FS Product Portfolio Convene the Thun Group of Banks meeting to consider latest Meeting convened with major stakeholder participation. developments on business / banking and human rights Publication of paper on the implications of UN Guiding Principles 13b and 17 Macroeconomic and political Convene annual meeting of peer forum on regulatory and Peer forum convened in June environment governmental developments pertaining to sustainability 89 Appendix How we support our clients Material GRI topics Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 FS Product Portfolio; Execute action plans for integrating ESG factors across UBS’s A variety of projects executed or underway across Wealth FS Active Ownership; core investment processes. Management (WM), Wealth Management Americas (WMA), GRI 404: Training and Asset Management (AM) and the Investment Bank (IB). Education; GRI 102: General Disclosures FS Product Portfolio; Conduct conversations with key institutional clients about FS Active Ownership; ESG themes and expectations Quality and price Note: Due to a UBS and Society strategy review, the objective has been replaced in the course of 2017 with the following objective: Raise client awareness and increase communication of ESG Attendance of major sustainable investing (SI) conferences themes both internally and externally. (Responsible Investor (RI) Session London, RI Americas, Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN), winning of ETF of the year 2017 award in Germany and of the European Fund Launch of the Year award for the launch of the UBS Climate Aware World Equity fund and systematic sales trainings to employees rolled-out in Q4. FS Product Portfolio; Execute divisional trainings in order to support About 4,100 specialists in our wealth and asset management FS Active Ownership; implementation of Mainstreaming Sustainable Performance businesses were trained on products and services related to the GRI 404: Training and initiative initiative. Education FS Product Portfolio; Business divisions and areas to explore and launch Key sustainable investing products and services in 2017 (select): FS Active Ownership; sustainable/responsible financial products and services. • The Rise Fund GRI 201: Economic • Rethink Impact Fund Performance; • OrbiMed Asia Partners III Brand reputation • UBS Long Term Themes Equity Fund and UBS Long Term Themes Portfolio SMA • Climate Aware: innovative rules-based equities strategy • Global Impact Fund • US Sustainable Equity Fund • SI-focused UBS Manage solutions • UBS Sustainability Analytics • Global Sustainability Leaders Index 90 Material GRI topics Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 • Military Veterans Index and US LGBT Employment Equality indices • UBS industry bonus for SME and UBS leasing bonus for commercial vehicles and production machines FS Product Portfolio; Direct at least USD 5 billion of client assets into new impact USD 400 million raised with the launch of TPG Rise (The Rise FS Active Ownership investments related to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund) and Rethink Impact Fund launched. Brand reputation; (SDGs) over the next five years to help mainstream the asset class and its contribution to the SDGs. FS Product Portfolio; Position Optimus Foundation as the go-to provider of GRI 203: Indirect Economic philanthropic products and services across the Bank and Impacts; continue to grow Optimus Foundation: FS Active Ownership • Key targets: 1) Fundraising CHF 45 million, and ) financing • CHF 59.5 million raised in donations / CHF 58.5 million and granting CHF 60 million grants to partners approved • Launch two development impact bonds (DIB) in 2017 • Pioneering Educate Girls DIB: On track to meet its enrollment and education targets. World’s first large scale DIB launched (Maternal and Newborn Health DIB). • Define and execute on a plan to better integrate Optimus • Andrea Orcel and Ulrich Körner, presidents of the IB and Foundation within AM and the IB AM respectively, joined the Optimus Foundation Board. Also, Optimus Foundation was presented at the SLE week. FS Product Portfolio; Further develop our understanding of philanthropists and A total of approximately 370 ultra high net worth individuals Brand reputation; social impact investor needs in order to continue to offer the or philanthropists attended UBS Philanthropy Forums in the GRI 201: Economic most relevant support (e.g., via the Global Philanthropists Americas, Asia and Switzerland. Advisory services provided to Performance Community, the UBS Philanthropy Forums and our sector and over 400 clients. Three studies, the Nordics study ““Creating geographic research reports) Impact Through Philanthropy”, the Italy study “Filantropie: Sfide e visioni delle famiglie imprenditoriali italiane” and the China study “Perspectives on Philanthropy in 21st Century China” published / launched 91 Appendix How we support our communities Material GRI topics Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Overcome disadvantage in our local communities by Impacts; supporting education and entrepreneurship through the Brand reputation; provision of financial support, employee volunteering and Conduct and culture; execution of the Social Innovators program: Working conditions • Track and monitor data set showing impact of • 31% of our employees volunteered in our communities Community Affairs-related activities / projects. Increase compared with 30% in 2016. regional targets for the percentage of headcount engaged in volunteering from 2016 levels. • Ensure that alignment of our (strategic) Community • Over 89% of UBS’s Community Affairs grants were made in Affairs grants to our global themes is maintained at above the areas of education and entrepreneurship. 80% in all regions. GRI 203: Indirect Economic Social Innovators: Impacts • Execute accelerator program 2017 by providing 12 • Accelerator program executed. Guide for social regional Social Innovators with a tailored support program entrepreneurs with eight modules from impact story to • Execute 2017 Social Innovator program to source 12 new creating an investor pitch (developed with Ashoka) UBS Regional Social Innovators. launched. Note: Due to a UBS and Society strategy review, the objective has been replaced in the course of 2017 with the following objective: • Merge the UBS Social Innovators and Global Visionaries • We merged the Social Innovators program into the Global programs and initiate a capacity-building program 2017 Visionaries program. The Global Visionaries program aims to by providing Global Visionaries with a tailored support support social entrepreneurs who are shaping our future program and connect them to our employees, partners and clients to jointly change the society we live in. 92 Other areas Material GRI topics Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Financial stability and Group performance targets and expectations: resilience; • Adjusted 1 cost / income ratio: 60–70% • Adjusted cost / income ratio: 78.1% GRI 201: Economic • Adjusted1 return on tangible equity: >15% • Adjusted return on tangible equity excluding deferred tax Performance; expense / benefit and deferred tax assets (DTAs)4: 13.8% Operational efficiency and • Swiss systemically relevant bank CET1 capital ratio (fully • CET1 capital ratio 13.8%; >10% post-stress effectiveness applied): at least 13% • Risk weighted assets (RWA) (fully applied) expectation • RWA : CHF 237 billion around CHF 250 billion short/medium term2 • Leverage ratio Denominator (LRD) expectation (fully • LRD : CHF 886 billion applied) around CHF 950 billion short/medium term 3 Corporate Center cost reductions: • Net cost reduction of CHF 2.1 billion by end of 2017 • CHF 2.1 billion net cost reductions since 2013 GRI 417: Marketing and Suitability: Suitability: Labeling; • Review and refine where necessary the existing Global • The review of the Global Suitability Standards applicable to GRI 418: Suitability Standards and the related processes and tools, all locations has been concluded. Additionally an additional Costumer Privacy; this also in response to emerging regulation such as as policy applicable to all MiFID location has been designed Quality and price Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (MiFID II) and and rolled out. Financial Services Act (FIDLEG) • Review the Swiss Suitability Policies to reflect the new • The Swiss Suitability Policies are meeting the Global Global Suitability Standards Suitability Standards and have therefore only been marginally amended. A new Swiss Suitability Policy reflecting the MiFID suitability standards has been issued for Germany-domiciled clients. GRI 417: Marketing and • Review of the existing client complaint session in line with • Client complaint training scope aligned with EEM (Europe Labeling; the general review of the WM Diploma training for 2017 Emerging Market) onboarding program 1 Refer to the Use of adjusted numbers section at the end of the fourth-quarter 2016 results presentation slides for information on adjusted results. 2 Reflects known FINMA multipliers and methodology changes for RWA, and assumes normalized market conditions for both RWA and LRD. 3 Year-end 2017 exit rate compared with full-year 2013 adjusted operating expenses for Corporate Center and compared with full-year 2015 adjusted operating expenses for business divisions. Cost reductions exclude expenses for provisions for litigation, regulatory and similar matters, foreign currency movements and temporary regulatory program costs. Business division adjusted operating expenses are before allocations and exclude items that are not representative of the underlying net cost reduction performance, mainly related to variable compensation expenses and compensation for financial advisors in Wealth Management Americas. 4 Calculated as adjusted net profit / loss attributable to shareholders excluding deferred tax expense / benefit, such as the net write-down due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in the fourth quarter of 2017, divided by average tangible equity attributable to shareholders excluding any DTAs that do not qualify as fully applied CET1 capital. 93 Appendix Material GRI topics Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 GRI 418: • Alignment of client complaint process with MiFID II • Internal and external documents adapted to client complaint Costumer Privacy; process aligned with MiFID II Quality and price • Review Web-based training (WBT) handling of client • First analysis performed, postponed to 2019 in alignment complaints and alignment with updated complaint with implementation of FIDLEG handling policies for Booking Center Switzerland (BCCH) and WM GRI 206: Anti-competitive • Review UBS’s financial crime framework to ensure that • Review of UBS’s financial crime framework was conducted Behavior; emerging risks are reflected. in full and the effectiveness of the framework confirmed GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance; Brand reputation; GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling; GRI 418: Customer Privacy GRI 401: Employment; We continued to offer support and resources to employees GRI 404: Training and impacted by headcount reductions. Education; • Continue to offer comprehensive programs in every UBS • For all of our larger locations (i.e., UK, US, Switzerland, Working conditions; business region to provide social and keep offering Hong Kong, Singapore and Japan), this includes severance Operational efficiency and adequate transitional support to employees impacted by pay/benefits, Employee Assistance Programs (EAP) and effectiveness redundancy (e.g. restructuring reasons) outplacement/career transition services. Our EAP offering provides access to information and resources, as well as counselling and support to assist individuals with a wide range of issues, including emotional and personal conflicts, mental health and stress. • In Switzerland, we offer additional services such as COACH, which provides transition support services (e.g., interview training, job search assistance, etc.) to employees impacted by redundancy, and Social Counseling, which is a group of highly-skilled professionals that are available to investigate and assist in the resolution of sensitive workplace matters. Occupational health and wellMaintaining global accountability for health and safety: We continue to maintain our policies around health and safety. being; • Ensure a work and business environment that supports Further, UBS continued with a global initiative to raise Working conditions; the health and safety of our employees awareness on health (health matters) plus a number of events GRI 206: Anti-competitive • Promote accountability around health and safety topic and added initiatives in every region. Behavior; trough effective communication (e.g., implementation of 94 Material GRI topics Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 GRI 419: Socioeconomic new webpage) Compliance; • Continue to monitor and optimize of UBS’s health and safety processes in close collaboration with the Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Mid-term objective: Increase the ratio of woman in The ratio of woman in management roles has been further Opportunity; management roles to one third increased. GRI 406: Non-Discrimination; Demographic development; GRI 404: Training and Education; Working conditions GRI 401: Employment; Reward: Our compensation philosophy is to align our employees’ GRI 206: Anti-competitive • Ensure sustainable UBS compensation framework and interests with those of our clients and investors. Our Total Behavior; align to changing market and regulatory frameworks Reward Principles underpin our approach to compensation by GRI 419: Socioeconomic • Motivate performance through competitive and creating a framework that balances performance with prudent Compliance responsible reward practices risk-taking, and aim to (i) attract and engage a talented, diverse workforce, (ii) foster effective performance management, (iii) align reward with sustainable performance and (iv) support appropriate and controlled risk-taking. We regularly review our compensation framework to ensure sustainability. We also evaluate all elements of our framework within each labor market and regulatory jurisdiction for market alignment and compliance with the remuneration code. Adjustments are considered, reviewed and approved, as appropriate. 95 Appendix Objectives 2018 UBS and Society UBS is committed to creating long-term positive impact for clients, employees, investors and society. We intend to make sustainable performance the standard across our firm and part of every clients conversation. To implement our strategy, we have defined firm-wide goals that we plan to achieve by the end of 2020. Material GRI topics Objectives Financial Supplement (FS) Product A leader in sustainable investing (SI) for private and institutional clients Portfolio; as demonstrated by size of SI assets under management (AuM) and goals, for which UBS: FS Active Ownership; – Has set ambitious internal targets to increase AuM for core SI products and mandates Social cohesion and stability; – Has set a target of USD 5 billion of client assets invested into new impact investments by end of 2021 FS Product Portfolio; A recognized innovator and thought leader in philanthropy GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts; as shown by key stakeholder – employees, clients and society – engagement, and work to support positive social Social cohesion and stability impact, for which UBS: Brand reputation – Aims to achieve 40% of employees volunteering by the end of 2020, of which 40% of volunteer hours will be skills-based – Combines expertise with capital and networks to increase social impact, as the partner of choice for philanthropists – Pioneers new ways to bring substantial funding to the SDGs GRI 201: Economic Performance; An industry leader in sustainability GRI 305: Emissions; by retaining favorable positions in key environmental, social and governance (ESG) ratings and driving optimization in FS: Product Portfolio; areas that are important to ESG investors, wherein UBS: Brand reputation – Supports the transition to a low carbon economy as laid out in our climate change strategy Our 2018 UBS and Society objectives are aligned to contribute to above aims: How we do business Material GRI topics Objectives 2018 GRI 201: Economic Performance; Climate commitment: GRI 302: Energy; • Disclosure: Align UBS’s disclosure with the Financial Stability Board (FSB) Task Force on climate-related financial GRI 305: Emissions; disclosure (TCFD) recommendations FS Product Portfolio; • Execute on 2020 greenhouse gas reduction (GHG) target and operational environmental targets for energy, water, Social cohesion and stability; paper and waste to maintain external ratings (including execution of the RE100 implementation plan): Brand reputation • Reduce energy by 5% below 2016 level • Increase share of renewable electricity to 100% • Reduce GHG emissions by 75% below 2004 level 96 Material GRI topics Objectives 2018 • Reduce water consumption by 5% below 2016 level • Reduce paper consumption per full-time employee (FTE) by 5% below 2016 level • Increase share of sustainable (Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) / recycled) paper to 60% • Increase share of recycled and FSC paper to 90% • Reduce waste per FTE by 5% below 2016 level • Increase waste recycling ratio to 60% • Continue to apply the CO2 -levy to support small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in their upgrade to reduce C02 emissions with existing initiatives (e.g., SME energy check, UBS leasing initiative for vehicles, UBS leasing initiative for production machines, e-Mobility initiative) and allocate approx. 25% of 2018 budget to new initiatives surrounding climate change. FS Audit Execute firm-wide ISO 14001 surveillance audit and ensure continued certification by addressing audit findings FS Audit External disclosure based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): • Move UBS sustainability disclosure from GRI G4 to GRI Standard • Undertake survey of clients for 2017 GRI-based materiality assessment • Align UBS’s disclosure with FSB TCFD recommendations FS Product Portfolio; Organize at least one roundtable with civil society organizations on environmental and social topics of key relevance to FS Active Ownership UBS GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Launch of a revised UBS responsible supply chain guideline. Assessment; GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment How we support our clients Material topics Objectives 2018 FS Product Portfolio; Sustainable investments / ESG integration: FS Active Ownership; • Direct USD 5 billion of client assets into new SDG-related impact investments to help mainstream the asset class Social cohesion and stability and its contribution to the SDGs (by 2021) • Launch new SI strategic asset allocation (SAA). As part of rollout provide/ensure training to client advisors, information to clients and a successful transition from old to new SAA assets. • Launch unique and exclusive SI product collaborations (i.e. World Bank, Hermes etc.) • Develop new SI focus strategies offering • Engage with sophisticated institutional clients on sustainable and impact investing. Position AM as the SI partner for sophisticated institutional clients, including thought leadership and helping them implement SI solutions 97 Appendix Material topics Objectives 2018 • Integrate material ESG data into fundamental research used for actively managed equity and fixed income strategies FS Product Portfolio; Establish and curate key industry partnerships with academia and key business partners FS Active Ownership; Social cohesion and stability FS Product Portfolio; Training and skills: FS Active Ownership • Teams/skills: Further develop SI proprietary research. Increased asset class coverage for both equity and fixed income • Execute divisional trainings in order to support implementation of Mainstreaming Sustainable Performance initiative GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts; Pioneer two to three new ways to finance international aid in partnerships with bi-lateral or multi-lateral agencies, Social cohesion and stability foundations and / or the private sector Raise at least CHF 30 million through these new partnerships or philanthropic products FS Product Portfolio; Continue to build the Global Philanthropy Community to grow beyond 400 members and create value by: FS Active Ownership; • facilitating 50 connections amongst community members Social cohesion and stability • testing /learning how to best build co-creation platforms that engage leading global philanthropists, with UBS clients and prospects, to achieve meaningful social impact through expertise and funding FS Product Portfolio; Maintain and build the success of the UBS Global, Asian and America Philanthropy Forums for Global ultra high net FS Active Ownership; worth (UHWN) clients and prospects. Evidence based on UBS marketing event data. Social cohesion and stability; Brand reputation How we support our communities Material GRI topics Objectives 2018 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts; Achieve a volunteering rate of 40% of employees by the end of 2020, with 40% of volunteers’ time directed at skills Social cohesion and stability based programs. FS Product Portfolio; Global Visionaries: Achieve 2,000 client touch points with Global Visionaries program GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 98 Other areas Material GRI topics Objectives 2018 GRI 201: Economic Performance; Performance targets and capital guidance for the Group for the 2018-2020 period 5 Financial stability and resilience; • Cost/income ratio <75% 6 Operational efficiency and • ~15% Return on tangible equity (RoTE), excluding deferred tax assets (DTAs) effectiveness • ~13% fully applied CET1 capital ratio • ~3.7% fully applied CET1 leverage ratio GRI 205: Anti-Corruption • Review UBS’s financial crime framework to ensure that emerging risks are reflected. GRI 401: Employment; Build engagement and strengthen our corporate culture Conduct and culture; • Invest in large-scale culture programs across the organization Occupational health and well-being; • Measure, foster and recognize culture-building behaviors Working conditions; Remain an employer of choice for people at all career stages Brand reputation • Maintain attractiveness to external talent and a highly motivated workforce • Focus on internal mobility and provide long-term career prospects GRI 404 Training and Education Effectively develop, manage and retain our talent • Provide a wide range of learning opportunities to meet the needs of employees at all levels • Prepare current and future leaders for enhanced responsibilities and leadership excellence GRI 404: Training and Education; Strengthen our diverse and inclusive workplace GRI 405: Diversity and Equal • Aspiration to increase the ratio of women in management roles to one-third Opportunity; • Support activities focused on increasing the inclusiveness of our culture GRI 406: Non-Discrimination; Demographic development Quality and price • Develop a new tool to handle client complaints • Undertake first steps to align client complaint process with the Financial Services Act (FIDLEG) GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling Suitability: • Implement the revised Global Suitability Standards in all location and, for locations where a standard will 5 The targets and guidance reflect what we believe can be achieved in normal market conditions. All targets are measured on an annual basis. Refer to the Annual Report 2017 for information on our performance targets and capital and resource guidance for the business divisions. 6 Annual targets; cost / income ratio, pre-tax profit growth and return targets are on an adjusted basis, calculated as adjusted net profit / loss attributable to shareholders excluding deferred tax expense / benefit, such as the netwrite -down due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) enacted in the fourth quarter of 2017, divided by average tangible equity attributable to shareholders excluding any DTAs that do not qualify as fully applied CET1 capital. 99 Appendix Material GRI topics Objectives 2018 not be met, place a deviation request for approval by the responsible risk committees and by the policy owner. • Implement the new Swiss FIDLEG law applicable to financial service delivery in Switzerland GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior; Review and refine where necessary UBS's existing Conduct Risk Framework to ensure conduct risks are GRI 418: Customer Privacy; understood and managed to the risk appetite for each Business Division and Corporate Center function GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Digital innovation and cyber security Expenditure on technology of at least 10% of the Group’s revenues for the foreseeable future. 100 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 2017 Version: 9 March 2018 This content index refers to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board in 2016 and the Financial Services Sector Supplements which form together a voluntary reporting framework that provides guidance on how organizations can disclose their sustainability performance. UBS’s reporting has been reviewed by Ernst & Young Ltd (EY) against the GRI Standard. The content has been prepared in accordance with the comprehensive option as evidenced in the EY assurance report. The limited assurance by EY covered all items of the GRI Content Index. Guidance Disclosure Number and title of disclosure Reference Referenced text which covers the GRI Standard Page / link Page or link to reference in the UBS GRI (2017) Document or internet page Note: Topics in the index that do not feature a management approach are not material, but are reported on a voluntary basis (selected indicators only). All references to the Annual Report 2017 are referring to the combined UBS Group AG and UBS AG Annual Report 2017 available on www.ubs.com/investors. 101 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 2017 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard 102–1 Name of organization Corporate information Annual Report 2017 – page 7 102–2 Activities, brands, products, and services Our strategy Annual Report 2017 – pages 30–31 Global Wealth Management Annual Report 2017 – pages 34–35 Personal & Corporate Banking Annual Report 2017 – pages 36–37 Asset Management Annual Report 2017 – pages 38–39 Investment Bank Annual Report 2017 – pages 40–41 Corporate Center Annual Report 2017 – pages 42–44 102–3 Location of headquarters Corporate information Annual Report 2017 – page 7 102–4 Location of operations Global Wealth Management Annual Report 2017 – pages 34–35 Personal & Corporate Banking Annual Report 2017 – pages 36–37 Asset Management Annual Report 2017 – pages 38–39 Investment Bank Annual Report 2017 – pages 40–41 Attracting and recruiting talent GRI Document 2017 – pages 20–21 Further information reg. locations, incl. list of all UBS Branches worldwide can be found under GRI 102 General Disclosures https://www.ubs.com/global/en/about_ubs/about_u s/locations.html 102–5 Ownership and legal form Corporate information Annual Report 2017 – page 7 Significant shareholders Annual Report 2017 – pages 212–213 102–6 Markets served Our strategy Annual Report 2017 – pages 30–31 Global Wealth Management Annual Report 2017 – pages 34–35 Personal & Corporate Banking Annual Report 2017 – pages 36–37 Asset Management Annual Report 2017 – pages 38–39 Investment Bank Annual Report 2017 – pages 40–41 102–7 Scale of the organization Our key figures Annual Report 2017 – page 5 Note 2a Segment reporting Annual Report 2017 – pages 352–355 Note 2b Segment reporting by geographic location Annual Report 2017 – page 356 102–8 Information on employees and other workers Our employees GRI Document 2017 – pages 56–61 Our employees GRI Document 2017 – pages 20–25 102–9 Supply chain Our stakeholders – Suppliers GRI Document 2017 – page 36 Responsible supply chain management GRI Document 2017 – page 51 102–10 Significant changes to the organization and its Our evolution Annual Report 2017 – pages 12–13 supply chain Note 1b Changes in accounting policies, Annual Report 2017 – page 345 comparability and other adjustments Note 29 Business combinations Annual Report 2017 – page 448 Note 30 Changes in organization and disposals Annual Report 2017 – pages 449–450 102–11 Precautionary Principle or approach Risk management and control Annual Report 2017 – pages 113–127 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2017 – pages 38–39 102 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard 102–12 External initiatives External commitments and memberships GRI Document 2017 – page 40 102–13 Membership of associations See 102–12 GRI Document 2017 – page 40 102–14 Statement from senior decision–maker Chairman’s statement GRI Document 2017 – page 3 102–15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Sustainability at UBS GRI Document 2017 – pages 3–5 Risk management and control Annual Report 2017 – pages 113–127 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Board of Directors (BoD) and sustainability GRI Document 2017 – page 38 102–16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Code of Conduct and Ethics of UBS GRI Document 2017 – pages 70–73 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2017 – pages 38–39 Building our culture GRI Document 2017 – page 20 102–17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Code of Conduct and Ethics of UBS GRI Document 2017 – pages 70–73 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2017 – pages 38–39 Our stakeholders – Clients – Quality feedback GRI Document 2017 – page 34 management system Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 102–18 Governance structure Board of Directors Annual Report 2017 – pages 220–231 Group Executive Board Annual Report 2017 – pages 232–236 Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility GRI Document 2017 – page 74 Committee BoD and sustainability GRI Document 2017 – page 38 102–19 Delegating authority Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility GRI Document 2017 – page 74 Committee BoD and sustainability GRI Document 2017 – page 38 102–20 Executive–level responsibility for economic, BoD and sustainability GRI Document 2017 – page 38 environmental, and social topics Charter of the CCRC GRI Document 2017 – page 74 102–21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Chairman’s statement GRI Document 2017 – page 3 environmental, and social topics Stakeholder management and engagement GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–37 Shareholders’ participation rights Annual Report 2017 – pages 218–219 Corporate calendar UBS Group AG / UBS AG Annual Report 2017 – page 7 Our employees – Our responsibilities GRI Document 2017 – page 24 102–22 Composition of highest governance body Board of Directors Annual Report 2017 – pages 220–231 Group Executive Board Annual Report 2017 – pages 232–236 BoD and sustainability GRI Document 2017 – page 38 102–23 Chair of the highest governance body Not relevant to UBS (two-tiered board structure) Board of Directors Annual Report 2017 – pages 220–231 103 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 2017 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard 102–24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2017 – pages 39–40 body Board of Directors Annual Report 2017 – pages 220–231 Elections and terms of office Organizational principles and structure Governance and Nominating Committee Skills, expertise and training of the Board of Directors 102–25 Conflicts of interest Key policies and guidelines (Code of conduct and GRI Document 2017 – pages 38–39 ethics) Important business connections of independent Annual Report 2017 – page 229 members of the Board of Directors 102–26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, BoD and sustainability GRI Document 2017 – page 38 values, and strategy Charter of the CCRC GRI Document 2017 – page 74 Chairman’s statement GRI Document 2017 – page 3 102–27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Skills, expertise and training of the Board of Annual Report 2017 – page 230 Directors 102–28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s Organizational principles and structure Annual Report 2017 – page 225 performance Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2017 – pages 39–40 102–29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, BoD and sustainability GRI Document 2017 – page 38 and social impacts Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility GRI Document 2017 – page 74 Committee Chairman’s statement GRI Document 2017 – page 3 Stakeholder management and engagement GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–37 102–30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility GRI Document 2017 – page 74 Committee 102–31 Review of economic, environmental, and social Board of Directors – CCRC Annual Report 2017 – page 227 topics 102–32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility GRI Document 2017 – page 74 reporting Committee 102–33 Communicating critical concerns BoD and sustainability GRI Document 2017 – page 38 Charter of the CCRC GRI Document 2017 – page 74 Chairman’s statement GRI Document 2017 – page 3 Whistle-blowing protection GRI Document 2017 – page 39 102–34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 Our stakeholders GRI Document 2017 – pages 34–37 Note: Due to the diverse nature and sources of critical concerns it is not possible to report their total number. 102–35 Remuneration policies Compensation Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 – pages 262–306 Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2017 – pages 39–40 104 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard 102–36 Process for determining remuneration Compensation Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 – pages 262–306 102–37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Our stakeholders GRI Document 2017 – pages 34–37 Shareholders’ participation rights Annual Report 2017 – pages 218–219 Corporate calendar UBS Group AG Annual Report 2017 – page 7 Compensation report – Overview of the quantitative Annual Report 2017 – page 272 and qualitative performance assessment measures Shareholder engagement and say-on-pay votes at Annual Report 2017 – page 284 the AGM Employees have a voice in shaping our culture GRI Document 2017 – page 24 Note: Voting results of AGMs are published on www.ubs.com/agm 102–38 Annual total compensation ratio Reason for omission: Not disclosed due to confidentiality Compensation for the CEO, the highest paid GEB Annual Report 2017 – pages 262–306 member, total compensation for GEB members, compensation for the BoD members, including the Chairman, and compensation for employees other than GEB members are disclosed in the Compensation Report 2017. 102–39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation Reason for omission: Not disclosed due to ratio confidentiality Compensation increase for the CEO, the highest Annual Report 2017 – pages 262–306 paid GEB member, total compensation for GEB members, compensation for the BoD members, including the Chairman, and general employee compensation for employees other than GEB members are disclosed in the Compensation Report 2017. 102–40 List of stakeholder groups Our stakeholders GRI Document 2017 – pages 34–37 Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 102–41 Collective bargaining agreements Employee representation GRI Document 2017 – page 24 102–42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders see 102–40 GRI Document 2017 – pages 34–37 GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 102–43 Approach to stakeholder engagement see 102–40 GRI Document 2017 – pages 34–37 GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 102–44 Key topics and concerns raised see 102–40 GRI Document 2017 – pages 34–37 GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 105 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 2017 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard 102–45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Our external reporting approach Annual Report 2017 – pages 14–15 statements Our evolution Annual Report 2017 – pages 12–13 Note 1 Summary of significant accounting policies Annual Report 2017 – pages 329–351 Note 28 Interests in subsidiaries and other entities Annual Report 2017 – pages 440–448 Note: “Except where clearly identified, all of UBS’s sustainability information referenced in this GRI index is presented on a consolidated basis under IFRS requirements for financial reporting for the UBS Group AG. “ 102–46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Information policy Annual Report 2017 – pages 240–241 Our stakeholders GRI Document 2017 – pages 34–37 Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 102–47 List of material topics Material GRI topics 2017 GRI Document 2017 – page 28 102–48 Restatements of information None 102–49 Changes in reporting None 102–50 Reporting period 01.01.2017–31.12.2017 102–51 Date of most recent report 10.03.2017 102–52 Reporting cycle Financial reporting: quarterly Sustainability reporting: annually 102–53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Questions related to Annual Report: Contacts Annual Report 2017 – page 7 Questions related to sustainability reporting: GRI Document 2017 – page 2 Contacts 102–54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI GRI online index GRI Document 2017 – page 105 standards Ernst & Young Ltd. independent assurance report GRI Document 2017 – pages 64–65 102–55 GRI content index 102–56 External assurance Auditors Annual Report 2017 – pages 238–239 Management’s report on internal control over Annual Report 2017 – pages 312–317 financial reporting Ernst & Young Ltd. independent assurance report GRI Document 2017 – pages 64–65 About this GRI Document GRI Document 2017 – page 2 106 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard Economic Performance 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 103–2 The management approach and its components Our strategy Annual Report 2017 – pages 30–31 GRI 103 Management Approach Measurement of performance Annual Report 2017 – pages 32–33 Our key figures Annual Report 2017 – page 5 Group Internal Audit Annual Report 2017 – page 239 Organizational principles and structure Annual Report 2017 – page 225 Climate change GRI Document 2017 – pages 11–12 Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility GRI Document 2017 – page 74 Committee BoD and sustainability GRI Document 2017 – page 38 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 201–1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Direct economic value generated and distributed by GRI Document 2017 – page 34 UBS Group AG consolidated in 2017 Income statement Annual Report 2017 – page 318 Statement of cash flows Annual Report 2017 – pages 327–328 Note 6 Personnel expenses Annual Report 2017 – page 359 GRI 201 Economic Performance Note 7 General and administrative expenses Annual Report 2017 – page 359 Note 8 Income taxes Annual Report 2017 – pages 360–363 How we support our communities GRI Document 2017 – pages 54–55 Our stakeholders – Suppliers (total purchase GRI Document 2017 – page 36 amount) 201–2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Climate change GRI Document 2017 – pages 11–12 for the organization’s activities due to climate change Climate-related metrics 2017 GRI Document 2017 – page 12 Refer to Submission to the CDP climate change questionnaire for further information 201–3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement Note 26 Pension and other post-employment Annual Report 2017 – pages 417–431 plans benefit plans 201–4 Financial assistance received from government UBS did not receive any significant monetary support from governments in 2017 107 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 2017 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard Indirect Economic Impacts 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management Approach 103–2 The management approach and its components BoD and sustainability GRI Document 2017 – page 38 UBS and Society GRI Document 2017 – pages 6–19 Indirect economic impact GRI Document 2017 – page 31 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 203–1 Infrastructure investments and services supported How we support our communities GRI Document 2017 – pages 54–55 203–2 Significant indirect economic impacts Indirect economic impact GRI Document 2017 – page 31 GRI 203 Indirect Swiss SRB total loss-absorbing capacity framework Annual Report 2017 – pages 185–187 Personal & Corporate – Strategy and clients Annual Report 2017 – page 36 UBS and Society GRI Document 2017 – pages 6–19 Economic Impacts For further information see also Switzerland and UBS – Strong partners http://www.ubs.com/strongpartners Anti–corruption 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management 103–2 The management approach and its components BoD and sustainability GRI Document 2017 – page 38 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2017 – pages 38–39 Anti-corruption GRI Document 2017 – page 5 Approach Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 205–1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Anti-corruption GRI Document 2017 – page 5 GRI 205 Anti– 205–2 Communication and training about anti–corruption Training and raising awareness GRI Document 2017 – pages 40–41 policies and procedures Responsible supply chain management – GRI Document 2017 – page 51 Committing suppliers to comply with our standards corruption 205–3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Significant issues would be discussed in Note 20 b) Annual Report 2017 – pages 380–387 Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the UBS Annual Report. 108 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard Anti–competitive Behavior 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management 103–2 The management approach and its components Risk appetite framework Annual Report 2017 – pages 119–121 Operational risk Annual Report 2017 – pages 164–166 Code of Conduct and Ethics of UBS GRI Document 2017 – pages 70–73 Approach Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 GRI 206 206–1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, See GRI 419–1 Antiand monopoly practices competitive Behavior Materials 301–1 Materials used by weight or volume. Paper is the only relevant material for this indicator GRI 301 Materials In-house environmental management – Paper, GRI Document 2017 – page 45 water and waste In-house environmental management statistics GRI Document 2017 – pages 46–50 301–2 Recycled input materials used Paper is the only relevant material for this indicator In-house environmental management – Paper, GRI Document 2017 – page 45 water and waste In-house environmental management statistics GRI Document 2017 – pages 46–50 Energy 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 103–2 The management approach and its components BoD and sustainability GRI Document 2017 – page 38 GRI 103 Management Approach Training and raising awareness GRI Document 2017 – pages 40–41 UBS and Society management indicators GRI Document 2017 – page 41 Our climate change strategy GRI Document 2017 – pages 42–44 Environmental targets and performance in our GRI Document 2017 – page 46 operations UBS and Society constitutional document GRI Document 2017 – pages 75–77 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 Refer to Submission to the CDP climate change questionnaire for further information 109 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 2017 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 ISO 14001 Certificate GRI Document 2017 – pages 66–67 ISO 50001 Certificate GRI Document 2017 – pages 68–69 302–1 Energy consumption within the organization In-house environmental management – GHG GRI Document 2017 – page 44 emissions and energy consumption In-house environmental management statistics GRI Document 2017 – pages 46–50 Reporting standards and methodologies GRI Document 2017 – page 45 302–2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Not relevant 302–3 Energy intensity In-house environmental management – statistics – GRI Document 2017 – page 48 GRI 302 Energy Environmental indicators per full-time employee (FTE) Reporting standards and methodologies GRI Document 2017 – page 45 302–4 Reduction of energy consumption In-house environmental management – GHG GRI Document 2017 – page 44 emissions and energy consumption In-house environmental management – statistics GRI Document 2017 – pages 46–50 Environmental targets and performance in our GRI Document 2017 – page 46 operations Reporting standards and methodologies GRI Document 2017 – page 45 302–5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and Not relevant for financial institutions, see FS8 services Water GRI 303 303–1 Water withdrawal by source In-house environmental management – Paper, GRI Document 2017 – page 45 Water water and waste In-house environmental management – statistics GRI Document 2017 – pages 46–50 Emissions 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 103–2 The management approach and its components BoD and sustainability GRI Document 2017 – page 38 GRI 103 Management Approach Training and raising awareness GRI Document 2017 – pages 40–41 UBS and Society management indicators GRI Document 2017 – page 41 Our climate change strategy GRI Document 2017 – pages 42–44 Environmental targets and performance in our GRI Document 2017 – page 46 operations UBS and Society constitutional document GRI Document 2017 – pages 75–77 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 Refer to Submission to the CDP climate change questionnaire for further information 110 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 ISO 14001 Certificate GRI Document 2017 – pages 66–67 ISO 50001 Certificate GRI Document 2017 – pages 68–69 305–1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions In-house environmental management – statistics GRI Document 2017 – pages 46–50 In-house environmental management – GHG GRI Document 2017 – page 44 emissions and energy consumption Reporting standards and methodologies GRI Document 2017 – page 45 305–2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions In-house environmental management – statistics GRI Document 2017 – pages 46–50 In-house environmental management – GHG GRI Document 2017 – page 44 emissions and energy consumption Reporting standards and methodologies GRI Document 2017 – page 45 GRI 305 Emissions 305–3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions In-house environmental management – statistics GRI Document 2017 – pages 46–50 In-house environmental management – GHG GRI Document 2017 – page 44 emissions and energy consumption Reporting standards and methodologies GRI Document 2017 – page 45 305–4 GHG emissions intensity In-house environmental management – statistics – GRI Document 2017 – page 48 Environmental indicators per full-time employee (FTE) Reporting standards and methodologies GRI Document 2017 – page 45 305–5 Reduction of GHG emissions see 302–4 305–6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Not relevant 305–7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other Not relevant significant air emissions Effluents and waste GRI 306–2 Waste by type and disposal method In-house environmental management – statistics GRI Document 2017 – pages 46–50 306 Effluen ts and In-house environmental management – Paper, GRI Document 2017 – page 45 Waste water and waste Supplier Environmental Assessment 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management 103–2 The management approach and its components BoD and sustainability GRI Document 2017 – page 38 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 UBS and Society constitutional document GRI Document 2017 – pages 75–77 Approach Responsible supply chain management GRI Document 2017 – page 51 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 ISO 14001 GRI Document 2017 – pages 66–67 111 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 2017 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard GRI 308 308–1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental Responsible supply chain management GRI Document 2017 – page 51 Supplier criteria Environmental 308–2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and Responsible supply chain management GRI Document 2017 – page 51 Assessment actions taken Employment 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management Approach 103–2 The management approach and its components Governance – Compensation Committee Annual Report 2017 – page 227 Our employees GRI Document 2017 – pages 20–25 Compensation Annual Report 2017 – pages 262–306 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2017 – pages 38–39 Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2017 – pages 39–40 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Additional information for management GRI Document 2017 – page 32 approaches for material topics – Employee topics Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 401–1 New employee hires and employee turnover Attracting and recruiting talent GRI Document 2017 – pages 20–21 Our workforce at a glance GRI Document 2017 – pages 56–61 401–2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Our responsibilities GRI Document 2017 – page 24 provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 401 Employment 401–3 Parental leave Our responsibilities GRI Document 2017 – page 24 UBS employees: parental leave taken GRI Document 2017 – page 61 Reason for omission: Information unavailable for GRI 401–3 c), d) and e). Data aggregation is subject to limitations such as the disparate definitions and permutations of parental leave across the firm and the various leave and absence tools used in the more than 50 countries in which we operate. Labor/Management Relations GRI 402 402–1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Notice periods are labor market specific. Labor/Manag ement Employee representation GRI Document 2017 – page 24 Relations 112 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard Training and Education 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 103–2 The management approach and its components Our employees GRI Document 2017 – pages 20–25 GRI 103 Management Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2017 – pages 38–39 Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2017 – pages 39–40 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Approach Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Additional information for management GRI Document 2017 – page 32 approaches for material topics – Employee topics Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 404–1 Average hours of training per year per employee UBS reports in training days instead of training hours. One training day equals eight training hours. GRI 404 Training and Education Developing and managing our workforce GRI Document 2017 – page 23 UBS employees 2017 – by the numbers GRI Document 2017 – pages 56–61 404–2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Developing and managing our workforce GRI Document 2017 – page 23 assistance programs Our responsibilities GRI Document 2017 – page 24 404–3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2017 – pages 39–40 and career development reviews Developing and managing our workforce GRI Document 2017 – page 23 As the performance review percentage covers approximately 99% of all our eligible employees, there is no added value for further breakdown by gender or employment category. Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 103–2 The management approach and its components Our employees GRI Document 2017 – pages 20–25 GRI 103 Management Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2017 – pages 38–39 Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2017 – pages 39–40 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Approach Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Additional information for management GRI Document 2017 – page 32 approaches for material topics – Employee topics Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 113 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 2017 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard 405–1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity and inclusion GRI Document 2017 – pages 22–24 Our workforce at a glance GRI Document 2017 – page 25 GRI 405 Diversity and Equal UBS employees 2017 – by the numbers GRI Document 2017 – pages 56–61 Members of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2017 – pages 220–224 Skills, expertise and training of the Board of Annual Report 2017 – page 230 Directors Opportunity Members of the Group Executive Board Annual Report 2017 – pages 232–236 405–2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2017 – pages 39–40 Diversity and inclusion GRI Document 2017 – pages 22–24 Total Reward Principles Annual Report 2017 – page 264 Developing and managing our workforce GRI Document 2017 – page 23 Non-discrimination 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management Approach 103–2 The management approach and its components Our employees GRI Document 2017 – pages 20–25 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2017 – pages 38–39 Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2017 – pages 39–40 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Additional information for management GRI Document 2017 – page 32 approaches for material topics – Employee topics Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 406–1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Significant issues would be discussed in Note 20 b) Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the GRI 406 NonUBS Annual Report. discrimination The annual compliance assessment for 2017 did not show any significant incidents of non-compliance with UBS’s anti-discrimination policy. Supplier Social Assessment 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management 103–2 The management approach and its components BoD and sustainability GRI Document 2017 – page 38 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Approach Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 UBS and Society constitutional document GRI Document 2017 – pages 75–77 Responsible supply chain management GRI Document 2017 – page 51 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 114 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 ISO 14001 certificate GRI Document 2017 – pages 66–67 GRI 414 414–1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Responsible supply chain management GRI Document 2017 – page 51 Supplier Social 414–2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions Responsible supply chain management GRI Document 2017 – page 51 Assessment taken Local Communities FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for Accessibility GRI Document 2017 – page 53 disadvantaged people. Public Policy GRI 415 415–1 Political contributions Our stakeholders – Politicians and political parties GRI Document 2017 – pages 35–36 Public Policy Marketing and Labelling 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management Approach 103–2 The management approach and its components Regulation and supervision Annual Report 2017 – pages 21–22 Code of Conduct and Ethics GRI Document 2017 – pages 70–73 Suitability GRI Document 2017 – pages 52–53 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2017 – pages 38–39 Quality feedback management system GRI Document 2017 – page 34 Financial literacy GRI Document 2017 – page 53 GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 417–1 Requirements for product and service information and Not relevant for financial services company labelling GRI 417 Marketing and See former FS15 which has been included in 103 for Marketing and Labelling (i.e. Suitability) 417–2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and Significant issues would be discussed in Note 20 b) Annual Report 2017 – pages 380–387 Labelling service information and labelling Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the UBS Annual Report. 417–3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing Significant issues would be discussed in Note 20 b) Annual Report 2017 – pages 380–387 communications Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the UBS Annual Report. 115 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 2017 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard Customer Privacy 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 103–2 The management approach and its components Regulation and supervision Annual Report 2017 – pages 21–22 GRI 103 Code of Conduct and Ethics GRI Document 2017 – pages 70–73 Management Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Approach Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 418–1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Significant issues would be discussed in Note 20 b) Annual Report 2017 – pages 380–387 GRI 418 customer privacy and losses of customer data Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the UBS Annual Report. Customer Privacy Socioeconomic compliance 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management 103–2 The management approach and its components Code of Conduct and Ethics of UBS GRI Document 2017 – pages 70–73 Operational risk Annual Report 2017 – pages 164–166 Approach Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 419–1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social Significant issues would be discussed in Note 20 b) Annual Report 2017 – pages 380–387 GRI 419 and economic area Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the Socioecono UBS Annual Report. mic Compliance 116 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard Product Portfolio 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 103–2 The management approach and its components BoD and sustainability GRI Document 2017 – page 38 GRI 103 Management Approach Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2017 – pages 38–39 Code of Conduct and Ethics GRI Document 2017 – pages 70–73 UBS and Society constitutional document GRI Document 2017 – pages 75–77 Our climate change strategy GRI Document 2017 – pages 42–44 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Environmental and social risk policy framework GRI Document 2017 – pages 78–85 Sustainable investments GRI Document 2017 – pages 14–17 Training and raising awareness GRI Document 2017 – pages 40–41 UBS and Society management indicators GRI Document 2017 – page 41 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 ISO 14001 certification GRI Document 2017 – pages 66–67 FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific Wealth Management Annual Report 2017 – pages 73–76 region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector Wealth Management Americas Annual Report 2017 – pages 77–82 GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures Global Wealth Management Annual Report 2017 – pages 34–35 Personal & Corporate Banking Annual Report 2017 – pages 36–37 & 83–86 Asset Management Annual Report 2017 – pages 38–39 & 87–91 Investment Bank Annual Report 2017 – pages 40–41 & 92–97 Market risk Annual Report 2017 – pages 148–158 Country risk Annual Report 2017 – pages 159–163 Credit risk Annual Report 2017 – pages 126–147 Basel III Pillar 3 UBS Group AG 2017 report https://www.ubs.com/global/en/about_ubs/investor_relations/pillar3disclosures.html FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver How we support our clients GRI Document 2017 – pages 14–18 a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver Climate change – Climate-related metrics 2017 GRI Document 2017 – page 12 a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken Our climate change strategy GRI Document 2017 – pages 42–44 down by purpose Calculating and reporting on climate changeGRI Document 2017 – page 52 related financing and advisory activities 117 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 2017 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard Audit 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 103–2 The management approach and its components UBS and Society constitutional document GRI Document 2017 – pages 75–77 GRI 103 UBS and Society management indicators GRI Document 2017 – page 41 Management Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Approach Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 ISO 14001 certification GRI Document 2017 – pages 66–67 Active Ownership 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 103–2 The management approach and its components UBS and Society constitutional document GRI Document 2017 – pages 75–77 GRI 103 Management Sustainable investments GRI Document 2017 – pages 14–17 Stewardship / voting rights GRI Document 2017 – page 52 Environmental and social risk policy framework GRI Document 2017 – pages 78–85 Approach Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 ISO 14001 certification GRI Document 2017 – pages 66–67 FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the Reason for omission: Our interactions with institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organization has companies take a comprehensive ESG approach. GRI G4 Financial interacted on environmental or social issues Selective quantitative data provision on environmental and social issues only is therefore Services Sector not practical. Disclosures Stewardship / voting rights GRI Document 2017 – page 52 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative Sustainable investments GRI Document 2017 – pages 14–17 environmental or social screening 118 Topics not covered by the topic-specific standards GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard Conduct and culture 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management Approach 103–2 The management approach and its components Code of Conduct and Ethics GRI Document 2017 – pages 70–73 Operational risk Annual Report 2017 – pages 164–166 UBS and Society – Key principles and policies GRI Document 2017 – page 8 Our employees GRI Document 2017 – pages 20–25 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 Brand reputation 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management 103–2 The management approach and its components Risk appetite framework Annual Report 2017 – pages 119–121 Corporate Center Annual Report 2017 – pages 42–44 Code of Conduct and Ethics GRI Document 2017 – pages 70–73 Approach Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 Digital innovation and cyber security 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management 103–2 The management approach and its components Digital innovation and cyber security GRI Document 2017 – page 31 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 Approach Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 119 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 2017 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard Financial stability and resilience 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management 103–2 The management approach and its components Our strategy Annual Report 2017 – pages 30–31 Risk factors Annual Report 2017 – pages 45–56 Capital management Annual Report 2017 – pages 183–207 Approach Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 Macroeconomic and political environment 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management 103–2 The management approach and its components Additional information for management GRI Document 2017 – page 31 approaches for material topics Current market climate and industry trends Annual Report 2017 – pages 18–20 Approach Our strategy Annual Report 2017 – pages 30–31 Risk factors Annual Report 2017 – pages 45–56 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 Operational efficiency and effectiveness 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management 103–2 The management approach and its components Corporate Center Annual Report 2017 – pages 42–44 Our strategy Annual Report 2017 – pages 30–31 Current market climate and industry trends Annual Report 2017 – pages 18–20 Approach Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 120 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard Quality and price 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management Approach 103–2 The management approach and its components Code of Conduct and Ethics GRI Document 2017 – pages 70–73 Quality feedback GRI Document 2017 – page 34 Current market climate and industry trends Annual Report 2017 – pages 18–20 Our strategy Annual Report 2017 – pages 30–31 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 Demographic development 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management Approach 103–2 The management approach and its components Governance – Compensation Committee Annual Report 2017 – page 227 Our employees GRI Document 2017 – pages 20–25 UBS and Society GRI Document 2017 – pages 6–19 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2017 – pages 38–39 Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2017 – pages 39–40 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Additional information for management GRI Document 2017 – page 32 approaches for material topics – Employee topics Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 Occupational health and well-being an ag me en 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 t 121 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 2017 GRI Disclosure Reference Page / link Standard 103–2 The management approach and its components Our employees GRI Document 2017 – pages 20–25 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2017 – pages 38–39 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Additional information for management GRI Document 2017 – page 32 approaches for material topics – Employee topics Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 Health and safety statement GRI Document 2017 – page 86 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 Working conditions 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management Approach 103–2 The management approach and its components Governance – Compensation Committee Annual Report 2017 – page 227 Our employees GRI Document 2017 – pages 20–25 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2017 – pages 38–39 Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2017 – pages 39–40 Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Additional information for management GRI Document 2017 – page 32 approaches for material topics – Employee topics Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 Social cohesion and stability 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Materiality under GRI standards GRI Document 2017 – pages 26–33 GRI 103 Management 103–2 The management approach and its components Additional information for management GRI Document 2017 – page 31 approaches for material topics – Social cohesion and stability Objectives 2018 GRI Document 2017 – pages 96–100 Approach Objectives and achievements 2017 GRI Document 2017 – pages 87–95 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2017 – page 31 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2017 – page 31 122 Non-financial disclosures in accordance with German law implementing the EU directive 2014/95 This GRI Document also includes our firm's disclosures of non-financial information required by German law implementing the EU directive 2014/95 (CSR-Richtlinie-Umsetzungsgesetz / CSR-RUG). These disclosures can be found in the sections and the pages indicated below. Section Page(s) About this GRI Document 2 Sustainability at UBS (includes reference to the UBS Annual Report 2017 for information on UBS’s business 3-5 model) UBS and Society (section from UBS 2017 Annual Report) 6-19 Our employees (section from UBS 2017 Annual Report) 20-25 GRI-based materiality assessment 26 UBS materiality matrix 2017 27 Impact of material GRI topics 33 Suppliers 36 Governance and policies 38-39 Training and raising awareness 40-41 In-house environmental management 44-50 Responsible supply chain management 51 How we support our communities 54-55 Our employees 56-61 UBS sustainability objectives and achievements 2017 and sustainability objectives 2018 87-100 123 UBS Group AG P.O. Box CH-8098 Zurich www.ubs.com
