2017 ANNUAL REPORT FREUDENBERG GROUP The Freudenberg Group stands for technology and champion. For Freudenberg, striving together for innovation. Together with customers and research solutions that support global sustainability is both partners, Freudenberg employees develop leadingmotivation as well as the concept for success. It edge technologies, products, solutions and services. enables the Group to provide its customers with The innovative strength of Freudenberg has many solutions and answers to tomorrow’s questions, today. facets. Having pioneered innovation throughout its The company slogan “Innovating Together” embodies history – from chrome tanning and the development the Group’s identity. This Annual Report brings you of the Simmerring to sophisticated and high-tech many examples of what makes Freudenberg so medical devices – the company is an innovation unique and different. HIGHLIGHTS [€ million] 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Sales Germany 1,059 1,087 1,116 1,269 1,557 EU (excluding Germany) 1,553 1,657 1,700 2,094 2,434 Other European countries 327 334 308 314 441 North America 1,267 1,383 1,668 2,093 2,502 South/Central America 306 296 274 281 326 Asia 1,002 1,089 1,204 1,700 1,907 Africa/Australia 132 136 141 149 179 Total sales 5,646 5,982 6,411 7,900 9,346 Consolidated profit 399 478 521 1,087 700 Cash flow from operating activities 516 618 763 945 929 Cash flow from investing activities -520 -339 -429 -1,510 -612 Balance sheet total 5,873 6,667 7,238 10,224 10,194 Equity 2,775 3,211 3,700 4,603 4,835 Equity ratio 47 % 48 % 51 % 45 % 47 % Workforce (as at Dec. 31) 33,245 34,030 34,007 46,266 47,653 Workforce (annual average) 33,293 34,094 34,312 40,951 47,657 SALES DEVELOPMENT The first-time full-year consolidation of the of acquisitions and disinvestments, especially companies acquired in 2016 had a major impact the full acquisition of the Vibracoustic Group, in on the increase in sales. With sales at €9,345.6 the amount of €1,283.1 million, and taking million, the increase compared with the previous into consideration exchange rate effects of year was €1,445.5 million or 18.3 percent, €-159.7 million, sales rose by about 4 percent or representing a new record. Adjusted for the effects €322.1 million compared with the previous year. [€ million] Effects of acquisitions Exchange-rate effects Organic growth Sales 1,283.1 -159.7 322.1 9,345.6 Sales 7,900.1 2016 2017 2017 FREUDENBERG ANNUAL REPORT CONTENTS COMPANY BOARDS Supervisory Board 2 Board of Management 3 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL 4 MANAGEMENT OF THE BUSINESS GROUPS 5 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD 6 FOREWORD OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT 8 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SOCIETY (UN Global Compact Communication on Progress) 14 COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT Fundamental Information Business Model 44 Research and Development 47 Report on Economic Conditions Macroeconomic Environment 50 Business Development and Position 52 Earnings Position 54 Financial Position, Assets, Equity and Liabilities 54 Review of Operations by Business Area 60 Report on Events after the Date of the Statement of Financial Position 87 Report on Opportunities and Risks 88 Report on Expected Developments 97 Freudenberg SE (HGB) 100 Earnings Situation 100 Assets, Liabilities and Financial Position 101 Report on Expected Developments 101 Net Retained Profit and Dividend 101 Summary Concluding Statement of the Dependent Company Report of Freudenberg SE 102 CONSOLDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 104 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 105 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 106 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 107 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 108 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 109 Shareholdings 157 Audit Opinion 170 COMPANY BOARDS SUPERVISORY BOARD From left: Pott, Schildhauer, Towfigh, Kuhlich, Freudenberg, Wentzler, Kammüller, Kairisto, Purvis, Kurz, Thielen, Freudenberg-Beetz, Schücking Martin Wentzler, Großhesselohe Maeva Kuhlich, Chichilianne, France Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Freudenberg SE Manufacturing Integrator Attorney at Becton Dickinson France S.A.S. Professor Dr. Dieter Kurz, Lindau Dr. Richard Pott, Leverkusen Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Freudenberg SE Covestro AG Chairman of the Shareholder Council of the Carl Zeiss Foundation David M. Purvis, Kansas City, Missouri, USA Former Executive Vice President Martin Freudenberg, Heidelberg and CTO at Solectron Corp. Managing Director of Jumag Dampferzeuger GmbH Walter Schildhauer, Stuttgart Managing Partner of Dr. Maria Freudenberg-Beetz, Weinheim speedwave GmbH Biologist Dr. Christoph Schücking, Frankfurt am Main Essimari Kairisto, Korschenbroich Attorney and Notary Public MA Business Management Mathias Thielen, Zürich, Switzerland Dr. Mathias Kammüller, Ditzingen Managing Director of Credit Suisse AG Managing Director of TRUMPF GmbH + Co. KG Professor Dr. Emanuel V. Towfigh, Bonn Chair in Public Law, Empirical Legal Research and Law & Economics at EBS University Law School as at December 31, 2017 2 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT From left: Krieger, Sohi and Krauch Dr. Mohsen Sohi, Frankfurt am Main Chief Executive Officer Dr. Tilman Krauch, Heidelberg Member of the Board, CTO Dr. Ralf Krieger, St. Leon-Rot Member of the Board, CFO as at December 31, 2017 3 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL Members Business Groups Claus Möhlenkamp (CEO) Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Frank Müller (CEO) Vibracoustic Bruce R. Olson (CEO) Freudenberg Performance Materials Dr. Klaus Peter Meier (CEO) Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions Hanno D. Wentzler (CEO) Freudenberg Chemical Specialities and the Board of Management Membership of the above-mentioned 5 CEOs in the Executive Council takes stronger account of the perspectives of the Business Groups with regard to overarching issues. as at December 31, 2017 4 MANAGEMENT OF THE BUSINESS GROUPS Management Business Groups Claus Möhlenkamp (CEO and Member of the Executive Council), Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Dr. Theodore Duclos (CTO), Ludger Neuwinger-Heimes (CFO), Dieter Schäfer (COO) Richard Schmidt (CEO), Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies Craig Barnhart (CFO) Dr. Andreas Raps (CEO), EagleBurgmann Michael Stomberg (COO), Dr. Sebastian Weiss (CFO) Dr. Max Gisbert Kley (CEO), Freudenberg Medical Michael A. Hawkins (CFO) Frank Müller (CEO and Member of the Executive Council), Vibracoustic Dr. Jörg Böcking (CTO), Volker Christ (CFO) Bruce R. Olson (CEO and Member of the Executive Council), Freudenberg Performance Materials Dr. Frank Heislitz (CTO), Richard Shaw (COO), Dr. René Wollert (CFO) Dr. Andreas Kreuter (CEO), Freudenberg Filtration Technologies Thomas Herr (CFO), Dr. Jörg Sievert (COO) Satoshi Kawamura (CEO), Japan Vilene Company Yasuhiro Esaki (COO), Yukiyasu Izuta (CFO), Atsushi Shimoda (CTO) Dr. Klaus Peter Meier (CEO and Member of the Executive Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Council), Solutions Dr. Arman Barimani (CTO), Karin Overbeck (CMO), Frank Reuther (CFO) Hanno D. Wentzler (CEO and Member of the Executive Council), Freudenberg Chemical Specialities Dr. Jörg Matthias Großmann (CFO) Horst Reichardt (CEO), Freudenberg IT Wolfgang Schneider (CFO) as at December 31, 2017 5 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD The Supervisory Board held 5 meetings in the year under review. These meetings included detailed market analyses, while also addressing sales and earnings developments, the financial situation and the Group’s risk management. The agenda also included strategy issues, the portfolio structure, special projects and future-related topics. One item of importance for the Supervisory Board was the establishment of the Innovation and Technology Committee, which met 3 times in the reporting year. The Supervisory Board participated in an intensive discussion concerning the impact of technological megatrends such as new mobility on the portfolio structure. The Supervisory Board also discussed the impact of the growing number of natural disasters on the Group, and approved an extension of the e² initiative to 2021. Martin Wentzler (Chairman) The Supervisory Board advised on several acquisitions and their integration in the Freudenberg Group, including the acquisition of the seal manufacturer Metflex In 2017, the Board of Management and the SuperviHolding Company Ltd, Blackburn, United Kingdom, the sory Board held regular and detailed discussions on the purchase of Colarôme Inc., Saint Hubert, Canada, a natGroup’s progress and major individual business transural food ingredient specialist, and the acquisition of actions based on verbal and written reports. The Board the Playtex Gloves business in the U.S. The Supervisory of Management and the Supervisory Board worked toBoard was also involved in the ongoing integration of gether to set business policy and updated it where necJapan Vilene Company Ltd., Tokyo, Japan, and Gimi S.p.A., essary in joint deliberations. The Supervisory Board Monselice, Italy, acquired in 2016. also advised the Board of Management in managing the company, while supervising and monitoring the The Audit Committee met 4 times in the year under reconduct of business. The basis for the 2018 to 2020 view. In Q1 2017, it advised closely on the annual finanStrategic Period was also discussed. The Chairman of cial statements and the consolidated financial statethe Supervisory Board held regular discussions with ments as at December 31, 2016, and on the reports the members of the Board of Management on current from the auditors about these financial statements. business developments. Regular exchanges between The second meeting focused on the auditor’s report on the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the Chairman recommendations for the internal control system. The of the Audit Committee and the Board of Management report was discussed extensively with auditor repreMember responsible for Finance were also held. sentatives. Further Audit Committee issues in 2017 included the Group’s risk management, the work of the Ethics Office, information security, the applicable principles of the German Corporate Governance Code, the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, changes in accounting standards, and a preview of the 2017 annual financial statements. Furthermore, the Audit Committee was regularly consulted on the ongoing Corporate Audit reports and reported back to each plenary meeting of the Supervisory Board on the issues addressed by the Audit Committee and the outcomes of its consultations. 6 The Personnel Committee met 4 times during the year Based on the results of our audit, the dependent comunder review and discussed executive development, pany report does not give rise to any reserve-tions. We the talent management process, succession planning in have therefore issued the following audit opinion: the key bodies of the Freudenberg Group, and remuneration systems. Based on our audit and assessment, which were carried out in accordance with professional standards, we conThe annual financial statements, the consolidated firm that financial statements compiled pursuant to IFRS, the consolidated management report and the dependent 1. the factual statements made in the report are corcompany report of Freudenberg SE for 2017 were aurect, dited by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Mannheim, Germany, and were approved 2. the payments made by the company regarding lewithout reservation. The members of the Supervisory gal transactions detailed in the report were not Board were provided with the documentation for the unreasonably high, annual financial statements and the audit reports in due time. The Supervisory Board approved the consoli3. there are no circumstances in favor of a signifidated financial statements and the consolidated mancantly different assessment than that made by the agement report, and the annual financial statements of Board of Management regarding the measures Freudenberg SE, and following examination, concurred listed in the report.” with the auditor’s findings. The annual financial statements of Freudenberg SE as at December 31, 2017 are The Supervisory Board examined and approved the retherefore adopted. port on relations with affiliated companies (dependent company report) and took note of the auditor's report. The report on relations with affiliated companies (deThe examination of the dependent company report by pendent company report) in accordance with Section the Supervisory Board did not result in any objections to 312 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) subthe concluding statement by the Board of Management mitted by the Board of Management of Freudenberg SE in the dependent company report. was audited by the auditors, who issued the following opinion: On June 24, 2017, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kurz, Dr. Richard Pott, and David Purvis were elected members of the Supervi“We render this report in accordance with the provisory Board of Freudenberg SE for a term of 4 years. sions of Section 313 AktG and conclude that the report of the Board of Management of Freudenberg SE, WeinThe Supervisory Board thanks all employees, Business heim, Germany, on relations with affiliated companies Group managing bodies and the Board of Management. for the financial year from January 1 to December 31, Their great personal commitment made an important 2017 attached as Appendix 1 complies with the provicontribution to the Group’s success in a demanding sions of Section 312 AktG. The Board of Management year. provided us with all the explanations and supporting documents requested. The dependent company report complies with the principles of a true and fair view. In Weinheim, March 23, 2018 accordance with Section 312 (3), 3rd sentence AktG, the For the Supervisory Board concluding statement of the dependent company report has therefore been included in the management report (Section 289, German Commercial Code (HGB)). Martin Wentzler Chairman 7 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT FOREWORD 2017 was a successful year for the Freudenberg Group, both operationally and strategically. Adjusted for extraordinary effects from changes to the status of companies consolidated at equity in 2016, growth was seen in both sales and consolidated profit. Our strategic projects continued on schedule. All our Business Areas contributed to our successful year. Each helped us become more innovative and efficient. We strive to be one of the most innovative broadly diversified and globally active technology companies. In 2017, we made great strides towards achieving this goal. The hard work and dedication of our almost 48,000 employees around the world were vital to our success. Profit before income taxes was 883.1 million euros (previous year: 1,265.1 million euros). Consolidated profit was 700.1 million euros (previous year: 1,086.9 million euros). The difference in profit was attributable to an extraordinary effect resulting from the cessation of at-equity consolidation of the Vibracoustic Group and Japan Vilene Company in 2016. Adjusted for these effects, consolidated profits amounted to 503.4 million euros in the previous year. The sustained profitability stems from measures to improve both productivity and efficiency. Free cash flow was 316.9 million euros (previous year: negative 565.3 million euros). The shift was primarily the result of reduced acquisition activity. The previous year figures included payments for the acquisition of the Vibracoustic Group and Japan Vilene Company. Dr. Mohsen Sohi (CEO) The equity ratio of 47.4 percent (previous year: 45.0 percent) means Freudenberg has maintained a healthy The figures published in this Annual Report were comequity base. Liquid funds at year-end totaled 998.8 milpiled solely under International Financial Reporting lion euros (previous year: 960.7 million euros). Standards (IFRS) reporting rules, whereby joint ventures were consolidated using the equity method. After The rating agency Moody’s Deutschland GmbH, Franktaking full ownership of Vibracoustic GmbH in 2016 furt am Main, Germany rated Freudenberg SE, Weinand increased shareholdings in VistaMed Ltd, Carrickheim, Germany “A3” as in the previous year, with a staon-Shannon, Ireland, in early 2017, there was no signifble outlook. The Group thus maintained a so-called icant difference between the pro-rata and equity consingle-A rating. solidation of joint ventures. This Annual Report thus does not include any figures consolidated pro-rata in 2017 was the last year of the 2015 to 2017 Strategic deviation from previous years. There are no longer any Period. We completed important projects vital to the differences between internal and external reports. Group’s long-term success. In summary, we have become more efficient and innovative. This is the product Sales totaled 9,345.6 million euros (previous year: of efforts to reduce our administrative costs while in7,900.1 million euros) and were 18.3 percent above the creasing research and development spending. previous year. The increase in sales is attributable to the first full consolidation of the companies acquired in 2016, and the market success of our innovative products. 8 Since 2017, Freudenberg has also been using the equity method internally for joint ventures. 9,345.6 700.1 47,653 Sales € million Consolidated profit € million Freudenberg employees Key strategic elements include our very long-term view methods are used to further optimize production proof our portfolio and our search for areas of future cesses. Our administrative departments have also begrowth. In 2016, our 30 young leaders examined a secome more efficient. Standardizing finance and acries of potential scenarios for the world in 2050 and counting processes and generating economies of scale identified business opportunities for Freudenberg. The in purchasing helped lower administration costs. project findings are now being used in our strategic plan, Lower administration costs allow us to invest more in our research projects and our acquisition pipeline. innovation. Innovation is vital to our corporate success. To expand The Group’s strategy envisions the selectively targeted our innovative strength, we have continued to advance strengthening of our portfolio through acquisitions in Freudenberg’s material, process and systems expertise all the Business Groups. Our aim is to create a balanced with technology platforms. We are focusing on overportfolio of cyclical and anti-cyclical businesses with arching technologies relevant to multiple Business equal sales contributions from the Americas, Europe Groups. 2 new platforms were implemented in 2017: and Asia. We continued with successful bolt-on acqui“Digitalization” and “Hygiene”. We now have 9 platsitions as well as looking for opportunities to expand forms to generate synergies and share knowledge into complementary, new business fields. Examples of among our Business Groups. acquisitions were: We invested more in innovation than ever before: 427.8 In January 2017, the Freudenberg Medical Business million euros (previous year: 335.1 million euros). We Group acquired further shares of VistaMed Ltd., Carrickhave steadily increased our investments in research on-Shannon, Ireland. VistaMed produces high quality and development over the past few years, further increspecial catheters along with extruded tubes for the asing Freudenberg’s innovation strength. Freudenberg medical device industry, and the company has been measures the research and development effectiveness working with Freudenberg since 2010 as a joint venture. by looking at the new product (those less than 4 years old) share relative to total sales. The share increased to In July 2017 Freudenberg acquired Metflex Holding 33 percent (previous year: 28.7 percent). Company Ltd, Blackburn, United Kingdom. The company is a leading developer and manufacturer of memOperational Excellence at Freudenberg is the commitbrane and customized sealing solutions for a wide vament to continuous improvement. In the reporting year, riety of industrial applications. we worked hard to make our products, services and processes more efficient, better and safer. This is in In October 2017, Freudenberg bought natural ingredikeeping with Freudenberg’s claim to be a technology ent specialist Colarôme Inc. of Saint Hubert, Quebec, group and is the basis for the company’s market and Canada. The company holds patents for technologies technological leadership. The Lean and Six Sigma used to produce a unique palette of natural colors. 9 Also in October 2017, Freudenberg bought the Playtex Corporate Citizenship, Compliance and Human Rights household glove business from Edgewell Personal Care & Labor. All these topics are firmly anchored in Brands, LLC, St. Louis, Missouri, USA. Playtex is the leadFreudenberg’s Values and Principles. ing US manufacturer of household gloves and has been active in the market for over 65 years under the Living Freudenberg signed the UN Global Compact in 2014 as and Handsaver brands. we feel the importance of communicating our actions to our customers, our neighbors, potential employees In addition to the acquisitions, we also invested heavily and institutions. We remain fully committed to implein machines, equipment and facilities. At Freudenberg menting and advancing the 10 principles of the UN Performance Materials’ US site in Macon, Georgia, a Global Compact. new production line with state-of-the-art technology for high quality fiberglass reinforced spunbonded Freudenberg used a project in 2016 to develop a Groupnonwovens for use in the construction industry came wide sustainability strategy. In the reporting year, the on line. Freudenberg Chemical Specialities also inauguimplementation of this strategy was transferred to the rated the expanded global research and development various Business Groups. Sustainability is now a syscenter at Chem-Trend in Howell, Michigan, USA. Japan tematic component of our strategic planning process. Vilene Company opened a new production site in Sustainability has 2 dimensions in the company. The first Aguascalientes, Mexico and a new medical equipment dimension involves organizing processes and utilizing factory in Moryama City, Shiga Province, Japan. Vistaequipment to reduce and conserve resources (footprint). Med completed the expansion of its main production The second dimension is the numerous Freudenberg facility in Carrick-on-Shannon. In Weinheim, Germany products and solutions that allow customers’ producthe new training center opened for business near the tion facilities to be more efficient and sustainable or end of the year under review. make their products more resource efficient (handprint). The 6 core themes of materials, waste, energy, emissions, In the pursuit of excellence, Freudenberg further exwater and health are the most important factors in the panded its talent management. The goal is to foster diGroup’s sustainability strategy. These 6 themes were versity and inclusion in the company, and attract and then used to derive 3 Group-wide TOP themes: material retain the best talent. We further strengthened our exefficiency, energy efficiency and emissions. Key Perforecutive development efforts. The new “Operations mance Indicators were defined for these 3 TOP themes. Leadership Program” complements the “Strategic Leadership and Business Leadership Program”, which Health, Safety and Environmental Protection (HSE) are has been an important part of our talent management vital to Freudenberg. Employee occupational safety is since 2014. An employee survey in the reporting year given top priority. In 2017, all company levels focused provided further confirmation that we are on the right on occupational safety. We were thus able to reverse path. Employees had an above-average identification the negative trends of 2016 and nearly return once with our company relative to similar industries. more to Freudenberg’s high standards. The LDIFR (Lost Day Incident Frequency Rate measuring incidents genSuccess for Freudenberg means both financial success erating one day of absence per million working hours) while also fulfilling our responsibility for society. These was 1.4 in the reporting year (previous year: 1.8). In goals have been inseparably linked throughout 2018, we will redouble our occupational safety initiaFreudenberg’s history. “Responsibility for society” at tive as our employees’ safety is vital to both me and my Freudenberg includes the 5 areas of Sustainability, HSE, fellow Board Members. 10 Freudenberg’s commitment to Corporate Citizenship Digitalization is charging ahead. We are closely examextends beyond the value chain. Freudenberg started ining the trend and what it means for our Group. At the the international e² (education and environment) inDIALOG 2018 senior management conference, we will itiative in 2015 to strengthen this citizenship. The discuss various initiatives and derive measures to be goal is to provide people with access to education implemented in the coming years. and work and encourage environmental protection. In the reporting year, e² was extended for another For 2018, we forecast overall growth of 1.0 to 3.0 peryear and the budget was increased by 2 million euros. cent for the markets relevant to Freudenberg. Growth The Freudenberg Group is currently providing a total will depend heavily on economic and technological facof 14 million euros over a period of 7 years (until tors along with developments in current geopolitical 2021). By the end of the year, approximately 60 proflashpoints. We expect above-average growth in North jects received support. America, China and India. We anticipate South America will continue its slow recovery. Europe should have staFreudenberg also reorganized its aid initiative for refuble growth. gees in 2017. By late 2016, the company was supporting more than 70 different initiatives in Germany and In summary, we face many, complex market and techcrisis regions. The next step is to create long-term opnological challenges. They will bring risks and opportuportunities for refugees, with traineeships being made nities. We will remain agile and flexible, and adapt available to them in the reporting year. quickly to the changes in the marketplace. We can look back with pride at the progress we made Thanks: over the past year. We have become more efficient, exOur employees’ dedication and commitment will make panded our excellence and leveraged further Group poour company even more successful in 2018. We rely on tential. their entrepreneurial spirit, on our diversity, and our teamwork in the spirit of “Innovating Together”. We Outlook: thank everyone for their contributions. The 2018-2020 Strategic Period will be key to the Freudenberg Group’s future. Markets are changing We also want to thank our customers and business ever faster; geopolitical uncertainty is growing and partners for their trust and excellent collaboration. technological change is accelerating. Their success is our success. The automotive industry is facing a fundamental Weinheim, March 23, 2018 change driven by electromobility and self-driving vehiFor the Board of Management cles. As a partner to our customers, we are well equipped for this change and are working hard on leading-edge innovations for all drive types including electric motors, hybrids, fuel cells and internal combustion Dr. Mohsen Sohi engines. CEO 11 LEADING TECHNOLOGY GROUP As a leading technology group, excellence at Innovation is a constant throughout the company’s ­Freudenberg means setting standards in technology, history, which is filled with forward-looking inveninnovation and quality. tions, such as chrome tanning, Simmering radial-shaft seals and sophisticated, high-tech medical products. Freudenberg is a global technology company that Freudenberg Group products and services help cusstrengthens customers and society through fortomers prosper – often invisible but always indispensward-looking innovations. Freudenberg employees able and true to its market positioning, “Freudenberg collaborate with partners, customers and the world is a values-based technology company that best serves of science to develop leading-edge technologies, soluits customers and society.” tions and services. The collaborative search for environmental and soFreudenberg employees are experts in their fields and cietal sustainability solutions is both the reason for use their expertise to develop excellent solutions for and foundation of the company’s success. “Innovat30 market segments and thousands of applications ing Together” is put into practice at all the company’s – including seals, vibration technology components, Business Groups and regional sites around the world. nonwoven materials, filters, specialty chemicals, medical technology products, IT services and state-of-theart cleaning products. 12 Kapitel Freudenberg employees act and think like entrepreneurs, show initiative and are ready to take on responsibility. They work in diverse teams and on international projects to develop solutions that are both innovative and visionary. Innovation, a clear customer orientation, close collaboration, diversity and team spirit are pillars of the company’s success. The claims of excellence, reliability, and proactively taking on responsibility are core values the company has been putting into practice for 169 years. 13 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SOCIETY (UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT) As a family-owned, values-based technology group, success for Freudenberg is financial success as well as fulfilling the company’s responsibility for society. The 2 goals have been inextricably linked since the comTE C OM RA IP PL pany’s founding. R PO NSH IA N O IZ E C CI T CE VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS INNOVATION Y I E T CT LEADERSHIP S A F OTE PEOPLE MA RESPONSIBILITY & L N RIG HTS H E A L T H & PR Freudenberg values and principles ABO E N VIR O N M E NTAL R LONG-TERM ORIENTATION Areas relevant to “Responsibility” HU Processes and initiatives along the value chain ON (based on the UN Global Compact) SUSTA IN A BILITY Initiatives that extend beyond the value chain 14 Kapitel At Freudenberg, “Responsibility for Society” covers In 2014, the company signed the UN Global Compact 5 areas: Sustainability, Health, Safety and Environbecause it felt the need to communicate its actions to mental Protection (HSE), Corporate Citizenship, Comcustomers, neighbors, potential employees and instipliance and Human Rights & Labor. All 5 areas are tutions. The principles behind the Global Compact are firmly anchored in Freudenberg’s values and principles inscribed in the Freudenberg Group’s Guiding Princiand closely linked to one another. ples with different wording. The principles focus on 4 areas; human rights, labor standards, environmental Values have always been important at Freudenberg protection and anti-corruption. when dealing with customers, business partners, neighbors and the environment. Freudenberg emThe following describes how Freudenberg put these ployees pledge to uphold an internal Code of Conduct, principles into practice in the past year. take part in Freudenberg’s “We all take care” initiative to improve environmental protection, health and occupational safety and have developed innovative sustainable solutions to improve quality of life around the globe. 15 “We all take care” Group-wide initiative Every year Freudenberg honors employees who have successfully taken part in the project with the “We Since launching in 2002, the internal “We all take care” all take care” award. First place in the year under initiative has encouraged employees around the world ­review went to the “Near Miss Reporting App” from to make their work and workplace safer, healthier and ­Freudenberg Sealing Technologies in North Shields, more environmentally friendly; to get involved in soUK. Second place was shared by Freudenberg Perforcial projects and help improve safety at the company. mance Materials in Brazil and Argentina, with their “Emergency Stop Electronic Test” and EagleBurgmann in Johannesburg, South Africa with the “Vibratory Polishing of Service Mechanical Seals” project. The initiative stands for putting corporate values into practice – across country borders, hierarchies and Business Groups. Each employee is encouraged to bring forth ideas and suggestions. The Group-wide intranet, the Freudenberg Portal, provides employees with access to the details about successful projects, to speed up the improvement process. As part of the Corporate In the successful “We all take care” project in North Shields, UK, Freudenberg Health, Safety, Security, Environment meeting, upper created a reporting system for near-miss accidents with an app. management was integrated in the process and the heads from each of the Business Groups helped move A total of 12 projects from the Freudenberg world things forward. Currently, more than 3,000 projects made it into the final round. Submissions were made have been submitted. for 179 projects. “We all take care” makes people happy: Optimism among participants at the award ceremony in April 2017 in Weinheim, Germany. 16 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) Important figures about Responsibility for Society This page includes a selection of important figures describing how the company takes Responsibility for Society. A detailed explanation of the figures can be found in the chapter describing the 5 areas of responsibility. 47,653 Freudenberg employees 88.9 (in tons/ million euro sales) 179 CO emissions ² “We all take care” projects 0.24 (in kWh/ euro sales) 1.4 Energy efficiency LDIFR (Lost Day Incident Frequency Rate): 26.4 All workplace accidents with at least one day of work lost per one million hours worked (million euros) Investments in environmental protection and occupational safety 17 SUSTAINABILITY Freudenberg has always cared about sustainable products and processes. In 2016, Freudenberg developed a Group-wide sustainability strategy. The strategy was presented as a framework to all the Business Groups in the year under review. Sustainability was also made a systematic component of the strategic process. 18 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Sustainability ENERGY EFFICIENCY ENERGIEEFFIZIENZ BEIATFREUDENBERG FREUDENBERG (kilowatt hours per [Kilowattstunde euroUmsatz] pro Euro of sales) Sustainability is a part of Freudenberg’s “Responsibility 0.37 for Society” and has 2 dimensions. One dimension is process and equipment designs that conserve resources (Footprint). The second dimension is the numerous 0.24 Freudenberg products and solutions that make customer’s production more efficient and sustainable or allow products to be manufactured with greater resource efficiency (Handprint). Freudenberg helps improve sustainability around the 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 20 world by minimizing the company’s footprint and max20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 17* imizing its handprint. The Group has defined 6 core susJapan * *Die Vilene Japan Company Vilene Company istbeen has seit 2017 bei derinKonsolidierung included the energy consolidation since 2017. von Energie berücksichtigt. tainability areas: materials, waste, energy, emissions, water and health. Since 2017, CO2 emissions across the Group have been The 6 core themes were used to derive the 3 Group-wide tracked in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas ProtoTOP themes of material efficiency, energy efficiency and col. Freudenberg reports emissions in accordance with emissions. Key Performance Indicators were defined to Scopes 1 and 2 after adjusting for direct and indirect create greater transparency by measuring CO2 emisenergy consumption. Site-based calculations indicate sions and making them comparable across the Group. a value of 88.9 tons of CO2 per million euros in sales. Starting in 2018, a Group-wide Waste KPI will be comFreudenberg has been analyzing and measuring energy piled for the first time. consumption across the Group since 2009. Energy efficiency has improved thanks to various measures and In the year under review, the strategic Sustainability the introduction of an energy management system. The Framework was linked directly to Business Group acenergy consumption per euro of sales has been reduced tivities. Specific sustainability approaches and meaby over a third in just 8 years: from 0.37 to 0.24 kilowatt sures were identified to be carried out in each of the hours. Freudenberg remains committed to further imBusiness Groups and thus generate direct added value. proving energy efficiency. Implementation is based on individual schedules and framework conditions within the Business Groups. TE C OM RA IP PL Materials Emissions PO NSH IA OR IZE N C CI T CE Material efficiency Air pollution/ Recycle, renewable and emissions VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS INNOVATION replacement materials Y I LEADERSHIP End-of-life (EOL) hanE T CT S A F OTE PEOPLE dling of products MA RESPONSIBILITY & L N RIG HTS H E A L T H & PR LONG-TERM ORIENTATION ABO Waste Water E N VIR O N M E NTAL R HU Waste treatment Water pollution ON Water consumption SUSTA IN A BILITY Energy Health MIN T Energy efficiency Product impact IMIZING O UR F O OTPRIN Renewable energy on health Ma h ter alt ials He Wa s er te Wa t E n e rg y Emi s s ions MAX IMIZIN ERS G HANDPRINT FOR OUR CUSTOM 19 A SELECTION OF SUCCESSFUL WASTE SUSTAINABILITY PROJECTS The Freudenberg Group’s constant quest for greater sustainability drives innovation. At the same Innovative manufacturing processes minimize time, innovation results in more sustainable proproduction waste cesses and products. Innovation and sustainability Vibracoustic is committed both locally and globally to are closely linked and work together. Innovations sustainability. Innovative production processes make make an important contribution to sustainability it possible for the company to continuously improve and have a positive impact on the company’s footmaterial efficiency and minimize or avoid production print and handprint. waste. The introduction of cold-channel injection molding in the global production network has already lowered rubber waste enormously. Vibracoustic is now Selected footprint examples are listed on this twogradually implementing valve gate technology, which page spread and handprint examples can be found will virtually eliminate sprue waste from the manufacon the following 2 pages. ture of rubber parts. Footprint The search for sustainable production processes is Thanks to innovative manufacturing processes, Vibracoustic is continuously an important part of Freudenberg’s DNA and is firmimproving material efficiency or avoiding production scrap. ly anchored in the values-based technology group. Topics such as energy and material efficiency, the sustainable use of resources and the reduction of EMISSIONS AND MATERIALS waste are important in minimizing the company’s footprint. Continuous improvements in these areas help Freudenberg take responsibility for society. The lubricant of the future Klüber Lubrication successfully developed homogenous lubricants with functional water components: Hydro Lubricants. Water has clear functional benefits. It is Materials Emissions available around the world, non-toxic and non-flammaMaterial efficiency Air pollution/ ble. The solution also has a handprint aspect. But water emissions had limitations as a lubricant. Now, water can be used as Recycled, renewable and replacement materials a functional component opening completely new appliEnd-of-Life (EOL) cations. Companies from numerous industries can now handling of products enjoy various sustainability and performance benefits. Waste Water Waste treatment Water pollution Water consumption Energy Health Energy efficiency Impact of products Renewable Energy on health Water as a functional component of lubricants has clear advantages. It is neither toxic nor flammable. 20 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Sustainability MATERIALS AND WASTE WATER New products from used PET bottles Recycling hot water Freudenberg Performance Materials recycles 2.5 bilThe Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions faclion bottles at their production facilities every year. tory in Monselice, Italy has a block heating plant, The recycled polyester is then used in nonwoven mawhere hot water is used to heat the production hall terials for roof seals as well as acoustic and thermal in winter. Hot air from the ventilation system is not insulation. The materials are produced with 100% merely discharged into the environment but is used recycled PET and have the same quality as prodto dry wet components and to heat paint-drying furucts made from new materials. Labels and caps are naces. The approach is both environmentally friendly also recycled and find a new life as modifiers in bituand helps cut costs. men. Recycling saves natural resources and energy. Recycled polyester is used to manufacture nonwovens used in roof seals as well The production at the Freudenberg site in Monselice, Italy is an example of as acoustic and thermal insulation. sustainable production. WASTE ENERGY AND EMISSIONS Reducing production waste Reducing energy consumption At many Freudenberg sites, employees have launched Freudenberg puts sustainability into practice every day. initiatives to improve their ecological balance sheet, The nonwoven production site in Parets del Vallés, Spain, including the recycling of waste. One example is the managed to reduce energy consumption by almost 20 Zero Landfill project. The goal is to recycle and reduce percent within a few years. The energy reductions inwaste. The site in Colmar, France, was able to reduce volved countless small changes and just a few major production waste by 20 percent year on year. ones. Some steps included insulating the pipes, heating the production hall with an energy-efficient infrared system and replacing outdated steam-generation machinery. The sustainable use of resources and the reduction of waste play an importEnergy and material efficiency is very important at all Freudenberg sites. ant role at the nonwoven site in Colmar. 21 OTHER EXAMPLES OF SUCCESSEMISSIONS AND HEALTH FUL SUSTAINABILITY PROJECTS Water-based mold-separating agent Chem-Trend offers water-based, non-flammable process aids, which have few or no volatile organic compounds. Freudenberg products help meet ever tougher environmental protection and occupational safety standards, which make factories safer and less polluting, as customers are no longer forced to use corrosive agents. Cleaning the molds is also more cost efficient. Selected handprint examples are listed on this twopage spread, you can find selected footprint examples on the previous 2 pages. Handprint Responsibility for society means that Freudenberg also helps customers become more sustainable. Products from Freudenberg company Chem-Trend help meet ever stricter For example, innovative products and services can environmental and occupational safety requirements. help make customers more efficient. Expanding Freudenberg’s handprint also has a positive impact on customers’ quality of life while making an ENERGY, MATERIALS AND WASTE improved contribution to sustainability in various areas outside of Freudenberg. Reduce material usage with special lubricants Specialty lubricants from Klüber Lubrication for high-stress roller bearings and slide bearings in the wind-power industry help reduce wind-turbine downMaterials Emissions times and significantly increase productivity. Klüber Material efficiency Air pollution/ products also minimize bearing wear to increase their Recycled, renewable and emissions operational life. Operator repair and replacement replacement materials costs and the costs for the disposal of spent lubriEnd-of-life (EOL) handling cant are lowered, reducing material usage and waste. of products Waste Water Waste treatment Water pollution Water consumption Energy Health Energy efficiency Product impact Renewable energy on health A Klüber Lubrication R&D employee at work in the lubrication specialist’s lab 22 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Sustainability ENERGY AND EMISSIONS EMISSIONS Seals for greater safety in oil exploration Reduced friction for lower CO2 EagleBurgmann – a joint venture of Freudenberg and Levitas seals from Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Japan’s EKK Group – supplies mechanical seals and can be installed in all types of automatic transmissupply systems for pumps and compressors to statesions. The special design of the seals reduces friction of-the-art oil platforms off the coast of Norway. Eagleso much that merely replacing conventional seals in an Burgmann and Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies automatic transmission can lower CO2 emissions in a have decades of experience in the oil industry and thus vehicle by 0.8 grams per kilometer. If one million new valuable technological expertise. Freudenberg products vehicles were equipped with Levitas seals, the cumulaprovide customers with greater process reliability, availtive emissions would be reduced by 192,000 tons over ability and site efficiency. the life of a vehicle. After production, the metal housing in the mechanical seals are tested using When developing new seals, Freudenberg Sealing Technologies experts from 3D monitoring. various areas work together. WATER HEALTH Drinking water from waste water For the good of the patient Viledon Water Solutions use Aquabio technology Coated balloon catheters from Freudenberg Medical from Freudenberg Filtration Technologies to treat deliver medication precisely where the body needs it. waste water from the food processing and beverThe unique configuration and innovative coating proage industries. The membranes reliably filter out cess create a longer-lasting and improved effect – with dirt particles and bacteria. Reverse osmosis and just one of third of the required medication, helping resupplemental disinfection help transform up to 70 duce side effects in patients, protect the environment percent of the waste water into drinking water. The by reducing toxic waste and saving the healthcare sysfilters sink energy consumption and operating costs tem money. for the customer, while reducing CO2 emissions. Turning waste water into clean drinking water – Freudenberg solutions make An innovative material coating process for balloon catheters at Freudenberg it efficient and reliable. Medical helps deliver life-saving medication to customers. 23 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Freudenberg’s Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Guideline contains the HSE principles and defines the stipulations laid down in the Freudenberg Group’s values and principles governing HSE. The primary goals are the prevention of all accidents, preventive health protection, and the reduction of the negative impact of Freudenberg’s business activities on the environment. 24 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Occupational health and safety and environmental protection Freudenberg is committed to employees’ wellbeing Numerous sites launched DIN EN ISO 50001-comand their personal development. Internal regulations pliant management systems to reduce energy constipulate that occupational safety and health are supsumption and limit the company’s environmental ported and practiced at all levels within Freudenberg. impact. Freudenberg Sealing Technologies, FreudenHealth protection, occupational safety and process berg Performance Materials and Freudenberg Home safety are all part of the daily routine at Freudenberg. and Cleaning Solutions have introduced the management systems at their German production sites. All The approach has allowed the Freudenberg Group to relevant European sites carried out energy audits in reduce accident numbers to a low level relative to incompliance with DIN EN 16247-1 to identify potential dustry benchmarks. Existing measures are strengthsavings. ened and enhanced with new targeted approaches for continuous improvement. Success in occupational safety serves as a benchmark for other areas, particularly environmental protection and health protection Investments where Freudenberg hopes to see the same advances. This is how preventive health management projects The share of direct investments in environmental are increasingly pursued in the company. protection, occupational health and safety as part of overall investment in tangible assets, intangible assets An HSE Week is held once a year and all sites within the and investment properties was 5.3 percent (previous Freudenberg Group are called on to implement HSE year: 5.1 percent). campaigns. In the reporting year, employees received occupational safety training courses and lessons on workplace ergonomics and continuous participation was thus encouraged. Environmental protection Internal and external audits as well as HSE assessFreudenberg believes environmental protection is an ments at all Freudenberg Group sites are used to asimportant responsibility and makes sure the compasess measures to improve environmental protection, ny’s activity is as environmentally friendly as possible. occupational health and safety or fire protection. One goal is improving operational procedures to prevent The goal is to continuously reduce the negative impact harm to individuals and thus work outages and potenalong the entire value chain, by using resources more tial supply disruptions. The audit findings are systemefficiently, reducing emissions, saving energy, water atically evaluated and the remediation measures are and other materials while improving transport prothen implemented across all Business Groups. cesses. Freudenberg also includes ecological factors when redesigning and modernizing buildings. Management systems The implementation of management systems for occupational health and safety (OHSAS 18001) and environmental protection (ISO 14001 or EMAS) continued in 2017. The Freudenberg site Görwihl-Oberwihl needed a third less energy after the extensive modernization work over the past 3 years. 25 Freudenberg uses many raw materials and processContaminated sites es in production. The materials and processes vary in their impact on occupational safety and the enviThe provisions for contaminated sites fell by 9.8 perronment. Freudenberg has many ways to limit these cent relative to the previous year. risks. The goal is to continuously reduce the physical hazards on site and their impact on the environment. The reasons for the decline include the successful completion of soil remediation at the Weinheim Industrial Freudenberg actively searches for alternatives to Park as part of usage changes. Modernization planning hazardous materials or those with a pending REACh was completed for the wastewater treatment plant (European Regulation on Registration, Evaluation and and the former Freudenberg Sealing ­Technology facilRestriction of Chemicals) classification prior to the ities in Pinerolo, Italy is in the pre-planning phase. The passage of any regulations. Assessments are carried old Klüber Lubrication site in São Paulo, Brazil is also out to prevent any negative impact on production in the discovery phase. In these cases, the company is from restrictions placed on a material. Many prodcoordinating further action with the local authorities. ucts are developed in phased processes to make sure a new product’s environmental impact is less than its New provisions for remediation measures were not predecessor. needed, and existing provisions have been reduced. 12 environmental incidents (previous year: 10 incidents) occurred in 2017. Small fires occurred at the Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions site in Preventive health care Augsburg, Germany, at Freudenberg NOK Sealing Technologies in Cleveland, Ohio, US, at Vibracoustic in In 2017, the Group expanded preventive health care Guarulhos, Brazil and at Freudenberg Sealing Technolmanagement and implemented the health principles ogies in Schwalmstadt, Germany. A Freudenberg Filusing various programs and initiatives. The individtration Technologies site in Potvorice, Slovakia was hit ual Business Groups compiled key health indicators by lightning and suffered a small fire in a substation, such as the number of workdays lost to illness to causing a five-hour blackout. In November, fire broke see where improvement potential could be found out at Freudenberg Performance Materials in Durham, and put measures in place. The transparency led to a North Carolina, US. series of improvement projects, such as the initiative at Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions in Salo, Finland. A holistic occupational health management system is now in place. Some of the system’s measures Resource consumption include courses on nutrition, movement and physical fitness, improvements to ergonomics and the introIn 2017, Freudenberg used 2.3 million megawatt duction of exercise breaks. A real impact can be felt hours of energy (previous year: 1.8 million megawatt in the drop in the number of working days lost, while hours). Energy consumption came from primarily from health and wellbeing have become firmly anchored the following sources: at the company. • Third-party energy supplies (power, steam and district heat generated outside Freudenberg; 1.51 million megawatt hours) • Gas (0.71million megawatt hours) • Fuel oil (0.03 million megawatt hours) The 2.3 million megawatt hours generated costs totaling 154 million euros. Energy costs took up 1.6 percent of overall revenue (previous year: 1.7 percent). 26 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Occupational health and safety and environmental protection Stretching several times a day helps prevent muscle and skeletal disorders for Freudenberg employees in Salo, Finland. In May 2017, the Freudenberg Health Studio opened in Occupational safety focuses on measures to raise the Weinheim Industrial Park. Working with operator employee safety awareness. The numerous projects, TSG Weinheim and the health insurer, BKK Freudenwhich were part of the “We all take care” initiative, berg, employees can use exercise equipment and take provide some examples of safety awareness projects. courses at discounted prices. The studio helps make At Freudenberg Sealing Technologies in North Shields, exercise convenient and easy to include in employee United Kingdom, an app was created to report nearroutines. miss accidents. Tablet computers are placed at Near Miss Stations throughout the site and employees can use them to report near-miss accidents or dangerous situations. At EagleBurgmann in Johannesburg, South Occupational safety Africa, a new cleaning process for mechanical seals was introduced to cut costs while reducing health risks Freudenberg’s internal reporting started using the and environmental pollution. Logistics at Freudenberg LDIFR (Lost Day Incident Frequency Rate) benchmark Filtration Technologies in Weinheim is taking steps to based on the pro-rata consolidation of joint ventures protect pedestrians from collisions with forklifts. A in 2015. The figure is a non-financial key performance collision warning system is triggered when forklifts indicator at the Freudenberg Group. All workplace acand pedestrians come within 10 meters of each other. cidents with at least one day’s absence are measured per 1 million work hours. The total number of incidents resulting in more than one day’s absence from work in the reporting year was 140 (previous year: 143). The Group had 6 serious accidents (previous year: 10) in 2017, one of which was fatal. At Freudenberg Filtration Technologies in Changchun, China, an employee was injured during the commissioning of a machine and died from his injuries on the way to the hospital. At Freudenberg, health and safety protections are encouraged and practiced at all levels. 27 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Corporate Citizenship has always been integral to Freudenberg and practiced both inside and outside the company. Freudenberg strives to be a good corporate citizen and good neighbor in all the countries, states and communities the company calls home. Corporate Citizenship at Freudenberg goes beyond the value chain – as seen in the hundreds of projects near the company’s sites. 28 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Corporate Citizenship Freudenberg created the e² (education and environThe next step is to focus on long-term prospects for refment) initiative in 2015 to strengthen the company’s ugees by offering traineeships. Over the next 3 years, Corporate Citizenship. e² helps people access educa12 to 15 refugees can start a dual traineeship. They tion and work and encourages environmental protecare financed with donations, meaning refugee traintion. The initiative supports projects that meet a list of eeships can run parallel to normal ones. ­Wein­heim has criteria. Freudenberg is currently donating a total of 14 the infrastructure for a successful training program million euros to e² over a period of 7 years. and will kick things off. In September 2017, 5 refugees started their technical traineeships. In the coming A broad range of aid projects were financed in the reyears, new traineeships will be created at all the larger porting year. Projects included small campaigns and Freudenberg sites in Germany. Weinheim’s experience educational programs in communities near Freudenwill be used to steadily expand the trainee program. berg’s sites. One is in Tyler, Texas, US, where the Promise Academy Classroom helps bring equal education for all. In Jacareí, Brazil, the Guri na Roça charity helps young people find employment. A project in Valence, France, helps reduce biodegradable waste at 10 schools. Freudenberg’s goal is open long-term prospects for refugees by providing thorough professional training. In 2017, numerous employees from companies, sites and Group companies volunteered in small initiatives and complex projects. The initiatives are all tailored to local needs, with Freudenberg employees helping locally. Socially disadvantaged children in Brazil also benefit from Freudenberg’s e² program. Freudenberg’s refugee aid initiative is another example of the company getting involved where it is needed. The Freudenberg Group donated 2.6 million euros as part of a company-wide initiative to help integrate refugees. By late 2016, the company had helped over 70 different initiatives in Germany and crisis-plagued regions that support children and young people, and teach language skills. 29 Freudenberg North America organized a 4th Service In May 2008, an earthquake devastated the village Day, where employees from more than 60 sites in Canof Haijin in Szechuan Province, China. Freudenberg ada, the US and Mexico volunteered at schools, comhelped rebuild the elementary school, which reopened munes and farms. in 2009. The building has enough space to teach 300 students. Every year, Freudenberg employees visit the Here are some examples of the local projects’ longelementary school and organize various activities like term focus: Since 2009, Freudenberg has maintained the summer school project, provide tutoring and ora non-profit training center in Nagapattinam, Tamil ganize a Christmas party. Nadu, India, south of Chennai, where youths can qualify as electricians, welders, fitters, plumbers, engine mechanics and machine technicians in dual training programs. The Nagapattinam region is poor, mainly with farmers and fisherman, and suffered immensely from the 2004 Tsunami. Allowing children in the rural area to obtain an education and supporting disadvantaged children are the primary goals of the Love Beyond Donation campaign at the Ke-De-Bao elementary school in Haijin, China. 30 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Corporate Citizenship The TANNER youth exchange program started in 1999 Freudenberg uses the meeting to help local volunteer to help young people around the world expand their organizations network. The Group also supports social horizons and learn life lessons. Over the years, more projects at the headquarters in Weinheim as part of than 1,100 youths have traveled the world as part of the “Wir tun was” initiative. the TANNER program. The young people, their parents and hosts all feel part of the global Freudenberg comThe Freudenberg Group is also an enactus partner: apmunity. proximately 20 senior managers from Germany, the US and China are on the organization’s board. Many enactus students write doctorates or complete internships. Freudenberg is also an enactus sponsor. The TANNER youth exchange program allows young people to look beyond their own nose and learn life lessons. In 2017, about 120 participants from 40 non-profit initiatives and charitable associations in the Rhine-Neckar region came to the sixth annual networking meeting at the Freudenberg Group in Weinheim, Germany, to develop ideas for new projects and discuss ideas for volunteering. Freudenberg is a partner to the enactus student organization. Since 1984, the Freudenberg Foundation has been helping bring about real long-term change by promoting inclusion, education and democracy. As a non-­profit company, the Foundation is a partner in Freudenberg & Co. KG. Most of the projects focus on children and young people and their social, lingual, educational and vocational integration. Freudenberg Group created the Netzwerktreffen to give the many volunteers in the Rhine-Neckar region an opportunity to share their experiences. 31 COMPLIANCE As early as 1887, founder Carl Johann Freudenberg drafted his first business principles to help his sons take over the business. The document is the basis for Freudenberg’s 10 Business Principles for partners and employees. One principle stipulates success must come from performance. Freudenberg shall not be involved in illegal or unethical business practices. 32 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Compliance Business Principles and Guiding Principles Freudenberg’s Business Principles were then used to create Guiding Principles, which apply to all interactions with employees, business partners, stakeholders and third parties. The Business Principles and Guiding Principles for the Group are presented to all new employees. Compliance structure The Business Groups at Freudenberg have general ­autonomy when making business decisions. The Business Groups are generally responsible for compliance with laws and regulations. Freudenberg is a family-owned, values-based technology group and holds personal conduct to high standards. At the holding level, and thus the duty of the ­Freudenberg Compliance Management Council, the focus is on the most important compliance issues relThe Guiding Principles clearly state that Freudenberg evant to the Group and those with international imis a family-owned, globally-oriented technology group plications and which may especially pose a threat to that places high standards on personal conduct and Freudenberg’s reputation. where fairness and integrity are vital in dealings with business partners and the public at large. All new employees are instructed in the Business Principles and Guiding Principles, which are published on the Code of Conduct Freudenberg home page (see also Human Rights & Labor Chapter). The p ­ rinciples are part of a deep-seated The Code of Conduct is derived from the Business Princorporate culture. They create a framework for a trustciples and Guiding Principles, with a close focus on ing and o ­ ptimistic workplace, supporting teamwork, Responsibility. The Code of Conduct is the same every­ innovation and customer orientation, and with them where around the world and is designed to ensure that the company’s long-term success. respect for the law and proper conduct remain a cornerstone of how Freudenberg conducts business. 33 Freudenberg provides employees with regular compliance training, both in personal discussions and with computer learning. The Code of Conduct is available to all employees in ular training and educational programs covering 26 languages around the world, both as a printed brocore ­compliance subjects such as competition and chure or in digital form. The Code is communicated ­anti-trust law and fighting corruption in the regions. and explained to all employees. The Business Groups have a wide-range of media available for communiThe company held several presentations on fighting cation, including presentation templates, FAQs and corruption in 2017 and provided employees with pere-learning tools. The consistent and continuous comsonal training courses, which used case studies and munication clearly indicates the Code of Conduct is other examples. The e-learning sessions are available binding even for new employees (e.g. as an annex to on several individual subjects within the Learning their employment agreement) and the need for comManagement System and provide Business Groups pliance with the Code. with a tool for raising employee awareness in a specific job and area of responsibility. The Freudenberg Management Council took further steps to make sure the Code of Conduct remains a The e-learning tool is standardized around the cornerstone of the company’s corporate culture and world and is ideal for raising employee awareness expands assistance and support on offer to employof ­Freudenberg’s Code of Conduct. The LMS also has ees and their supervisors. Such steps include regular participation monitoring and performance evaluation discussions with HR staff, active cooperation with and invites employees to provide feedback. the Ethics Offices and their members as well as reg34 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Compliance Ethics Offices Risk management and Corporate Audit The Ethics Offices are an important part of FreudenAnti-corruption measures and evaluation of their berg’s Compliance Management System. The offices effectiveness also remained a component of risk are a contact for any employees who – for whatever ­management and the work of the Corporate Audit reason – feel they cannot turn to their superiors, HR team. The goal of the department is to uncover corrupt team or their union representatives. The opportunity deals, evaluate the effectiveness of counter measures to confidentially and proactively report compliance and improve as needed. violations or impending violations in a confidential environment helps create a culture of trust and protects Internal audits examine compliance with the stanFreudenberg’s internal values and principles. dards. Employees receive anti-corruption training in classroom sessions and e-learning programs. The The first global Ethics Office meeting was held this Compliance Council, Corporate Audit and the Ethics year. Representatives from the Corporate Ethics OfOffice work together to assess any incidents that may fice and the Regional Ethics Offices discussed how arise. they deal with various ethics violations, specifically in different cultures. An information campaign was launched for all regions, to make a detailed presentation of the Ethics Offices, in addition to the campaign for the Code of Conduct. Participants in the first global Ethics Office Meeting 35 HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOR Diverse teams drive innovation at Freudenberg. The best solutions and innovations come when employees contribute their different experience, knowledge and skills to a collaboration. The employees provide new ideas, generate imaginative solutions and create innovative products. Freudenberg’s roughly 48,000 employees all act and think like entrepreneurs, this basic attitude unifies employees in some 60 countries. 36 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Human Rights & Labor Employees As of December 31, 2017, Freudenberg had 47,653 ­employees (previous year: 46,266 employees). FREUDENBERGGROUP FREUDENBERG GROUPWORKFORCE WORKFORCEBYBYREGION REGION At-equity At-Equity 13,897 2016 2017 12,751 11,246 11,472 10,156 10,285 9,922 9,876 1,731 1,640 460 483 Germany Europe North South/Central Asia Africa/ (excluding Germany) America America Australia Vocational training at Freudenberg In 2017, 127 young people (previous year: 112) startThe new vocational training center in Weinheim was ed vocational training at Freudenberg companies in completed in the reporting year and offers innovaGermany. tive and modern learning concepts in a light-filled, two-story building. The program includes the Learning In total, 490 persons were in traineeships at FreudenFactory 4.0, where trainees learn about company proberg as of December 31, 2017. The programs ranged cesses through production workflows, helping them from 2-year commercial or technical training progain a quicker grasp of interactions and better control grams to degree courses at the Baden Wuertemberg the processes using high-tech machines. Cooperative State University (DHBW). Neighboring companies send their young employees to Freudenberg for vocational training, highlighting the renown enjoyed by the Freudenberg program. 37 Corporate Principles The Freudenberg Group Guiding Principles are Value Guiding Principle People for Customers, Leadership, Responsibility, Innovation, People and Long-Term Orientation. The principles form As a family company, we are devoted to our emthe basis and benchmark for everything the Group ployees’ well-being and personal development. We does. Audits are regularly conducted to monitor imreject all forms of discrimination and harassment plementation of these standards in the workplace. and show understanding and respect in our dealings with each other. We promote a multi-cultural Nearly 70 percent of employees participated in the environment where employees work together in Group-wide Guiding Principles & Engagement survey. worldwide teams to enrich our culture and caThe Employee Engagement and Performance Enablepability. We believe in the value of enduring relament indicators exceeded external benchmarks. Mantionships with customers, suppliers and industrial agers communicated the outcome to their individual partners. teams in all organizational units. Joint measures were developed and specific changes initiated to bring Guiding Principle Responsibility about continuous improvement. Our company and its family shareholders together Emphasis should be placed on the Guiding Princiare committed to protecting the environment and ples of People and Responsibility as they express the being responsible corporate citizens in all counFreudenberg Group’s interpretation of Human Rights tries and communities in which we do business. & Labor. We take all possible care to ensure the safety of the workplace and of our products. As a family compaThe Leadership Principles are part of the Group’s Businy, we strive for the highest standards of personal ness Principles (see also page 32, Compliance). behavior. Fairness and integrity guide our conduct amongst ourselves, towards our business partners and the general public. Leadership Principles The Freudenberg Group upholds a social commitment to all its employees in Germany as well as in other countries. In this regard, it is impossible to define a uniform standard. The way this commitment is applied depends rather on the laws, practices, needs and opportunities in each respective country. Discrimination and exploitation of vulnerable people is explicitly prohibited anywhere in the Group. The business policy of the Group requires compliance with standards of conduct, with which both shareholders and employees can identify: 38 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Human Rights & Labor Diverse teams drive innovation. They think in new ways, generate imaginative solutions and create innovative products. We also need to survive in fierce competition. Our third parties, in particular with suppliers, customsuccess must be based on performance. We do not ers and authorities. They thus form the basis for have any dealings with businesses in which illegal the economic success of the Group. The Business or unethical means are employed. Principles are mandatory for all employees and must be actively exemplified and implemented We will not manufacture products that have the at all levels, starting from the Board Members of purpose of harming people (for example, w ­ eapons). Freudenberg SE, the executive officers of the respective Business Groups and all other superiors. Acting responsibly towards the environment and the safety of our employees are important corpoInfringements are not acceptable and may result in rate objectives and should not be limited to bare disciplinary action from Board level down through compliance with the relevant laws. the management of the Business Groups to the respective superiors. This is especially true in cases of Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, active and passive corruption, breaches of antitrust as well as with the applicable Business and Guiding rules, violation of relevant legal environmental and Principles of the Freudenberg Group and the obtechnical safety and labor law rules (for example, servance of noncontradictory, supplementary inbreach of the principle of equality) and violations house (e.g. codes of conduct, employee handbooks) of the privacy rights of the employees (for example, and external local practices (together “Corporate personal degradation or sexual harassment). Principles”) is an indispensable condition for good cooperation between all employees of the Group and forms the binding basis for relationships with 39 Attractive Employer In 2017, the Freudenberg Group in Germany also received the Fair Company Seal of Approval, and has Strengthening the employer brand done so since 2009. Fair Company is a voluntary pact Freudenberg launched a new global brand in 2015 – where companies agree to certain rules guaranteeing promising forward-looking solutions for customers fair working conditions at the career start. and society at large. Parallel to these efforts, an employer positioning was worked out and established. Attractiveness The employer promise was expanded in 2017. The goal Freudenberg offers numerous benefits to retain emis to make Freudenberg even more attractive, consisployees and remain an attractive employer. Work tent, differentiated and credible as an employer. is constantly ongoing to expand these benefits and communicate them to employees. Employees from all the Business Groups and regions were involved in developing the brand. Experts interThe benefits on offer vary from region to region and viewed management and workshops were held. The site to site but generally exceed minimum legal stanfindings from the Guiding Principles survey were also dards in the various countries. As part of the Talent integrated in the process. Management program (see Talent Management) Freudenberg supports numerous continuing educaSample Awards tion and training programs at all hierarchical levels In 2017, the Freudenberg Group once again received (see employee development, page 41). Freudenberg various human resources accolades. Some examples: also sees maintaining a good work-life balance as important in helping to ensure employee health and In the Women’s Career Index, Freudenberg Home & well-being. The Group provides best possible medical Cleaning Solutions came in second in the Newcomer support as part of an occupational health manageof the Year category in 2017 and was ranked fifth overment program and sponsors numerous sport and fitall. The index evaluates modern working conditions ness programs. and how much a workplace offers women an ideal environment for career advancement. Freudenberg Household Products in Rochdale, UnitTalent Management ed Kingdom, won both the Gold Investors in People Award and the Health and Wellbeing Award. The cerThe competition for top talent is one of the biggest tification measures leadership effectiveness within a challenges companies face. Talent Management at company and personnel development opportunities. Freudenberg has been further expanded to meet the Companies receiving the award have proven with their company’s own standards of excellence. personnel work that they believe employees make all the difference. The fifth Global Talent Management Conference was held in the reporting year. The Business Groups disFreudenberg Company Chem-Trend of Michigan, US, cussed their talented employees with the Board of was named one of the Top Employers in the region for Management and HR officers during the four-day the sixth time in a row. The company came in ninth in event. Talent management uses a standardized prothe Detroit Free Press ranking of medium sized comcess launched in 2013, which is evaluated annually for panies. continuous improvement. In the reporting year, the Freudenberg Group continued with work to create an international, uniform IT system for human resources, to make global staffing procedures more efficient. The personnel management system was expanded to include data sets 40 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Human Rights & Labor The best solutions are created when employees can bring their varied experience, knowledge and skills into a collaboration. covering 15,000 employees to provide evaluations of Employee development performance and potential while also supporting the goal-setting process. Leadership development was also expanded in 2017. The Leadership Framework from 2015 served as a template for evaluating all existing programs and adapting them or creating new ones as needed. Diversity Group-wide development programs were offered to Diversity is anchored in the Group’s values and all levels for the first time in 2017 and more than 150 ­principles and is also clearly positioned in the brand. participants took part around the world. The Business Freudenberg is certain that teams of people with Groups also offered independent programs. different ages, with a balance of genders and varied cultural backgrounds are more successful. The best The Operations Leadership Program was also added solutions and innovations come when employees – a development program focused on qualifying leadcontribute their knowledge and skills to a collaboership candidates, who oversee production sites. ration. Such teams have new ideas, generate imaginative solutions and create innovative products, At The continued roll out of the Learning Management ­Freudenberg, special attention is given to a balanced System in 2017 helped the Freudenberg Academy take gender ratio. the form of a virtual network of continuing education activities in the Business Groups. The Freudenberg Learning & Development Community collaborates closely on matters of interest throughout the Group and either agrees on and/or develops standard courses accessible to all Business Groups. 41 UN-Global-Compact-Index The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is the world’s largest The following Global Compact Index provides an and most important initiative for responsible corpooverview of the 10 principles in the Global Compact rate leadership. Since signing in 2014, Freudenberg and illustrates the pages of the Annual Report where has voluntarily agreed to make sure its business is readers can find information about the progress the values-based and sustainable. company has made in implementing these principles. UNGC-PRINCIPLE Content Reference Human rights 29, 33*, 38–39, 41 Principle 1 Protection and compliance with international human 29, 33*, 38–39, 41 rights Principle 2 No violations of human rights 29, 33*, 38–39, 41 Labor standards 25–27, 29, 33*, 34, 38, 41 Principle 3 Guarantee of right to form collective and bargain 33* ­collectively Principle 4 Prohibition of all forms of forced labor 33* Principle 5 Elimination of child labor 33* Principle 6 End of discrimination 33*, 38, 41 Environmental Protection 12, 19–23, 25–26, 29, 33* Principle 7 Environmental protection through care principles 19–23, 25–26, 29, 33* Principle 8 Support for environmental awareness 19–23, 25, 29, 33* Principle 9 Development of environmentally friendly technology 12, 19–23, 26 Fighting corruption 33*–35 Principle 10 Anti-corruption measures 33*–35 *Freudenberg’s Code of Conduct contains standards, which cover the corresponding principles. 42 COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT CONTENTS COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT Fundamental Information Business Model 44 Research and Development 47 Report on Economic Conditions Macroeconomic Environment 50 Business Development and Conditions 52 Earnings Position 54 Financial Position, Assets, Equity and Liabilities 54 Review of Operations by Business Area 60 Report on Events after the Date of the Statement of Financial Position 87 Report on Opportunities and Risks 88 Report on Expected Developments 97 Freudenberg SE (HGB) 100 Earnings Situation 100 Assets, Liabilities and Financial Position 101 Report on Expected Developments 101 Net Retained Profit and Dividend 101 Summary Concluding Statement of the Dependent Company Report of Freudenberg SE 102 43 COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT FUNDAMENTAL INFORMATION BUSINESS MODEL Organizational structure The Freudenberg Group (Freudenberg) is a global techTogether with partners, customers and the world of scinology group that strengthens its customers and socience, the 11 Business Groups develop leading-edge ety long-term through forward-looking innovations. products, excellent solutions and services for more than 30 market segments and for thousands of applications: At year-end 2017, the number of companies in Freudenseals, vibration control components, nonwovens, filters, berg totaled 489 located in 58 countries. 452 of these specialty chemicals, medical products, IT services and companies were included in the consolidation. 428 the most modern cleaning products. companies, including 167 production and 163 sales companies, were fully consolidated. The remaining companies were holding or management companies. STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT PARENT COMPANY FREUDENBERG & CO. KOMMANDITGESELLSCHAFT BUSINESS OPERATIONS PARENT COMPANY FREUDENBERG SE Seals and Vibration Control Nonwovens and Filtration Household Products Specialties and Others Technology Business Area Business Area Business Area Business Area Business Groups Business Groups Business Group Business Groups Freudenberg Sealing Freudenberg Performance Freudenberg Home and Freudenberg Chemical Technologies Materials Cleaning Solutions Specialities Freudenberg Oil & Gas Freudenberg Filtration Freudenberg IT Technologies Technologies Divisions EagleBurgmann Japan Vilene Company Freudenberg Business Services Freudenberg Medical Freudenberg Service Vibracoustic Please refer to the chapter entitled “Review of Operations by Business Area” for further details and information on locations of Freudenberg companies. 44 Combined Management Report – Business Model Freudenberg builds on lasting and reliable relationships base also included companies in the medical technolwith customers and partners. The partnership with ogy, civil aviation, and rail vehicles sectors. NOK Corporation, Tokyo, Japan, for example, already spans more than 50 years. Numerous activities in the Innovation strength, strong customer orientation and Americas, Asia (China and India) and in Europe have close collaboration as well as diversity and team spirit been jointly established during the decades-long partare the cornerstones of the Group. Commitment to exnership. cellence, reliability and pro-active, responsible action have belonged to the company’s core values ever since Freudenberg and NOK Corporation jointly hold shares it was founded in 1849. in several companies. Particularly worthy of mention are Freudenberg-NOK General Partnership, Plymouth, Freudenberg sees itself as an enterprise of entrepreUSA, which is fully consolidated in the consolidated fineurs. Operational business is in the hands of indenancial statements, as well as NOK-Freudenberg Asia pendent companies whose management conducts Holding Co. Pte. Ltd., Singapore, which is disclosed atbusiness under their own responsibility. These individequity as a 50:50 joint venture in the consolidated fiual companies in turn belong to Business Groups. nancial statements. Freudenberg has 2 parent companies: Freudenberg & Further details can be found under “Investments in Co. Kommanditgesellschaft (Freudenberg & Co. KG), joint ventures” and “Investments in associated compaWeinheim, Germany, is the strategic parent company, nies” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial StateFreudenberg SE, Weinheim, Germany, is the parent ments. company with responsibility for managing business operations. The corporate bodies of Freudenberg & Co. Across the globe, Freudenberg’s products and serKG are the Management Board, the Board of Partners vices make a valuable contribution to the success of and the General Meeting. The corporate bodies of its customers – rarely visible, but always indispensaFreudenberg SE are the Board of Management, the Suble in the spirit of the new positioning which states pervisory Board and the Shareholder’s Meeting. The that “Freudenberg is a values-based technology Management Board of Freudenberg & Co. KG and the group that best serves its customers and society”. Board of Management of Freudenberg SE have the same members. This also applies to the Board of PartFreudenberg offers its customers in the passenger car ners of Freudenberg & Co KG and the Supervisory and commercial vehicle industry, mechanical and plant Board of Freudenberg SE. engineering, textile and apparel, construction, mining and heavy industry, energy, chemical, and the oil and Freudenberg is a family company and is currently gas sectors excellent innovative technological products owned by some 320 heirs to the founding father Carl and services. In the year under review the customer Johann Freudenberg. 45 Organizational changes Missouri, USA, in October 2017. Playtex is the leading US manufacturer of household gloves and has been acAcquisitions and disinvestments and discontinued tive in the market for over 65 years under the Living and operations Handsaver brands. In January 2017, the Freudenberg Medical Business Group acquired further shares of VistaMed Ltd., CarrickBusiness processes on-Shannon, Ireland. In accordance with the contractual arrangements Freudenberg took control of the During the year under review, Freudenberg continued company effective January 1, 2017 and it has been fully with its intensive efforts to make products, services consolidated since then. VistaMed produces high-qualand processes more efficient, better and safer. Operaity special catheters along with extruded tubes for the tional Excellence activities related to both administramedical device industry, and the company has been tion and production. working with Freudenberg as a joint venture since 2010. The Group also dealt in detail with digitalization, for example implementing a technology platform on the The Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Business Group topic. These technology platforms advance acquired Metflex Holding Company Ltd, Blackburn, Freudenberg’s material, process and systems experUnited Kingdom, in July 2017. The company is a leading tise throughout the Group. Furthermore, there were developer and manufacturer of membrane and cusnumerous initiatives at Business Group level. tomized sealing solutions for a wide variety of indusFreudenberg Chemical Specialities, for example, trial applications. launched a strategic project to evaluate the opportunities and possible efficiency gains of digitalization, In October 2017, Capol GmbH, Elmshorn, Germany, a both internally and for customers. EagleBurgmann company belonging to Freudenberg’s Chemical Speciinitiated various projects in design, engineering, proalities Business Group, acquired Colarôme Inc., Saint duction, sales and administration for targeted digiHubert, Canada, a natural ingredient specialist. The talization-driven improvements in processes and incompany holds patents for technologies used to procreased organizational efficiency. duce a unique palette of natural pigments for food applications. Moreover, all Business Groups continued to work on responding to customer needs even more effectively and In the USA, Freudenberg Household Products LP, Aurora, on optimizing business processes. Further details and USA, acquired the Playtex household glove business information can be found in the chapter entitled “Refrom Edgewell Personal Care Brands, LLC, St. Louis, view of Operations by Business Area”. 46 Combined Management Report – Business Model Research and Development RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The company slogan “Innovating Together” reflects The project objective was to strengthen technological the great importance of innovation for Freudenberg. innovation processes within Freudenberg. Among The ongoing joint work on the sustainable advanceother things, the role of the responsible Corporate ment of the product portfolio is a cornerstone of the Function was redefined. Renamed Freudenberg TechGroup’s success and also captured in the values and nology Innovation, the Corporate Function is tasked principles as well as the brand positioning with the with the development of future technologies and drivbenefit statement “Freudenberg is a values-based ing forward the innovation power of the whole Group. technology group that best serves its customers and society”. Freudenberg Technology Innovation is also tasked with continuously advancing development and innovation In 2017, Freudenberg conducted research and develactivities in the world regions. For example, talks comopment activities in the amount of €427.8 million menced in respect of collaboration with 2 major US in(previous year: €335.1 million). This represents 4.6 perstitutes working on the development of new energy cent of sales (previous year: 4.2 percent). Research and storage technologies and research into microencapsudevelopment activities include research and developlation technologies. ment expenses disclosed in the consolidated statement of profit or loss as well as capitalized development expenditure for the current financial year less Innovations as a key to long-term corporate success amortization. The research, development and innovation portfolio The Business Groups account for the largest share of has also been developed further with the strategic reafunds for R&D activities. They cooperate closely with lignment of innovation activities. There is now an even their customers on technology and product developstronger focus on long-term issues which are proments in their market segments. As a leading technolcessed with greater financial and manpower resources. ogy group and innovative partner, the Group’s self-imThe identification and prioritization of innovation topage is founded on meeting the most demanding reics across the Business Groups takes various forms: quirements in terms of product, process and service quality. • Future project: a global project team came together in 2016 to look ahead to the world in 2050. AssumThe objective of all innovation activities is to constantly ing a world significantly less dependent on fossil expand and renew the product portfolio. Freudenberg fuels, 6 growth fields were initially defined. The measures the effectiveness of R&D activities as the long-term follow-on project launched in 2017 began share of new products (products less than 4 years old) by analyzing future business opportunities in these in total sales. This share is 33.0 percent (previous year: growth fields. The findings of this project have a 28.7 percent)1. bearing on strategic planning, research projects and Freudenberg’s acquisitions pipeline. Strategic realignment of innovation management • Technology platforms: In 2017, 2 further platforms – Freudenberg addressed the optimization of GroupDigitalization and Hygiene – were added to the existwide innovation management in the year under review. ing 7 platforms of Nonwovens, Sealing Technology, 1 A correction was made to the value for the previous year stated in the 2016 Annual Report. 47 Molding, Friction, Wear & Lubrication, Surface TechFreudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies launched an innonologies, Polymers, Mixing & Reacting. The objective vative seal for blowout preventers in the period under of bundling resources and know-how in forwardreview. Blowout preventers are valves fitted on the well looking cross-sectional technologies is to develop head which prevent the uncontrolled flow of gases and concrete competences in the relevant fields. liquids during drilling. The special seal meets the most demanding requirements and can withstand extreme On the one hand, long-term topics will be intensively pressures and temperatures thanks to the high-perforpursued in the form of strategic programs. On the other, mance rubber mixtures. individual technological issues arising from the technology platforms or the strategic programs will be supEagleBurgmann developed an innovative gas seal ported by short-term technology exploration and incubased on a metal bellows seal for the International bation (TEI) projects. 7 strategic programs and 13 TEI Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER) in the year projects are currently being processed. under review. The reactor tests the regimes necessary for fusion-based electricity generation in future. The reSustainable innovations improve living conditions actor fuel, or plasma, is pumped into a vacuum chamber, treated and returned. The new product is to be Developing sustainable solutions is one ambition of used to seal the radioactive area of the vacuum pumps the Freudenberg Group. The company’s portfolio inat a temperature of up to 250 °C. cludes many groundbreaking solutions that contribute to improved living conditions; these include numerous The “Composer” Deflectable Catheter Handle Platstrategic projects in the fields of environmental protecform developed by Freudenberg Medical offers modution, healthcare and energy. larized “plug and play” versatility. The basic idea is to standardize the catheter handle and modularize deThe lightweight-design diaphragm accumulator from vice delivery applications, which among other things Freudenberg Sealing Technologies produced using a significantly reduces lead times. The surgeon has maxnew electromagnetic pulsation method enables inimum control over the catheter response during a procreases in cycle times and the shortening of hoist times cedure thanks to the in-line functions in the handle. in many sectors of industry. The diaphragm accumulator won the 2017 Innovation Award of the German An overrunning damper isolator pulley from state of Rhineland-Palatinate. Vibracoustic enables vehicle manufacturers to reduce belt tension in the belt drive in both classic internal combustion engines and electric drives. This lowers consumption and emissions by up to 1 percent. 48 Combined Management Report – Research and Development A further example of the Group’s innovation power is Awards the gas diffusion layers used in fuel cells: innovative carbon fiber nonwovens from Freudenberg PerforEach year, Freudenberg honors the work of young scimance Materials support the reaction of the hydrogen entists by presenting prizes in natural sciences. The fuel with oxygen, thereby helping one of the most 2017 Karl Freudenberg Prize went to Dr. Tim Bleith for promising future technologies get off the ground. his research into the substitution of precious metals through the environmentally-friendly use of iron. The Freudenberg Filtration Technologies micronAir blue prize is an expression of the company’s appreciation of offers drivers the best possible protection inside vejoint efforts in continuous improvement in the service hicles. The biocideand nano-silver-free premium filof society. The 2017 Carl Freudenberg Prize went to 3 ter offers reliable and long-term protection from fine scientists: Dr. Michael Schönleber researched into dust, allergens and microorganisms as well as polluwhich components lead to improved battery perfortant gases and odors. The product won the first mance and a longer service life. Dr. Simon Klingler deFILTREX Innovation Award in the year under review. veloped a method for continuous validation in the conAs a filter specialist, the company determines the text of product generation development. And Dr. Benideal filter combination for selecting the optimal filjamin Häfner’s work makes the production processes ter system depending on process and environmental for important components more efficient. All 3 awardconditions using an innovative instrument called ees work and research at the Karlsruhe Institute of e.FFECT (electronic Freudenberg Filter Efficiency CalTechnology. The prize is awarded every 2 years for the culation Tool). best scientific and technical work and is one element of the company’s social engagement in the region. Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions expanded its laundry care range in 2017; among the new products was the “Infinity Dryer”, an extendable table clothes dryer with a maximum drying space of 2.60 meters. This enables end users to dry very large items. The new VR 302 vacuum cleaning robot with its innovative cleaning system and even better vacuum power is an innovative addition to the range of electric cleaning equipment that has been marketed under the vileda brand for a number of years, underscoring the growing strategic importance of the e-cleaning range. In the chemical sector, too, demand for energy efficiency, biodegradability and reduced emissions calls for new raw material solutions and functions. Both Chem-Trend and Klüber Lubrication (both compaFreudenberg’s portfolio includes many groundbreaking solutions that contribute to improved living conditions, for example in the nies belong to the Freudenberg Chemical Specialifields of environmental protection, healthcare and energy. ties Business Group) focused increasingly on water as a key raw material for use in lubricants and release agents, thereby pursuing a highly-innovative approach. 49 REPORT ON ECONOMIC CONDITIONS MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT Global economic growth picked up speed at a noticeaThe upturn in the USA gained further ground, with risble level in 2017. Many market players abandoned their ing consumption, exports and investments. Federal Respending and investment restraint, thus generating serve continued to gradually raise interest rates. growth momentum. As a result, almost all leading economies reported stronger growth in gross domestic Elsewhere, momentum ebbed: in the United Kingdom, product than for the previous year. the decision to exit the European Union saw the pound sterling take a big tumble and triggered palpable unThere was noticeable growth in the eurozone. As cacertainty among private investors. The Mexican econpacity utilization improved and interest rates remained omy increasingly felt the effects of the drawn-out renelow, companies stepped up their investment activities. gotiations on NAFTA. In India, the currency reform and Unemployment continued to fall, in some cases rising the introduction of a nationwide value-added tax to the full employment level. curbed what was otherwise very strong momentum. EUROPE WORLD REGIONS GDP growth GDP growth GDP growth GDP growth Region 2016 2017 Region 2016 2017 Eurozone 1.8 % 2.5 % USA 1.5 % 2.3 % Germany 1.9 % 2.2 % Mexico 2.9 % 2.1 % France 1.1 % 1.9 % Brazil -3.6 % 1.0 % Italy 0.9 % 1.5 % Argentina -2.2 % 2.8 % Spain 3.3 % 3.1 % Japan 1.0 % 1.8 % Portugal 1.5 % 2.7 % Russia -0.2 % 1.5 % Ireland 5.1 % 4.9 % China 6.7 % 6.9 % Greece 0.0 % 1.2 % Taiwan 1.5 % 2.8 % United Kingdom 1.8 % 1.8 % India 7.1 % 6.6 % Sources: Consensus, European Commission, International Monetary Fund Sources: Consensus, national statistical offices 2017 GDP growth as at February 2018 2017 GDP growth as at February 2018 50 Combined Management Report – Macroeconomic Environment Sector-specific environment EURO EXCHANGE RATE DEVELOPMENT IN 2017 US dollar per euro Developments in the Group’s key sales markets in 2017 1.20 were positive on the back of the good economic situa1.18 tion. 1.16 1.14 1.12 The global automotive industry produced approxi1.10 mately 95 million light vehicles in total, 2 percent more 1.08 than the previous year. Some 28 million of these vehicles 1.06 were built in China, where production also grew 2 per1.04 cent during the course of the year. The second most im1.02 portant region in terms of production volumes was the 1.00 Jan. Feb. March Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. 28 EU Member States (EU28), where 19 million light veSource: Deutsche Bank (January to July 2017) / European Central Bank (August to hicles were built, an increase of 2 percent, followed by the December 2017); Monthly rates USA with 11 million units, representing a decline of 8 percent – although at a very high level. Growth momentum some signs of overheating in China. Annual average was strongest in Mexico, where production rose by 14 growth was approximately 11 percent in China, 4 perpercent to 4 million light vehicles, and Brazil, where procent in the USA and Japan, and 3 percent in Germany. duction swelled by 26 percent to almost 3 million vehi(Source: national statistical offices) cles following a very lackluster year in 2016. The automotive industry dealt intensively with the strategic conseThe consolidation phase continued unabated in the quences of drivetrain electrification. Despite state subsimedical technology sector, where there was a noticeadies, the share of all-electric and hybrid vehicles in global ble slowdown in 2017, with growth in the European production remained very modest at approximately 4 Union only running at just under 3 percent. There was percent. (Source: IHS Markit) even a downturn in the USA, where production fell by almost 6 percent. (Source: national statistical offices) The international mechanical engineering sector benefited from the clearance of the backlog in investPrivate consumption benefited from the positive ecoment projects, which had prevailed for several years in nomic developments and the associated low level of many regions. In 2017, production grew 11 percent in unemployment, with no worrying price trends. China, almost 8 percent in the United Kingdom after 2 years of sharp decline, 6 percent in both the USA and The oil price was quite volatile during the first half of Japan, and 5 percent in EU28. (Source: national statisti2017, with the trend on the slightly negative side. Howcal offices). Significant price pressure in the textile and ever, the oil price picked up significantly from mid-June. apparel industry again led to noticeable regional The annual average price per barrel for WTI (West Texas shifts in production. Production by world market leader Intermediate) was US$50.86, higher than the prior-year China in 2017 only grew a further 5 percent, with China average. (Source: New York Mercantile Exchange [NYcontinuing to lose market share, above all to other MEX]) The value of the euro versus the dollar (as the most Asian countries such as Vietnam, Bangladesh, Camborelevant foreign currency for the Group) continued to rise dia and Myanmar. (Source: national statistical offices) until September 2017 and subsequently dipped slightly. The annual average exchange rate was US$1.14 per euro. The global construction industry benefited from the That represents a rise of 3 percent compared with the ongoing good economic situation, which had a positive previous year. (source: from January to July 2017: impact in both the housing sector and business propDeutsche Bank/ from August to December: European erty development. There was a marked increase in conCentral Bank) struction activity in most regions, and there were even 51 BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND POSITION 2017 was a successful financial year for Freudenberg. A factor with considerable impact on the increase in sales was the first-time full-year consolidation of the companies acquired in 2016. The development in the result reflects the one-off effect of the change in status of affiliates previously consolidated at equity in 2016. Forecast/actual comparison The forecasts made at the beginning of the year with respect to the key financial and non-financial performance indicators were regularly reviewed and updated in the course of the year. Our performance indicators developed as follows: FORECAST/ACTUAL COMPARISON, FREUDENBERG ACTUAL 2016 Forecast for 2017 Change Actual 2017 Sales [€ million] 7,900.1 between 1 and 3 percent +18.3 % 9,345.6 Profit from operations [€ million] 771.4 slight increase +17.3 % 905.0 Return on sales [percent] 9.8 stable development -0.1 % points 9.7 LDIFR 1.8 significant reduction -22.2 % 1.4 Adjusted for the effects of acquisitions, especially of The financial and non-financial key performance indithe Vibracoustic Group, and disinvestments (totaling cators presented are made available to the Board of about €1,283 million) and taking into consideration Management on a monthly basis. This allows trends exchange rate effects (about €-160 million), organic and changes to be identified in good time so that growth in sales was about 4 percent. The forecast of 1 measures can be taken to counteract any detrimental to 3 percent was therefore slightly exceeded. developments. Following adjustment for acquisitions, disinvestment The key financial performance indicators are used for and exchange rate effects, the forecast for profit from assessing the position and development of the Group operations was reached. with respect to earnings and focus on sustainable growth and a continuous increase in enterprise value as indicators for steering future success. 52 Combined Management Report – Business Development and Position SALES BY SECTORS [in %] Sales At-equity Energy and water 4 Construction 4 Freudenberg again reported increased sales in 2017. All Business Areas contributed to this increase. Key sucTextile and Chemical 3 apparel 5 cess factors included the innovative product range, cusMedical and Spare parts pharmaceutical 4 tomer-oriented, flexible problem solutions for the varibusiness 5 Other ous sectors of industry, and structured expansion into industry sectors Final users attractive markets and strategic business areas. The in10 9 tegration of the major acquisitions made in 2016 also had a positive effect on sales in the 2017 financial year. Mechanical and plant Automotive In 2017 itself, no major acquisitions were made. engineering 11 OEMs 45 In the financial year under review, Freudenberg reported sales of €9,345.6 million (previous year: €7,900.1 million). On this basis, sales were €1,445.5 million or 18.3 percent higher than the figure for the The regional distribution of sales was almost constant. previous year, representing a new record. Adjusted for Freudenberg generated 26 percent (previous year: the effects of acquisitions and disinvestments, espe26 percent) of total sales in the European Union excially of the Vibracoustic Group, in the amount of cluding Germany. Germany accounted for 17 percent €1,283.1 million, and taking into consideration ex(previous year: 16 percent), on a par with the previous change rate effects, sales rose by about 4 percent or year. North America accounted for 27 percent of total €322.1 million compared with the previous year. sales (previous year: 26 percent). At 20 percent (previous year: 22 percent), Asia was unable to continue the Freudenberg started the 2018 financial year with orstrong growth of the previous year. ders in hand slightly above the prior-year figure. The main reason was the generally positive market development in 2017 in most Business Groups. SALES BY REGION [in %] Sectors and regions At-equity Freudenberg continued to operate in a challenging marAfrica / Australia 2 Germany 17 ket environment in the 2017 financial year. Asia 20 EU (excluding The share of automotive OEM business accounted for Germany) the strongest rise in total sales in the year under review, 26 increasing to 45 percent (previous year: 38 percent). South / Central This is mainly attributable to the first full-year consoliAmerica 3 dation of the Vibracoustic Group acquired in 2016. The share of the mechanical and plant engineering sector, North America Other European the second most important customer grouping, was 27 countries 5 largely in line with the prior year level, accounting for a total share of 11 percent (previous year: 12 percent). Business with final users accounted for some 10 percent of total sales (previous year: 11 percent). 53 Earnings position The fall in other income to €103.3 million (previous year: €742.7 million) is chiefly due to one-off effects The Freudenberg technology group continued its good from the previous year. Firstly, income from the change business development in 2017. Adjusted for the factors in status of investments previously consolidated at eqmentioned under business development and position, uity occurred in 2016 (Vibracoustic Group in the sales and consolidated profit again grew. The developamount of €567.9 million and Japan Vilene Group in ment in profit reflects one-off effects from the change the amount of €15.6 million). Secondly, other income in status of affiliates previously consolidated at equity from the previous year included income from the disin 2016. posal of financial assets as a result of the sale of the Freudenberg Schwab Vibration Control Group. [€ million ] 2016 2017 In the financial year under review, other expenses Sales 7,900.1 9,345.6 amounted to €99.1 million (previous year: €137.9 milCost of sales -5,085.2 -6,171.1 lion). In the previous year, this item included the impairGross profit 2,814.9 3,174.5 ment of the goodwill of the cash-generating unit Selling expenses -1,298.1 -1,365.8 Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies in the amount of Administrative expenses -600.3 -622.6 €50.9 million. In the period under review, the main offsetting factor was currency losses, at €7.8 million. Research and development expenses -330.1 -414.2 Other income 742.7 103.3 Financial position Other expenses -137.9 -99.1 Profit before income taxes 1,265.1 883.1 Financing management Consolidated profit 1,086.9 700.1 Freudenberg SE and the central financing company Externa Handelsund Beteiligungsgesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung, Weinheim, Germany, are reGross profit rose to €3,174.5 million (previous year: sponsible for all the financing activities of Freudenberg, €2,814.9 million). However, the ratio of gross profit to thus ensuring that Freudenberg has sufficient liquid sales fell by 1.6 percentage points to 34.0 percent as a funds at all times. As a general principle, companies obresult of the different sales structure of the Vibracoustic tain the financing they require via cash pool agreeGroup acquired in 2016. ments or internal loans – for legal, fiscal and other reasons financing in some countries also takes the form of In the financial year under review, the selling and adbank loans guaranteed by Freudenberg SE. ministrative expenses ratios fell as a result of the lower cost structure of the Vibracoustic Group, consolidated Freudenberg does not expose itself to financial risks for the full year for the first time, as a result of efficiency through speculation with derivative financial instruimprovements such as process and system optimizaments but uses such instruments only for hedging, and tions. therefore reducing, risks in connection with underlying transactions and items. Future transactions are only Research and development expenses increased from hedged if there is a high probability of occurrence. In or€330.1 million in 2016 by 25.5 percent to €414.2 milder to ensure the identification and management of all lion in 2017. The corporate acquisitions, especially of financing risks, the Freudenberg Group pursues a holisthe Vibracoustic Group, had a considerable impact on tic approach to financial risk management. The existing this figure. financial risks are identified and limited in an institutionalized control loop. 54 Combined Management Report – Business Development and Position Although financing conditions have loosened comedness (“Schuldscheindarlehen”) included in the liabilpared with previous years, currency risks on currency ities to banks is based on variable and fixed compomarkets remain high. In addition, there is volatility on nents. Further details on interest rate structure can be the credit and capital markets. This also impacts the found in the section on interest rate risks in the Notes financing conditions for industrial companies. to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Freudenberg is in a good position to tackle these challenges thanks to its conservative finance policy. Off-balance sheet contingent liabilities and other financial obligations of Freudenberg mainly relate to Liquidity measures include high reserves of liquid guarantees. funds and committed credit lines with core banks. As in the previous year, the rating agency Moody`s A key element of external borrowing is a long-term Deutschland GmbH, Frankfurt am Main, Germany, shareholder loan where the interest payable is oriented rated Freudenberg SE, Weinheim, at “A3”, with a stable to a forward interest rate swap plus a premium. outlook. The Group therefore continues to hold a single-A rating. As at December 31, 2017, Freudenberg had undrawn committed credit lines amounting to some €840 milThis gives Freudenberg very good creditworthiness at lion. The interest payable on the certificates of indebtinvestment grade level. 55 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION STRUCTURE Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Change [€ million] [€ million] [percent] [€ million] Asset structure Non-current assets 6,470.8 6,399.4 -1.1 -71.4 Current assets 3,752.7 3,794.5 1.1 41.8 Assets 10,223.5 10,193.9 -0.3 -29.6 Capital structure Equity 4,603.3 4,835.0 5.0 231.7 Non-current liabilities 2,827.6 2,448.6 -13.4 -379.0 Current liabilities 2,792.6 2,910.3 4.2 117.7 Equity and liabilities 10.223,5 10.193,9 -0,3 -29,6 Capital structure The equity ratio increased from 45.0 to 47.4 percent. In which were reclassified from non-current to current liabsolute terms, equity rose by €231.7 million; this was abilities. The same applies to a certificate of indebtedchiefly attributable to the positive result. Negative exness of the Freudenberg SE, which must now be dischange rate developments and dividends paid to the closed under short-term financial debt. parent company Freudenberg & Co. KG as well as to non-controlling interests had an offsetting effect. NonThe €117.7 million rise in current liabilities to €2,910.3 controlling interests also fell by about €41.4 million. million is attributable in particular to the reclassificaThe high share of non-controlling interests in profit tion of long-term financial debt to short-term financial was offset by the acquisition of the remaining shares debt. Other contributory factors included the developin Integral Accumulator GmbH & Co. KG in Weinheim, ment of other current liabilities, which was offset by Germany, negative exchange rate developments and the reduction in trade payables. After eliminating exespecially dividends paid. change rate effects and the effects of acquisitions, noncurrent liabilities fell by 12.0 percent, while current liaNon-current liabilities amounted to €2,448.6 million bilities rose by 4.0 percent. (previous year: €2,827.6 million). The change was mainly due to long-term financial debt. The reduction As regards the currency structure, reference is made to in liabilities to banks was mainly the result of the certhe currency risks section of the Notes to the Consolitificates of indebtedness of the Vibracoustic Group, dated Financial Statements. 56 Combined Management Report – Business Development and Position Investments Liquidity Adjusted for acquisitions, investments in intangible asCash flow from operating activities in the 2017 finansets, tangible assets and investment properties rose cial year amounted to €929.0 million, corresponding to during the year under review to a total of €501.5 mila year-on-year decrease of €16.1 million. This fall delion (previous year: €407.1 million). spite the increase in the profit from operations is largely attributable to the negative development in Freudenberg invested worldwide. For example the working capital adjusted for exchange rate effects of EagleBurgmann Business Group acquired the plant in acquisitions as a result of the rise in receivables and inMumbai, India, which had previously been leased. ventories. Amounts used from provisions also contribJapan Vilene Company constructed a new production uted to the outflow of liquid funds. plant for automobile headliners in Mexico. Freudenberg Performance Materials commissioned its new spunlaid As a result of the considerably lower acquisitions complant in the USA. In Slovakia, work started on the conpared with the previous year, negative cash flow from struction of a new industrial filter production plant for investing activities was significantly reduced, at €Freudenberg Filtration Technologies. At Vibracoustic, 612.1 million. Net additions to the statement of finanwork started on the extension of production at the cial position amounted to €469.5 million, above the figSroda Slaska plant in Poland and investment in a third ure for 2016. As in the previous year, the main additions plant in China, at Chongqing, was approved. In Gerwere made in Germany, the USA and China. many, €175.6 million (previous year: €147.8 million) were invested. In Weinheim, a new training center and Cash flow from financing activities in the 2016 finanthe construction of the large office building were comcial year was €-245.0 million (previous year: €471.3 milpleted. In Maisach, work continued on the expansion of lion). The main factors in this fall were payments to the the logistics and production facilities of Freudenberg shareholder and non-controlling interests as well as Chemical Specialities. Investments planned for 2018 the repayment of financial debts taken up in the previare likely to be financed from cash flow from operating ous year in connection with the acquisitions made. activities and to have no major effect on net assets. The Group can meet all of its payment obligations at any time. 57 Assets, equity and liabilities Key performance indicators and overall assessment The total assets of Freudenberg fell by €29.6 million to Key financial performance indicators €10,193.9 million (previous year: €10,223.5 million). For Freudenberg, sales, profit from operations and reThe fall was chiefly attributable to exchange rate turn on sales are the key financial performance indicachanges, which had a significant effect of €-442.1 miltors. lion on the statement of financial position total. Noncurrent assets fell to €6,399.4 million (previous year: In 2017, Freudenberg grew sales by 18.3 percent. €6,470.8 million). The main factor in this development Freudenberg aims for profitable growth both from its was the reduction in intangible assets. This includes own resources (organic) and from acquisitions (exteramortization of intangible assets in the amount of nal). In the year under review, the increase in sales is €115.6 million identified in connection with purchase attributable to the first-time full consolidation for the price allocations. In this context, especially systematic entire year of the companies acquired in 2016, the amortization of the intangible assets of the Vibracousmarket success of our innovative products and the tic Group and Japan Vilene Company, acquired in 2016, high degree of customer orientation and flexibility. should be mentioned. Adjusted for exchange rate efFurther explanations are given under “Sales”. fects and acquisition-related effects, there was a 1.6 percent increase in non-current assets. The key performance indicator profit from operations describes profit before income tax without special efThe increase of €41.8 million in current assets to fects (for example, significant restructuring expenses), €3,794.5 million was chiefly attributable to the rise in the profit or loss on disposals of assets, impairment of inventories, securities and cash at bank and in hand, goodwill, results of associated companies, or changes which amounted to €38.1 million and had been relaas a result of amendments to International Financial tively low in the previous year as a result of the acquisiReporting Standards. In the financial year under review, tions. Other current assets had an offsetting effect of profit from operations was above the figure for the pre€34.1 million. In this context, especially the reduction vious year, at €133.6 million. of €37.4 million in loans to third parties should be mentioned. Adjusted for acquisition effects and exchange Return on sales, amounting to 9.7 percent, is calculated rate effects, there was a rise of €225.5 million. from the 2 performance indicators of sales and profit from operations. 58 Combined Management Report – Business Development and Position Non-financial key performance indicator Overall assessment For its internal reporting, Freudenberg uses the LDIFR Despite the persistently challenging macroeconomic (Lost Day Incident Frequency Rate) as a non-financial environment, Freudenberg continued on its path of key performance indicator. It measures all accidents at profitable growth. Although exchange rate effects work involving at least one day’s absence per million were still negative, the Group was able to outperform working hours. Starting with the 2015 financial year, its targets for 2017 in terms of the financial the indicator also includes data for temporary performance indicators without taking into employees and agency staff. On this basis, the LDIFR for consideration the one-off effects in the previous year, 2017 was 1.4 (previous year: 1.8). achieving a record profit from operations. In 2017, there was a special focus on occupational In view of its solid net assets and financial position and safety at all levels of the company. As a result, the negits high-earnings business, Freudenberg’s assessment ative trend reported for 2016 was reversed and the sigof the overall financial position of the Group is very nificant reduction which had been forecast was positive. It is not necessary to change this assessment achieved. as a result of the events presented under “Major Events After the Date of the Statement of Financial Position”. 59 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS BY BUSINESS AREA The Group’s 4 Business Areas – Seals and Vibration Control Technology, Nonwovens and Filtration, Household Products, and Specialties and Others – focus on long-term, sustainable and profitable growth. Together with its partners, customers and the world of science, Freudenberg develops cutting-edge products, excellent solutions and services for more than 30 market segments and for thousands of applications in the spirit of the positioning “Freudenberg is a valuesbased technology group that best serves its customers and society”. SEALS AND VIBRATION CONTROL TECHNOLOGY BUSINESS AREA In the 2017 financial year, the Seals and Vibration Sales in this Business Area rose to €5,412.5 million Control Technology Business Area comprised the (previous year: €4,175.8 million). The headcount at following Business Groups: the close of the financial year rose to 31,686 (previous year: 30,418). • Freudenberg Sealing Technologies • Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies • EagleBurgmann • Freudenberg Medical • Vibracoustic 60 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area FREUDENBERG SEALING TECHNOLOGIES 2016 2017 Sales [€ million] 2,143.5 2,224.7 Workforce 13,648 14,164 The figures for the previous year have been adjusted in light of the change in internal reporting structures whereby joint ventures are consolidated using the equity method. FREUDENBERG SEALING TECHNOLOGIES Business development Key events The 2017 financial year was a very successful one for Freudenberg Sealing Technologies acquired Metflex Freudenberg Sealing Technologies. Holding Company Ltd based in Blackburn, United Kingdom, in the year under review. The Business Group is Developments in automotive business in particular were thus continuing to develop its market-leading position encouraging. Automotive business at Freudenberg Sealin membranes. Among other products, Metflex manuing Technologies grew 3 percent in the period under refactures diaphragms for gasometry and gas control. view despite the noticeable slowdown in momentum alMetflex has developed a special technical process, ready evident in this sector, above all in the USA. known as “Dispersed Fibre Technology” which is used to manufacture new, innovative diaphragm seals. AnThe situation for general industry business improved other key technology is the production of very thin rubconsiderably in the 2017 financial year, but nevertheber-coated fabric. Gas meters operate at very low presless remained challenging. Freudenberg Sealing Techsure. The thinner the diaphragms are, for example, the nologies nonetheless held up well and grew business more sensitive and precise the gas measurement’s opactivities in the general industry sector 13 percent yeareration. on-year. Individual segments, such as agriculture or construction machinery, reported even higher growth. Schneegans Freudenberg GmbH & Co. KG, Emmerich am Rhein, Germany, realigned its Integrated Precision Solutions (IPS) operations at the Emmerich location in 61 response to profound changes in market conditions, electrical vehicles more reliable and economical. Tracparticularly with regard to simple rubber parts and tion batteries for electric vehicles, which run on voltcompounding. Production and cost structures in these ages of several hundred volts, must be well protected. 2 segments are being adjusted to the changed market Electrical components are packed into a thin-walled yet conditions. Production of simple rubber parts and the stable metal housing so that splashing water and mixing plant are to be closed down by the end of 2018. fallen rocks cannot damage them. But the housing canSome 40 jobs are affected. The company has a headnot be fully hermetically sealed because it would decount of roughly 140 at the site. Freudenberg is investform, for example, due to fluctuations in the external ing approximately €3 million in realignment measures air pressure or the temperature. That is why housings such as technologically demanding and high-quality of this kind are equipped with at least one pressure products for electric vehicles or for sensor systems. compensation valve. A second valve is a safety measure: it only opens if damage to battery cells results from a The Business Group invested €2.5 million in a new promalfunction and it is imperative to drain off all the gas duction line for diaphragm accumulators at the facility emitted by a damaged cell in just a few seconds. DIAin Bamberg, South Carolina, USA. Diaphragm accumuvent is a smart pressure compensation element which lators are used in numerous applications such as combines both functions into a single component. pumps, actuators, hydro-accumulators, valves and regulators. In addition, €4 million are being invested at the Another example is a novel seal for traction-battery facility in Öhringen, Baden-Württemberg, Germany, to housings that contributes to the more economical complete a major order for radar sensors for the autoproduction of electric vehicles, ever for smaller promotive business. duction runs. The Profiles-to-Gasket concept was specially developed for production runs of up to Freudenberg Sealing Technologies won the Innovation 5,000 batteries per year. Seals designed with the ProAward of the German state Rhineland-Palatinate for an files-to-Gasket approach supplement those that have electromagnetic pulsation method for the production so far mainly been designed for high-volume producof diaphragm accumulators. This new approach has tion. The traction battery is the core of an electric vefewer process steps, needs fewer components and has hicle. Its high-voltage components must be protected shorter installation times. Joining the 2 halves of the from moisture and dirt in long-term operation. At the aluminum housing – through the use of electromagsame time, it must be possible to open battery housnetic pulse technology (EMPT) – and filling the gas side ings for maintenance. That is why automakers are with nitrogen are handled in a single step. Electromagturning to housings with a large cover that allows netic pulse forming uses powerful magnetic fields to good access to all components. Freudenberg Sealing reform electrically conductive materials without conTechnologies already offers profiled flat gaskets to tact. This opens up new application options for diaguarantee complete impermeability when the cover phragm accumulators such as hydro-pneumatic susis closed. But the cross-section and dimensions of pension applications in the automotive industry or in such seals must be adapted exactly to a specific batindustrial hydraulic systems. tery. Changes are impossible without fabricating a new tool. The investment in a tool of this kind mainly Further innovations also achieved market success in repays the expense at higher volumes. As a result, the year under review. Particularly worthy of note is the straight sealing profiles come into use for very small pressure compensation element DIAvent. It combines production runs, such as the manufacture of proto2 functions that 2 separate components have mostly types. Their lengths can be cut manually. They are conhandled until now. The core of the solution is a combinected to one another using special corner pieces, nation of nonwovens and an umbrella valve with remaking it possible to cover any housing geometry. versible switching. DIAvent permits engineers to make 62 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area Seals are increasingly being asked to do more than just Profile: seal: in the future, they should be able to forecast when Freudenberg Sealing Technologies is a leading market they will break down or perform condition monitoring and technology partner for demanding applications, inin real time. Freudenberg Sealing Technologies precluding sealing technology and electro-mobility. Startsented a new generation of smart seals for the food and ing from the invention of the Simmerring, which was deprocess industry in the year under review. Seals primarveloped by Freudenberg in 1932, the Business Group toily consist of materials that cannot process signals in day offers a broad customer-oriented product portfolio – their pure form. That is why material developers are infrom tailor-made individual solutions to complete sealvestigating materials that seals can employ to become ing packages and components for electric vehicles. Tosensors or even actuators, for example, without impairgether with its partner NOK Corporation, Tokyo, Japan, ing their original mission. In combination with a suitaFreudenberg Sealing Technologies forms a global netble design, it is possible for a seal to indicate its level of work offering products of the same consistently high wear and for the information to be tied to system data. quality worldwide. This makes it possible to predict when a particular seal must be replaced. In this way, operating costs can be optimized and maintenance intervals can be scheduled pro-actively. Seals can therefore perform their task more efficiently over their entire operating life. Freudenberg Sealing Technologies is adding a new line of PTFE (polytetrafluoroethylene) seals to its product portfolio. The new seals round out the selection of aerospace component solutions that have been designed to meet exacting industry requirements and the challenging demands of a wide range of applications. PTFE is widely used when high temperature and media resistance are called for. It is especially useful in aerospace applications where temperature extremes, contact pressures and leakage control are crucial to the safe and efficient operation of an aircraft. These applications include engines and gear boxes, landing gear, wheels, brakes and airframes. 63 FREUDENBERG OIL & GAS TECHNOLOGIES 2016 2017 Sales [€ million] 88.5 110.2 Workforce 478 512 FREUDENBERG OIL & GAS TECHNOLOGIES Business development Key events The 2017 financial year proved to be another very chalIn 2017, Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies continlenging year for Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies, ued to restructure business, implement efficiency proeven though the oil price and activities in the oil and grams and cost-cutting measures, and adjust producgas industry, particularly in North America, stabilized. tion capacity. These activities were carried out at all Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies locations around Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies therefore focused the world. The aim is to make business stronger and its efforts throughout the year on further expanding more profitable so that the Business Group is ready relations with strategic global customers, gaining marwhen the oil and gas industry picks up again. ket share from competitors in key component and product segments, developing new products, and imDuring the year under review, the Business Group inproving profitability. vested in health, safety and environmental measures and introduced the GROWTTH lean manufacturing In the 2017 financial year, drilling activities in the USA program. primarily concentrated on shale oil production. Major international onshore oil projects in Kazakhstan and The Business Group continued to focus on exploration Kuwait made a substantial contribution to sales at and production solutions for the upstream segment. It Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies in the year under developed new proprietary and patented products for review. this segment designed to support the future growth of Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies. 64 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies launched an innoProfile: vative seal for blowout preventers in the period under Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies provides innovareview. Blowout preventers are valves fitted on the well tive sealing solutions and differentiated sealing prodhead which prevent the uncontrolled flow of gases and ucts to the global oil and gas industry. The Business liquids during drilling. The special seal meets the most Group focuses on solutions for the upstream explorademanding requirements and can withstand extreme tion and production segment. It develops and markets pressures and temperatures thanks to the high-perforproducts for drilling / BOP (pressure control), wellhead mance rubber mixture. equipment, fracturing services, offshore oil and gas platforms, and subsea applications. Freudenberg Oil & In 2017, appointments were made to specific positions Gas Technologies serves a wide range of customers inin Engineering and Technical Sales in order to further cluding oil and gas producing companies, original expand the technical capabilities of the Business equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and engineering Group and adapt to changing market requirements. and service companies that provide technologies, equipment and services for producing oil and gas from land-based, offshore platforms and subsea throughout the world. Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies has its own materials development and product testing lab where new materials and solutions are developed and tested. 65 EAGLEBURGMANN 2016 2017 Sales [€ million] 778.5 789.4 Workforce 5,551 5,534 EAGLEBURGMANN Business development During the year under review, business opportunities in industries using oil products as feedstock were subDevelopments in the Business Group’s markets in 2017 dued. The chemical industry was reluctant to make were volatile and challenging. EagleBurgmann was new investments and construct new facilities. nevertheless able to grow orders and sales as planned. Developments in the service business in all regions Conditions in the oil and gas market segments rewere stable. This is in particular attributable to after mained extremely challenging despite the slight global sales services. upturn in oil prices. EagleBurgmann nonetheless successfully expanded its long-standing cooperation with In terms of regional development, EMEA, Asia Pacific, compressor manufacturer Solar in the USA and conChina and America generated above-average sales cluded a multi-year framework agreement to deliver growth for the Business Group. In some countries, for seal supply systems for gas pipelines. example Venezuela and Mexico, local economic and political developments had a negative impact on EaIn China, EagleBurgmann won a major order for initial gleBurgmann sales. delivery of some 1,000 mechanical seals and more than 900 seal supply systems for the Hengli project, a major In 2017, EagleBurgmann worked steadily to increase refining complex in the north eastern Liaoning Provorder volumes and profit, and continued its efforts to ince. balance the portfolio. To this end, numerous change measures were initiated and processes were stabi66 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area lized. The expansion and consolidation of existing marlargest international research projects. One of the kets as well as an intensive focus on the pharmaceutiworld’s largest vacuum chambers with a capacity of cal industry, water procurement and wastewater treatsome 8,000 cubic meters was built for the reactor. Durment, energy, petrochemicals, and the food and bevering the fusion process, plasma is drawn through a vacage processing industry played a central role. uum chamber, treated and returned; consequently the technical demands on the vacuum pumps in terms of tightness in both pressure directions and extreme temKey events peratures were very demanding. EagleBurgmann solved this task with a newly-developed gas seal based In order to deliver on “Operational Excellence”, Eagleon a metal bellows. Burgmann started lean activities in 2017 to become an even more efficient and customer-centric organization. The Business Group’s engineering headquarters in JaThese activities included setting up the “Corporate pan and Germany cooperated closely to develop a seLean” function. Numerous lean workshops were orgaries of mechanical seals featuring O-rings and a family nized for the production departments at various locaof metal bellows seals to market maturity. Both types tions. Machine downtimes, for example, were reduced are suitable for applications in oil and gas production by optimizing setup processes. and processing, and are fully compliant with API 682 4th edition regulations. These seals were developed under Digitalization has high priority in all units at EagleBurgthe core part strategy to enable standardized, automann. The aim is to achieve targeted improvements in mated design. processes and increase efficiency in the organization. Various projects were therefore implemented in Design, Engineering, Production, Sales and AdministraLocation changes tion. One example is the further development of design standards to improve the efficiency of digital parts lists In light of the market situation and expected business and detail drawings. development for metal expansion joints, EagleBurgmann closed the facility in Lakeside, California, USA, at 2017 saw the start of a corporate culture and personnel the end of 2017. Furthermore, production and after development program designed to transform Eaglesales service for fabric expansion joints relocated from Burgmann into a learning organization, thereby Hebron, Kentucky, USA, to Broken Arrow, Oklahoma, USA. strengthening competitiveness. One of the first measures is to develop a more open feedback culture and implement an informal, international communicaProfile: tion platform for dialog between management and emEagleBurgmann is one of the leading international maployees. nufacturers of industrial sealing technology. The Business Group manufactures and markets a broad range of EagleBurgmann developed a sophisticated sealing sohigh-quality products, from technically advanced, custolution for vacuum pumps in the International Thermomer-specific solutions to large-batch products for pumps, nuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER). ITER is one of the compensators and agitators. 67 FREUDENBERG MEDICAL 2016 2017 Sales [€ million] 148.7 172.1 Workforce 1,068 1,488 The figures for the previous year have been adjusted in light of the change in internal reporting structures whereby joint ventures are consolidated using the equity method. FREUDENBERG MEDICAL Business development for large bore catheter procedures, are particularly worthy of note. These technologies enable medical device The medical device market again posted strong growth companies to develop innovative products at competiin 2017. As in previous years, growth was highest in the tive costs and accelerate time to market by significantly Asia region, while Europe and North America reported shortening development cycles. moderate increases. In this environment, Freudenberg Medical continued on its growth path in the year under Freudenberg Medical has a global presence at 11 locareview and expanded its global customer base. The tions in the USA, Latin America, Europe and Asia, and is Business Group now supplies 24 of the 25 major mantherefore able to serve customers worldwide. Internaufacturers of medical devices and has established itself tional customers in particular value this service and inas a leading quality supplier. itiated projects with Freudenberg Medical during the year under review. Medical device manufacturers are increasingly looking for suppliers whose innovations accelerate growth in the medical device market. In the year under review, Key events Freudenberg Medical once again offered these companies a broad range of proprietary technologies. The verFreudenberg Medical acquired an additional 40 persatile and innovative Composer Deflectable Catheter cent of VistaMed Ltd., Carrick-on-Shannon, Ireland. The Handle Platform, the new generation of HemoPax balBusiness Group now owns 90 percent of the company. loon coatings or the FlexSeal Introducer Sheath, a minVistaMed is a leading supplier of catheter solutions imally invasive solution that optimizes support access and assembly services, complex extrusion and mini68 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area mally-invasive devices. The company has grown signifIn addition, the Business Group opened a sales office in icantly since Freudenberg Medical made its initial inSingapore to serve the fast-growing customer base in vestment several years ago and had a headcount of apthe South East Asia/Pacific region even more efficiently. proximately 430 at 2 locations in Ireland in 2017. Freudenberg Medical concluded the first rollout phase VistaMed completed the expansion of its main producof its global ERP system with implementation at the tion facility in Carrick-on-Shannon, Ireland, during the location in Gloucester, USA; this is in response to the year under review. The new building has ISO Class 7 significantly greater requirements with respect to cleanrooms for contract manufacturing of catheterdata integrity and analysis. The Business Group now based minimally invasive devices and space to expand operates a harmonized ERP system at all locations in extrusions and catheter assembly. Investment totaled the USA as well as in China and Costa Rica. Preparasome €9 million. The expansion is confirmation of tions for the rollout at European locations continued strong demand for VistaMed products and services. to make progress in the year under review. The system Only recently – in October 2016 – a €10 million stateincludes cutting-edge electronic quality management of-the-art research development center for innovative functions and gives Freudenberg Medical a decisive catheter technology was built in Carrick-on-Shannon. competitive advantage in the medical device market. Freudenberg Medical established a legal entity in Shenzhen, China, in the year under review in response to Profile: rapid growth in business in Asia. Furthermore, the BusiFreudenberg Medical is the global partner for the design, ness Group announced a 1,200 square meter expandevelopment and manufacture of innovative medical sion of its manufacturing operation in Shenzhen. The products. The company’s portfolio comprises catheter planned state-of-the-art production line will provide solutions for minimally-invasive procedures and compobetter support for local customers and enable co-develnents made from complex medical materials. The comopments. The Freudenberg facility in Shenzhen curpany is a leader in the field of high-precision silicone and rently has 4 ISO Class 8 cleanrooms and is certified to thermoplastic components and tubing as well as metal ISO 13485. The investment will bring an additional 600 hypotubes. square meters of cleanroom able to accommodate 10 injection molding machines. 69 VIBRACOUSTIC 2016 2017 1 Sales [€ million] 1,016.6 2,116.1 Workforce 9,673 9,988 1 The figures for the previous year have been adjusted in light of the change in internal reporting structures whereby joint ventures are consolidated using the equity method. Included as a fully-consolidated company effective July 1, 2016. VIBRACOUSTIC Business development control technology. Noise and vibrations generated at higher frequency ranges and by auxiliaries which were In 2017, Vibracoustic continued on its sustainable, profpreviously masked by the internal combustion engine itable growth path in a challenging market environbecome audible and noticeable. Vibracoustic is collaboment, outpacing the market in terms of growth. rating closely with leading OEMs to develop innovative Vibracoustic increasingly faced higher material prices and efficient solutions to these challenges. and a downturn on the important U.S. market. This contrasted with market growth in Europe and Asia. The Business Group again won numerous major orders Vibracoustic recorded its strongest organic growth in for global vehicle platforms during the period under reSouth America and India in 2017, followed by view. The Chassis Business Unit, for example, won the China/APAC and North America. There was moderate largest order in Vibracoustic’s history for air springs for growth in Europe, Vibracoustic’s strongest-selling marthe new platform of a British automaker. Furthermore, ket. Growth was primarily attributable to the kick-off of German premium automakers chose Vibracoustic air new projects. springs for their first e-SUV, respectively their first allelectric sports car. A customer placed a large-scale order The trend among automakers to offer larger numbers for cab mounts and hydromounts for a heavy-duty pickof fully or partially electric-driven vehicles calls for new up truck that is particularly successful in the USA, while approaches and solutions in vibration control, and a further German premium automaker ordered both brings new opportunities. While the internal combustion engine in a hybrid drivetrain still generates noise and vibrations which must be minimized, electric vehicles present entirely different challenges for vibration 70 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area rear axle mounts and rear differential unit dampers for switchable air springs with a 3-chamber concept. By the all-wheel drive variants of one platform. Numerous switching individual chambers on and off by means of major orders were also won in the growth market of intelligent controls, the air springs can be set to 4 difAsia, including in particular orders for engine mounts ferent stiffness levels depending on the particular drivand chassis bushings for the platform of a Korean car ing situation to achieve specific driving dynamics. An manufacturer, and drive components for the platform actively switchable version of the 3-chamber air spring of a Chinese automaker. system has featured in the new SUV series of one German premium automaker since the end of 2017. Key events Furthermore, an innovative component and a new production process are used for the 3-chamber air springs. The sales and development operations of the ViTo meet manufacturers’ growing efficiency demands bracoustic CV Air Springs joint venture in Turkey were and to make the parts as light as possible, metal is ofintegrated in the Vibracoustic organization and the eqten replaced by plastic. However, in the case of the air uity investment was increased to 65.1 percent effecspring cover, which is bolted to the bodywork, this is tive April 1, 2017. The objective is to generate further not always possible because the cover transfers high synergies for original spare parts customers in the forces to the body. This is why Vibracoustic has now deCommercial Vehicle segment. Vibracoustic CV Air veloped a hybrid material concept. The metal inserts Springs remains an independent joint venture and is which are used to transfer forces are surrounded by part of Vibracoustic’s Chassis Division. The new organplastic and then welded to components made entirely izational structure will further strengthen existing cofrom plastic by hot gas welding. In this process, the operation and also intensify collaboration in air plastic at the 2 joints is melted. The 2 plastic composprings operations. By bringing together the sales nents are then pressed together, cool and form an opunits, Vibracoustic can now offer commercial vehicles timum bond. Air spring covers produced this way are customers the complete product portfolio for vibranot only lighter but the joints between the covers and tion control technology and air springs from a single the body are up to 3 times as stiff. source. By taking the management lead for air springs development, Vibracoustic can bundle the expertise Air springs fulfill the demands of many drivers for imand know-how of both companies. proved comfort. However, developers have to meet ever more complex demands on installation space. In Vibracoustic believes in innovations to constantly imcooperation with a licensor, Vibracoustic has develprove the vibration behavior of all classes of vehicle. oped a method whereby air springs need less installaOne example is the combination of the familiar decoution space but still preserve the same characteristics. pled pulley and a freewheel function: in vehicles with An activated carbon block integrated on one of the air fuel-saving start-stop systems, the decoupled pulley chambers increases the amount of air in the spring – eliminates the effects of an engine that is constantly without increasing the size. This innovation is already starting and stopping. The overrunning damper isolabeing used in the series production of a model manutor pulley enables car manufacturers to achieve further factured by a German premium automaker. fuel savings because the belt tension can be significantly reduced, thus minimizing friction losses. A German premium automaker has been using this new pulLocation changes ley combined with a torsional vibration damper in series production of 3and 4-cylinder engines since 2017. Following an intensive review of all options, the management of Vibracoustic concluded that closure of the To resolve the issue of the conflicting objectives of comBreuberg location is unavoidable. 176 production emfort and driving dynamics, Vibracoustic developed ployees are affected. A large share of the 64 jobs in IT, 71 Material Development and Administration will be preProfile: served and will relocate from Breuberg to Weinheim. Vibracoustic is the world’s leading supplier of automotive Under the closure plans for Breuberg, production volvibration technology. With a global network of developumes are to be relocated to other existing locations in ment and production locations, the Business Group supEurope. The measures planned for the various sites are plies almost all passenger car and commercial vehicle scheduled for completion by the end of 2018. manufacturers as well as their direct suppliers worldwide with components that significantly increase onboard The reassessment of business in Brazil decided that comfort. production at the rented plant in Guarulhos should be gradually transferred to the Group’s own facility in Taubaté. Closure of the operations in Guarulhos and relocation to Taubaté will be completed by June 2018. 72 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area FREUDENBERG PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 2016 2017 Sales [€ million] 950.9 935.3 Workforce 3,755 3,726 NONWOVENS AND FILTRATION BUSINESS AREA In the year under review, the Nonwovens and FilIn total, the Business Area generated sales of tration Business Area comprised the following €1,909.4 million (previous year: €1,812.0 million). Business Groups: At year-end 2017, the headcount was 8,175, compared with 8,334 at the close of the previous year. • Freudenberg Performance Materials • Freudenberg Filtration Technologies • Japan Vilene Company FREUDENBERG PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 73 Business development In order to remain competitive and profitable over the long term, Freudenberg Performance Materials must be Overall, business development for Freudenberg Perforable to respond flexibly to increasingly volatile market mance Materials in the year under review was quite conditions. The Business Group therefore continued to positive. However, weaker than expected demand in restructure its logistics activities at the Weinheim locasome industries and regions impacted growth. In contion in 2017. The planned measures were defined foljunction with unfavorable exchange rate effects this lowing in-depth discussions with employee representaled to stagnating sales. tives and are to be implemented in 2018. In contrast, there was strong demand in the carpet tiles In the year under review, Freudenberg Performance Maand filtration business in 2017. The Business Group terials optimized European production activities in the also generated growth in the promising medical segApparel segment in order to meet customers’ requirement and in special applications such as microfilament ments more swiftly and effectively. The measure led to textiles based on Evolon technology and in battery sepimproved performance and reduced costs. The Business arators. Group defended its leading global position in interlinings business despite declining demand in the interlinDevelopments in the automotive industry in the variings sector. ous world regions were mixed. The Business Group stepped up its innovation activities After a strong first 6 months, there was a slight slowin the year under review with the aim of developing down in the construction industry in Europe which led new and advanced process technologies and fostering to lower demand for roofing applications from growth through special products with attractive market Freudenberg Performance Materials. potential. Examples include the following: The apparel market grew in China and India, but weakIn the Building Materials segment, a new line equipped ened in Europe and the USA where structural changes with state-of-the-art process technology for manufacpersisted and where demand for luxury and formal turing high-quality, glass-fiber reinforced spunlaid felts menswear continued to decline. was commissioned at the site in Macon, Georgia, USA. With this investment, the Business Group is strengthThe persistently difficult economic situation in South ening its leading position in the market for polyester America curbed development in the hygiene and shoe nonwovens for roofing applications in North America. components business. Business development in the production unit for advanced wound care in Weinheim was very satisfactory Key events in 2017. This unit is part of a long-term partnership agreement with an innovative world-leading customer Freudenberg Performance Materials further improved in advanced wound care. With this initiative, together its industrial performance in 2017. Ongoing and intenwith the further development of the business in polyusive Operational Excellence activities and bundling rethane foam systems for advanced wound care, technology know-how resulted in further improveFreudenberg Performance Materials systematically exments in productivity, efficiency and product quality. panded its portfolio in the most forward-looking marConsequently, the Business Group is not only in a posiket segment in medical technology. tion to offer its customers even more efficient products, but also more than offset the impact of rising raw maIn the Apparel segment, Freudenberg Performance Material prices. terials launched the comfortemp fiberball padding thermal insulation – the world’s first padding made of 74 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area fiberballs. The thermal insulation properties of this padIn Asia, Interface Thailand presented Freudenberg Perding are more than twice as high as conventional padformance Materials with the Supplier Excellence Award ding and the new material is as light and soft as down. 2017 for outstanding quality and service. Interface is a In view of the considerable interest shown by the marglobally leading carpet manufacturer. Furthermore, the ket when the new padding was launched, comfortemp Business Group was recognized as the best supplier of fiberball padding is expected to have a positive impact bituminous roofing membranes by its Russian cuson business development in the attractive Performance tomer Technonicol. Textiles segment. In the year under review, the Business Group continued Profile: with work to install a carbonization line in Weinheim. Freudenberg Performance Materials is a leading global The line supports efforts to expand business in highsupplier of innovative technical textiles for a wide range performance gas diffusion layers for fuel cells. of markets and applications, including automotive, construction, apparel, hygiene, medical, footwear and Freudenberg Performance Materials was recognized leather goods, as well as special applications. The Busiwith several awards in 2017. Among them was the ness Group has 25 production locations in 14 countries 2017 ISPO Award for the innovative comfortemp fiberworldwide. ball padding thermal insulation. The Business Group also received the Ökotex certificate for its commitment to consumer protection and sustainability. 75 FREUDENBERG FILTRATION TECHNOLOGIES 2016 2017 Sales [€ million] 423.3 423.1 Workforce 2,255 2,085 FREUDENBERG FILTRATION TECHNOLOGIES Business development In the Industrial Filtration Division, the systematic focus on selected market segments and the associated Demand for automotive filters in the OEM and aftermore pronounced customer orientation had a positive markets in Europe and North America developed well – impact on business. Customer needs were targeted benefitting in particular from orders for cabin air filter more specifically and addressed significantly more modules for electric vehicles. In China, sales to key acswiftly through the expansion of segment-specific counts declined due to market developments, with adproduct, system and service offerings; this is confirmed verse effects on business with engine intake air filters by the noticeable increase in the number of innovain particular. tions launched in the relevant market segments. The Business Group defended its position as the marGood sales increases in Industrial Filtration in almost ket leader in original equipment and original spare all world regions and segments could not entirely offparts in the cabin air filtration segment despite a genset the decline in automotive filter sales in China and erally challenging market environment and increased the effects of transferring the engine intake air filter competitive and price pressure. To consolidate this pobusiness in China to the former minority shareholder. sition, Freudenberg Filtration Technologies invested in The markets in South America and South Africa reefficiency-enhancing manufacturing processes and mained challenging, while sales of air filters for gas turdifferentiated product innovations and well as the furbines in the Middle East and South East Asia increased. ther development of global key account management. Exchange rate effects had a slightly negative impact. 76 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area Key events ther optimized with the introduction of 2 product developments – Viledon Compact T90 and Viledon hydroWith effect from January 1, 2017, Freudenberg FiltraMaxx. Outstanding innovations in the Automotive Filters tion Technologies acquired the business of Alphasorb Division were a high-efficiency anti-allergy cabin air filter (Pty) Ltd., Johannesburg, South Africa, a manufacturer and multi-stage air quality concepts developed specially of high-quality gas-phase filtration solutions. The acfor electric vehicles. quisition makes the Business Group one of the world’s largest producers of alumina pellets which are used as Freudenberg Filtration Technologies realigned the aua filtration medium. tomotive filters business in China during the year under review. In the past, cabin air filters were produced The Business Group was recognized with several innoat 3 locations, and these operations were combined at vation awards in the year under review. For the first 2 plants in Suzhou und Chengdu. As a result of this time, Freudenberg Filtration Technologies won the FILrealignment, the Business Group expects to improve TREX Innovation Award presented by EDANA, the production efficiency and optimize the supply chain world’s leading association for nonwovens, for the miin order to serve customers even more effectively. The cronAir blue automotive cabin air filter. The industrial production and sale of engine intake air filters for the water treatment business under the brand name of Chinese market was combined at the Changchun loAquabio won 2 prestigious awards: the new “Sand-Cycation: the shares in Freudenberg & Vilene Filter cle” technology was honored with the UK Water Indus(Changchun) Co., Ltd. previously held by Freudenberg try Award as the “Most Innovative New Technology of Filtration Technologies and Japan Vilene Company the Year”; Water Reuse Europe presented the Business were transferred to the former minority shareholder Group with the award for the “Most Innovative Water Changchun Autofilter Co., Ltd., effective November 1, Reuse Scheme”. The European automotive filtration 2017. Freudenberg Filtration Technologies is thus foteam won the “f-cell award” sponsored by Badencusing exclusively on the development and producWürttemberg's Ministry of the Environment, Climate tion of automotive cabin air filters in China. Protection and the Energy Sector for the optimization of the micronAir Type N filter for fuel cells. Freudenberg Filtration Technologies expanded manufacturing capacity in both Divisions to enable further Innovations are an indispensable building block for the growth. Among other things, the Business Group inmarket success of Freudenberg Filtration Technologies. vested in a new filter line for pocket filters and a manThe Business Group’s customer-driven organizational ufacturing module for cabin air filters in Europe, a prostructure therefore focuses increasingly on product, sysduction line for air filters in China, and a high-tempertem solution and service innovations and their swift, sucature filter line in India. cessful market launches. During the year under review, an innovative modular system was launched to enhance the flexibility of filterCair, the range of services for autoProfile: motive paint shops, and to respond to changing market Freudenberg Filtration Technologies is one of the needs. The Business Group developed a new generation world’s leading specialists in the development and proof air filters for mobile room air cleaners specially deduction of air and liquid filtration solutions and their signed to meet the demanding requirements for a applications. The Business Group’s solutions make inhealthy indoor climate in Chinese homes and offices, pardustrial processes more economical, conserve resources, ticularly with regard to the high levels of fine dust partiprotect people and the environment and thus contribcles. The tried-and-tested pocket filter program was furute to improving the quality of life. 77 JAPAN VILENE COMPANY 1 2016 2017 Sales [€ million] 437.8 551.0 Workforce 2,324 2,364 1 Fully consolidated as of April 1, 2016. JAPAN VILENE COMPANY Business development Key events Global market conditions for Japan Vilene Company in Japan Vilene Company became one of Freudenberg’s 2017 were mixed. Compared with the previous year, Business Groups in April 2016. The shareholders are business development improved in Japan and slackFreudenberg SE (75 percent) and Toray Industries, Inc., ened in North America and Asia. Tokyo, Japan (25 percent). The market environment for the Automotive Materials In 2017, further numerous measures to integrate Jadivision was subdued due to lower sales in the small pan Vilene Company in the Group were implemented. car segment in the USA. There was moderate growth in One important step was involving the Business Group floor mats business in the USA, but delays in building in the strategy process. Furthermore, various HR trainthe new facility in Mexico impacted headliner business. ings took place to roll out the Freudenberg employee The fiber business was in line with expectations, with development process at Japan Vilene Company’s locamoderate growth in China and the rest of Asia. tions in Japan and the USA. Conditions for the Industrial Materials division varied, In the Automotive Materials division, Japan Vilene particularly as a result of the difficult situation for MedCompany’s floor mat team was recognized with the ical Materials business in Japan and Hygiene in Korea. “Best Performance Award” from Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. Developments in the Air Filters and Battery Separators for the second year in succession. The criteria for the segment were generally positive. 78 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area award include timely shipment, response time and In the year under review, Primearth EV Energy, a tier 1 quality. supplier of battery systems for the automotive industry and one of Japan Vilene Company’s most important In addition, the seventh injection molding line for allcustomers, presented the Business Group with its “Fiweather floor mats was installed at VIAM Manufacturnal Cost Award 2016” for battery separators for nickeling, Inc., Manchester, USA. These mats not only protect metal hydride batteries. The customer thus recognized the vehicle floor from dirt and sand, but also make the intensive value engineering activities that help cleaning easier. They are becoming increasingly popusave production costs for the newly-developed product. lar in the USA. The company plans to commission a further machine in 2018. These new machines will help In the filter business, Freudenberg & Vilene Filter (Thaithe Business Group grow sales. land) Co. Ltd., Chonburi, Thailand, a joint venture with Freudenberg Filtration Technologies, won the “Best DeThe subsidiary Japan VIAM Co., Ltd., Moriyama, Japan, livery Award” presented by Keihin Thermal Technology which manufactures floor mats, celebrated its 10th an(Thailand) Co. niversary. The floor mat business, and Japan VIAM Co., Ltd. in particular, play a central role in the growth stratJapan Vilene Company’s strategy in the Amenity Mateegy of the entire Japan Vilene Company. rials business is to offer face mask products for end consumers based on technologies used in industrial The new headliner production facility was opened in face masks. A new end consumer face mask, the Aguascalientes, Mexico, in August. It joins the Busi“Fulshut Mask Fuwatto Pleat Type”, was launched in ness Group’s existing 4 headliner factories in Japan, September. This is the first pleated mask that considerUSA, Korea and China as the fifth headliner production ably reduces exhalation resistance and significantly falocation. cilitates breathing. Furthermore, Japan Vilene Company continued to invest in the Medical Materials business: the inauguraProfile: tion ceremony for a new factory manufacturing angiSince it was established in 1960, Japan Vilene Company ography sets operated by the subsidiary Pacific Giken has maintained its position as the leading domestic Co., Ltd, Yasu, Japan, and located in Moriyama City, manufacturer of nonwoven materials under the motto Shiga, Japan, was held in October. The new factory will of ‘‘Engineering Fabric Innovation’’, utilizing its longincrease production volume and raise productivity. Sestanding raw material expertise and considerable ries production of the sets is scheduled to commence know-how in the fields of production processes and in early 2018. Angiography sets are used in hospitals technologies as well as nonwoven converting, and ofand contain on average 8 square meters of high-perfering a wide range of products through its Automotive formance nonwoven manufactured by Japan Vilene Materials and Industrial Materials divisions. Company. Vilene Create Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan, the sales company in Japan, is responsible for sales and logistics. 79 FREUDENBERG HOME AND CLEANING SOLUTIONS 2016 2017 Sales [€ million] 859.3 938.4 Workforce 2,962 3,030 HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS BUSINESS AREA The Household Products Business Area comprises active in the mechanical cleaning and laundry care the Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions segment for final users and professional cleaning Business Group whose vileda, O-Cedar, Wettex, companies. Gala, Marigold, SWASH and Framar brands are FREUDENBERG HOME AND CLEANING SOLUTIONS Business development Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions’ core business grew with attractive products and innovations comThe consumer climate continued to brighten in 2017, bined with a noticeably stronger media presence. The and the market environment was generally friendly. Turbo Easy Wring & Clean product innovation was a driving force for the market and consumption in almost all Against this backdrop, Freudenberg Home and Cleaning countries with high double-digit growth compared with Solutions clearly outpaced the market in terms of growth the previous year. and further extended its position as market leader in the year under review. 80 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area E-commerce business development was extremely from Edgewell Personal Care Brands, LLC, St. Louis, USA. positive, with the growth rate continuing in the high Playtex is the leading US manufacturer of household double-digit range of previous years. Freudenberg gloves and has been active in the market for over 65 Home and Cleaning Solutions sees further potential in years under the Living and Handsaver brands. this business and will actively move forward with the digital transformation. Further areas of investment included improving productivity throughout the value chain. In producIn the institutional cleaning business, Vileda Professional tion, attention focused on reducing process costs, developed twice as fast as the market. The focus was on large-scale expansion of the LEAN programs, and hospitals and care facilities as well as the major regional strengthening processes with suppliers. Furthermore, markets of Germany, England, Russia, and North America. the Business Group invested in IT systems to improve As an additional offering, Freudenberg Home and Cleanthe system-based integration of all management proing Solutions’ business partners could also access further cesses. solutions and services via digital apps. Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions and its brands were again recognized with numerous product Key events awards in several countries during the year under review. Particularly worthy of note is the prize awarded The integration of the Italian company Gimi S.p.A., to the Business Group for a program of measures deMonselice, Italy, a laundry care specialist for laundry signed to foster diversity in the company. This program driers, ironing boards and household ladders, was one received the FKi (Women’s Career Index) prize from the focus of activities in the year under review. FreudenFederal Ministry for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, berg Home and Cleaning Solutions acquired Gimi S.p.A. Women and Youth in March 2017 in recognition of the in 2016. Under the motto of “Growing together”, Gimi company’s long-term measures and factual basis for laundry care product sales were integrated in achieving greater objectivity, transparency and contiFreudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions’ national nuity for equal opportunities. companies, a new vileda product line was developed, processes were combined and major investment programs at both factories in Monselice and Mombello, Profile: both Italy, were initiated. Gimi S.p.A. was consolidated Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions is one of for the full year for the first time in 2017. the leading international manufacturers of brand cleaning articles and systems and laundry care prodAn acquisition in the second half of 2017 further ucts. The products are marketed under the brand strengthened the Business Group. Freudenberg Housenames of vileda, O-Cedar, Wettex, Gala, Marigold, hold Products LP bought the Playtex glove business SWASH and Framar. 81 FREUDENBERG CHEMICAL SPECIALITIES 2016 2017 Sales [€ million] 1,004.0 1,070.8 Workforce 3,359 3,502 SPECIALTIES AND OTHERS BUSINESS AREA In the year under review, the Specialties and Overall, the companies in this Business Area generOthers Business Area mainly comprised the followated sales totaling €1,342.3 million (previous year: ing Business Groups: €1,270.6 million) in the year under review. At yearend 2017, the headcount was 4,762 compared with • Freudenberg Chemical Specialities 4,552 at year-end 2016. • Freudenberg IT FREUDENBERG CHEMICAL SPECIALITIES Business development industry sector prevented an even stronger rise in the business volume of Freudenberg Chemical Specialities. Economic development in the world regions and indusSales in the oil and gas industry, on the other hand, detries of key significance for Freudenberg Chemical Speveloped better than expected. Continued growth in Eucialities was generally stable in 2017. The macroecorope, strong business in North America, and accusnomic environment, however, remained challenging. tomed stable growth in Asia laid the foundation for Among other things, persistent exchange rate fluctuamore than satisfactory business development in the tions and weak demand in some parts of the heavy Business Group. 82 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area In the year under review, Klüber Lubrication benefited The new European logistics center for Klüber Lubricafrom very good demand in the food market and with tion, Chem-Trend and OKS in Maisach was handed over automotive suppliers. Further factors with a positive to Klüber Lubrication. Operations will commence once impact were business with distributors as well as the technical infrastructure has been installed and strong demand from customers in the oil and gas infunction tested. The center will help to significantly dustry. speed up all logistics processes and thus further improve customer service. With its wide-ranging portfolio, Chem-Trend is increasingly gaining an edge over competitors in terms of cusChem-Trend Limited Partnership, Howell, USA, actomer projects and put in a convincing performance in quired the global business of Huron Technologies Inc., 2017 in market segments such as tires, rubber, thermoUSA, and the Ultra Purge brand of Italian purging complastic and composites. pounds producer Moulds Plus International in 2016. The integration of both businesses was successful and SurTec clearly outpaced market growth throughout the has been concluded. year. Growth was stimulated in particular by successfully implemented customer projects with a long-term Klüber Lubrication and Chem-Trend further strengthplanning dimension as well as strong demand from ened their market position in Eastern Europe by estabcustomers in the automotive supplier industry. lishing their own national companies. In Romania, Klüber Lubrication took over the long-standing authorCapol could not continue its robust growth of the preized partner Super Plus, Chem-Trend acquired its Rovious year at a comparable level even though the commanian distribution partner Rubio Trading & Consultpany won several new customers; this was attributable ing. Under the Business Group’s shared service concept, to weak demand in some regional markets and distribboth new companies operate from the same location utor reorganization. in Sibiu, Romania. OKS grew in all key business segments throughout the At the beginning of 2017, Freudenberg Chemical Speyear. cialities launched a strategic project to evaluate the opportunities and possible efficiency gains of digitalization, both internally and for customers. Following an Key events analysis phase of several months, the implementation phase for selected individual projects at Klüber LubricaChem-Trend commissioned the expanded R&D center tion and SurTec began in the 3rd quarter. at its global headquarters in Howell, USA. The existing facilities were expanded by some 50 percent and inThe Business Group was recognized with several clude an applied research laboratory, an analytical laawards in the year under review, including the followboratory and additional office space. The new center ing: Klüber Lubrication North America in Tyler, Texas, significantly accelerates the development of new, even USA, was recognized as one of the “Best companies to more efficient and environmentally-compatible rework for in Texas”, Klüber North America in Londonlease agents. derry, New Hampshire, USA, won the “Best companies to work for” award presented by “Business New HampCapol GmbH acquired Colarôme Inc. in October. The shire Magazine”. Chem-Trend in Howell, USA, was reccompany holds patents for technologies used to proognized for the sixth time in succession as one of the duce a unique palette of natural pigments for food ap“Top Workplaces” in Michigan, USA, an award preplications. sented by “Detroit Free Press”. 83 With innovative “Hydro Lubricants”, Klüber Lubrication Profile: achieved a breakthrough in the development of even The Freudenberg Chemical Specialities Business Group more environmentally-friendly and resource-efficient comprises the operationally autonomous divisions of specialty lubricants. The company’s tribology experts Klüber Lubrication, Chem-Trend, SurTec, OKS, and developed homogeneous lubricants with water as a Capol. functional component. Using water in this way, it is now possible to achieve performance parameters preKlüber Lubrication is one of the world’s leading manuviously unattainable with water, such as excellent coolfacturers of specialty lubricants. ing capacity or energy savings through significant reductions in friction. Chem-Trend is a world market leader for release agents used to manufacture composite, rubber, plasKlüber Lubrication published a comprehensive sustaintic, metal and polyurethane molded parts. ability report at the beginning of the year, becoming the first company in the Freudenberg Chemical SpeciSurTec is a leading supplier of chemical specialties for alities Business Group to clearly document its strategic surface treatment and electroplating. targets and measures for improving sustainability in terms of its own ecological footprint and the added OKS specializes in performance lubricants and in repair value of sustainable solutions for customers. and maintenance products. Capol is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of coatings for the confectionery industry and supplies glazes, release agents and sealing agents as well as other specialty products. 84 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area FREUDENBERG IT 2016 2017 Sales [€ million] 165.0 173.0 Workforce 826 886 FREUDENBERG IT Business development through to a new SAP-based “Manufacturing as a Service” offering. The focal areas of consulting activities The IT market, a key area of digitalization, maintained were SAP and the Internet of Things. its strong momentum throughout 2017. Companies of all sizes and active in all sectors are increasingly focusIn 2017, Freudenberg IT business in the USA yet again ing on the concrete challenges of digitalization and confirmed its outstanding position in the Business possible solutions. Freudenberg IT continued to posiGroup’s sales development. Concerted investments tion itself as a “global IT partner at eye level” with the were made in new lead generation and customer reupper midsize market. tention activities with a view to developing the sales pipeline. These activities complement already estabThe Business Group provides concrete support in the lished and successful sales processes in a long-term form of ever more diverse cloud services enabling cusperspective. tomers to free up resources by making intelligent use of their large data volumes (big data). Offerings in the In Europe, the opening of the location in Košice, Slocontext of the most important partnerships with SAP vakia, in 2016 increasingly paid off in the year under and Microsoft were also expanded with regard to the review. In terms of sales, on the other hand, the situaspecific requirements of digitalization. Freudenberg IT tion was challenging due to intensive local competicontinued to systematically develop its own portfolio – tion. The Business Group stepped up its efforts and from the Digital Workplace (Microsoft Office 365) worked on diverse new formats in 2017 to achieve 85 positive outcomes in this situation, too. The success of crete expertise and services in this field that can be custhis approach was confirmed by the acquisition of tomized to suit the maturity level and specific requirenew customers with future potential and generally ments of individual customers. positive developments in the second half of the year, for example in the area of the Internet of Things. The cloud was another focal issue throughout the year. This issue was actively linked to all of Freudenberg IT’s Freudenberg IT business development in China in 2017 key initiatives with regard to market approach and cuswas very positive. The Chinese market showed considtomer dialog. erable interest in topics such as “Manufacturing as a Service”. Freudenberg IT in China continued to receive Furthermore, 2 new organizational units were set up. support from Europe in the form of campaigns because The “Planning, Steering and Control” team has been asGerman companies with business activities rank signed the overarching task of creating optimal proamong the Business Group’s most important cuscesses and structures to realize the future “FIT IT Factomer groupings. Freudenberg IT also launched initiatory”. The “intelligent Security Operations Center” tives to actively address local target groups in 2017. (iSOC) functions as a competence center to ensure IT security. The performance capability of the iSOC has already been demonstrated during the first practical asKey events signments in connection with global cyber-security challenges (viruses). Numerous communication events were hosted and held in 2017 to further intensify the dialog with customers and interested parties. Freudenberg IT made Location changes its own contributions and organized its own stands at leading trade fairs such as CeBIT, Hannover Messe A new sales office was opened in Exton, Pennsylvania, and SAP SAPPHIRE in Orlando, USA, as well as many USA. In addition, the Freudenberg IT team in Durham, regional technical conferences. New formats such as North Carolina, USA, relocated to a new building. the “Virtual Customer Innovation Day” were successfully established. On the marketing side, the focal A presence in Germany, China, Mexico, Slovakia and the topic in all regions in 2017 was digital lead generaUSA continues to ensure proximity to customers and tion. 24/7 availability of both services and contact persons. Issues related to the “Internet of Things” proved to be an extremely interesting point of contact with potenProfile: tial new customers – particularly in Europe and China. Freudenberg IT is a global, full-service IT provider headThe same applied to all aspects of modern workplaces, quartered in Weinheim, Germany. More than 80 percent a subject addressed by IT decision makers across all inof the company’s sales stem from outside the Group, dustries. In the USA, the issue of security was harmaking it one of the most successful IT spinoffs in Gernessed in a similar fashion. Freudenberg IT offers conmany. Freudenberg IT is the reliable IT partner for the upper midsize market – worldwide. 86 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area Report on Events after the Date of the Statement of Financial Position REPORT ON EVENTS AFTER THE DATE OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Major events after the date of the statement of financial position which are not included either in the statement of profit or loss or the statement of financial position are explained in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under the section “Major events after the date of the statement of financial position”. 87 REPORT ON OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS Freudenberg is exposed to numerous opportunities Opportunities and risks inseparably associated with business activities. Monitoring technological, political and social changes in particular is part of proactive entrepreneurGlobal presence ial behavior. This often generates opportunities to be harnessed in order to secure and specifically improve Due to its global presence, Freudenberg has for many the company’s competitiveness. Opportunities are adyears been able to offer products and services at unidressed in the context of the annual planning process form worldwide standards. As a result, Freudenberg and pursued and reported throughout the year. Longcan keep pace with the international strategies of its term opportunities for profitable growth are primarily customers, for example in production or research and identified as part of the strategy process. Freudenberg development. Traditionally, Freudenberg has leveraged operates a Group-wide risk management system, in this expertise for many customers from Europe or which newly-acquired enterprises are also integrated, North America as they gain a foothold in emerging to identify risks in a timely fashion and respond to countries. As the presence in these countries increases, them appropriately. some progress is being made to successfully support the international strategy of some customers from emerging economies entering the market in western Europe. If this trend were to intensify in the future, Freudenberg could achieve additional benefits from its global presence. With the Freudenberg global brand, the Group gives a clear benefit statement, strengthens the image and raises visibility, for example as a solid supplier or an attractive employer. Investments in strategic growth areas and regions A central element of strategic planning is the continuous evolution of existing business through product and process innovations with a view to achieving profitable, significantly higher than market growth in existing business areas. This is achieved by expanding the portfolio through selective, targeted acquisitions in order to close identified technology gaps and develop access to new markets. The successful “bolt-on acquisition” strategy in the defined growth areas therefore continues. Examples in 2017 include the acquisition of Metflex Holding Company Ltd, Blackburn, United Kingdom. In addition, options to acquire new areas of business that complement Freudenberg’s existing organization are also investigated. In the medium term Freudenberg’s goal is a strategically balanced portfolio with sales distributed evenly among the regions of the Americas, Europe and Asia. 88 Combined Management Report – Report on Opportunities and Risks Trendand regulation-oriented product Future mobility concepts development As a partner of the automotive industry, the foreseeaSocial trends are constantly changing. Changes in conble changes in drive technology and alternative mobilsumer behavior and growing expectations of products ity concepts also impact Freudenberg. The term “new and services, for example with regard to product susmobility” as used by Freudenberg not only covers e-motainability, are key drivers in the search for innovative bility but also includes developments for a spectrum of solutions and new raw materials. New regulations and drive technologies such as improvements in internal standards reflect these changing trends. Freudenberg combustion engines, hybrid solutions, pure-electric therefore closely aligns the further development of its cars and vehicles powered by fuel cells. products to regulatory requirements. Systematically focusing on regulatory changes with reference to trends Freudenberg is well prepared for these development and the Group’s ensuing innovation activities offers thanks to its materials know-how and more than significant market potential and opportunities for the 10 years of experience researching components for future. high-performance batteries for electric vehicles as well as some 20 years of experience researching the development of fuel cells. Advances and new developments Pioneer for future technologies in battery components, engines, charging units, filters, thermal management, vibration control systems or As a global technology group, Freudenberg works conspecialty lubricants offset or more than compensate stantly on product and process innovations and develfor reductions in demand for seals. Going forward, ops technology-based solutions for the future together Freudenberg will remain a competent provider of soluwith its partners. In spite of all necessary adjustments, tions for high-tech innovations – for all kinds of the ongoing trend toward digitalization in various drivetrains. forms (Internet of Things, Industry 4.0, …) as well as the shift toward sustainability and environmental awareness represent an opportunity for profitable growth for Harnessing synergies for strategic issues Freudenberg. Throughout the world regions, Freudenberg’s knowThe strategy-oriented innovation activities therefore how and innovative strength is used in more than 30 focus on the continuous further development of the market segments and for thousands of applications. Group’s entire portfolio. This applies above all to the The company engages in numerous activities specifisectors of mobility, digitalization, energy, environment, cally targeted at pooling this knowledge because the healthcare, comfort and lightweight construction. potential thus generated makes a key contribution to Consequently, the key issues during the year under resecuring the future. Synergies are harnessed to drive view for the Business Groups active in the automotive key strategic issues such as digitalization, sustainability industry were e-mobility and reducing emissions. The and materials efficiency across the Business Groups. chemicals business also addressed environmentallyJoint projects and programs are always implemented friendly solutions, and highly-innovative approaches under expert guidance and have already produced sigwere made possible in the medical devices business by nificant results. bundling know-how. Numerous awards in 2017 confirm the success of this approach. 89 A future project launched in 2016, for example, has a The primary objective of the risk management system very long-term perspective. Based on scenario technolis the prompt identification of risks that might jeoparogy, employees and external experts are jointly endize the continued existence of the company and the gaged in anticipating possible future developments initiation of appropriate countermeasures. The intenand drawing up hypothetical consequences and ecotion is not to avoid all potential risks, but rather to crenomic forecasts beyond Business Groups borders. The ate the leeway for taking a deliberate decision to enter specialist knowledge of the relevant experts is pooled into a risk backed by a comprehensive knowledge of esin 9 technology platforms to derive Group-wide innosential information. vation activities that make a contribution to securing the future of the Group. These are key cross-sectional The risk management strategy is derived from the getechnologies of interest to several Business Groups. neral strategy of the Group. The risk management system is developed, refined and audited as required. Talent management Controlling, internal auditing, the compliance organization, the Code of Conduct, the internal control sysA talent management process covering the majority of tem, various quality assurance systems as well as seemployees worldwide has been in place at Freudenveral Corporate Functions make a significant contribuberg for several years. The process establishes a unition to the success of the Group’s risk management. form procedure for talent management throughout the entire Group. It includes harmonized assessment systems and is based on standardized skills profiles and Risks definitions of potential. This enhances the comparability of assessments and facilitates personnel developRisks are defined as all future developments, events or ment. The process improves the basis on which Freuactions that could have a negative impact on the tardenberg can take personnel decisions. gets and strategies of the Group. The following deals with risks classified as significant Risk management system for Freudenberg ranked in descending order by their importance according to the potential level of damage. The Group’s risk management system is a decentraliThese risks can have very differing impacts. They may zed system oriented to the Group’s organizational occur individually and independent of one another or structure. It covers all fully consolidated Freudenberg simultaneously. In all cases they have the potential to companies, and includes all Group measures addresimpact directly or indirectly the net assets, financial posing the main risks. This process in particular ensures sition or results of operations of the Group. Quantitathe structured identification, assessment, control and tive data are not disclosed because qualitative factors monitoring of main risks. The process also includes apaffecting operating activities such as failure to meet propriate risk communication and the continuous imcorporate targets or damage to the company’s reputaprovement of the risk management system. tion are included in impact classification. 90 Combined Management Report – Report on Opportunities and Risks Legal risks and compliance The Group conducts its global business in many different jurisdictions under different legal and regulatory Freudenberg is a globally active manufacturer of funcframeworks that are undergoing change and becotionally relevant technical components and system ming steadily more complex. The scale and scope of parts for the automotive industry and many other secthe laws and regulations that must be observed are tors of industry. Freudenberg develops and produces subject to constant changes that are sometimes diffispecialty lubricants, release agents and a broad range cult to predict, and demand a high level of information of specialty chemicals for very diverse applications. processing, interdisciplinary and cross-border commuFreudenberg also produces cleaning equipment and filnication as well as a swift response and proactive apter products for end users and is becoming increasingly proach. active in the manufacture and sale of medical materials and components. A broad range of services in variBy tradition, compliance with laws and regulations as ous business segments as well as in the field of IT well as internal guidelines and Freudenberg’s own Guirounds off the Freudenberg portfolio. Consequently, ding Principles and Business Principles has very high Freudenberg is exposed to various legal risks, including priority at Freudenberg. Employees are made aware of, in particular product liability risks, contractual warskilled and trained in the relevant legal risks for their ranty risks, risks relating to competition and antitrust respective Business Group and the regions of relevance law, anti-corruption regulations, export controls, tax for Freudenberg on the basis of harmonized internal and excise duty law, intellectual property rights (paguidelines; they are expected to observe and comply tents and brand law), asset misappropriation fraud, IT with these requirements. security and data protection, as well as risks in the fields of occupational health and safety and environFreudenberg uses classic methods (documents in all remental protection. These risks can affect Freudenberg levant languages, forms, sample presentations, tempto various degrees and can lead not only to fines or lates and attendance seminars) to communicate comother penalties or compensation, for example, but can pliance issues through training, seminars, dialog and also impact the reputation and image of the Group as discussions. Modern communication instruments a whole. In extreme cases, legal risks could have a subsuch as web-based training, e-learning tools, interacstantial effect on Freudenberg. tive video conferences, etc. are also being increasingly used to complement the classic activities and reach as Freudenberg has many measures in place to respond to many employees as possible. these legal risks, including comprehensive quality assurance mechanisms tailored to the requirements of Despite all carefully applied control and prevention methe respective business models and value chains, chanisms in our compliance structure and compliance clearly-defined product specifications, instructions, remeasures, there is a residual risk that is unavoidable gular training for employees, documentation and pregiven the size and complexity of our global organizaventive contractual solutions containing provisions lition. Moreover, the possibility that Freudenberg or miting liability and taking account of the parties’ spheFreudenberg employees unconsciously infringe(s) res of influence. These measures are flanked by custothird-party rights cannot be ruled out; this could trigmary insurance cover which is thoroughly analyzed ger negative judicial consequences or damage the and where necessary adapted to changed conditions image or reputation of Freudenberg. on an annual basis. 91 Macroeconomic and sectoral risks Interruption of operations and long-term disruptions Freudenberg delivers solutions to many customer segments and sectors and is active in many regions and The classic risk of unplanned interruptions of operaticountries. The broad diversification of the Group reons has several possible causes. The main ones are induces dependence on individual customers, customer terruptions in production, raw material availability, degroupings, regions and countries. Nevertheless, Freulivery delays, restricted availability of IT infrastructure, denberg is dependent on the general economic situadamage from natural hazards, or any combination of tion, particularly with regard to general demand for its these causes. The possible consequences are loss of saproducts and services, and dependent on some major les revenue and earnings, contract infringements, poscustomers. In spite of sustained efforts to diversify sible contractual penalties and claims for damages as further, a slump in demand in a specific region or sector well as reputational damage. could lead to a substantial decline in sales and earnings for Freudenberg, as for most other companies, and Freudenberg has taken numerous precautions to thus pose a not insignificant risk for Freudenberg. maintain and safeguard IT systems (back-up solutions, emergency data centers) as well as to meet contractual Freudenberg has implemented several measures to lidelivery obligations (dual/multi-sourcing, lead centers mit the negative consequences of demand-side risks. In with interchangeable infrastructures, cross-plant tools) particular, the company has appropriate capacity flexiand to ensure delivery reliability and contract complibility and practices active working capital manageance, and has also taken out insurance cover for insument. Freudenberg regularly monitors several success rable individual risks. Despite all the measures that indicators and can thus respond promptly to negative have already been taken or will be taken in the event of developments. In the context of a long-term response an emergency, there is a potential residual risk of a to demand-side risks, Freudenberg makes targeted intemporary interruption in operations with a possible vestments in research and development, in individual impact on the sales and earnings of the Group. regions and customer relations as well as selected strategic growth areas. Freudenberg is closely following the United Kingdom’s negotiations with the EU to leave the European Union (Brexit), has analyzed the possible effects on business (including exchange rate fluctuations, customs arrangements, legal framework and specifications, posted workers, data protection, adjustment requirements) and made preparations. The long-term impact depends on the separation agreement, which might possibly fail to materialize. Depending on the terms of the separation agreement, there may be a limited operational and strategic impact on Freudenberg. As long as Brexit does not lead to a global economic downturn, the overall effect on Freudenberg will be manageable. 92 Combined Management Report – Report on Opportunities and Risks Information security risk Financial risks Modern business processes are based to a significant As an internationally active company with major shareextent on information recorded, processed, exchanged holdings in other countries Freudenberg is exposed to and stored by electronic means. Potential risks caused financial risks which under certain circumstances could by faults in these processes could impact both internal significantly impact the net assets, financial position or business processes and communication with custoresults of operations of the Group. Such risks include fimers and suppliers and could, for example, lead to the nancial risks from the Group’s intensified M&A activiinterruption of operations at Freudenberg or at a third ties arising from the potential impairment of goodwill party. Demands on the reliability and security of IT sysor of unrecognized obligations. Freudenberg employs tems are intensifying as a result of technological provarious measures to manage these risks. The Group has gress and the trend towards greater networking. As a several specialist functions and expert groups specifiprovider of services, Freudenberg offers its customers cally tasked with the identification, analysis and control the usual guarantees regarding availability and perforof Freudenberg‘s financial risk profile. In addition, spemance. cific corporate bodies discuss and define existing and future processes concerning the methodology and conThe aim of the guideline on information security issued trol of financial risk management. by the Board of Management is to preserve the confidentiality, availability and integrity of information. Various measures to safeguard liquidity are in place Freudenberg deals with the relevant information which allow Freudenberg to react swiftly to unexpecsecurity risks by operating information security mated liquidity-related risks. Such risks are hedged by solid nagement systems oriented to the ISO/IEC banking and Partners’ financing and high liquid reser27001:2013 international standard. The Business ves. Freudenberg has a comfortable equity ratio, a Groups, Corporate Functions and Freudenberg Regiostable level of Partners’ reserves, and comprehensive nal Corporate Centers conduct comprehensive risk mocredit lines. nitoring and implement the appropriate measures. For example, measures such as geographically separate, In addition, Freudenberg is exposed to exchange rate redundant data centers are implemented to deal with and interest rate risks. Managing these risks is impletechnical risks. Numerous internal training and commented by internal guidelines and processes and momunication measures encourage heightened awarennitored by a treasury management system. Because ess on the part of employees with regard to the correct the exchange rate risks of the various companies have handling of information and information processing a partially offsetting effect, the effective foreign systems. An assessment of the information manageexchange risk is determined for the Group as a whole ment security system and its necessary further develoand controlled by a central unit. pment is conducted on a regular basis. This is particularly relevant in light of the general trend towards groInterest rate risks arise from possible changes in the wing cyber risks. market rate and can lead to changes in the market value of fixed interest investments. Freudenberg supports subsidiaries in reducing interest rate risks. 93 Funds for subsidiaries are made available in the form of With the Freudenberg Technology Innovation Corpoloans or cash pool agreements. Freudenberg comparate Function, Freudenberg has created an organizanies channel surplus liquidity to the central finance detional unit that bundles the Group’s technical partment. knowledge – in particular through cross-sectional technologies. At 4.6 percent, Freudenberg invests a Binding internal guidelines for Freudenberg companies substantial share of sales in research and development. clearly specify that derivative financial instruments This has led to an increase in the share of sales attributmay not be used for speculative purposes, but only for able to new products to 33.0 percent. hedging risks in connection with underlying transactions and associated financing operations. Contractual risks The Group’s sound financial profile was one of several factors that led the rating agency Moody’s DeutschFreudenberg enters into contracts with third parties on land GmbH, Frankfurt am Main, Germany, to confirm a daily basis and makes continuous adjustments to its its Freudenberg SE’s A3 rating with a “stable” outlook portfolio through acquisitions and disinvestments of in July 2017. This gives Freudenberg very good creditcompanies and business units. During the course of worthiness at investment grade level. these activities, obligations are assumed or commitments undertaken that may change as time goes by, must be complied with over a longer period of time, or Risks from technological progress and third-party may prove impossible to meet as a consequence of uninnovations foreseen events. These activities could in retrospect prove disadvantageous and above all could negatively As a highly diversified technology group, Freudenberg impact the earnings situation of the Group to a limited is active in numerous product and market segments, extent. Freudenberg has several measures in place to some of which differ considerably. Moreover, Freudendeal with these significant risks, such as comprehenberg conducts its entrepreneurial activities on the basis sive upfront analyses and checks with regard to acquiof different business models. Consequently, Freudensitions supported by external experts and consultants. berg operates in a constantly changing environment This is complemented by interdisciplinary and supraand is exposed to technological progress and a wide regional risk management resources established at range of innovations. In specific terms, this means that both Business Group and holding company level, as Freudenberg comes up against new products, technowell as the continuous improvement and further develogies or organizational structures. lopment of systematic contract management and contract monitoring in line with business demands. Freudenberg uses various measures, in particular inhouse research and development and innovation, to manage the consequences of these customary risks. Occupational health and safety and enviornmental The most important pillar and key driver of innovation risks at Freudenberg is to be found in the Business Groups, whose research and development activities are closely Freudenberg has production sites in some 60 countries, geared to their customers. In addition, the Freudensome of which operate under very different conditions. berg Group acquires external companies or business There are operative risks with regard to production prounits to add to the Group’s technology and product cesses in particular in terms of workflows, production portfolio and to enhance competitiveness through inequipment and the processing of hazardous materials. novation. Freudenberg trains employees to comply with safety 94 Combined Management Report – Report on Opportunities and Risks regulations and in the use of protective equipment, Internal control and risk management and fulfills all relevant safety requirements and guidesystem (referred to the Group financial lines. reporting process) Freudenberg locations are continually exposed to natThe Group internal control and risk management sysural hazards as a result of the presence in various retem for the financial reporting process at Freudenberg gions and climate zones. In spite of the usual prevenis tasked with ensuring the functionality, compliance tive measures, earthquakes, floods, forest fires, mudand effectiveness of financial reporting in the Group. slides and heavy snowfall can occasionally negatively The internal control system includes measures intenimpact business operations of the units concerned. ded to ensure the complete, accurate and timely transNatural hazards are taken into consideration during mission and presentation of information of relevance the acquisition process. for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the consolidated management report of Group-wide standards in the fields of occupational the Group. health and safety, the environment, and fire protection define and implement the minimum requirements The consolidated financial statements and the conand guidelines for the Business Groups. Internal and solidated management report of the Group are preexternal audit processes monitor the implementation pared centrally. The minimum requirements regardof programs to continuously minimize risks in these ing reporting content submitted by the companies, fields at the Business Groups. The audit findings are are defined and controlled centrally, and the time systematically evaluated and measures implemented frame and process requirements are monitored. The throughout the Group. Despite all of these preventive standards for IFRS reporting as regularly updated measures, significant occupational health and safety form the basis for compiling the IFRS reporting packand environmental risks cannot be entirely ruled out. ages of the parent company and of all domestic and foreign subsidiaries included in the consolidation. In the case of hazardous substances, for example, efThere are binding instructions for Freudenberg’s inforts are made to identify alternatives or substitute ternal coordination and other preparatory work for substances before a statutory provision comes into the financial statements. effect with a view to minimizing potential and customary risks arising in connection with such hazardous Freudenberg uses a standard software tool for the substances. This forestalls the effects on production of Group financial reporting process. This tool is used a possible ban on a given substance. In addition, many throughout the company worldwide and clearly defiproduct developments are subject to a stage gate prones user rights observing the principle of the separacess which among other things ensures that new protion of functions. The system covers both reporting by ducts have a better environmental performance than Freudenberg companies and the data for the consolitheir predecessors. dated financial statements. Additional controls are implemented in the consolidation process. Since it was launched in 2002, the worldwide “We all take care” initiative motivates Freudenberg employees The consolidation process is also supported by a softto make their work and their workplaces safer, ware tool for the automatic reconciliation of balances healthier and more environmentally friendly as well as throughout the Group. The individual companies have taking responsibility for society. The initiative is supa local internal control system which is the responsibiported by the Group’s top management and senior lity of the respective Business Group and which must executives in the Business Groups, and the best procomply with uniform minimum requirements applijects are honored each year. cable throughout the Group. 95 Corporate Controlling & Accounting organizes semiplete package of processes, systems and controls adenars for employees involved in this process in the event quately ensures that the Group’s reporting process is in of important changes in financial reporting procedures accordance with IFRS and other regulations and laws of and IT applications, thereby guaranteeing a consisrelevance to financial reporting and is reliable. tently high standard of reporting. Actuarial reports and evaluations are compiled by specialist service providers. Overall assessment of the opportunities and risks There is a clear demarcation of tasks between Corporate Controlling & Accounting and the companies. The Freudenberg has an in-depth understanding of the segregation of functions and the dual control principle shortand long-term opportunities necessary for the are systematically applied. It is standard procedure for further development of existing business areas and the the Group auditor and the auditors of the consolidated development of new activities to secure the future of companies to review the functionality and compliance the Group, and actively pursues these opportunities. of the Group’s reporting processes. Suggestions for improvements are regularly discussed and optimized. In In our opinion, based on the probability of occurrence addition, the functionality and compliance of proand potential impact of the risks described above, they cesses of relevance to financial reporting are reviewed do not individually or cumulatively present a risk to the regularly under an internal auditing process. The comcontinued existence of Freudenberg. 96 Combined Management Report – Report on Opportunities and Risks Report on Expected Developments REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS We expect a generally stable macroeconomic environand existing overcapacities could have a negative imment in the 2018 financial year.1 While global ecopact on growth. We forecast economic growth of apnomic growth in 2018 is likely to be slightly higher than proximately 7.0 to 8.0 percent for India, where in par2017, this is counterbalanced by the persistently chalticular the tax reforms which came into effect midlenging geopolitical situation in various regions of east2017 reduced existing planning risks. ern Europe, Middle East and South America, slower economic growth in China as well as rising raw mateBrazil is benefitting from the ongoing recovery in raw rial prices and higher exchange rate risks. In addition, material prices. Following the recession years of 2015 new technologies such as electro-mobility and autonand 2016, we expect to see growth of 2.6 percent in omous driving in the automotive sector or cross-sec2018 on the back of rising exports and falling inflation. toral megatrends such as digitalization, connectivity This development will be supported by the expansionand sustainability call for innovative solutions in a chalary monetary policy of Brazil’s central bank. lenging market environment where customer requirements are constantly changing. In light of this, we exWe expect economic growth in Russia to be of the orpect overall growth of 1.0 to 3.0 percent for the markets der of 1.7 percent. This improvement is attributable to relevant to the Group. the stabilization of oil prices as well as a supportive monetary policy and low inflation rates that soften the With regard to individual developments on our regional effects of the international sanctions resulting from core markets, we expect the positive growth trend in the Ukraine conflict. Germany to continue in 2018 with economic growth of 2.3 percent. This is approximately in line with our Developments in the oil and gas industry in 2018 will growth forecasts for the eurozone, which remains the be cautiously positive as a result of the stabilization of Group’s largest sales region. This development will be oil prices and the general trend towards higher raw supported among other things by the continued expanmaterial prices. We do, however, anticipate higher exsionary monetary policy of the European Central Bank. change rate risks which could negatively impact developments. Overall, we expect economic developments We anticipate economic growth of approximately on a par with the previous year. 2.7 percent in the USA in 2018 on the back of rising consumer spending as well as lower unemployment Despite the growing complexity of the environment in and rising incomes, and the expected positive effects of which we operate and constantly changing customer the enacted U.S. tax reform. However, there is evidence requirements, we expect the Group and almost all its of a slight decrease in sales of passenger cars and lightBusiness Groups to record growth in line with the releduty trucks in the NAFTA region. vant markets in the 2018 financial year. The Group will benefit in particular from the opportunities arising In contrast, we anticipate strong differences in growth from the economic upturn in the various regions. rates for the emerging economies. China remains one of the most important growth regions for Freudenberg. For Freudenberg Sealing Technologies the predomiHere, we expect growth to be approximately on a par nant themes in the 2018 financial year will be the genwith the previous year’s level of 6.5 percent, buoyed by eral trend towards digitalization and electro-mobility. numerous state infrastructure programs. However, The Business Group will continue its focused specialifrom a long-term perspective, the high levels of debt zation in the automotive and industrial sectors and 1 Sources: in this chapter, all figures relating to economic developments are based on data from Consensus Economics, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, and the market research and consulting company Schlegel und Partner. 97 proceed with its drive to expand the relevant product Freudenberg Filtration Technologies also anticipates portfolio. The Business Group expects business develslight growth for the coming year driven by a focus on opment to be stable at the prior-year level. automotive filters and industrial filtration and the associated increases in productivity. Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies expects economic developments in general on a par with the previous The Japan Vilene Company Business Group expects year, mainly as a result of the stabilization of oil prices business to improve in 2018, driven in particular by the and the associated investments in the oil and gas inongoing optimization of the product portfolio and the dustry. Productivity increases as a result of the current further progress in integration in the Group. However, restructuring measures will have a positive impact on there is still a moderate degree of uncertainty, above all forecast developments. in the core markets of Japan and the USA. EagleBurgmann expects to see a slightly positive trend Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions expects in business development in 2018, with growth in parbusiness development in 2018 to be positive, among ticular in the Japan, Asia/Pacific and EMEA regions. The other things on the back of the integration of the PlayBusiness Group will continue with its cost and liquidity tex household glove business in the USA which enables management aimed at increasing productivity. the Business Group to respond to the challenges in the North America and Asia/Pacific regions in particular. Freudenberg Medical expects continued higher than market growth, driven above all by the integration of Freudenberg Chemical Specialities expects business newly-acquired businesses. To support this trend, the development in 2018 to be on a par with the prior-year Business Group will continue to invest in proprietary level. Expectations for the individual regions are in line know-how and develop a broad range of medical appliwith the differing economic environments. cations to market maturity. Freudenberg IT expects to see further slightly positive Vibracoustic expects a slightly positive trend in busidevelopment in business in all regions in the 2018 finess in 2018, primarily driven by above-market growth nancial year. In light of the global digitalization trend, in the Chassis Division. The Business Group also exthe Business Group plans to further expand its market pects a generally stable trend in the Powertrain Diviposition in America, Europe and Asia. sion. Vibracoustic will focus in particular on further expanding its activities in the electro-mobility sector in As a diversified group Freudenberg is active in numerthe coming financial year. ous regions of the world and is characterized by a broad portfolio of products and companies offering Freudenberg Performance Materials will make electrosolutions at the highest technological level for a wide mobility a clear priority of its activities in 2018. By fovariety of industrial sectors and customers. Our aim cusing on this, in combination with an innovative prodfor 2018 is to again harness the resulting growth pouct portfolio and continued investments in new prodtential by systematically implementing our long-term ucts, applications and technologies, the Business strategy for the benefit of our customers and society. Group expects a slightly positive trend in business in To that end, we are focusing on expanding our pro2018. gram to enhance operational efficiency as well as intensifying our efforts to leverage synergy effects 98 Combined Management Report – Report on Expected Developments through the swift integration of newly-acquired busiThe analysis of present risks concludes there is no ness alongside a clear focus on rapid and flexible reathreat to the continued existence of Freudenberg. lignment to changing customer and market requireThere were no major changes in the overall risk situaments. A solid financing structure, responsible leadertion compared with the previous year. ship, and diversity-oriented talent management remain the pivotal factors for success. Based on the developments and challenges described above we expect a slight rise in Group sales in the 2018 In 2018, we will continue to drive forward with our profinancial year compared with the previous year. The opjects in the fields of sustainability, non-financial key erating result is expected to be on a par with the previperformance indicators, and our responsibility for socious year. All Business Areas are likely to contribute to ety. As a responsible, innovative technology group, this performance. On the basis of this forecast we exFreudenberg will once again implement numerous pect a slight decrease in the return on sales in 2018. measures in environmental protection, occupational health and safety. As in the previous year, special attention will again be devoted to occupational safety in Weinheim, March 23, 2018 2018. We therefore expect to see a further reduction in the LDIFR (Lost Day Incident Frequency Rate – all incidents at work involving at least one day’s absence per million working hours) for the 2018 financial year. The Board of Management 99 FREUDENBERG SE (HGB) The sales of Freudenberg SE largely result from the charging of services and from royalties for the Freudenberg SE is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Freudenberg global brand amounting to €10.7 million Freudenberg & Co. Kommanditgesellschaft, Weinheim, (previous year: €10.3 million). and the parent company with responsibility for the operations of the Freudenberg Group. The investment result rose from €588.3 million to €707.3 million. Investment income mainly increased as The net assets, financial position and results of opera result of a dividend payment and the transfer for the ations of Freudenberg SE are characterized by its first time of the profit reported by the Vibracoustic holding function. The company holds interests in afGroup. filiated companies and it is the profit from these investments that dominates the earnings situation of Other operating income fell from €18.7 million to €6.1 Freudenberg SE. million. This was chiefly the result of the income from the disposal of financial assets reported in the previous The annual financial statements of Freudenberg SE are year. set up in accordance with the Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB – German Commercial Code) and the AktiengMaterial expenses decreased from €6.0 million to €5.2 esetz (AktG – German Stock Corporation Act). million and chiefly concern services purchased. The reduction in personnel expenses by €8.0 million to €10.1 million (previous year: €18.1 million) is the reEARNINGS SITUATION sult, inter alia, of the formation of a provision for bonuses in the previous year and to lower transfers of proAt €570.2 million (previous year: €461.6 million), the visions for pensions. profit of Freudenberg SE for the year was about 24 percent higher than the figure for the previous year. This Other operating expenses rose from €87.4 million to rise was chiefly due to the investment result, which im€92.9 million. This increase was chiefly due to higher proved by €119.0 million (previous year €82.9 million) auditing and consultancy expenses. compared with the previous year. The financial result, which deteriorated by €5.9 mil[€ million] 2016 2017 lion, was negatively affected chiefly by higher interest expenses for pensions. Sales 17.3 16.6 Investment result 588.3 707.3 Income taxes fell by €5.5 million from €-26.6 million Other operating income 18.7 6.1 to €-21.1 million, chiefly as a result of tax refunds from Material expenses -6.0 -5.2 pre-vious years. Personnel expenses -18.1 -10.1 Other operating expenses -87.4 -92.9 Financial result -24.6 -30.5 Profit before taxes 488.2 591.3 Income taxes -26.6 -21.1 Profit for the year 461.6 570.2 100 Combined Management Report – Freudenberg SE (HGB) ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND FINANCIAL Provisions increased slightly by €4.6 million from POSITION €138.6 million to €143.2 million and chiefly include provisions for pensions. [€ million] Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Liabilities rose by €23.5 million from €1,345.7 million to Intangible assets 0.0 8.1 €1,369.2 million as a result of higher liabilities to shareTangible assets 1.1 1.0 holders. Financial assets 2,361.2 2,389.5 Receivables and other assets 1,409.9 1,817.0 SUMMARY STATEMENT Cash at bank and in hand 16.8 57.3 Total assets 3,789.0 4,272.9 Against the backdrop of our sound situation with respect to net assets and financial position and the high Equity 2,304.7 2,760.5 earnings of our affiliates, we assess the general ecoProvisions 138.6 143.2 nomic situation of Freudenberg SE as highly positive. Liabilities 1,345.7 1,369.2 This statement is not affected by the events reported in Total equity and liabilities 3,789.0 4,272.9 the chapter “Report on Events After the Date of the Statement of Financial Position”. The assets of Freudenberg SE as the holding company REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS chiefly consist of shares and participations in companies and amounts receivable from these companies. As the parent company of the Freudenberg Group responsible for business operations but without its own As at the date of the statement of financial position, fibusiness operations, Freudenberg SE mainly receives nancial assets had risen by €28.3 million to €2,389.5 income from its affiliates. As a general principle, expecmillion (previous year: €2,361.2 million) as a result of tations concerning business developments within the various capital increases and asset transfers. Freudenberg Group therefore also have an impact on the earnings of Freudenberg SE. For this reason, the asReceivables and other assets mainly include amounts sumptions and statements made in the report on exreceivable from affiliates. As at the date of the statepected developments for Freudenberg are equally relement of financial position, these had risen by €414.6 vant to Freudenberg SE. million to €1,780.9 million (previous year: €1,366.3 million). This is chiefly the result of higher cash pool receivables from Externa Handelsund BeteiligungsgesellNET RETAINED PROFIT AND DIVIDEND schaft mit beschränkter Haftung with headquarters in Weinheim, Germany. In December 2017, the Shareholders’ Meeting resolved, as proposed by the Supervisory Board and the Equity increased to €2,760.5 million (previous year: Board of Management, to pay a dividend of €114.4 €2,304.7 million). The profit carried forward from the million (previous year: €90.2 million) to the sole shareprevious year rose by €347.2 million from €1,097.9 milholder Freudenberg & Co. Kommanditgesellschaft in lion to €1,445.1 million. The profit for the year rose 2017 from the net retained profit as at December 31, from €461.6 million to €570.2 million, partly compen2016, which amounted to €1,559.5 million. sated for by the payment of dividends in the amount of €114.4 million (previous year: €90.2 million). 101 The Board of Management proposes that the profit for the 2017 financial year, amounting to €570.2 million (previous year: €461.6 million) should be carried forward to new account. SUMMARY CONCLUDING STATEMENT OF DEPENDENT COMPANY REPORT OF FREUDENBERG SE “We hereby declare in accordance with Sec. 312, Para 3, AktG (German Stock Corporation Act) that, on the basis of the circumstances of which we were aware at the time when transactions with affiliated companies were implemented or acts or forbearances were taken, our company received consideration comparable with that obtainable from a non-affiliated company and did not suffer any disadvantage as a result of such acts or forbearances.” 102 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 104 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 105 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 106 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 107 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 108 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 109 Shareholdings 157 103 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION [€ million] Note Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 ASSETS Intangible assets (1) 2,635.1 2,572.0 Tangible assets (2) 2,363.9 2,359.1 Investment properties (3) 13.8 12.7 Investments in joint ventures (4) 149.8 149.5 Investments in associated companies (5) 900.5 903.4 Other financial assets 128.1 122.5 Financial assets 1,178.4 1,175.4 Other non-current assets (7) 50.9 55.2 Deferred taxes (25) 228.7 225.0 Non-current assets 6,470.8 6,399.4 Inventories (6) 991.4 1,021.9 Trade receivables 1,500.9 1,509.1 Other current assets 211.5 177.4 Current receivables (7) 1,712.4 1,686.5 Current tax assets 88.2 87.3 Securities and cash at bank and in hand (8) 960.7 998.8 Current assets 3,752.7 3,794.5 10,223.5 10,193.9 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Subscribed capital 450.0 450.0 Capital reserves 50.2 50.2 Retained earnings 3,735.8 4,008.9 Equity without non-controlling interests 4,236.0 4,509.1 Non-controlling interests 367.3 325.9 Equity (9) 4,603.3 4,835.0 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations (10) 758.1 735.9 Other long-term provisions (11) 125.6 142.6 Long-term provisions 883.7 878.5 Financial debt 1,151.6 932.3 Other non-current liabilities 370.8 280.7 Liabilities (12) 1,522.4 1,213.0 Deferred taxes (25) 421.5 357.1 Non-current liabilities 2,827.6 2,448.6 Other current provisions (11) 637.9 631.5 Current tax liabilities 94.1 94.6 Financial debt 638.9 859.8 Trade payables 907.2 882.9 Other current liabilities 514.5 441.5 Liabilities (12) 2,060.6 2,184.2 Current liabilities 2,792.6 2,910.3 10,223.5 10,193.9 104 Consolidated Financial Statement – Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS [€ million] Note 2016 2017 Sales (13) 7,900.1 9,345.6 Cost of sales (14) -5,085.2 -6,171.1 Gross profit 2,814.9 3,174.5 Selling expenses (15) -1,298.1 -1,365.8 Administrative expenses (16) -600.3 -622.6 Research and development expenses (17) -330.1 -414.2 Other income (18) 742.7 103.3 Other expenses (19) -137.9 -99.1 Income from investments in joint ventures (4), (20) 54.2 21.5 Profit from operations 1,245.4 797.6 Income from investments in associated companies (5), (21) 47.5 79.4 Other investment result (22) -0.7 36.8 Other interest and similar income (23) 10.7 13.3 Interest and similar expenses (24) -37.8 -44.0 Financial result 19.7 85.5 Profit before income taxes 1,265.1 883.1 Income taxes (25) -178.2 -183.0 Consolidated profit 1,086.9 700.1 Of which: attributable to Freudenberg 1,041.7 651.9 Of which: attributable to non-controlling interests (26) 45.2 48.2 105 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME [€ million] Note 2016 2017 Consolidated profit 1,086.9 700.1 Other comprehensive income: Remeasurement of defined benefit plans (10) -52.1 12.4 Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (9) 10.9 -23.9 Share in other comprehensive income of associated companies (5) -18.8 -12.3 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss -60.0 -23.8 Exchange rate differences (9) 74.8 -329.6 Changes in value of securities (9) -15.5 14.3 Changes in value of derivative financial instruments (9) -0.1 -0.6 Miscellaneous comprehensive income -28.8 -41.2 Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met (9) 0.3 19.1 Share in other comprehensive income of joint ventures (4) -1.0 -0.5 Share in other comprehensive income of associated companies (5) -23.5 47.2 Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met 6.2 -291.3 Other comprehensive income for the year -53.8 -315.1 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,033.1 385.0 Of which: attributable to Freudenberg 1,005.2 387.5 Of which: attributable to non-controlling interests 27.9 -2.5 106 Consolidated Financial Statement – Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS [€ million] Note 2016 2017 Profit before taxes 1,265.1 883.1 Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses on intangible assets, tangible assets, investment properties and financial assets less write-ups 454.0 479.5 Income from investments and interest income -74.9 -107.5 Income taxes paid -216.0 -248.2 Profit or loss on disposal of intangible assets, tangible assets, investment properties and financial assets -649.6 -11.0 Dividends received 50.5 60.6 Other expenditure and income not affecting payments 11.2 -0.9 Changes in inventories, trade receivables and other assets -22.6 -191.8 Changes in trade payables and other liabilities 83.3 62.5 Changes in provisions 72.5 31.5 Interest paid -37.8 -39.5 Interest received 9.4 10.7 Cash flow from operating activities (27) 945.1 929.0 Cash inflow from disposals of intangible assets, tangible assets and investment properties 32.3 32.7 Cash outflow from acquisitions in intangible assets, tangible assets and investment properties -406.8 -501.5 Cash inflow from disposals of financial assets 1.9 25.5 Cash outflows from acquisitions of financial assets -4.6 -11.5 Cash inflow in connection with the disposal of consolidated companies or other business units less cash disposed of 89.1 12.3 Cash outflow in connection with the acquisition of consolidated companies or other business units less cash acquired -1,222.3 -169.6 Cash flow from investing activities -1,510.4 -612.1 Payments to shareholders/non-controlling interests (28) -129.3 -153.1 Cash inflow from the take-up of financial debts 778.4 167.7 Cash outflow from the repayment of financial debts -181.3 -258.0 Cash inflow from disposals of loans and securities held as non-current assets 4.3 2.5 Cash outflow from acquisitions of loans and securities held as non-current assets -0.8 -4.1 Cash flow from financing activities 471.3 -245.0 Changes in cash and cash equivalents with effect on payments (29) -94.0 71.9 Changes in cash and cash equivalents from changes in consolidated group 0.0 0.0 Changes in cash and cash equivalents from exchange rate differences -1.0 -33.8 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,055.7 960.7 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 960.7 998.8 107 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Financial Remeasure investments ment of Fair value accounted defined measureme for using the Subscribed Capital Currency benefit nt of equity [€ million] capital reserves translation obligations securities method Status Jan. 1, 2016 450.0 50.2 95.5 -339.1 45.9 118.5 Consolidated profit Appropriation of profit Other comprehensive income 43.9 -62.6 -15.6 -35.3 Status Dec. 31, 2016 450.0 50.2 139.4 -401.7 30.3 83.2 Status Jan. 1, 2017 450.0 50.2 139.4 -401.7 30.3 83.2 Consolidated profit Appropriation of profit Other comprehensive income -294.7 83.2 13.3 40.1 Status Dec. 31, 2017 450.0 50.2 -155.3 -318.5 43.6 123.3 Equity without Tax effects Other Total nonNonrecognized revenue revenue controlling controlling [€ million] in equity reserves reserves interests interests Equity Status Jan. 1, 2016 64.8 2,835.2 2,820.8 3,321.0 378.6 3,699.6 Consolidated profit 1,041.7 1,041.7 1,041.7 45.2 1,086.9 Appropriation of profit -90.2 -90.2 -90.2 -39.2 -129.4 Other comprehensive income 20.5 12.6 -36.5 -36.5 -17.3 -53.8 Status Dec. 31, 2016 85.3 3,799.3 3,735.8 4,236.0 367.3 4,603.3 Status Jan. 1, 2017 85.3 3,799.3 3,735.8 4,236.0 367.3 4,603.3 Consolidated profit 651.9 651.9 651.9 48.2 700.1 Appropriation of profit -114.4 -114.4 -114.4 -38.9 -153.3 Other comprehensive income -2.5 -103.8 -264.4 -264.4 -50.7 -315.1 Status Dec. 31, 2017 82.8 4,233.0 4,008.9 4,509.1 325.9 4,835.0 See also the explanatory remarks on equity in note (9) to the Consolidated Financial Statement. 108 Consolidated Financial Statement –Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS General Comparative figures for the previous financial year were based on the same principles. Freudenberg is an international industrial group mainly active as a supplier to the automotive, mechanFreudenberg SE has availed itself of the right as laid ical engineering, oil and gas industries as well as the down in Sec. 315a (3) HGB (Handelsgesetzbuch, “Gertextile and apparel industries. The portfolio also inman Commercial Code”) to set up its consolidated ficludes medical technology and consumer goods. nancial statements in accordance with IFRS. The consolidated financial statements of Freudenberg The Group currency is the euro. All amounts are indiSE, Weinheim, Germany, for 2017 have been drawn up cated in million euros unless otherwise stated. in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as they are to be applied in the EuIn the 2017 financial year, the application of the followropean Union (EU) as of the date of the statement of ing amended and new standards was binding for the financial position (December 31, 2017). first time: Standards/amendments Title IAS 7 Amendments to IAS 7 – Disclosure Initiative IAS 12 Amendments to IAS 12 – Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Various standards Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle (amendments to IFRS 12) The first-time application of the amendments to these The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) standards had no effect or no material effect on the net and the IFRS Interpretations Committee have pubassets, financial position and results of operations of lished additional standards, interpretations and Freudenberg. The reconciliation of financial debt reamendments the application of which was not yet quired in accordance with the amendments to IAS 7 – binding for the 2017 financial year. The application of Disclosure Initiative is given in note (29). these standards, interpretations and amendments is subject to endorsement by the EU which, in some cases, is still pending. 109 Application Endorsed Standards/Interpretations/amendments binding from 1 by EU Probable impact IFRS 2 Amendments to IFRS 2 – January 1, 2018 No No material impact Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions IFRS 4 Amendments to IFRS 4 – Applying January 1, 2018 Yes No material impact IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts IFRS 9 Financial Instruments January 1, 2018 Yes See information provided below IFRS 9 Amendments to IFRS 9 – January 1, 2019 No No material impact Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with January 1, 2018 Yes See information provided below Customers IFRS 15 Clarifications to IFRS 15 Revenue January 1, 2018 Yes No material impact from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases January 1, 2019 Yes See information provided below IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts January 1, 2021 No No material impact IAS 19 Amendments to IAS 19 – Plan January 1, 2019 No No material impact Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement IAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and January 1, 2019 No No material impact Joint Ventures IAS 40 Amendments to IAS 40 – Investment January 1, 2018 No No material impact Property IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and January 1, 2018 No No material impact Advance Consideration IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax January 1, 2019 No No material impact Treatments Various Annual Improvements to IFRSs January 1, 2018 Yes No material impact standards 2014-2016 Cycle (amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 28) Various Annual Improvements to IFRSs January 1, 2019 No No material impact standards 2015-2017 Cycle 1 From this date or from reporting periods beginning after this date. In July 2014, the IASB published IFRS 9 – Financial Into trade receivables. As credit losses expected in the fustruments. The standard was transposed into EU law ture must be taken into consideration, impairments on November 22, 2016. The standard states standard will, in some cases, be anticipated at an earlier date. It requirements for the classification and measurement is expected that the extent of changes in the areas of of financial assets. It also provides for a new impairclassification and measurement of financial assets, as ment model based on expected credit losses and conwell as hedge accounting, will not be material. tains new provisions on the application of hedge accounting. Freudenberg will apply the standard for the In May 2014, the ISAB published IFRS 15 Revenue from first time to the financial year commencing on January Contracts with Customers. This standard was trans1, 2018 and will dispense with the restatement of the posed into EU law on April 12, 2016. Under this new comparison period on the basis of the transitional prostandard, the recognition of revenue is to reflect the visions. The new impairment model will only result in consideration probably to be received by the company non-material changes to the amount of impairments in exchange for the goods or services that will be trans110 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ferred to the customer. The standard also contains new The IASB published IFRS 16 – Leases. In January 2016 provisions concerning the timing of revenue recogniand the standard was transposed into EU law on Octotion. Freudenberg will apply the standard for the first ber 31, 2017. The introduction of a uniform model for time to the financial year commencing on January 1, the recognition of leased assets by the lessee will lead 2018 and will dispense with the restatement of the to the mandatory recognition of a right-of-use asset comparison period on the basis of the transitional proand a corresponding lease liability as a general princivisions. The first-time application of the new provisions ple for all lease contracts with a term of more than 12 will only result in a slight increase of less than half a months. Freudenberg will apply the new standard for percent in equity at the time of the change. The new the first time to the financial year commencing on Jandefinition of the transaction price will result in a reducuary 1, 2019 on the basis of the modified retrospective tion of less than one percent in the sales reported by method and will dispense with the restatement of the Freudenberg. The new criteria for the transfer of concomparison period in accordance with the transitional trol will result in changes in the timing of revenue provisions. The first-time application of the new provirecognition which will have an effect especially in consions will probably not result in a reduction in equity at nection with customer-specific tools and development the time of the changeover. The recognition of leases contracts. This will also lead to a reduction in the statepreviously not recognized will probably result in an inment of financial position total as a result of the dereccrease in the statement of financial position total by ognition of tool development costs previously capitalabout 4 percent and will chiefly concern real property ized as assets and subsidies from customers previously leased by Freudenberg. In the statement of profit or recognized as liabilities. Revenue recognition over the loss, only insignificant effects on the profit from operacourse of time in the case of customer-specific productions and the consolidated profit are expected. In fution contracts will also lead to revenue recognition at ture, lease payments are to be divided into a principal an earlier time. There will be further changes as a result portion and an interest portion and will no longer be of the introduction of separate statement of financial deducted in full from the cash flow from operating acposition items for contract assets and contract liabilitivities, which will, as a result, be improved. On the ties and extended quantitative and qualitative discloother hand, cash flow from financing activities will be sures in the notes to the financial statements. Studies reduced by the principal portion of the payments. concerning the implementation of these requirements have shown that the overall effects on the consolidated financial statements will not be material. 111 Consolidated group In the year under review, 12 companies were included in the consolidated financial statements as fully conApart from Freudenberg SE, 64 German (previous year: solidated affiliated companies for the first time. 11 63) and 363 foreign (previous year: 363) affiliated comcompanies which had previously been fully consolipanies with respect to which Freudenberg SE has the dated were no longer included as fully consolidated afpower to direct the relevant activities of the company, filiated companies due to sale, liquidation or merger. the right to variable returns from the company and the The timing of the initial consolidation was determined ability to affect such variable returns, are fully consolion the basis of the date when Freudenberg SE gained dated. control. In the event of loss of control, deconsolidation is effected. The company EagleBurgmann Venezuela Freudenberg operates a joint venture in the field of meC.A., Caracas, Venezuela, which had previously been chanical seals within the EagleBurgmann Business fully consolidated, was included in the consolidated fiGroup together with the partner Eagle Industry Co., Ltd., nancial statements as an associated company for the Tokyo, Japan. Freudenberg holds a 25-percent stake in first time with effect from the beginning of the finanEagleBurgmann Japan Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan. The partcial year. In view of the currency restrictions in force in ner also holds a 25-percent indirect stake in EagleBurgVenezuela, it was decided that here was no possibility mann Germany GmbH & Co. KG, Wolfratshausen, Gerof obtaining variable returns from the company and many. According to the joint venture agreement bethat a loss of control had therefore taken place. tween the partners, Freudenberg exercises control over affiliated companies of the EagleBurgmann Group in which Freudenberg holds less than half of the voting Acquisitions and disposals rights of the other company; such affiliated companies are therefore fully consolidated. In the 2017 financial year, Freudenberg did not engage in any corporate acquisition or disposal transactions No German (previous year: 0) and 14 foreign (previous which were material. The consideration transferred for year:14) joint ventures are included in the consolidated the acquisition of shares totaled €135.1 million and was financial statements. These legally independent comtransferred entirely with an effect on payments. The panies are managed jointly with the partner company purchase price allocation resulted in a total goodwill in each case. Both parties hold rights to the net assets which was not deductible for tax purposes of €61.4 milof the companies. The joint ventures are consolidated lion. Since the acquisition date, the newly acquired by the equity method. companies have recorded sales of €55.3 million and contributed €2.1 million to consolidated profit. If the acIn addition, 9 foreign (previous year: 11) associated quisitions had already taken place as of January 1, 2017, companies are included in the consolidated financial total sales would have been €18.7 million higher and statements. Freudenberg does not control these comconsolidated profit would have been €3.0 million higher. panies but only exercises a significant influence. These companies are consolidated by the equity method. The transaction costs arising in connection with the company acquisitions were, in each case, not signifiAll affiliated companies, joint ventures and associated cant and were recognized with effect on net income. As companies are listed under “Shareholdings”. at the acquisition date, there was no significant difference in each case between the gross amount of the consideration payable and the fair values. 112 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The fair values of the main asset and liability items of the companies acquired as at the acquisition dates were determined mainly on the basis of level 3 input factors. The cumulative values were as follows: [€ million] Fair values Intangible assets 102.4 Tangible assets 18.9 Other non-current assets 7.5 Inventories 6.4 Trade receivables 14.1 Other current assets 3.3 Cash acquired 8.2 Assets 160.8 Non-current liabilities 7.5 Current liabilities 37.6 Liabilities 45.1 Net assets 115.7 Intangible assets identified in connection with purInter-company profits and losses, sales, expenses and chase price allocations mainly concern customer lists. income and all receivables and payables between conThe fair values of the customer lists identified were solidated companies are eliminated. Deferred taxes are measured by the residual value method on the basis of set up on consolidation transactions affecting net incorporate planning with a useful life of 5 to 15 years. come. Consolidation methods Joint ventures and associated companies are consolidated by the equity method on the basis of financial The consolidated financial statements are based on statements drawn up in accordance with IFRS. the annual accounts of Freudenberg SE and the consolidated companies according to IFRS. All the annual acThe differences arising from the acquisition of sharecounts concerned were drawn up as at December 31, holdings in joint ventures and associated companies 2017. In accordance with IFRS 10, the accounts of the form part of the book value of the shareholding in the individual companies to be included in the consolicompany concerned. Amortization is not recognized dated financial statements were drawn up applying on goodwill in subsequent periods. An impairment uniform accounting and measurement methods. test is carried out on the book value of the shareholding in the joint venture or associated company as a The acquisition costs of the individual consolidated whole if there are indications that the carrying companies are set off against the pro-rata share in the amount could be impaired. fair value of the equity of the companies concerned as of the date of acquisition according to the purchase method. Identifiable acquired assets and liabilities are also included in the consolidated statement of financial position at their fair values as of the acquisition date. Any remaining differences are shown as goodwill. 113 Accounting and measurement principles Impairment losses going beyond goodwill are recognized for individual assets of cash-generating units if Acquired intangible assets are capitalized at acquisithe fair value less costs of disposal of such units or the tion cost and amortized on a systematic basis. value in use of such units has fallen below their carrying amount. Amortization is based on the following useful lives: Provided that such assets meet the requirements of IAS Software 3 to 8 years 38, internally generated intangible assets are carried as assets at production cost and are amortized on a sysPatents and licenses depending on contract term tematic basis over their useful lives, if their useful lives are finite. Intangible assets with finite useful lives acquired in a If the useful life of intangible assets is not considered business combination are amortized on a systematic to be finite, no amortization is effected. An impairbasis over useful lives of up to 25 years. ment test is carried out on such assets annually. An intangible asset may be regarded as having an indefAn impairment test is carried out on goodwill at inite useful life when, based on an analysis of all of least once per year. For the impairment test, the goodthe relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to will acquired is allocated to the groups of cash-generthe period over which the asset is expected to generating units expected to benefit from the business comate net cash flows for the Group. bination. In line with internal management reporting, the groups of cash-generating units are represented by Expenditure in connection with development prothe Business Groups. An impairment loss is recognized jects is capitalized as intangible assets if, in addition if the carrying amount of the group of cash-generating to meeting the criteria of IAS 38, a Group threshold is units is higher than its recoverable amount. The recovexceeded. Otherwise, development expenditure is erable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs shown as expenses. Capitalized development exof disposal and the value in use of the group of cashpenditure is amortized on a straight-line basis over generating units. the underlying contract term starting with the beginning of production of the product concerned. AmorFor the determination of the recoverable amount, the tization of capitalized development expenditure is value in use of the group of cash-generating units connormally recognized in research and development excerned is determined by the discounted cash flow penses. method on the basis of a detailed planning period of 5 years. The discount rates used for the determination of Tangible assets are capitalized at acquisition or producthe value in use are based on the weighted average cost tion cost. In the case of assets produced by Group comof capital (hereafter WACC) determined separately for panies, production cost also includes directly attributaeach group of cash-generating units. ble cost as well as pro-rata overheads and depreciation. Impairments of capitalized goodwill are shown under Borrowing costs are capitalized as part of acquisition or other expenses in the consolidated statement of profit production cost in the case of qualifying assets. or loss. Reversals of impairments are not recognized with respect to goodwill for which impairments have been recognized. 114 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Expenditure for repairs and maintenance is generally In the case of operating leases, lease payments are recshown as expenses. Such expenditure is only capitalognized as expenses. ized if future economic benefits in connection with such expenditure are probable and the acquisition or Land and buildings held to earn rentals from third parproduction cost can be reliably measured. ties are dealt with as investment properties. Such properties are measured at acquisition cost. Investment Taxable grants and tax-free investment subsidies, norproperties are depreciated over their useful lives. This mally paid by public bodies, are set off against acquisiapproach normally corresponds to straight-line depretion or production cost. ciation. As a general principle, systematic depreciation is calculated on the basis of a maximum useful life of Movable non-current assets and industrial build50 years and effected on a straight-line basis. The fair ings are depreciated over their useful lives. This apvalue is determined by the discounted cash flow proach normally corresponds to straight-line depremethod. ciation. Participations are shown at acquisition cost or, if lower, Systematic depreciation is determined on the basis of at fair value. the following useful lives: Investments in joint ventures and associated compaBuildings max. 50 years nies are shown at acquisition cost on first-time consolidation and subsequently adjusted for changes in the Machinery and equipment 5 to 20 years share of the shareholder in the net assets of the comOther fixtures, fittings and office pany concerned. equipment 3 to 20 years Long-term loans are discounted if the amount of such An impairment test on tangible and intangible assets discount is significant. assigned to cash-generating units is always carried out if circumstances or changed conditions indicate that Inventories are shown at acquisition or production cost the carrying amount of such cash-generating units or at net realizable value, where this is lower. Inventomay not be recovered. The composition of the cashries of raw materials and consumables and merchangenerating units is determined at the divisional or redise are measured by the weighted average cost gional level as a function of the business model and difmethod. Production cost includes directly attributable fers between Business Groups. If the impairment of an costs as well as production and material overheads and asset reflected by a write-down in the past is reduced depreciation. or eliminated, the impairment loss is reversed. The updated acquisition or production cost represents the upReceivables and other assets are recognized at amorper limit of measurement in such cases. tized cost. Impairments are recognized for individual risks identified which are not covered by credit insurIn accordance with IAS 17, tangible assets leased under ance. Impairments are effected using a separate acfinance leases are recognized as assets and written off count if circumstances become apparent as a result of over their economic useful life if substantially all the which the conclusion can be drawn that certain receivrisks and rewards associated with the ownership of the ables are subject to risks in excess of the general credit leased asset lie with the lessee. Such assets are carried risk. The amortized cost is approximately equivalent to at the fair value of the leased asset at the inception of the fair value of the assets concerned. Long-term rethe lease or, if lower, at the present value of the miniceivables are discounted if the amount of such dismum lease payments. A liability of the same amount is count is significant. also shown on the statement of financial position. 115 Securities carried as non-current or current assets that Deferred taxes are calculated on temporary differences are available for sale are recorded at fair value as of the between the book values of assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position date. Value changes are consolidated statement of financial position and their shown under equity without an effect on net income. tax bases, taking into account the applicable national income tax rates valid on the date of realization and alCash at bank or in hand is shown at its nominal value. ready in force on the statement of financial position Cash held in foreign currencies is converted using the date. In addition, deferred tax assets are recognized for exchange rate as of the statement of financial position tax losses carried forward if sufficient taxable income date. will be available in the future. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only set off against each other in cases Non-current assets and groups of assets held for sale where the income taxes concerned are levied by the are shown separately in the statement of financial posame tax authority and concern the same period. In the sition if they are available for immediate sale in their case of deferred tax assets which are not impaired folpresent condition and the sale of such assets is highly lowing the offsetting, it is assumed that future taxable probable within the next 12 months. Such assets are income will be sufficient to allow the realization of the shown at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and deferred tax assets formed. book value. Systematic depreciation is not recognized on such assets from the date of reclassification. LiabiliOther provisions allow for all recognizable risks and unties included in a disposal group are shown separately certain obligations towards third parties which will under liabilities. probably result in an outflow of resources which can be reliably estimated. Such provisions are recognized at The requirement for the reversal of the impairment of their most probable settlement value and discounted if assets has been complied with both for non-current the amount of such discount is significant. Reimburseand for current assets. Unless individual standards call ment rights in this connection are shown separately for a different measurement, the updated acquisition under other assets. or production cost represents the upper limit of measurement in such cases. Liabilities are shown at their face value or at the repayment or settlement value, where this is higher. NonProvisions for pensions and similar obligations are current liabilities are discounted if the amount of such determined by the projected unit credit method usdiscount is significant. ing actuarial principles. Service cost and the net interest on the net defined benefit liability are recognized Put options granted to the holders of non-controlling under personnel expenses with an impact on net ininterests for the sale of their shares are recognized as come. Gains and losses from remeasurements of the forward purchases. The item recorded in equity for net defined benefit liability are disclosed under other these shares is de-recognized and a liability meascomprehensive income. Assets held to provide beneured at fair value is recognized. As at each statement fits for employees are measured at fair value. of financial position date, the liability is remeasured. Any resulting changes in book value are recognized with an effect on net income. 116 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Sales and other income are recognized at the fair value The composition of a cash-generating unit and the deof the consideration received or receivable when the termination of the recoverable amount for the perforservices are performed or the goods or products conmance of impairment tests is connected with assesscerned are delivered. ments made by management concerning future developments and experience gained in the past. The cash The consolidated statement of cash flows is broken flows predicted on the basis of these assessments may down into cash flows from operating, investing and fibe affected by factors including volatility of capital nancing activities. Effects arising from changes in the markets, exchange-rate fluctuations and expected ecoconsolidated group and the effects of exchange rate nomic development. The WACCs used for discounting differences have been eliminated from the consolitake into account the market risk and the capital strucdated statement of cash flows. The influence of these ture of companies comparable to the applicable group effects on cash and cash equivalents is indicated sepaof cash-generating units. Changes in these factors may rately. have significant impact on the existence or amount of a value impairment. Further details are given in note (1). The exercise of discretion and estimates in the The actuarial assessments for the determination of application of accounting and measurement provisions for pensions and similar obligations are methods based on major assumptions and estimates with respect to the discount rates used and expected future In some cases, it is necessary to apply accounting adjustments to salaries and pensions as well as life exmethods based on estimates or the exercise of discrepectancy. All the parameters used are regularly retion in connection with the establishment of the conviewed as of the statement of financial position date. solidated financial statements. Normally, these methAny changes in the parameters used may lead to ods include complex, subjective assessments and the changes in statement of financial position values. Furuse of uncertain assumptions which may be subject to ther details are given in note (10). change. It is therefore conceivable that actual amounts in the future and future events may deviate from the The determination of the settlement amount of proviforecasts made as estimates for the same reporting pesions for restructuring, environmental risks, guaranriod could have been made differently for reasons tees and litigation is normally connected with estiwhich are easy to understand. Such accounting methmates and uncertainty. For the measurement of such ods based on estimates and the exercise of discretion values, the assessments of local independent experts may therefore have a material impact on the net assets, are used in some cases. In the future, deviations befinancial position and results of operations in the contween actual events and the assumptions made may solidated financial statements and may also change necessitate adjustments to the Group’s provisions. over the course of time. The estimates used for the esMore detailed information on provisions is given in tablishment of the consolidated financial statements note (11). and the underlying assumptions are regularly reviewed and any changes are taken into consideration as soon as better information is available. 117 The measurement of certain derivative financial instruments without an active market such as put or call options and earn-out clauses is based on probability predictions and the best possible estimates of the expected settlement amount, taking into consideration recognized mathematical Finance methods. Further information on financial instruments is given in note (12). When determining whether sufficient taxable income will be available in the future for assessing the value of deferred tax assets and the usability of losses carried forward, various estimates, including the development of tax planning strategies, must be made. Deviations between the actual results and the estimates made may have an effect on the assets, liabilities and earnings situation. Further details are given in note (25). Fair value is determined on the basis of input factors in 3 defined categories. Determination is based on estimates and assumptions associated with uncertainty. The following fair value measurement hierarchy is applied: Level 1: Use of quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date. Level 2: Determination of fair value using measurement procedures based on observed input factors for similar assets or liabilities in active markets or for identical assets or liabilities in markets that are not active. Level 3: Measurement of assets and liabilities using measurement methods based on unobservable inputs as adequate observable market data are not available for the measurement of fair value. 118 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Currency translations • Statement of financial position items are translated at the exchange rate as of the date of the statement The financial statements of almost all companies inof financial position. cluded in the consolidated financial statements which are not located in the eurozone are drawn up in the na• Statement of profit or loss items are translated at avtional currencies concerned. This is the currency of the erage annual exchange rates. primary economic environment in which the companies concerned operate (concept of functional cur• Differences arising from the use of different exrency). change rates are recognized in equity without an effect on net income. In the accounts of individual companies, foreign-currency receivables and liabilities are translated at the exThe same principles are used in the case of investments change rates as of the date of the statement of finanin joint ventures and associated companies consolicial position. dated by the equity method. Goodwill created as a result of acquisitions on or after The exchange rates of currencies used for currency conMarch 31, 2004, is carried as an asset of the economiversion which are material to the annual financial cally independent foreign companies concerned in statements developed as follows: their respective functional currencies. In the consolidated financial statements, the financial statements of all companies not located in the eurozone are translated in accordance with the following principles: Country Currency Closing rate Average rate 1 euro = Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 2016 2017 Brazil BRL 3.4394 3.9729 3.8003 3.6434 China CNY 7.3443 7.8044 7.3488 7.6557 India INR 71.8220 76.6055 74.3119 73.7879 Japan JPY 123.5816 135.0100 120.4280 127.3040 Turkey TRY 3.7288 4.5464 3.3394 4.1429 USA USD 1.0568 1.1993 1.1040 1.1370 Differences arising from the use of different exchange assets with respect to non-current assets and in the rates compared with the previous year are shown in consolidated statement of comprehensive income the statement of changes in intangible and tangible with respect to equity. 119 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (1) Intangible assets Changes in intangible assets from January 1 to December 31, 2016: DevelopConcesIntangible ment costs sions, assets in Internally Developunder licenses Payments course of generated ment construcand made construc[€ million] software costs tion Others1 Goodwill on account tion Total ACQUISITION/PRODUCTION COST Status Jan. 1, 2016 0.0 0.0 0.0 754.8 611.9 1.8 0.0 1,368.5 Changes in consolidated group2 3.0 12.8 10.8 971.6 927.5 1.7 0.0 1,927.4 Exchange rate differences 0.3 0.0 0.0 17.1 13.4 0.0 0.0 30.8 Additions 0.1 0.0 9.3 13.1 3.6 3.2 0.0 29.3 Write-ups 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 -27.2 -3.8 0.0 0.0 -31.0 Reclassifications3 0.5 0.0 0.0 1.4 0.0 -0.4 0.0 1.5 Status Dec. 31, 2016 3.9 12.8 20.1 1,730.8 1,552.6 6.3 0.0 3,326.5 AMORTIZATION Status Jan. 1, 2016 0.0 0.0 0.0 444.2 53.3 0.0 0.0 497.5 Changes in consolidated group2 2.0 2.0 0.0 31.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 35.3 Exchange rate differences 0.2 0.0 0.0 8.6 2.7 0.0 0.0 11.5 Additions – systematic 0.3 1.3 0.0 109.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 111.3 Impairment losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 11.9 50.9 0.0 0.0 62.8 Write-ups 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 -26.9 -0.2 0.0 0.0 -27.1 Reclassifications3 0.5 0.0 0.0 -0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Status Dec. 31, 2016 3.0 3.3 0.0 578.4 106.7 0.0 0.0 691.4 Book value Dec. 31, 2016 0.9 9.5 20.1 1,152.4 1,445.9 6.3 0.0 2,635.1 1 Intangible assets identified in connection with purchase price allocations mainly concern customer lists/relations, technologies and know-how. 2 The previous year's presentation has been adjusted compared with the 2016 Annual Report. 3 The reclassifications also include transfers to other balance sheet items. 120 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Changes in intangible assets from January 1 to December 31, 2017: DevelopConcesIntangible ment costs sions, assets in Internally under licenses Payments course of generated Developconstrucand made construc[€ million] software ment costs tion Others1 Goodwill on account tion Total ACQUISITION/PRODUCTION COST Status Jan. 1, 2017 3.9 12.8 20.1 1,730.8 1,552.6 6.3 0.0 3,326.5 Changes in consolidated group 0.0 2.8 0.0 39.4 59.8 0.0 0.0 102.0 Exchange rate differences -0.5 -0.1 -0.1 -52.5 -44.8 -0.1 0.0 -98.1 Additions 0.4 0.0 14.5 14.2 0.0 1.2 11.3 41.6 Write-ups 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 -20.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 -20.1 Reclassifications2 0.1 7.4 -7.4 3.5 0.0 -5.0 1.4 0.0 Status Dec. 31, 2017 3.9 22.9 27.1 1,715.4 1,567.6 2.4 12.7 3,352.0 AMORTIZATION Status Jan. 1, 2017 3.0 3.3 0.0 578.4 106.7 0.0 0.0 691.4 Changes in consolidated group 0.0 2.6 0.0 -1.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.2 Exchange rate differences -0.3 -0.2 0.0 -30.7 -6.8 0.0 0.0 -38.0 Additions – systematic 0.4 2.9 0.0 140.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 143.6 Impairment losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.7 Write-ups 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 -19.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 -19.6 Reclassifications2 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.4 Status Dec. 31, 2017 3.1 8.6 0.0 668.4 99.9 0.0 0.0 780.0 Book value Dec. 31, 2017 0.8 14.3 27.1 1,047.0 1,467.7 2.4 12.7 2,572.0 1 Intangible assets identified in connection with purchase price allocations mainly concern customer lists/relations, technologies and know-how. 2 The reclassifications also include transfers to other balance sheet items. 121 Goodwill was subjected to an impairment test as at it was not necessary to recognize any impairment of December 31, 2017. Apart from the expected developgoodwill. ments in sales and profit as well as net investments of the Business Groups concerned, the basic assumptions The 2 significant goodwill items are assigned to the used for determining the value in use of the groups of groups of cash-generating units Vibracoustic and cash generating units included a growth rate of 2.0 perFreudenberg Sealing Technologies. The book values of cent (previous year: 2.0 percent) and pre-tax WACCs these goodwill items and the sustainable growth rates ranging from 8.7 percent to 10.9 percent (previous year: and WACCs used for the impairment test are listed in ranging from 5.2 percent to 12.2 percent). On this basis, the following table: [€ million] Vibracoustic Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Goodwill 835,9 835,9 174,9 178,9 Sustainable growth rate 2,0 % 2,0 % 2,0 % 2,0 % WACC 9,9 % 10,7 % 9,9 % 10,9 % For the group of cash-generating units Vibracoustic, in For the significant goodwill items, a variation of up to addition to the sustainable growth rate and WACC +/-1.0 percentage points in the WACC would not result mentioned above, corporate planning also includes a in an impairment loss. growth rate slightly above the growth rate for global automobile production derived from external studies as increased market share is expected during the planning period. The main areas of growth will be in the regions of North America and Asia. Cost increases are to be compensated for by productivity improvements; to this extent, profitability is expected to grow at a higher rate than sales during the detailed planning period. The business plans for 2018 of the group of cash-generating units of Freudenberg Sealing Technologies are based on generally positive market developments. Despite differences between the various regions and sectors, moderate global business growth is expected in the sealing segment. Rising costs are to be compensated for by further productivity increases, leaner processes in development, sales and administration and selective price policies. In the fields of digitalization and transformation to e-mobility, the measures adopted will be significantly expanded and accelerated. Freudenberg Sealing Technologies will provide considerable resources for this purpose. 122 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (2) Tangible assets Changes in tangible assets from January 1 to December 31, 2016: Other fixtures, Machinery fittings and Payments ConsLand and and office made on truction in [€ million] buildings equipment equipment account progress Total ACQUISITION/PRODUCTION COST Status Jan. 1, 2016 1,159.3 2,230.6 827.5 15.8 123.6 4,356.8 Changes in consolidated group1 225.9 1,043.1 393.0 21.3 70.4 1,753.7 Exchange rate differences 16.5 44.1 8.3 0.7 2.2 71.8 Additions 20.0 71.7 62.9 35.9 187.3 377.8 Write-ups 0.0 0.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.7 Disposals -18.5 -70.7 -55.8 -1.5 -1.2 -147.7 Reclassifications2 34.0 87.3 52.8 -29.4 -146.5 -1.8 Status Dec. 31, 2016 1,437.2 3,406.8 1,288.7 42.8 235.8 6,411.3 DEPRECIATION Status Jan. 1, 2016 563.4 1,596.6 622.2 0.0 0.4 2,782.6 Changes in consolidated group1 44.6 752.8 272.6 0.0 0.0 1,070.0 Exchange rate differences 7.1 34.1 5.9 0.0 0.0 47.1 Additions systematic 38.3 140.0 93.5 0.0 0.0 271.8 Impairment losses 0.3 3.8 0.8 0.0 0.7 5.6 Write-ups/ revaluations -0.5 -0.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1.2 Disposals -11.1 -64.0 -53.0 0.0 0.0 -128.1 2 Reclassifications 0.4 -0.4 -0.4 0.0 0.0 -0.4 Status Dec. 31, 2016 642.5 2,462.2 941.6 0.0 1.1 4,047.4 Book value Dec. 31, 2016 794.7 944.6 347.1 42.8 234.7 2,363.9 1 The previous year's presentation has been adjusted compared with the 2016 Annual Report. 2 The reclassifications also include transfers to other balance sheet items. 123 Changes in tangible assets from January 1 to December 31, 2017: Other fixtures, Machinery fittings and Payments ConsLand and and office made on truction in [€ million] buildings equipment equipment account progress Total ACQUISITION/PRODUCTION COST Status Jan. 1, 2017 1,437.2 3,406.8 1,288.7 42.8 235.8 6,411.3 Changes in consolidated group 0.1 19.3 -1.2 -0.5 0.6 18.3 Exchange rate differences -65.7 -155.2 -44.5 -2.3 -12.6 -280.3 Additions 41.4 90.7 77.9 38.8 210.8 459.6 Write-ups 1.0 2.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 3.2 Disposals -8.3 -89.1 -44.6 -6.9 -6.2 -155.1 1 Reclassifications 63.3 100.6 75.2 -31.0 -208.1 0.0 Status Dec. 31, 2017 1,469.0 3,375.2 1,351.6 40.9 220.3 6,457.0 DEPRECIATION Status Jan. 1, 2017 642.5 2,462.2 941.6 0.0 1.1 4,047.4 Changes in consolidated group -1.4 8.2 -1.5 0.0 0.0 5.3 Exchange rate differences -24.1 -112.5 -29.1 0.0 0.0 -165.7 Additions systematic 42.2 161.7 120.3 0.0 0.0 324.2 Impairment losses 1.3 3.6 0.3 0.0 1.9 7.1 Write-ups 1.0 2.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 3.2 Disposals -4.6 -75.3 -41.3 0.0 -2.5 -123.7 1 Reclassifications 11.6 -11.1 -0.2 0.0 -0.2 0.1 Status Dec. 31, 2017 668.5 2,438.9 990.2 0.0 0.3 4,097.9 Book value Dec. 31, 2017 800.5 936.3 361.4 40.9 220.0 2,359.1 1 The reclassifications also include transfers to other balance sheet items. In the financial year under review, Freudenberg received government grants for tangible assets in the amount of €0.3 million (previous year: €1.2 million). The grants mainly concerned investment promotion and were netted against acquisition costs. 124 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Leased assets Leased assets are recognized under non-current assets at the following book values: [€ million] Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Land and buildings 4.5 4.1 Machinery and equipment 3.0 2.2 Other fixtures, fittings and office equipment 0.2 0.1 Book value of leased assets recognized 7.7 6.4 The finance lease contracts were concluded at arm’sdo not provide for any contingent rent payments or siglength business conditions. Such leases normally innificant restrictions. clude favorable purchase options. The lease contracts Up to 1 to Over Up to 1 to Over [€ million] 1 year 5 years 5 years Dec. 31, 2016 1 year 5 years 5 years Dec. 31, 2017 Finance leases Minimum lease payments 1.4 2.5 5.0 8.9 1.0 1.6 4.4 7.0 Discount 0.1 0.2 1.0 1.3 0.0 0.1 0.9 1.0 Present value 1.3 2.3 4.0 7.6 1.0 1.5 3.5 6.0 Operating leases Minimum lease payments 79.0 157.7 88.9 325.6 78.3 185.5 142.3 406.1 Lease payments totaling €120.7 million (previous year: €101.5 million) under operating leases were recognized with an effect on net income. 125 (3) Investment properties Details of land and buildings held by Freudenberg as investment properties are shown in the table below: [€million] 2016 2017 Third-party use 100 % 100 % Rent income 4.0 4,0 There were no significant direct operating expenses in the year under review or in the previous year. There are no restrictions on the saleability of investment properties. Freudenberg is not under any contractual obligations to purchase, build or develop investment properties. Furthermore, Freudenberg is not under any contractual obligations to repair or maintain such investment properties going beyond its statutory obligations. 126 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Changes in investment properties from January 1 to December 31: [€ million] 2016 2017 ACQUISITION/PRODUCTION COST Status Jan. 1 46.2 45.7 Changes in consolidated group 0.0 0.0 Exchange rate differences 0.0 0.0 Additions 0.0 0.3 Write-ups/revaluations 0.0 0.0 Disposals -0.5 0.0 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 Status Dec. 31 45.7 46.0 DEPRECIATION Status Jan. 1 30.5 31.9 Changes in consolidated group 0.0 0.0 Exchange rate differences 0.0 0.0 Additions systematic 1.4 1.4 Impairment losses 0.0 0.0 Write-ups/revaluations 0.0 0.0 Disposals 0.0 0.0 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 Status Dec. 31 31.9 33.3 Book value Dec. 31 13.8 12.7 The fair value of investment properties was €37.0 million (previous year: €50.5 million) and was calculated on the basis of discounted cash flows (level 3 inputs). 127 (4) Investments in joint ventures NOK Corporation and Freudenberg SE with the objective of serving the high-growth Chinese and Indian The joint venture agreement with NOK Corporation, Tomarket with locally-produced and imported sealing kyo, Japan, is of major importance for Freudenberg. products. NOK-Freudenberg Asia Holding Co. Pte. Ltd., SingaThe summarized financial information of this joint pore, is a 50:50 joint venture between the Japanese venture company is set out below: NOK-Freudenberg Asia [€ million] Holding Co. Pte. Ltd. Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Current assets 179.4 202.8 Of which: cash and cash equivalents 50.3 66.0 Non-current assets 152.0 166.3 Current liabilities 92.2 101.7 Of which: current financial liabilities 15.5 13.1 Non-current liabilities 0.1 0.1 Equity without non-controlling interests 239.1 267.3 Freudenberg share 50.0 % 50.0 % Pro-rata share in equity 119.5 133.7 At-equity measurement 119.5 133.7 2016 2017 Sales 338.9 377.1 Profit or loss from continuing operations 37.6 43.3 Other comprehensive income -9.3 -12.9 Total comprehensive income 28.3 30.4 Of which: depreciation and amortization -16.6 -16.2 Of which: interest income 0.9 0.4 Of which: interest expenses -0.6 -1.3 Of which: income tax expense or income -16.5 -14.6 128 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Freudenberg received no dividend (previous year: (5) Investments in associated companies €22.2 million) from NOK-Freudenberg Asia Holding Co. Pte. Ltd. For Freudenberg, its most important investment in associated companies is its participation in the Japanese The total carrying amount of interests in all individual company NOK Corporation with its registered office in joint ventures which are not material was €15.8 million Tokyo, Japan. (previous year: €30.3 million). The NOK Group manufactures and supplies sealing The pro-rata share of the profit or loss from continuing products, flexible printed circuits, roll products for ofoperations of all individual joint ventures classed as not fice equipment and further products such as specialty material was €-0.2 million (previous year: €35.4 million) lubricants. and the pro-rata share in other comprehensive income was €0.1 million (previous year: €-3.2 million). The proThis major associated company gave the following figrata share in total comprehensive income was therefore ures in its consolidated interim financial statements as €-0.1 million (previous year: €32.2 million). at December 31 in each case: [€ million] NOK Corporation Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Current assets 2,859.9 2,703.9 Non-current assets 3,308.7 3,383.8 Current liabilities 1,594.4 1,444.5 Non-current liabilities 867.7 866.4 Treasury shares -10.4 -3.3 Non-controlling interests 291.4 297.6 Equity without treasury shares and non-controlling interests 3,425.5 3,482.5 Freudenberg share 25.1% 25.1% Pro-rata share in equity 859.9 874.2 Goodwill 7.1 7.1 At-equity measurement 867.0 881.3 2016 2017 Sales 5,707.4 5,797.6 Profit or loss from continuing operations 161.0 321.6 Other comprehensive income -169.8 143.1 Total comprehensive income -8.8 464.7 129 The increase in the other comprehensive income of NOK Corporation is due to exchange differences on translating the financial statement in foreign currency, to effects from the change in the value of securities available for sale and to the remeasurement of defined benefit plans. Freudenberg received dividends in the amount of €16.9 million (previous year: €18.1 million) from NOK Corporation. As at December 31, 2017, the market value of the shareholding in NOK Corporation was €846.9 million (¥ 114,336.7 million) (previous year: €832.0 million; ¥ 102,820.4 million). The total carrying amount of interests in all associated companies classed as not material was €22.1 million (previous year: €33.5 million). The pro-rata share in the profit or loss from continuing operations of all individual associated companies classed as not material was €6.5 million (previous year: €12.0 million) and the pro-rata share in the other comprehensive income of these companies was €-4.9 million (previous year: €0.7 million). The prorata share in the total comprehensive income was therefore €1.6 million (previous year: €12.7 million). The company EagleBurgmann Venezuela C.A., Caracas, Venezuela, was included in the consolidated financial statements as an associated company for the first time with effect from the beginning of the financial year. In view of the currency restrictions in force in Venezuela, it was decided that here was no possibility of obtaining variable returns from the company and that a loss of control had therefore taken place. 130 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (6) Inventories (7) Receivables Inventories break down as follows: [€ million] Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Trade receivables 1,500.9 1,509.1 [€ million] Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Of which: Residual Raw materials and term up to 1 year 1,500.9 1,509.1 consumables 304.6 327.5 Of which: Residual Work in progress 135.7 149.2 term more than 1 year 0.0 0.0 Finished goods and merchandise 547.9 540.7 Other assets 262.4 232.6 Payments made on Of which: Residual account 3.2 4.5 term up to 1 year 211.5 177.4 991.4 1,021.9 Of which: Residual term more than 1 year 50.9 55.2 Inventories rose by €30.5 million compared with the After adjustment for effects resulting from changes in previous year. After eliminating the effects of changes the consolidated group and exchange rate effects, in the consolidated group and exchange rate effects, intrade receivables rose by about 6 percent. ventories rose by about 8 percent. The other assets for the year under review include penWrite-downs of inventories totaling €33.0 million (presion plan assets in excess of the corresponding pension vious year: €27.5 million) were recognized as expenses obligations amounting to €7.2million (previous year: in the reporting year. €0 million). Write-ups totaling €12.3 million (previous year: The other assets also include other tax receivables in €12.0 million) were effected on inventories as the reathe amount of €73.9 million (previous year: €75.3 milson for the impairment losses concerned no longer exlion) and liability insurance claims totaling €5.2 million isted. (previous year: €5.3 million). The inventories shown are not subject to any significant The claims for reimbursement in connection with restrictions on title or disposal. recognized provisions, which are included in other assets, are shown in the other provisions under note (11). 131 (8) Securities and cash at bank and in hand The profit distributed in the reporting year amounted to €114.4 million (previous year: €90.2 million). This [€ million] Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 corresponded to a profit per share of €0.25 (previous year: €0.20). Securities 30.6 82.0 Checks and cash in hand 4.1 3.7 The Board of Management proposes that the 2017 net Cash at banks 926.0 913.1 retained profit in the amount of € 2,015.3 million (pre960.7 998.8 vious year: € 1,559.5 million) should be carried forward to new account. The increase in securities mainly concerns a rise in In the reporting year, income (+) and expenses (-) commercial papers and other short-term investments. which had previously been recorded without an effect on net income with respect to the following components of other comprehensive income were (9) Equity reclassified to the statement of profit or loss: The subscribed capital in the amount of €450.0 million [€ million] Dec. 31,2016 Dec. 31,2017 (previous year: €450.0 million) consists of 450 million Exchange rate differences 23.3 -6.3 no-par-value registered shares. The sole shareholder of Freudenberg SE is Freudenberg & Co. KommanditgeDerivative financial instruments -0.2 -1.1 sellschaft, Weinheim (hereafter: Freudenberg & Co. KG). 23.1 -7.4 The reserves break down as follows: [€ million] Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 In the 2017 financial year, tax effects (income (+)/exCapital reserves 50.2 50.2 penses (-)) recorded without effect on net income are attributable to the various items of other comprehenRetained earnings 3,735.8 4,008.9 sive income as follows: 3,786.0 4,059.1 [€ million] Dec. 31,2016 Dec. 31,2017 Remeasurement of defined The capital reserves consist of contributions in kind benefit plans 10.9 -23.9 made by the shareholder. Securities and other items 0.3 19.1 11.2 -4.8 The retained earnings include net income earned by the Group in the past and not distributed as well as reserves of companies included in the consolidated financial statements including expenses and income recorded without effect on net income. 132 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Non-controlling interests This affiliated company is included in the consolidated financial statements with the following values: The change in non-controlling interests in the equity of consolidated affiliated companies from €367.3 million [€ million] to €325.9 million is mainly the result of the allocation Freudenberg-NOK General of profit for the year. Furthermore, dividends, exchange Partnership Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 rate differences and the acquisition of the remaining Current assets 296.8 303.6 shares in Integral Accumulator GmbH & Co. KG, WeinNon-current assets 319.8 290.8 heim, also resulted in a reduction in non-controlling inCurrent liabilities 110.4 124.8 terests. Non-current liabilities 79.9 49.0 In the case of the following affiliated company, the consolidated financial statements include significant non2016 2017 controlling interests in the amount of 25 percent of the Sales 655.8 656.5 shares: Profit (+)/loss (-) 54.8 60.3 Total comprehensive [€ million] income 67.4 -3.7 Freudenberg-NOK General Partnership, Plymouth, USA Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Profit (+)/loss (-) Freudenberg-NOK General Partnership paid dividends attributable to nonin the amount of €2.0 million (previous year: €5.0 milcontrolling interests 16.7 14.3 lion) to the holder of the non-controlling interests. Total amount of noncontrolling interests 112.0 109.8 Other non-controlling interests especially concern the EagleBurgmann Business Group, where they arise especially as a result of the contractual agreements with the partner Eagle Industry Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan. 133 (10) Provisions for pensions and similar obligations Apart from pension obligations, this item also includes obligations similar to pensions, such as amounts paid to The Freudenberg pension scheme consists of both deemployees upon the termination of their employment fined contribution and defined benefit pension plans. which do not constitute termination benefits. These benDefined benefit plans include both fixed salary and fiefits vary in accordance with the legal, tax and economic nal salary plans. The provisions for pensions and similar conditions in the countries concerned. obligations include obligations arising from current pensions and future pension entitlements. All defined benefit schemes of the Freudenberg Group are subject to typical actuarial risks, especially investThe pension plans at Freudenberg Group mainly conment and interest risks. cern German, US and British companies. The pension obligations of the German companies are commitCurrent service cost and net interest on the net defined ments financed by provisions. These obligations benefit liability are disclosed in the statement of profit are subject to the rules of the pension plan conor loss under personnel expenses in the relevant funccerned and the applicable statutory provisions. The tional areas. plans include benefit commitments dependent on service periods and on salaries and provide for disIn the case of the defined contribution plans, there ability benefits and benefits for surviving dependare no additional obligations apart from the payment ents as well as for retirement benefits. of contributions. Contributions paid are expensed under personnel expenses and amounted to In the reporting year, the 2 largest US pension plans €77.6 million in 2017 (previous year: €78.4 million). were settled with effect from June 30, 2017. The winding-up was effected by a combination model including The defined benefit obligations were calculated on actuthe transfer to an external insurer of entitlements alarial principles by the projected unit credit method. The ready earned and one-off payments to the plan particcalculation was based on the following discount rates as ipants. major actuarial assumptions: The pension plans of British companies and the remaining US companies are managed by third party pension funds. The representatives of the pension Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 funds are legally obliged to act in the interest of all parGermany 1.80 % 1.85 % ticipants in the plan. In cooperation with investment USA 3.75 % 3.82 % advisers, they are responsible for the development and United Kingdom 2.79 % 2.40 % regular review of investment strategies for the plan assets. Commitments based on age and years of service include both retirement benefits and certain forms of survivor benefits. Most of these plans are frozen and In the case of the other foreign companies, the disfuture entitlements can no longer be earned by plan count rates ranged from 0.5% to 3.0% (previous year: participants. The pension obligations of these compa0.3% to 4.0%). nies are mainly financed by plan assets, funded chiefly by employers’ contributions. As a result of the pension plan regulations, the assumed trend in salaries and pensions only has an effect on the value of pension obligations in exceptional cases. 134 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Net obligations are shown in the following items of the statement of financial position: [€ million] Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 758.1 735.9 Other assets 0.0 7.2 758.1 728.7 Net obligations are calculated as follows: [€ million] Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Present value of funded obligations 518.4 299.9 Fair value of plan assets -464.1 -275.4 Surplus (-)/deficit (+) 54.3 24.5 Present value of unfunded obligations 703.8 704.2 758.1 728.7 135 Defined benefit obligations developed as follows: United Miscella[€ million] Germany USA Kingdom neous 2016 Present value of defined benefit obligations, Jan. 1, 2016 539.8 155.9 193.3 87.3 976.3 Current service cost 14.0 0.0 0.0 6.7 20.7 Interest cost 12.0 6.5 5.9 2.4 26.8 Gains (-) and losses (+) from remeasurement of defined benefit obligations 35.8 2.1 31.1 9.7 78.7 Gains (-) and losses (+) on settlements 0.0 -0.2 0.0 -0.1 -0.3 Past service cost 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.4 -0.4 Contributions by plan participants 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.7 0.7 Liabilities extinguished on settlements 0.0 -3.3 0.0 -1.1 -4.4 Benefits paid -18.7 -8.6 -8.3 -9.8 -45.4 Changes in consolidated group 47.6 18.3 0.0 122.6 188.5 Other changes 4.6 -0.1 0.0 -3.0 1.5 Exchange rate differences 0.0 5.7 -27.7 1.5 -20.5 Present value of defined benefit obligations, Dec. 31, 2016 635.1 176.3 194.3 216.5 1,222.2 United Miscella[€ million] Germany USA Kingdom neous 2017 Present value of defined benefit obligations, Jan. 1, 2017 635.1 176.3 194.3 216.5 1,222.2 Current service cost 16.2 0.6 0.0 8.0 24.8 Interest cost 11.2 3.4 5.0 2.1 21.7 Gains (-) and losses (+) from remeasurement of defined benefit obligations -1.9 9.7 -8.5 0.4 -0.3 Gains (-) and losses (+) on settlements 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.5 Past service cost -1.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1.2 Contributions by plan participants 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.7 0.7 Liabilities extinguished on settlements 0.0 -135.2 -45.5 -2.9 -183.6 Benefits paid -21.2 -5.4 -9.9 -9.0 -45.5 Other changes 1.0 -2.1 0.0 6.7 5.6 Exchange rate differences 0.0 -18.9 -6.4 -15.5 -40.8 Present value of defined benefit obligations, Dec. 31, 2017 639.2 28.9 129.0 207.0 1,004.1 136 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The plan assets of funded pension plans developed as follows: United Miscella[€ million] USA Kingdom neous 2016 Fair value of plan assets, Jan. 1, 2016 134.0 187.9 28.2 350.1 Interest income 5.6 5.8 0.6 12.0 Gains (-) and losses (+) from remeasurement of plan assets -0.2 19.9 6.9 26.6 Contributions by employer 10.6 2.0 -0.6 12.0 Contributions by plan participants 0.0 0.0 0.7 0.7 Benefits paid -8.6 -8.3 0.5 -16.4 General plan administration costs -1.1 -0.3 -0.1 -1.5 Changes in consolidated group 15.5 0.0 89.2 104.7 Other changes -3.4 0.0 0.6 -2.8 Exchange rate differences 4.9 -27.0 0.8 -21.3 Fair value of plan assets, Dec. 31, 2016 157.3 180.0 126.8 464.1 United Miscella[€ million] USA Kingdom neous 2017 Fair value of plan assets, Jan. 1, 2017 157.3 180.0 126.8 464.1 Interest income 3.5 4.6 0.8 8.9 Gains (-) and losses (+) from remeasurement of plan assets 4.3 2.7 5.1 12.1 Contributions by employer 17.8 2.0 7.7 27.5 Contributions by plan participants 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.8 Liabilities extinguished on settlements -135.4 -45.5 -2.9 -183.8 Benefits paid -5.4 -9.9 -6.5 -21.8 General plan administration costs -1.5 -0.3 0.0 -1.8 Other changes -1.8 0.0 5.7 3.9 Exchange rate differences -16.9 -5.9 -11.7 -34.5 Fair value of plan assets, Dec. 31, 2017 21.9 127.7 125.8 275.4 137 The fair value of plan assets with quoted prices in ac[€ million] 2016 2017 tive markets was as follows: Gains (+) and losses (-) from remeasurement, Jan. 1 -354.9 -397.7 [€ million] Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Gains (+) and losses (-) from remeasurement of defined Equity instruments 115.0 104.4 benefit obligations -78.7 0.3 Interest-bearing securities 158.7 51.0 Of which: as a result of Other assets 87.1 66.5 changed financial assumptions -78.1 -4.5 360.8 221.9 Of which: as a result of changed demographic The fair value of plan assets without quoted prices in assumptions 5.0 6.5 active markets was as follows: Of which: as a result of experience-based adjustments -5.6 -1.7 [€ million] Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Gains (+) and losses (-) from Equity instruments 0.8 0.8 remeasurement of plan assets 26.6 12.1 Interest-bearing securities 0.1 0.3 Reclassifications/other changes 1.1 70.4 Other assets 102.4 52.4 Exchange rate differences 8.2 9.8 103.3 53.5 Gains (+) and losses (-) from remeasurement, Dec. 31 -397.7 -305.1 In the reporting year, gains and losses from the remeasurement of the defined benefit obligations and plan assets recognized in retained earnings developed as In the following year, contributions in the amount of follows: €12.8 million (previous year: €36.1 million) will probably be made to plan assets. The weighted average duration of defined benefit obligations as at the end of the reporting year was 16.9 years (previous year: 16.7 years). The possible changes in the defined benefit obligation as a result of changes in the discount rate, a major actuarial assumption, were calculated on the basis of the projected unit credit method. If the discount rate as at the statement of financial position date had been 0.50 percentage points lower, the present value of defined benefit obligations as at the statement of financial position date would have been €88.2 million (previous year: €103.9 million) higher. If the discount rate as at the statement of financial position date had been 0.50 percentage points higher, the present value of defined benefit obligations as at the statement of financial position date would have been €77.9 million (previous year: €89.7 million) lower. 138 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (11) Other provisions Warranties, guarantees Rebates, Personnel and onerous bonuses and Miscella[€ million] obligations contracts commissions neous Total Status Jan. 1, 2017 345.8 106.3 45.6 265.8 763.5 Increases 258.7 58.1 41.8 152.9 511.5 Unwinding of discount and effect of change in discount rate 0.0 0.3 0.0 0.3 0.6 Amounts used -214.0 -25.4 -29.6 -105.4 -374.4 Reversal -27.3 -23.0 -7.8 -36.7 -94.8 Exchange rate differences -12.3 -3.4 -3.0 -13.0 -31.7 Changes in consolidated group 0.7 1.6 -0.2 0.9 3.0 Other changes -0.6 0.0 1.3 -4.3 -3.6 Status Dec. 31, 2017 351.0 114.5 48.1 260.5 774.1 Of which: long-term 58.9 24.2 1.9 57.6 142.6 Of which: short-term 292.1 90.3 46.2 202.9 631.5 Reimbursement claims connected with provisions and shown in the statement of financial position under other assets 1.3 0.0 0.3 10.2 11.8 The provisions for personnel obligations mainly include The miscellaneous provisions include the following provisions for other short-term employee benefits such items: as bonuses and commissions, provisions for vacation not taken and other long-term employee benefits such [€ million] Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 as long-term remuneration components as well as proRestructuring 42.9 35.9 visions for termination benefits. Legal action 30.3 25.0 The provisions for guarantees and warranties concern Environmental products supplied and services rendered, as do proviprotection 21.2 18.6 sions for rebates, bonuses and commissions. The proAdvertising 9.8 8.5 visions for onerous contracts include unrealized losses Other 161.6 172.5 from contracts which have not been performed or not Total 265.8 260.5 been fully performed. 139 (12) Liabilities Residual term Residual term More More Up to 1 to than Dec. 31, Up to 1 to than Dec. 31, [€ million] 1 year 5 years 5 years 2016 1 year 5 years 5 years 2017 Liabilities to banks (= financial debt) 90.7 541.6 58.2 690.5 201.3 342.1 10.5 553.9 1 Cash pool liablilities 98.0 0.0 0.0 98.0 Other financial debt, including leasing 12.6 2.5 4.0 19.1 12.4 1.6 3.8 17.8 Shareholder’s loans 365.0 150.0 150.0 665.0 370.0 150.0 150.0 670.0 Accounts of Freudenberg & Co. KG Partners 170.6 245.3 0.0 415.9 178.1 274.3 0.0 452.4 Financial debt 638.9 939.4 212.2 1,790.5 859.8 768.0 164.3 1,792.1 Trade payables 907.2 0.0 0.0 907.2 882.9 0.0 0.0 882.9 Advance payments received on orders 22.0 0.0 0.0 22.0 21.1 0.0 0.0 21.1 Miscellaneous liabilities 492.5 179.2 191.6 863.3 420.4 183.2 97.5 701.1 Other liabilities 514.5 179.2 191.6 885.3 441.5 183.2 97.5 722.2 2,060.6 1,118.6 403.8 3,583.0 2,184.2 951.2 261.8 3,397.2 1 Prior year disclosure in other liabilities The average interest rate on long-term liabilities to The interest payable on the certificates of indebtedbanks is 0.83 percent (previous year: 1.04 percent). ness included in the liabilities to banks is based on variable and fixed components. Cash flows for variable and fixed interest and repayment of principal will probably be as follows from 2018 to 2023: [€ million] Book value Cash flows Dec. 31, 2017 2018 2019 2019 2023 Certificates of indebtedness 336.5 126.2 2.8 219.3 Other financial debt includes loans granted by third parties. This item also includes liabilities in connection with finance leasing, with an average interest rate of 3.22 percent (previous year: 3.70 percent). Further details are given in the information on finance leases under note (2). 140 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The loans granted by the shareholder were extended Miscellaneous liabilities include liabilities for tooling during the reporting year. Interest is payable on these cost contributions, outstanding wages and salaries, loans at rates between 1.00 and 3.35 percent (previous holiday pay and special bonuses and liabilities for other year: between 1.00 and 3.35 percent). taxes, as well as liabilities in connection with social security. The interest rates applicable to accounts of Freudenberg & Co. KG Partners vary between 1.00 and 4.00 percent depending on the individual agreements (previous year: between 1.00 and 4.00 percent). Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations [€ million] Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Bills of exchange 0.5 0.1 Guarantees 11.7 27.4 Warranty agreements 8.3 8.0 Miscellaneous 5.0 10.1 25.5 45.6 OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS Commitments arising from leasing contracts1 316.5 390.3 Purchase commitments in connection with intangible assets 1.8 0.5 Purchase commitments in connection with tangible assets 58.1 48.0 Purchase commitments in connection with the delivery of goods and services 95.0 105.8 Miscellaneous 2.7 10.2 474.1 554.8 1 See also the explanatory remarks on leased assets in note (2) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the following contingent liabilities and other financial commitments concern joint ventures: 141 [€ million] Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Guarantees 6.3 6.0 Warranties 0.0 0.4 6.3 6.4 OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS Commitments arising from leasing contracts1 24.1 15.8 Purchase commitments in connection with tangible assets 1.3 0.0 Purchase commitments in connection with the delivery of goods and services 0.2 0.1 25.6 15.9 1 See also the explanatory remarks on leased assets in note (2) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additional information on financial instruments • Available-for-sale financial assets The term “financial instrument” is used to refer to any This category includes all the other financial assets contract that gives rise to both a financial asset of one which cannot be allocated to any of the categories enterprise and a financial liability or equity instrument mentioned above. of another enterprise. A distinction is made between primary and derivative financial instruments. Primary • Financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value financial instruments in the case of the purchase or sale through profit or loss of assets are recognized at the settlement date, i.e. the delivery of the asset concerned. Derivative financial inThese include: struments are recognized as of the trade date. In the – financial assets or financial liabilities held for tradevent of loss of control over the contractually agreed ing and rights to a financial asset, the asset concerned is derec– financial assets or financial liabilities designated ognized. Financial liabilities are derecognized on the by the entity as at fair value through profit or loss statement of financial position when the commitment upon initial recognition. is discharged or cancelled, or expires. Under IAS 39, financial instruments are divided into the Freudenberg does not hold any financial assets or fifollowing categories: nancial liabilities for trading purposes. • Loans and receivables Freudenberg did not avail itself of the fair value option under IAS 39 under which it is possible to measure any This category includes financial assets with fixed or financial asset or financial liability at fair value through determinable payments that are not quoted in an acprofit or loss. tive market. • Held-to-maturity investments Held-to-maturity investments are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that an entity has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. 142 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Primary financial instruments Loans, receivables and liabilities are recognized at amortized cost. Available-for-sale financial assets are Primary financial instruments are assigned to categorecognized at fair value without effect on net income ries on the basis of the relevant items in the statement except where the fair value of such assets cannot be reof financial position. The allocation to the categories liably determined. In such cases, these assets are recogunambiguously defines the accounting and measurenized at acquisition costs. Any impairments are shown ment of the instruments. in the statement of profit or loss with an effect on net income. Available-forsale financial assets at fair value without Available-forOther financial Loans and effect on sale financial liabilities receivables at profit assets at at amortized Book value [€ million] amortized cost or loss amortized cost cost Dec. 31, 2016 ASSETS Other financial assets1 7.9 72.3 47.9 128.1 Trade receivables 1,500.9 1,500.9 Other assets 140.2 140.2 Securities and cash at bank and in hand 960.7 960.7 2,609.7 72.3 47.9 2,729.9 LIABILITIES Financial debts 1,790.5 1,790.5 Trade payables 907.2 907.2 Other liabilities 493.4 493.4 3,191.1 3,191.1 1 Prior-year disclosure corrected compared to the 2016 Annual Report. 143 Available-forsale financial assets at fair Available-forOther financial Loans and value without sale financial liabilities receivables at effect on profit assets at at amortized Book value [€ million] amortized cost or loss amortized cost cost Dec. 31, 2017 ASSETS Other financial assets 8.3 84.2 30.0 122.5 Trade receivables 1,509.1 1,509.1 Other assets 104.9 104.9 Securities and cash at bank and in hand 998.8 998.8 2,621.1 84.2 30.0 2,735.3 LIABILITIES Financial debts 1,792.1 1,792.1 Trade payables 882.9 882.9 Other liabilities 407.8 407.8 3,082.8 3,082.8 Freudenberg currently does not hold any held-toThe fair values of financial instruments held by maturity investments. Freudenberg and measured at fair value were determined on the basis of active markets for identical asThe fair values of financial assets and liabilities recsets (level 1 inputs) at €84.2 million (previous year: ognized at amortized cost are approximately equal €72.3 million). to their book values. 144 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Information on credit risks [€ million] Trade receivables Other assets Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Book value 1,500.9 1,509.1 140.2 104.9 Of which: neither past due nor impaired 1,261.6 1,200.2 135.2 95.0 Of which: not impaired as at the date of the statement of financial position and past due within the following time Up to 60 days 174.0 232.2 1.9 7.7 Between 61 and 120 days 28.4 34.6 0.2 0.3 Between 121 and 180 days 9.7 17.2 0.2 0.6 Between 181 and 360 days 8.2 9.6 1.6 0.4 More than 360 days 7.6 3.7 0.7 0.5 In the case of trade receivables and other assets for Impairment losses to other assets developed as follows: which no impairments have been recognized and which are not past due, no defaults are expected. The [€ million] 2016 2017 major part of trade receivables (normally between 70 Impairment losses Jan. 1 2.3 2.7 and 90 percent of each receivable) is covered by credit Changes in consolidated insurance. Otherwise, the book value represents the group 0.4 0.0 maximum credit risk associated with each receivable. Exchange rate differences 0.0 -0.1 Additions (expenses for Impairment losses to trade receivables developed as impairments) 0.0 0.3 follows: Amounts used 0.0 -2.0 Reversals (write-ups) 0.0 -0.4 [€ million] 2016 2017 Impairment losses Dec. 31 2.7 0.5 Impairment losses Jan. 1 19.4 26.6 Changes in consolidated group 2.8 -0.7 In the year under review, impairment losses to receivaExchange rate differences 0.0 -1.3 bles totaling €4.9 million (previous year: €4.2 million) Additions (expenses for impairments) 11.8 7.2 were reversed as the reason for the impairment no Amounts used -3.2 -4.8 longer applied and impairment losses in the amount of €7.5 million (previous year: €11.8 million) were set up. Reversals (write-ups) -4.2 -4.5 These impairment losses were recognized where payImpairment losses Dec. 31 26.6 22.5 ments were no longer expected or no longer expected in full. 145 Derivative financial instruments As in the previous year, there were no derivatives entered into for the purpose of interest rate hedging as at Freudenberg SE is responsible for all financing activities December 31, 2017. and also operates the cash management system for the entire group of companies. Group companies obAs at December 31, 2017, the face value of currency futain the financing they require via cash pools or intertures concluded for hedging foreign exchange risks and nal loans or, in some countries, in the form of bank still open was €105.4 million (previous year: €46.1milloans guaranteed by Freudenberg SE. lion). The negative fair value of these instruments as at December 31, 2017 was €0.9 million (previous year: The limits of action, responsibilities and control negative fair value of €1.8 million). procedures in connection with derivative financial instruments are laid down in a binding form in inOf the total volume of derivatives, 0 percent (previous ternal directives for Group companies. Freudenberg year: 4.8 percent) had a term of more than one year. does not expose itself to additional financial risks through speculation with derivative financial inThe following fair values of derivative financial instrustruments but uses such instruments only for ments are included in the other assets and other liabilhedging purposes and therefore reducing risks in ities respectively: connection with transactions. Future transactions are only hedged if there is a high probability of oc[€ million] Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 currence. OTHER ASSETS Currency futures 0.8 0.9 As a general principle Freudenberg uses derivative financial instruments for hedging interest rate and foreign exchange risks. OTHER LIABILITIES Currency futures 2.6 1.8 Fair values are determined on the basis of quoted prices, accepted market information systems or discounted cash flows. In the reporting year, value changes in the case of currency futures (cash flow hedges) are recognized in eqDerivative financial instruments for hedging recoguity in the amount of €-0.1 million (previous year: nized assets or liabilities (fair value hedges) are €-1.0 million). shown in the statement of financial position at fair value. Changes in the fair value are recorded in the The fair values of currency futures were determined on statement of profit or loss. Financial instruments the basis of the quoted currency future prices for simifor hedging future cash flows (cash flow hedges) lar financial instruments (level 2 inputs). are also included in the statement of financial position at fair value, but changes in the fair value of such instruments are recognized without effect on Risks in connection with financial instruments net income under retained earnings, taking into consideration the applicable income taxes. Such Freudenberg is exposed to risks resulting from changes changes are recognized in the statement of profit in exchange rates and interest rates and, as a general or loss when the underlying transactions conprinciple, uses conventional derivative instruments cerned are effected. Ineffective portions of hedge such as interest rate swaps, caps and currency futures transactions are always recognized in the stateto hedge risks in connection with business operations ment of profit or loss. and financing to a limited extent. The use of these instruments is governed by Freudenberg directives Derivative financial instruments used for hedging purwithin the risk management system which lay down poses without any eligible underlying transaction are limits on the basis of the value of the underlying transmeasured at fair value with an impact on net income. actions, define approval procedures, exclude the use of 146 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements derivative instruments for speculative purposes, miniCurrency risk: mize credit risks and govern internal reporting and the separation of functions. Compliance with these direcThe primary financial instruments are chiefly held in tives and the proper handling and measurement of the functional currency. transactions are regularly verified, observing the principle of separation of functions. Furthermore, risk manExchange rate differences caused by the conversion of agement for financial instruments is integrated in the financial statements into the Group currency are not Freudenberg Group risk management system. taken into consideration. The risks which are hedged are chiefly as follows: If the value of the euro against major currencies held at the date of the statement of financial position (USD, GBP and JPY) had been 10 percent higher as at DecemInterest rate risk: ber 31, 2017, the profit before income taxes would have been €8.0 million (previous year: €5.4 million) In the case of fixed-interest loans or investments, there lower. If the value of the euro against major currencies is a risk that changes in the market interest rate will afheld (USD, GBP and JPY) had been 10 percent lower as fect the market value of the item concerned (market at December 31, 2017, the profit before income taxes value risk contingent on interest rates). In contrast, varwould have been €9.8 million (previous year: €6.6 miliable interest loans and investments are not subject to lion) higher. this risk as the interest rate is adjusted to reflect changes in the market situation with a very short delay. However, there is a risk with respect to future interest Liquidity risk: payments as a result of short-term fluctuations in market interest rates (cash flow risk contingent on interest Risks connected with cash flow fluctuations are identirates). fied by the cash flow planning system already in place. As a result of Freudenberg‘s good rating (A3) and the Risks associated with interest rate changes mainly afcredit lines granted by banks on a binding basis, fect long-term items. A fall in long-term interest rates Freudenberg can access ample sources of funds at all results in a decrease in the fair value shown on the times. statement of financial position for derivative financial instruments concluded for interest rate hedging. Credit risk: If market interest rates had been 0.5 percentage points higher or lower, on average, as of December 31, 2017, Specific provisions and individualized generic provithis would have had only an insignificant impact on sions are recognized to take account of identifiable net income. risks not covered by credit insurance. Otherwise, the book value represents the maximum credit risk. Freudenberg only concludes derivative financial instruments with national and international banks of at least investment grade rating. Credit risks are largely limited by distributing hedges between several banks and a policy of applying caps to individual banks. 147 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS (13) Sales (17) Research and development expenses Apart from personnel and material expenses, research [€ million] 2016 2017 and development expenses chiefly include the cost of Sales from sales of goods 7,628.7 9,027.8 licenses and patents occurring in the course of develSales from services 148.5 159.4 opment projects. Sales from research and development / research and development licenses 52.8 73.3 (18) Other income Sales from productionrelated licenses 1.2 1.4 [€ million] Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Other sales 68.9 83.7 Currency and exchange 7,900.1 9,345.6 rate gains1 8.3 0.0 Income from other secondary business 2.4 2.1 Other sales include, inter alia, sales from rental and Income from disposals of intangible and tangible lease contracts and sales from support and suppleassets 15.0 8.3 mentary operations. Income from the change in status of investments previously consolidated at-equity 583.5 22.2 (14) Cost of sales Income from disposals of financial assets 63.7 0.8 Cost of sales, amounting to €6,171.1 million (previous Income from recharges 7.9 7.6 year: €5,085.2 million), indicates the cost of goods and services sold. Apart from individual directly attributaMiscellaneous income 61.9 62.3 ble costs, such as personnel expenses and material ex742.7 103.3 penses, overheads, including depreciation/amortiza1 after offsetting of exchange rate losses tion, are also shown under cost of sales. Amortization of capitalized development expenditure amounted to €2.9 million (previous year: €1.3 million). The fall in other income is chiefly due to one-off effects from the previous year. Firstly, income from the change in status of investments previously consolidated at eq(15) Selling expenses uity occurred in 2016 (Vibracoustic Group in the amount of €567.9 million and Japan Vilene Group in the Selling expenses, amounting to €1,365.8 million (previamount of €15.6 million). Secondly, other income for ous year: €1,298.1 million) include all expenses inthe previous year also included income from the discurred in the sales area, for example personnel, adverposal of financial assets as a result of the sale of the tising, carriage and packaging expenses. Freudenberg Schwab Vibration Control Group. (16) Administrative expenses In 2017, administrative expenses amounted to €622.6 million (previous year: €600.3 million). Administrative expenses include all expenses which cannot be allocated to production, sales or research and development and concern, inter-alia personnel expenses and miscellaneous administrative expenses. 148 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (19) Other expenses (22) Other investment result The increase in the other investment result from [€ million] Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 €-0.7 million to €36.8 million was mainly a result of Currency and exchange rate the fact that more income from dividends was losses1 0.0 7.8 realized in the financial year. Losses resulting from disposals of intangible and tangible assets 6.6 7.6 (23) Other interest and similar income Losses from the change in status of investments Other interest and similar income rose from €10.7 previously consolidated atequity 5.7 2.5 million to €13.3 million. Losses resulting from disposals of financial assets 0.3 3.4 Miscellaneous expenses 125.3 77.8 (24) Interest and similar expenses 137.9 99.1 In 2017, interest expenses amounted to €44.0 million 1 (previous year: €37.8 million). This item chiefly inafter offsetting of exchange rate gains cludes interest on shareholder’s loans in the amount of €12.5 million (previous year: €12.1 million) and inThe miscellaneous expenses include a wide variety of terest payable to the Partners of Freudenberg & Co. operating expenses. For the previous year, this item inKG in the amount of €12.1 million (previous year: cluded the impairment loss on the goodwill of the €10.9 million). cash-generating unit Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies, amounting to €50.9 million. (25) Income taxes This item shows German corporation tax (plus solidar(20) Income from investments in joint ventures ity surcharge) and municipal trade taxes and similar The decrease in income from investments in joint ventaxes on income payable in other countries. tures from €54.2 million to €21.5 million was caused by the change in status of the Vibracoustic Group to full The figure also includes deferred taxes on temporary consolidation with effect from July 1, 2016. differences between the tax balance sheets and commercial balance sheets of individual companies, on adjustments to uniform measurement within (21) Income from investments in associated Freudenberg and on consolidation transactions. companies Deferred taxes are calculated at the tax rates applicable The rise in income from investments in associated in the countries concerned. companies from €47.5 million to €79.4 million is a result of the increased pro rata share in the profit of the Income taxes break down as follows (expense (-) /inassociated company NOK Corporation, Tokyo, Japan. come (+)): This was offset by the change in status of Japan Vilene to full consolidation by virtue of gaining control with [€ million] 2016 2017 effect from April 1, 2016. Current taxes related to the reporting period -243.1 -258.2 Current taxes related to prior periods -2.8 8.7 Deferred taxes 67.7 66.5 -178.2 -183.0 149 The amount of deferred tax income related to changes As of December 31, 2017, tax losses carried forward in tax rates was €17.3 million (previous year: deferred amounted to €417.7 million (previous year: €394.0 miltax income of €1.6 million).. Deferred tax income inlion). Deferred tax assets were recognized in respect of cludes income in the amount of €51.9 million (previous tax losses carried forward totaling €29.7 million (previyear: €66.3 million) resulting from the development or ous year: €42.1 million). Deferred tax assets were not elimination of temporary differences. In the reporting recognized in respect of tax losses carried forward with year impairment losses with respect to deferred taxes a total amount of €388.0 million (previous year: on temporary differences were recognized in the €351.9 million) as it is not expected that these losses amount of €6.4 million (previous year: €1.5 million). will be usable. Of the tax losses carried forward, €6.7 million (previous year: €13.0 million) will be forfeited in the In the reporting year, deferred taxes related to transacperiod up to 2027 if they are not used. tions recognized directly under equity resulted in an reduction in equity of €4.8 million (previous year: inIn the reporting year, tax losses carried forward tocrease in equity of €11.2 million). taling €17.0million (previous year: €18.6 million) for which no deferred tax assets had been recognized were used. 150 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Deferred taxes concern temporary differences and tax losses carried forward with the following amounts: Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities assets liabilities [€ million] Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2017 Intangible assets 16.1 357.1 14.6 312.9 Tangible assets 9.8 136.0 11.1 116.7 Financial assets 2.3 2.7 0.9 2.1 Inventories 43.9 0.5 36.4 1.0 Receivables 11.3 8.5 16.3 10.3 Other assets 2.4 0.2 6.3 0.5 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 130.2 0.0 121.7 0.3 Other provisions 88.5 1.3 69.3 1.8 Liabilities 39.8 30.4 45.8 11.0 Other liabilities 0.2 9.7 0.1 4.4 Tax losses carried forward 9.1 0.0 6.4 0.0 353.6 546.4 328.9 461.0 Offsetting -124.9 -124.9 -103.9 -103.9 Recognized in statement of financial position 228.7 421.5 225.0 357.1 No deferred tax items were set up on temporary differences arising from shareholdings totaling €38.7 million (previous year: €37.0 million) as short-term dividend payments are not expected. 151 Reconciliation of expected income tax with actual [€ million] 2016 2017 income tax expense Profit before income taxes 1,265.1 883.1 Expected income tax Freudenberg SE and its German subsidiaries are subexpense (-)/ income (+) -379.5 -264.9 ject to corporation tax (plus solidarity surcharge) and Different tax rates: the municipal trade tax on income. Income realized in In Germany 0.1 0.3 other countries is taxed at the rates applicable in the In other countries 15.8 29.2 countries concerned. The tax rate of 30.0 percent (preTax portion of: vious year: 30.0 percent) used for calculating the exNon-taxable income 240.0 52.4 pected tax expense is based on the structure of Freudenberg relevant for taxation. It is calculated as the Non-deductible expenses -54.0 -39.2 weighted average of the tax rates for the regions in Current taxes related to prior periods -2.8 41.2 which Freudenberg realized its main income. Tax portion of new tax losses carried forward for which no deferred tax assets were recognized -10.7 -13.7 Tax portion of tax losses carried forward and used for which no deferred tax assets were recognized 2.4 2.1 Other taxation effects 10.5 9.6 Actual income tax expense -178.2 -183.0 Effective tax rate (percent) 14.1 20.7 (26) Profit or loss attributable to non-controlling interests [€ million] 2016 2017 Profit 56.7 56.0 Loss -11.5 -7.8 45.2 48.2 152 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (27) Cash flow from operating activities (28) Cash flow from operating activities The cash flow from operating activities takes into acPayments to shareholders and non-controlling intercount dividends received from joint ventures totaling ests include dividends paid to the shareholder, to the €0.3 million (previous year: €22.8 million) and diviPartners of Freudenberg & Co. KG and to holders of dends received from associated companies totaling non-controlling interests in Group companies. €24.0 million (previous year: €26.0 million). (29) Reconciliation of financial debt The table below shows the reconciliation of financial debt: Effective [€ million] 2016 payments Not effective payments 2017 Acquisitions / Exchange Disposals rate effects Others Liabilities to banks 690.5 -126.8 0.2 -10.0 0.0 553.9 1 Liabilities from cash pool 77.6 20.9 0.0 0.0 -0.5 98.0 Other financial debt, Including liabilities from finance lease liabilities 19.2 -26.3 0.4 -1.1 25.6 17.8 Shareholder’s loans 665.0 5.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 670.0 Accounts of Freudenberg & Co. KG Partners 415.8 36.9 0.0 0.0 -0.3 452.4 Financial debt 1,868.1 -90.3 0.6 -11.1 24.8 1,792.1 1 Prior-year disclosure in other liabilities (30) Cash flow from operating activities Freudenberg recognizes checks, cash in hand, cash at bank and short-term securities with an original term of up to 3 months as cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents include funds with an amount of €1.1 million (previous year: €2.9 million) subject to restrictions on use. The funds subject to restrictions on use by Freudenberg largely concern cash and cash equivalents held by affiliates which can only be used by Freudenberg with restrictions as a result of exchange controls. 153 FURTHER NOTES Material expenses Research and development [€ million] 2016 2017 In the year under review, research and development activities amounting to €427.8 million (previous year: Raw materials, consumables and merchandise purchased 3,007.3 3,721.2 €335.1 million) were performed. Of this amount, Services purchased 215.6 274.8 €72.7 million (previous year: €52.5 million) were charged to third parties. The figure includes government 3,222.9 3,996.0 grants for research and development projects totaling €2.3 million (previous year: €2.5 million). Workforce and personnel expenses Research and development activities include research and development expenses disclosed in the consoliIn the year under review, an average of 47,657 (previous dated statement of profit or loss as well as capitalized year: 40,951) persons were employed in the following development expenditure for the current financial year functions: less amortization. Other 2017 Germany countries Total Production 6,548 25,394 31,942 Sales 1,897 6,101 7,998 Research and development 1,662 1,783 3,445 Administration 1,307 2,965 4,272 11,414 36,243 47,657 [€ million] 2016 2017 Wages and salaries 1,869.0 2,083.9 Social security contributions and costs of pensions and assistance 448.8 526.6 Personnel expenses 2,317.8 2,610.5 154 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Related party disclosure Other related parties include other participations of the parent company and companies that are not inRelations with related parties concern the parent comcluded in the consolidated financial statements for reapany Freudenberg & Co. KG, joint ventures, associated sons of materiality. Transactions with these parties in companies and other related parties. the course of the company’s ordinary business were as follows: Receivables Payables Residual Residual Residual Residual term up to term more Dec. 31, term up to term more Dec. 31, [€ million] Sales 2016 1 year than 1 year 2016 1 year than 1 year 2016 Parent company 7.6 2.9 0.0 2.9 447.0 300.0 747.0 Joint ventures 51.6 26.9 0.0 26.9 3.1 0.0 3.1 Associated companies 17.3 4.8 0.0 4.8 10.0 0.0 10.0 Other related parties 3.4 1.7 0.0 1.7 37.6 0.0 37.6 79.9 36.3 0.0 36.3 497.7 300.0 797.7 Receivables Payables Residual Residual Residual Residual term up to term more Dec. 31, term up to term more Dec. 31, [€ million] Sales 2017 1 year than 1 year 2017 1 year than 1 year 2017 Parent company 7.7 2.4 0.0 2.4 471.0 300.0 771.0 Joint ventures 50.9 28.8 0.0 28.8 1.8 0.0 1.8 Associated companies 16.0 8.3 0.0 8.3 8.4 0.0 8.4 Other related parties 3.7 3.9 0.0 3.9 38.9 0.0 38.9 78.3 43.4 0.0 43.4 520.1 300.0 820.1 Related parties also include the members of the Board A current service cost of €4.8 million (previous year: of Management and the Supervisory Board. The mem€3.9 million) was incurred with respect to company bers of these bodies are listed under “Company pensions for Board of Management members. Boards”. An amount of €46.5 million (previous year: €48.3 milThe total remuneration of members of the Board of lion) was assigned to provisions for pension obligations Management, or expenditure for short-term payto former members of the Board of Management. ments for members of the Board of Management amounted to €8.5 million (previous year: €8.5 million). Under a service agreement, Freudenberg SE paid an amount of €0.8 million (previous year: €0.8 million) to its parent company for the performance of key management functions. 155 Fees of the Auditor Major events after the date of the statement of financial position The auditor, Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, performed the following serThere were no further events of major significance for vices in the 2017 financial year: the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the group of companies up to March 23, 2018 [€ million] 2017 (the date when the annual report was approved for publication by the Supervisory Board). Auditing services 1.5 Other sercives 0.8 Weinheim, March 23, 2018 2.3 Freudenberg SE The Board of Management 156 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Shareholdings SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT 31 DECEMBER, 2017 Share of Company Location Country capital [%] Freudenberg SE Weinheim Germany I. AFFILIATED COMPANIES Germany Blaesus Grundstücksverwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. Mainz Germany Vermietungs KG 70.47 Burgmann International GmbH¹ Wolfratshausen Germany 100.00 Capol GmbH¹ Elmshorn Germany 100.00 Carl Freudenberg KG Weinheim Germany 100.00 Chem-Trend (Deutschland) GmbH¹ Maisach-Gernlinden Germany 100.00 Corteco GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 CT Beteiligungs-GmbH¹ Munich Germany 100.00 Dichtomatik Vertriebsgesellschaft für technische Dichtungen m.b.H Hamburg Germany 100.00 DS Beteiligungs-GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 DS Holding-GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 DS Verwaltungs-GmbH Weinheim Germany 100.00 EagleBurgmann Atlantic GmbH Wolfratshausen Germany 75.00 EagleBurgmann Espey GmbH¹ Moers Germany 75.00 EagleBurgmann Germany GmbH & Co. KG¹ Wolfratshausen Germany 75.00 EagleBurgmann Germany Verwaltungs-GmbH Wolfratshausen Germany 75.00 EagleBurgmann Middle-East GmbH Wolfratshausen Germany 60.00 Externa Handelsund Beteiligungsgesellschaft mit beschränkter Weinheim Germany Haftung¹ 100.00 FCS-Munich GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 FFT Beteiligungs-GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 FHP Export GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 FHP Holding GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 FIT Service GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Chemical Specialities SE & Co. KG¹ Munich Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Dichtungsund Schwingungstechnik GmbH¹ Berlin Germany 100.00 Freudenberg DS Tooling Center GmbH & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Handelsund Beteiligungs-GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Haushaltsprodukte Augsburg GmbH¹ Augsburg Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg IT GmbH & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Medical Europe GmbH¹ Kaiserslautern Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials Apparel SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 157 Share of Company Location Country capital [%] Freudenberg Performance Materials Holding SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials Logistics SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials Service SE & Co. KG¹ Kaiserslautern Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Process Seals GmbH & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Real Estate GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies GmbH & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies GmbH¹ Hamburg Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Technology Innovation SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Verwaltungsund Beteiligungs-GmbH Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Wohnbauhilfe GmbH Weinheim Germany 100.00 FV Beteiligungs-GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Hemoteq AG Würselen Germany 74.97 Integral Accumulator GmbH & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Kaul GmbH Elmshorn Germany 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Deutschland SE & Co. KG¹ Munich Germany 100.00 Klüber Lubrication GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Klüber Lubrication München SE & Co. KG¹ Munich Germany 100.00 Lederer GmbH¹ Öhringen Germany 100.00 OKS Spezialschmierstoffe GmbH¹ Maisach-Gernlinden Germany 100.00 PTFE Compounds Germany GmbH¹ Bördeland Germany 100.00 Schneegans Freudenberg GmbH & Co. KG¹ Emmerich am Rhein Germany 51.00 SF GmbH Emmerich am Rhein Germany 51.00 SurTec Deutschland GmbH¹ Zwingenberg Germany 100.00 SurTec International GmbH¹ Bensheim Germany 100.00 Vibracoustic Asia Holding GmbH Weinheim Germany 100.00 Vibracoustic CV Air Springs GmbH Hamburg Germany 65.07 Vibracoustic Europe GmbH Darmstadt Germany 100.00 Vibracoustic Germany GmbH Breuberg Germany 100.00 Vibracoustic GmbH Darmstadt Germany 100.00 Vibracoustic GmbH & Co. KG Weinheim Germany 100.00 Vileda Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Other Countries Freudenberg S.A. Telas sin Tejer Buenos Aires Argentina 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Argentina S.A. Buenos Aires Argentina 100.00 Chem-Trend Australia Pty Ltd Thomastown Australia 100.00 EagleBurgmann Australasia Pty. Ltd. Ingleburn Australia 25.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies (Aust) Pty. Ltd. Braeside Australia 100.00 Freudenberg Household Products Pty. Ltd. Surrey Hills Australia 100.00 Freudenberg Pty. Ltd. Thomastown Australia 100.00 158 Consolidated Financial Statement – Shareholdings Share of Company Location Country capital [%] Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Pty. Ltd. Brendale Australia 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Australia Pty. Ltd. Thomastown Australia 100.00 EagleBurgmann Belgium B.V.B.A. Sint-Job-in-'t-Goor Belgium 75.00 FHP Vileda S.C.S. Verviers Belgium 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Belgium Netherlands S.A. Dottignies Belgium 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Benelux S.A./N.V. Dottignies Belgium 100.00 Chem-Trend Industria e Comercio de Produtos Quimicos Ltda. Valinhos Brazil 100.00 EagleBurgmann do Brasil Vedacoes Ltda. Campinas Brazil 75.00 Freudenberg Nao-Tecidos Ltda. Jacareí Brazil 100.00 Freudenberg Produtos do Lar Ltda. São Paulo Brazil 100.00 Freudenberg Servicos Corporativos da America do Sul Ltda. Barueri Brazil 100.00 Freudenberg-NOK-Componentes Brasil Ltda. Diadema Brazil 75.00 Klüber Lubrication Lubrificantes Especiais Ltda. Barueri Brazil 100.00 SurTec do Brasil Ltda. Valinhos Brazil 100.00 Vector Tecnologia do Brasil Ltda. Rio de Janeiro Brazil 99.90 Vibracoustic South America Ltda. Guarulhos Brazil 100.00 Hänsel Textil Bulgaria ood Rousse Bulgaria 100.00 Freudenberg Productos del Hogar Ltda. Santiago de Chile Chile 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Chile Ltda. Santiago de Chile Chile 100.00 Burgmann Dalian Co. Ltd. Dalian China 40.00 Burgmann Shanghai Ltd. Shanghai China 40.00 Changchun Integral Accumulator Co., Ltd. Changchun China 100.00 Chem-Trend (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 Chem-Trend Chemicals (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 Dichtomatik (China) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 EagleBurgmann Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 50.00 EagleBurgmann Technology (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. Tianjin China 50.00 Freudenberg & Vilene Interlinings (Nantong) Co. Ltd. Nantong China 87.50 Freudenberg & Vilene International (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 87.50 Freudenberg & Vilene Nonwovens (Suzhou) Co. Ltd. Suzhou China 87.50 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions (Ningbo) Co., Ltd. Ningbo China 100.00 Freudenberg Household Products (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Suzhou China 100.00 Freudenberg IT (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Suzhou China 100.00 Freudenberg Management (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 Freudenberg Medical Plastic & Metal Manufacturing (Shenzhen) Co., Shenzhen China Ltd. 100.00 Freudenberg Politex Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 Freudenberg Real Estate (Yantai) Co. Ltd. Yantai China 100.00 Freudenberg Spunweb (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 67.69 Freudenberg Vilene Filter (Chengdu) Co. Ltd. Chengdu China 87.50 Klüber Lubrication (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 159 Share of Company Location Country capital [%] Klüber Lubrication Industries (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 SurTec Metal Surface Treatment Technology Co. Ltd. Hangzhou China 100.00 Tianjin VIAM Automotive Products Co., Ltd. Tianjin China 75.00 Trelleborg Automotive Design (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 Vibracoustic (Shanghai) Sales and Trading Co. Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 Vibracoustic (Wuxi) Vibration Isolators Co., Ltd. Wuxi China 100.00 Vibracoustic (Yantai) Co. Ltd. Yantai China 100.00 Vibracoustic CV Air Springs (Yantai) Co. Ltd. Yantai China 65.07 Zhangjiagang Trelleborg Kunhwa Automotive Components Co. Ltd. Zhangjiagang China 51.00 Freudenberg Medical srl. San José Costa Rica 100.00 Chem-Trend A/S Copenhagen Denmark 100.00 EagleBurgmann KE A/S Vejen Denmark 75.00 EBI Atlantic A/S Vejen Denmark 75.00 EBI Middle-East A/S Vejen Denmark 60.00 Klüber Lubrication Nordic A/S Skovlunde Denmark 100.00 SurTec Scandinavia ApS Fredericia Denmark 100.00 OÜ Merinvest Lääne-Saare vald Estonia 100.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies Finland Oy Naantali Finland 100.00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions Oy Espoo Finland 100.00 Chem-Trend France S.A.S.U. Entzheim France 100.00 Corteco SAS Nantiat France 100.00 Dichtomatik S.A.S Mâcon France 100.00 EagleBurgmann France S.A.S. Sartrouville France 75.00 FHP Vileda S.A. Asnières Sur Seine France 100.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies SAS Les Ulis France 100.00 Freudenberg Immobilier SAS Chamborêt France 100.00 Freudenberg Joints Elastomères SAS Langres France 100.00 Freudenberg Joints Plats SAS Chamborêt France 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials S.A.S. Colmar France 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies SAS Langres France 100.00 Klüber Lubrication France S.A.S. Valence France 100.00 SurTec France S.A.S. Toulouse France 100.00 Vibracoustic France SAS Carquefou France 100.00 Vibracoustic Nantes SAS Carquefou France 100.00 FHP Hellas S.A. Kifissia, Athens Greece 100.00 Aquabio Ltd. Worcester United Kingdom 100.00 Auto Suppliers Limited Kidderminster United Kingdom 100.00 Capol (U.K.) Limited Huddersfield United Kingdom 100.00 Chem-Trend (UK) Ltd. Huddersfield United Kingdom 100.00 Corteco Ltd. Lutterworth United Kingdom 100.00 CT Interim Ltd. Huddersfield United Kingdom 100.00 160 Consolidated Financial Statement – Shareholdings Share of Company Location Country capital [%] CT Interim UK Two LP Huddersfield United Kingdom 100.00 Dichtomatik Ltd. Derby United Kingdom 100.00 EagleBurgmann Industries UK LP Warwick United Kingdom 75.00 EagleBurgmann Industries UK Ltd. Warwick United Kingdom 75.00 Filtamark Ltd. Crewe United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies UK Limited Crewe United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Household Products LP Rochdale United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Limited Littleborough United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies Ltd. Port Talbot United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas UK Ltd. Aberdeen United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials LP Littleborough United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Limited North Shields United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Technical Products LP North Shields United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Technical Products Ltd. North Shields United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Vileda Ltd. Rochdale United Kingdom 100.00 KE-Burgmann UK Ltd. Congleton United Kingdom 75.00 Klüber Lubrication Great Britain Ltd. Huddersfield United Kingdom 100.00 Metflex Holding Company Ltd Blackburn United Kingdom 100.00 Metflex Precision Mouldings Ltd Blackburn United Kingdom 100.00 Metflex Property Ltd Blackburn United Kingdom 100.00 Techlok Limited Port Talbot United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Textile Technologies, S.A. Guatemala City Guatemala 100.00 APEC (Asia) Limited Hong Kong Hong Kong 100.00 Freudenberg & Vilene Int. Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 87.50 Freudenberg Household Products Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 100.00 Freudenberg Trading (Hongkong) Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 100.00 Japan Vilene (Hong Kong) Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 75.00 Jump (Asia) Distributors Ltd Hong Kong Hong Kong 100.00 Klüber Lubrication China Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 100.00 Vibracoustic Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 100.00 Chem-Trend Chemicals Co. Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore India 100.00 Dichtomatik India Seals Private Limited Bangalore India 100.00 EagleBurgmann India Pvt. Ltd. Pune India 50.00 EagleBurgmann KE Pvt. Ltd. Chennai India 75.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies India Private Limited Pune India 100.00 Freudenberg Gala Household Product Pvt. Ltd. Mumbai India 60.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials India Pvt. Ltd. Chennai India 100.00 Freudenberg Regional Corporate Center India Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore India 100.00 Gimi India Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore India 100.00 Klüber Lubrication India Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore India 90.00 SurTec Chemicals India Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore India 100.00 161 Share of Company Location Country capital [%] Vibracoustic India Pvt. Ltd. Mohali India 100.00 Vibracoustic Noida Pvt. Ltd. New Delhi India 100.00 PT EagleBurgmann Indonesia Cikarang Bekasi Indonesia 24.98 PT Klüber Lubrication Indonesia Jakarta Indonesia 100.00 Pars Sealing Systems Co. Tehran Iran 75.00 VistaMed Ltd. Carrick-on-Shannon Ireland 90.00 Chem-Trend Italy del Dr. Gian Franco Colori S.a.s. Milan Italy 100.00 Corteco S.r.l. (a socio unico) Pinerolo Italy 100.00 Dichtomatik S.a.s. di Externa Italia S.r.l. Genoa Italy 100.00 EagleBurgmann BT S.p.A. Arcugnano Italy 75.00 EagleBurgmann Italia S.r.l. Vimercate Italy 75.00 Externa Holding S.r.l. Milan Italy 100.00 Externa Italia S.r.l. Pinerolo Italy 100.00 FHP di R. Freudenberg S.A.S. Milan Italy 100.00 Freudenberg Italia S.a.s. di Freudenberg S.p.A. Milan Italy 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials Apparel S.a.s. di Externa Holding Milan Italy S.r.l. 100.00 Freudenberg S.p.A. Milan Italy 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies S.a.s. di Externa Italia S.r.l.u. Pinerolo Italy 100.00 Freudenberg Tecnologie di Filtrazione S.a.s. di Externa Holding S.r.l. Milan Italy 100.00 Gimi S.p.a. Monselice Italy 100.00 Hänsel Textil Italia S.a.s. di Externa Holding S.r.l. Rho Italy 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Italia S.a.s. di G. Colori Milan Italy 100.00 Marelli & Berta Interfodere S.a.s. di Externa Holding S.r.l. Milan Italy 100.00 Politex S.a.s. di Freudenberg Politex s.r.l. Novedrate Italy 100.00 Chem-Trend Japan K.K. Kobe Japan 100.00 EagleBurgmann Japan Co., Ltd. Tokyo Japan 25.00 Freudenberg Spunweb Japan Company, Ltd. Osaka Japan 67.69 Japan VIAM Co., Ltd. Moriyama Japan 75.00 Japan Vilene Company Ltd. Tokyo Japan 75.00 Oshitari Laboratory, Inc. Sayama Japan 75.00 Oyama Chemical Co., Ltd. Oyama Japan 75.00 Pacific Giken Co., Ltd. Yasu Japan 75.00 SurTec MMC Japan KK Tokyo Japan 56.00 Vibracoustic Japan KK Yokohama Japan 100.00 Vilene Create Co., Ltd. Tokyo Japan 75.00 VIS Co., Ltd. Tokyo Japan 75.00 Freudenberg Vileda Jordan Ltd. Amman Jordan 51.00 Colarôme Inc. Saint-Hubert Canada 100.00 Dichtomatik Canada, Inc. Markham Canada 100.00 EagleBurgmann Canada Inc. Milton Canada 75.00 162 Consolidated Financial Statement – Shareholdings Share of Company Location Country capital [%] Freudenberg Filtration Technologies Inc. London Canada 100.00 Freudenberg Household Products Inc. Laval Canada 100.00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas Canada Inc. Nisku Canada 100.00 Freudenberg-NOK Inc. Tillsonburg Canada 75.00 TOO Freudenberg Oil & Gas Atyrau Kazakhstan 100.00 EagleBurgmann Colombia, S.A.S. Bogotá Colombia 75.00 SurTec d.o.o. Zagreb Croatia 100.00 EagleBurgmann (Malaysia) SDN. BHD. Shah Alam Malaysia 25.00 Freudenberg Household Products (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Petaling Jaya Malaysia 100.00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies Sdn. Bhd. Kuala Lumpur Malaysia 100.00 Freudenberg-NOK St Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Kuala Lumpur Malaysia 75.00 Klüber Lubrication (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Shah Alam Malaysia 100.00 Chem-Trend Comercial, S.A. de C.V. Querétaro Mexico 100.00 Dichtomatik de Mexico S.A. de C.V. Querétaro Mexico 95.50 EagleBurgmann Mexico S.A. de C.V. Cuautitlán Mexico 75.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies, S.A. de C.V. León Mexico 100.00 Freudenberg IT, S.A. de C.V. Puebla Mexico 100.00 Freudenberg Productos del Hogar, S.A. de C.V. Mexico City Mexico 100.00 Freudenberg-NOK Sealing Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Cuautla Mexico 75.00 Klüber Lubricacion Mexicana S.A. de C.V. Querétaro Mexico 100.00 Trelleborg Automotive Toluca SA de CV Toluca Mexico 100.00 VIAM Manufacturing Mexico S.A. de C.V. Aguascalientes Mexico 75.00 Vibracoustic de Mexico SA de CV Lerma Mexico 100.00 Vibracoustic Toluca SA de CV Toluca Mexico 100.00 Vitechmex Nonwovens S.A. de C.V. Aguascalientes Mexico 75.00 Dichtomatik B.V. Zwolle Netherlands 100.00 EagleBurgmann Netherlands B.V. Veenendaal Netherlands 75.00 Freudenberg Household Products B.V. Arnhem Netherlands 100.00 SurTec Benelux B.V. Reuver Netherlands 100.00 EagleBurgmann Norway AS Skedsmokorset Norway 75.00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions AS Skedsmokorset Norway 100.00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies AS Drammen Norway 100.00 Vestpak AS Sandnes Norway 100.00 Dichtomatik Handelsgesellschaft mbH Vienna Austria 100.00 EagleBurgmann Austria GmbH Salzburg Austria 75.00 EagleBurgmann Production Center Judenburg GmbH Judenburg Austria 75.00 Freudenberg Austria GmbH Kufstein Austria 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Austria GmbH & Co. KG Kufstein Austria 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Austria Ges.m.b.H. Salzburg Austria 100.00 Schneegans Freudenberg Silicon Ges.m.b.H Losenstein Austria 51.00 163 Share of Company Location Country capital [%] SurTec Produkte und Systeme für die Oberflächenbehandlung Salzburg Austria GesmbH 100.00 EagleBurgmann Philippines, Inc. Cavite Philippines 25.00 Chem-Trend Polska Sp. z o.o. Kobylnica Poland 100.00 Chem-Trend Polska sp. z o.o. spólka komandytowa Kobylnica Poland 100.00 EagleBurgmann Poland sp. z o.o. Warsaw Poland 75.00 FHP Vileda Sp. z o.o. Warsaw Poland 100.00 FIM Polska Sp. z o.o. Środa Śląska Poland 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Sp. z o.o. Warsaw Poland 100.00 Freudenberg Vilene Sp. z o.o. Lodz Poland 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Polska Sp. z o.o. Kobylnica Poland 100.00 SurTec Polska Sp. z o.o. Kobylnica Poland 100.00 Vibracoustic Polska Sp. z o.o. Środa Śląska Poland 100.00 ST Ibérica Sociedade Unipessoal, LDA Albergaria-a-Velha Portugal 100.00 Chem-Trend Romania s.r.l. Bucharest Romania 100.00 Freudenberg Household Products SRL Braşov Romania 100.00 Freudenberg Household Products Vileda Societate in Comandita Braşov Romania 100.00 Freudenberg Management Imobiliar SRL Braşov Romania 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials SRL Braşov Romania 100.00 Hänsel Textilrom srl Bucharest Romania 100.00 Klueber Lubrication Romania s.r.l. Sibiu Romania 100.00 SurTec Romania s.r.l. Braşov Romania 100.00 Vibracoustic Romania SRL Dej Romania 100.00 EagleBurgmann OOO Moscow Russian Federation 75.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies OOO Nizhniy Novgorod Russian Federation 100.00 Freudenberg Household Products Eastern Europe OOO St. Petersburg Russian Federation 70.00 Freudenberg Politex OOO Zavolzhye Russian Federation 100.00 Freudenberg Vileda Eastern Europe OOO Moscow Russian Federation 100.00 Klüber Lubrication OOO Moscow Russian Federation 100.00 OOO Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Moscow Russian Federation 100.00 OOO SurTec Moscow Russian Federation 100.00 Vibracoustic Volga OOO Zavolzhye Russian Federation 100.00 EagleBurgmann Saudi Arabia Ltd. Al-Khobar Saudi Arabia 51.00 Dichtomatik A.B. Landskrona Sweden 85.00 EagleBurgmann Sweden AB Norrköping Sweden 75.00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions AB Norrköping Sweden 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies AB Stockholm Sweden 100.00 Vibracoustic China Holding AB Forsheda Sweden 100.00 Vibracoustic Forsheda AB Forsheda Sweden 100.00 Vibracoustic Sweden Holding AB Forsheda Sweden 100.00 Vibracoustic Wuxi Holding AB Forsheda Sweden 100.00 164 Consolidated Financial Statement – Shareholdings Share of Company Location Country capital [%] EagleBurgmann (Switzerland) AG Höri Switzerland 75.00 Freudenberg Gygli AG Zug Switzerland 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies AG Zurich Switzerland 100.00 Klüber Lubrication AG (Schweiz) Zurich Switzerland 100.00 Freudenberg proizvodi za domacinstvo d.o.o. Belgrade Serbia 100.00 SurTec Cacak d.o.o. Čačak Serbia 100.00 Chem-Trend Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 100.00 EagleBurgmann KE Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 75.00 EagleBurgmann Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 25.00 EBI Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 25.00 EBI Asia Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 50.00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 100.00 Klüber Lubrication South East Asia Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 100.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies Slovensko, s.r.o. Potvorice Slovakia 90.00 Freudenberg Immobilienmanagement Slovakia, s.r.o Potvorice Slovakia 100.00 Freudenberg IT, s.r.o. Košice Slovakia 100.00 SurTec SK s.r.o. Vráble Slovakia 100.00 Freudenberg Gospodinjski Proizvodi d.o.o. Limbuš Slovenia 100.00 SurTec Adria d.o.o. Ljubljana Slovenia 100.00 EagleBurgmann Ibérica S.A. Madrid Spain 75.00 Freudenberg Espana S.A. Parets del Vallès Spain 100.00 Freudenberg Espana S.A., Telas sin Tejer, S.en C. Parets del Vallès Spain 100.00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions Iberica, S.L.U. Parets del Vallès Spain 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies, S.L.U. Parets del Vallès Spain 100.00 Klüber Lubrication GmbH Ibérica S.en C. Parets del Vallès Spain 100.00 Vibracoustic Cascante SAU Cascante Spain 100.00 Vibracoustic Spain Holding S.L.U. Martorell Spain 100.00 Vibracoustic Spain SAU Martorell Spain 100.00 Freudenberg & Vilene International Lanka (Private) Limited Colombo Sri Lanka 87.50 Hänsel Textil Lanka PVT Ltd. Colombo Sri Lanka 87.50 EagleBurgmann Seals South Africa (Pty) Ltd. Edenvale South Africa 55.47 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies (Pty) Ltd. Cape Town South Africa 100.00 Freudenberg Nonwovens (Pty.) Ltd. Cape Town South Africa 100.00 Klüber Lubrication (Pty.) Ltd. Alrode Alberton South Africa 100.00 SurTec South Africa Pty. Ltd. Alrode Alberton South Africa 100.00 Vibracoustic-Ikhwezi (Proprietary) Ltd. East London South Africa 70.00 Chem-Trend Korea Ltd. Anseong-si South Korea 100.00 EagleBurgmann Korea Co., Ltd. Osan South Korea 25.00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions Korea Ltd. Seoul South Korea 100.00 Korea Filtration Technologies Co., Ltd. Seoul South Korea 87.50 Korea Vilene Co., Ltd. Pyeongtaek-si South Korea 87.50 165 Share of Company Location Country capital [%] SurTec Korea Co., Ltd. Changwon-si South Korea 100.00 Vibracoustic Kunhwa Co. Ltd. Gyeongsan-si South Korea 51.00 EagleBurgmann Taiwan Co., Ltd. Kauohsiung Taiwan 25.00 Freudenberg & Vilene Nonwovens (Taiwan) Co. Ltd. Taoyuan Taiwan 87.50 Freudenberg Far Eastern Spunweb Comp. Ltd. Taoyuan Taiwan 67.69 Freudenberg Household Products (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. Taipeh Taiwan 100.00 Chem-Trend Trading (Thailand) Co. Ltd. Bangkok Thailand 100.00 EagleBurgmann (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Rayong Thailand 25.00 Freudenberg & Vilene Filter (Thailand) Co. Ltd. Chonburi Thailand 87.50 Jump Distributors (Thailand) Co Ltd Nonthaburi Thailand 100.00 Klüber Lubrication (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Bangkok Thailand 100.00 Lucky Gecko Co Ltd Bangkok Thailand 100.00 TrelleborgVibracoustic (Thailand) Ltd. Sriracha Thailand 100.00 VIAM Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Prachin Buri Thailand 75.00 Accu-Tech s.r.o. Chrastava Czech Republic 49.00 EagleBurgmann Czech s.r.o. Prague Czech Republic 75.00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions s.r.o. Prague Czech Republic 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies s.r.o. Opatovice nad Labem Czech Republic 100.00 Klüber Lubrication CZ, s.r.o. Prague Czech Republic 100.00 SurTec CR s.r.o. Prague Czech Republic 100.00 TPE správni s.r.o. Melnik Czech Republic 100.00 Vibracoustic CZ s.r.o. Melnik Czech Republic 100.00 Beltan Vibracoustic Titresim Elemanlari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Bursa Turkey 100.00 Blacktech Otomotiv Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Bursa Turkey 65.07 Eagle Burgmann Endüstriyel Sizdirmazlik Sanayi ve Ticaret Ltd. Istanbul Turkey 75.00 Freudenberg Household Products Evici Kullanim Araclari Sanayi ve Istanbul Turkey Ticaret A.S. 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Bursa Turkey 100.00 Freudenberg Vilene Tela Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Istanbul Turkey 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Yaglama Ürünleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Istanbul Turkey 100.00 Vibracoustic Çerkezköy Oto Parçaları Dış Ticaret A.S. Çerkezköy Turkey 100.00 Vibracoustic Çerkezköy Otomotiv Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Çerkezköy Turkey 100.00 Vibracoustic CV Air Springs Otomotiv Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Gemlik Turkey 65.07 Dichtomatik Kft. Budapest Hungary 100.00 EagleBurgmann Hungaria Kft. Budapest Hungary 75.00 Freudenberg Háztartási Cikkek Kereskedelmi BT Budapest Hungary 100.00 Freudenberg IM Hungária Kft. Nyíregyháza Hungary 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Kft. Kecskemét Hungary 100.00 Freudenberg Tömítés Ipari Kft. Lajosmizse Hungary 100.00 Vibracoustic CV Air Springs Magyarország Kft. Nyíregyháza Hungary 65.07 Capol LLC Deerfield USA 100.00 166 Consolidated Financial Statement – Shareholdings Share of Company Location Country capital [%] Chem-Trend Limited Partnership Howell USA 100.00 Dichtomatik Americas, L.P. Shakopee USA 100.00 EagleBurgmann Industries Inc. Houston USA 75.00 EagleBurgmann Industries LP Houston USA 75.00 Freudenberg Business Services LP Plymouth USA 100.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies LP Hopkinsville USA 100.00 Freudenberg Household Products Inc. Aurora USA 100.00 Freudenberg Household Products LP Aurora USA 100.00 Freudenberg IT LP Durham USA 100.00 Freudenberg Medical MIS, Inc. Jeffersonville USA 100.00 Freudenberg Medical, LLC Carpinteria USA 100.00 Freudenberg North America Limited Partnership Plymouth USA 100.00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas, LLC Houston USA 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials LP Durham USA 100.00 Freudenberg Real Estate LP Plymouth USA 100.00 Freudenberg Texbond L.P. Macon USA 100.00 Freudenberg-NOK General Partnership Plymouth USA 75.00 Freudenberg-NOK Holdings, Inc. Wilmington USA 75.00 International Seal Company, Inc. Santa Ana USA 75.00 Intpacor Inc. Plymouth USA 100.00 Klüber Lubrication NA LP Tyler USA 100.00 Pellon Corporation Plymouth USA 100.00 SurTec, Inc. Brunswick USA 100.00 Tobul Accumulator Incorporated Bamberg USA 100.00 Upper Bristol Ramp, LLC Wilmington USA 75.00 VIAM Holding, Inc. Manchester USA 75.00 VIAM Manufacturing, Inc. Manchester USA 75.00 Vibracoustic CV Air Springs USA, Inc. Wilmington USA 65.07 Vibracoustic North America Holdings, Inc. Plymouth USA 100.00 Vibracoustic North America LP Plymouth USA 100.00 Vibracoustic USA, Inc. South Haven USA 100.00 VICAM Inc. Manchester USA 75.00 VITECH Manufacturing L.P. Hopkinsville USA 75.00 VITECH Manufacturing, Inc. Hopkinsville USA 75.00 EagleBurgmann Middle East FZE Dubai United Arab Emirates 60.00 Freudenberg Oil and Gas FZE Dubai United Arab Emirates 100.00 ISE Industrial Sealing Equipment DMCC Dubai United Arab Emirates 75.00 Chem-Trend Vietnam Company Limited Ho Chi Minh City Vietnam 100.00 EagleBurgmann Vietnam Company Limited Ho Chi Minh City Vietnam 25.00 167 Share of Company Location Country capital [%] SurTec Viet Nam Co., Ltd. Ho Chi Minh City Vietnam 100.00 II. INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES (CONSOLIDATED BY EQUITY METHOD) Germany Other countries Corteco India Private Limited Gurgaon India 50.00 Cambus Teoranta Spiddal Ireland 50.00 Corfina s.r.l. Pinerolo Italy 50.00 NOK-Freudenberg Asia Holding Co. Pte. Ltd.² Singapore Singapore 50.00 TETL Holdings, LLC Dover USA 41.25 TTKKE Holdings, LLC Dover USA 30.00 III. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES (CONSOLIDATED BY EQUITY METHOD) Germany Other countries Hikotomi Industrial Co., Ltd. Hikone Japan 24.98 NOK Corporation Tokyo Japan 25.10 NOK Klüber Co., Ltd. Tokyo Japan 49.00 Shinwa Products Co., Ltd. Tsuzuranuki Japan 34.09 Klüber Lubrication Korea Ltd. Seoul South Korea 48.00 Dawson Manufacturing Company Benton Harbor USA 45.00 Ishino Gasket North America L.L.C. Plymouth USA 37.50 EagleBurgmann Venezuela, C.A. Caracas Venezuela 41.25 United Arab SurTec Middle East (L.L.C.) Sharjah Emirates 35.00 ¹ Application of Sec. 264 (3), HGB (Handelsgesetzbuch, “German Commercial Code”) and Sec. 264b, HGB ² Consolidated financial statements including Changchun NOK-Freudenberg Oilseal Co., Ltd., Changchun, China Corteco China Co. Ltd., Guangzhou, China Taicang NOK-Freudenberg Sealing Products Co., Ltd., Taicang, China NOK-Freudenberg Group Sales (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China NOK-Freudenberg Group Trading (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China Wuxi NOK-Freudenberg Oilseal Co., Ltd., Wuxi, China NOK-Freudenberg Hong Kong Ltd., Hong Kong, Hong Kong Sigma Freudenberg NOK PVT. Ltd., New Delhi, India 168 Consolidated Financial Statement – Shareholdings 169 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To Freudenberg SE Basis for the opinions Report on the audit of the consolidated financial We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report statements and of the group management report in accordance with Sec. 317 HGB and in compliance with Opinions German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der We have audited the consolidated financial stateWirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in Germents of Freudenberg SE, Weinheim, and its subsidiamany] (IDW). Our responsibilities under those requireries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated ments and principles are further described in the “Austatement of financial position as at 31 December ditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated 2017, the consolidated statement of profit or loss, the financial statements and of the group management consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the report” section of our auditor’s report. We are indepenconsolidated statement of cash flow, the consolidated dent of the Group entities in accordance with the restatement of changes in equity for the fiscal year from quirements of German commercial and professional 1 January to 31 December 2017, and notes to the conlaw, and we have fulfilled our other German professiosolidated financial statements, including a summary of nal responsibilities in accordance with these requiresignificant accounting policies. In addition, we have auments. We believe that the audit evidence we have obdited the group management report of Freudenberg SE, tained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis which has been combined with the management refor our opinions on the consolidated financial stateport, for the fiscal year from 1 January to 31 December ments and on the group management report. 2017. Other information In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in the audit, The supervisory board is responsible for the report of the supervisory board in the annual report. In all other • the accompanying consolidated financial staterespects, the executive directors are responsible for the ments comply, in all material respects, with the IFRSs other information. The other information comprises as adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to Sec. • the presentation of the company boards, the execut315e HGB and, in compliance with these requireive council and the management of the business ments, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabiligroups in the annual report, ties and financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2017 and of its financial performance for the • the foreword of the board of management in the anfiscal year from 1 January to 31 December 2017, and nual report and • the accompanying group management report as a • the section “responsibility for society” in the annual whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s report. position. In all material respects, this group management report is consistent with the consolidated fiOur opinions on the consolidated financial statements nancial statements, complies with German legal reand on the group management report do not cover the quirements and appropriately presents the opportuother information, and consequently we do not exnities and risks of future development. press an opinion or any other form of assurance conclusion thereon. Pursuant to Sec. 322 (3) Sentence 1 HGB, we declare that our audit has not led to any reservations relating In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial read the other information and, in so doing, to consider statements and of the group management report. whether the other information 170 Independent Auditor’s Report • is materially inconsistent with the consolidated fitems) as they have considered necessary to enable the nancial statements, with the group management repreparation of a group management report that is in port or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or accordance with the applicable German legal requirements, and to be able to provide sufficient appropriate • otherwise appears to be materially misstated. evidence for the assertions in the group management report. Responsibilities of the executive directors and the supervisory board for the consolidated financial The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the statements and the group management report Group’s financial reporting process for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and of the The executive directors are responsible for the preparagroup management report. tion of the consolidated financial statements that comply, in all material respects, with IFRSs as adopted by Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the the EU and the additional requirements of German consolidated financial statements and of the group commercial law pursuant to Sec 315e (1) HGB and that management report the consolidated financial statements, in compliance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial about whether the consolidated financial statements performance of the Group. In addition, the executive dias a whole are free from material misstatement, wherectors are responsible for such internal control as they ther due to fraud or error, and whether the group mahave determined necessary to enable the preparation nagement report as a whole provides an appropriate of consolidated financial statements that are free from view of the Group’s position and, in all material material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. respects, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and the knowledge obtained in the audit, In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the complies with the German legal requirements and executive directors are responsible for assessing the appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They future development, as well as to issue an auditor’s also have the responsibility for disclosing, as applicable, report that includes our opinions on the consolidated matters related to going concern. In addition, they are financial statements and on the group management responsible for financial reporting based on the going report. concern basis of accounting, unless there is an intention to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but there is no realistic alternative but to do so. is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Sec. 317 HGB and in compliance with Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial for the preparation of the group management report Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der that, as a whole, provides an appropriate view of the Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) will always detect a material Group’s position and is, in all material respects, consismisstatement. Misstatements can arise from fraud or tent with the consolidated financial statements, comerror and are considered material if, individually or in plies with German legal requirements and appropriathe aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to intely presents the opportunities and risks of future defluence the economic decisions of users taken on the velopment. In addition, the executive directors are basis of these consolidated financial statements and responsible for such arrangements and measures (systhis group management report. 171 We exercise professional judgment and maintain pro• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and confessional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: tent of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatefinancial statements present the underlying ment of the consolidated financial statements and of transactions and events in a manner that the consothe group management report, whether due to fraud lidated financial statements give a true and fair view or error, design and perform audit procedures of the assets, liabilities, financial position and finanresponsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence cial performance of the Group in compliance with that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional requifor our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material rements of German commercial law pursuant to Sec. misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 315e (1) HGB. one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentati• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarons, or the override of internal control. ding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express opinions • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant on the consolidated financial statements and on the to the audit of the consolidated financial statements group management report. We are responsible for and of arrangements and measures (systems) relethe direction, supervision and performance of the vant to the audit of the group management report in group audit. We remain solely responsible for our oorder to design audit procedures that are appropriate pinions. in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of these sys• Evaluate the consistency of the group management tems. report with the consolidated financial statements, its conformity with law, and the view of the Group’s po• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies sition it provides. used by the executive directors and the reasonableness of estimates made by the executive directors and • Perform audit procedures on the prospective inforrelated disclosures. mation presented by the executive directors in the group management report. On the basis of sufficient • Conclude on the appropriateness of the executive diappropriate audit evidence we evaluate, in particular, rectors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting the significant assumptions used by the executive diand, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether rectors as a basis for the prospective information, a material uncertainty exists related to events or conand evaluate the proper derivation of the prospective ditions that may cast significant doubt on the information from these assumptions. We do not exGroup’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we press a separate opinion on the prospective informaconclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are tion and on the assumptions used as a basis. There is required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to a substantial unavoidable risk that future events will the related disclosures in the consolidated financial differ materially from the prospective information. statements and in the group management report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our respective opinions. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to be able to continue as a going concern. 172 Independent Auditor’s Report We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. Mannheim, March 23, 2018 Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Prof. Dr. Wollmert Matischiok Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer [German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor] 173 EDITORIAL INFORMATION Freudenberg Group Hoehnerweg 2 – 4 69469 Weinheim, Germany PUBLISHED BY: Freudenberg & Co. Kommanditgesellschaft Corporate Communications Phone: +49 6201 80 0 CorporateCommunications@freudenberg.com www.freudenberg.com April 2018 Item No. FRE1040EN PHOTOS: Darren Baker/Shutterstock.com (p. 24 large photo) Mathew P A & Roshan J Uchil (p. 28 top) Fabio Baraldi (pp. 21 top right, 80) Vinko Murko (p. 76) Chem-Trend (p. 22 top) Gutho Peloggia (p. 29 left) Lance Corley (p. 23 bottom left) Photovideostock/E+/Getty Images (p. 18 bottom) demarcomedia/Shutterstock.com (p. 36 large photo) Andreas Pohlmann (pp. 6, 13 2nd from bottom, 15 2nd from top, 23 top right, dolgachov/123RF.com (p. 13 2nd from top) 24 top, 24 bottom, 27 bottom, 32 top, 32 bottom, 33 right, 36 top, 39, 49, enot-poloskun/E+/Getty Images (p. 13 top) 61, 82) FernandoAH/E+/Getty Images (p. 13 bottom) Marika Polita (p. 27 top) Freudenberg Group (pp. 15 bottom, 28 large photo) Private (p. 31 top left) Alessandro Giuzio (p. 21 top left) Mike Roberts (p. 64) Ralf Hiemisch/Getty Images (p. 32 large photo) Gerald Schilling (pp. 23 bottom right, 41, 68, 85) Tomomi Hirose (p. 78) Marco Schilling (pp. 16 bottom, 18 top, 22 bottom, 29 right, 31 bottom Jean-Paul Iltis (p. 21 bottom right and bottom left) left, 31 right, 33 left, 36 bottom, 73) Hero Images/DigitalVision/Getty Images (p. 13 large photo) simonkr/E+/Getty Images (p. 15 large photo) Martin Joppen (pp. 2, 3, 8, 34) Johan Swanepoel/Shutterstock.com (pp. 15 top, 18 large photo) Klüber Lubrication (p. 20 bottom) Jo Teichmann (pp. 23 top left, 66) Michaela Kuhn (p. 35) Vibracoustic (pp. 20 top, 70) Alfred Laffter (p. 25) Xiaoxin Wang (p. 30) Colin Macpherson (p. 16 top) Lin Zhou (p. 28 bottom) PROJECT TEAM: Corporate Communications: Cornelia Buchta-Noack (Lead) Andreas Baldauf Angela Gerhardt Katrin Jacobi Corporate Controlling DESIGN: and Accounting: m&s communication, Düsseldorf, Marco Altherr (Lead) Germany Katrin Fanenbruck GreenwoodFinch Corporate Tobias Feldrappe Communications, Elmstein, Germany Ellen Fichtner Realization with firesys GmbH Martina Franke Ina Fütterer PRODUCTION: Marcella Nagel Brinschwitz ABT Print und Medien, Weinheim, Bodo Peisch Germany Daniel Schwarz Florian Wätzig Define Yalcinkaya To improve readability, registered trademarks are Markus Ziegler omitted in this Annual Report.
