20 Our Responsibility 2017 Non-financial annual reporting 2017 for Toms Gruppen A/S Toms Group A/S Page 2 Our Responsibility 2017 About this report In this report, we outline our approach to corporate social Contents responsibility and report on our performance in 2017. A welcome from our CEO, describing what drives our work for sustainability and 05 Lasting results in an Corporate social responsibility statement responsibility matters related to our business, we asresponsibility ever-changing world This report covers the financial year 1 January 2017 to sess and report on material issues. With the UN Global 31 December 2017 and represents the corporate social Compact principles as our guide, we focus on the issues responsibility statement of Toms Group A/S as required representing either a significant risk or opportunity for by Sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Stateus in our business operations. As in previous years, this ments Act. report is structured according to the four areas of the Global Compact: Human Rights, Labour, Environment & Presentation of our approach to corporate Climate and Anti-corruption. responsibility and our efforts in 2017 to It is part of Toms Group’s annual reporting, along with 06 What is our responsibility? develop the Toms Group Responsibility the 2017 Annual Reports of Gerda & Victor B. Strands Strategy Fund, Gerda & Victor B. Strand Holding A/S and Toms Terms used Group A/S respectively, which present detailed informaIn this report, “Toms Group A/S”, “Toms Group”, “Toms tion about our operating and financial results. Confectionery Group”, “Toms Gruppen”, “Toms” and “the The financial Annual Report can be downloaded at Company” are used interchangeably in referring to Toms tomsgroup.com. Gruppen A/S consolidated with its subsidiaries. Our continued efforts to improve and ensure the livelihoods of cocoa farmers in Ghana, and We welcome and value your feedback 12 Human rights Communication on Progress 2017 how we work to make sustainable palm oil the to the UN Global Compact Please provide us with feedback and suggestions, which norm With this report we reaffirm our support of the 10 princican help us improve our reporting and meet your needs. ples of UN Global Compact by describing our actions to Contact Lea Holm, CSR Manager, at lsh@tomsgroup.com. continually improve the integration of the principles into This report was published by Toms Group A/S digitally in English on 21 March our business, culture and daily operations. 2018 and can be downloaded at tomsgroup.com. How we work to ensure a healthy, safe and stimulating work environment where our Material issues employees thrive in an environment of mutual 20 Labour In order to give a balanced overview of corporate respect and understanding of the strength of diversity Toms Group A/S Ownership Toms Allé 1 Toms Group A/S is a fully owned subsidiary of DK-2750 Ballerup, Denmark Gerda & Victor B. Strand Holding A/S, Ballerup, Our recent achievements in our continuous Denmark. work on minimising our energy consumption 26 Environment and climate Tel. (+45) 4489 1000 and CO2 emissions Fax: (+45) 4489 1099 Design Web: www.tomsgroup.com Meyer-Bukdahl E-mail: info@toms.dk Fireball Company reg. (CVR) no.: 56759328 Layout Our different control mechanisms safeguarding Established: 30 January 1924 Tappert Reklame our supply chain from corruption and in 30 Anti-corruption Registered office: Ballerup general ensuring responsible business practices with suppliers and customers Toms Group A/S Page 4 Our Responsibility 2017 Lasting results in an ever-changing world Letter from our CEO It is our firm belief that the ability to operate and develop Sustainable sourcing of our most important raw material, our business sustainably, with respect to both people and cocoa, will always be a key part of our approach to our our planet, plays a significant role in pursuing and ensurcorporate responsibility – or CSR, as this is often referred ing our continued growth and success. to. That said, our responsibility covers a range of other elements along our value chain as well. All these elements This belief was an important driver for us when, more are directly affected by the needs and requirements of than a decade ago, we became one of the first coman ever-changing world. panies in our industry to start to fight persistently for sustainable cocoa. In this report, we want to share with you how we have renewed our responsibility strategy in 2017 to meet This belief is still an important driver. And so are the these needs. The result is a more holistic, business-driven strong, lasting results we can now observe. strategy, which we are looking forward to continuing to implement in 2018. You can read more about this on The recent third-party evaluation of our project results page 6. shows that the 5,000 farmers growing our cocoa are now better able to achieve a stable, higher income. Most Key elements of this strategy have been part of our importantly, this is sustainable development: we have inherent approach to responsibility for years. These are, achieved a doubling of the use of environmentally friendnot least, the safety and well-being of our employees; our ly cultivation methods, and a tenfold increase in the numresponsibility for climate and the environment; and our ber of farmers now systematically replanting cocoa trees. support for anti-corruption. As in previous years, in this report we share our approach and results for these areas Other results that help us maintain our momentum are as well. Read more starting on page 20. the comprehensive improvements achieved for the children’s schooling and livelihood in general. Compared to I hope you will enjoy reading this report. just 2012, the dropout rate in our project schools is four times lower and school attendance has risen from 50 to 80 per cent. Carsten Lyngsø Thomsen Chief Executive Officer, Toms Group A/S In this report, we want to share the results of this work with you. And we want to share how, through close cooperation across the industry, we are also working for sustainability in the cocoa sector in general. Please have a look at page 12. Toms Group A/S Page 6 Our Responsibility 2017 WHAT IS OUR RESPONSIBILITY? Toms Group A/S Page 8 Our Responsibility 2017 Materiality asessment heat map What is our responsibility? 4.0 1 2 1 What does it take for a company to live up to its corporate 3.5 3 responsibility – to operate and develop its business responsibly 4 2 5 7 Importance to stakeholders 4 3 12 8 and sustainably? Where should efforts be focused, and which 3 2 1 resources should be used? 3.0 6 14 7 6 5 11 11 10 8 13 9 5 4 9 16 We believe the answers to these questions are relevant Illustrating the result of our materiality assessment this 2.5 17 for every company seeking to behave responsibly and to way gives an holistic and valuable picture of our corpo16 15 13 strengthen its financial and non-financial results. In 2017, rate responsibility. 6 19 18 10 therefore, we renewed our strategy for ensuring responsi18 15 bility along our value chain and, with this, the sustainabilIt guided us in prioritizing what must be the primary 14 2.0 20 17 12 ity of our business. elements of our responsibility strategy now – and what must be part of our general attention going forward. What matters most? We live in a constantly changing world. To continue Based on these results, we identified the three tracks in 1.5 consolidating our competitive market position – while our Responsibility Strategy illustrated at page 10. 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 continuing to meet the needs and expectations of our Importance to business multiple stakeholders – we must constantly adapt. Going forward, we will continually revisit this materiality assessment to ensure that our priorities and approach to Our Sourcing Our Operations Our Consumers In 2017 we conducted a thorough stakeholder, risk and our corporate responsibility constantly address the right materiality assessment to help us identify and prioritise issues for both our business and our stakeholders. Our Sourcing the issues that matter the most across our whole value 1 Child labour / children’s rights 8 Deforestation 15 Mineral oils in cardboard chain. The assessment included comprehensive research, 2 Cocoa 9 Transport (social and CO2) 16 Vanilla interviews and workshops with both internal and external 3 Responsible sourcing 10 Almonds 17 Hazelnuts stakeholders. 4 Human rights 11 Cocoa butter 18 Organic The result of this assessment is shown in the heatmap to 5 Packaging 12 Gelatin 19 Animal welfare the right. Here all issues identified in the assessment is 6 Certification 13 Women empowerment 20 Coconut rated on a scale from 0 to 5 on their importance for our 7 Palm oil 14 Licorice stakeholders and our business respectively. Our Responsibility Policy Our Operations It is important to note, that the axes on the heatmap Our Responsibility Policy sets the overall framework 1 Food safety 7 Employee branding 13 Employee development does not begin at “0”. All the focus areas in the heatmap for our work with responsibbility throughout our have some importance for both our business and stakevalue chain. Read the full policy here. 2 Product quality 8 Migrant workers 14 Employee health holders. 3 Employee safety / work accidents 9 Energy / CO2 15 Facilitation payment 4 Anti-corruption 10 Employee satisfaction 16 Waste 5 Psychological work environment 11 Physical work environment 17 Recycling 6 Water use / wastewater 12 Diversity / equality 18 Tax Our Consumers 1 Product labeling 3 Public health / nutrition 5 Healthier products / sugar 2 Marketing towards children 4 Toms Visitor Centre 6 Local engagement / charity Toms Group A/S Page 10 Our Responsibility 2017 Our Responsibility Strategy Responsibility Governance We aspire to good corporate governance, ensuring implementation and continued development of our Responsibility Strategy. To accomplish this goal, in 2017 we redefined our Responsibility Governance structure. The local ownership of the strategy’s focus areas has been enhanced with the development of a “Responsibility Team” working across the organisation to ensure that the development of each strategy track is aligned. Our Sourcing Our Operations Our Consumers Equally importantly, our top management’s role as our Central aspects of our corporate responsibilNaturally, our own operations are the part of We see it as part of our responsibility to be a “Responsibility Steering Committee” has been specified. ity are located at the beginning of our value our value chain that offer the greatest possibilproactive and responsible partner in our home Together with a clear annual cycle for discussions, decichain. ities for affecting the social and environmental market communities. sions and internal KPI development and reporting, this impact of our business. structure will help us to implement our business-driven Many of our goods are produced from critical This includes sponsorships and partnerships Responsibility Strategy, continuously adapting it to the raw materials that pose a potential risk to Therefore, it is our responsibility to ensure that supporting balanced and active lifestyles ever-changing needs of both our stakeholders and our humans or the environment along their often the right processes, framework conditions and among our consumers. business. complicated supply chains. initiatives are in place in order to continue the responsible production of high-quality products. We shoulder a special responsibility towards The heatmap on the previous page guided us in priorWith that fact comes great responsibility for future consumers by supporting them with itizing our efforts in all the very different areas of our us as a manufacturer to protect and ensure Central to achieving this are our efforts to information and knowledge needed to make corporate responsibility and sphere of possible influence. sustainable usage of the earth’s resources and achieve a safe, secure and healthy working conscious and responsible choices. We do this to act with respect for human rights at every environment with a high level of integrity and with a strong focus on our production chain, The three tracks in our Responsibility Strategy is illustratlink in our supply chain ensuring responsible business ethics. So are our efforts to minimise sustainability and a balanced lifestyle. ed to the left showing the clear connection between our procurement practices. the environmental footprint and climate impact business model/value chain and approach to our corpoof our production. rate responsibility. Product quality Environment Balanced Education Critical raw Responsible and food safety and climate lifestyle materials procurement Employees Business ethics Toms Group A/S Page 12 Our Responsibility 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS Toms Group A/S Page 14 Our Responsibility 2017 Over the last decade, we have worked closely with comBy taking this approach, our projects have wider scope petent partners such as Danida, Oxfam IBIS, Ecom and and are able to support a larger segment of the GhanaHuman rights local NGOs. The public–private cooperation has shown strong results, proving that it is indeed possible to make changes if you have a humble, patient and especially ian farming communities – reaching our shared goal of sustainable, efficient production. persistent approach. Results from our latest Danida partnership We are committed to developing a corporate culture and general From 2006 to 2016, our efforts in Ghana have been Effort is required to ensure respectful cooperation with framed by setting up different Danida Business Partnerconduct that embrace respect and support for human rights and the farmers. We want to empower the farmers by assistship projects. We have summarised some of the results seek to avoid any adverse human rights impacts through our ing them today and support them with the knowledge from the latest project in the box below. they need to take the lead in the continued sustainable activities and business relationships. development of their own farms and their communities. This is an extract from our Human Rights Policy, which we The policy and our declared support for these internaActions and results from our recent Danida Business Partnership Programme completed in 2015. It describes our continued support of tional standards are formal ways of highlighting our the principles contained in the United Nations Univerapproach to the people directly or indirectly affected by Improving the livelihood of 5,000 farmers Education and protection of 15,000 children sal Declaration of Human Rights as well as the funToms. damental labour principles that protect workers’ rights, What we have done What we have done defined in the ILO Core Conventions. Two groups are our primary focus in ensuring human • Training of 5,000 farmers in sustainable, • Education of parents in children’s rights and the rights along our value chain. These are firstly our Emproductive methods value of children’s schooling ployees, as described starting on page 20. Secondly, we • Development of Demo Farms • Improvement of school facilities and teaching Our Human Rights Policy take great responsibility for the people engaged in the • Cocoaand shadow-tree “nurseries” materials We believe our main responsibilities towards huproduction of our key raw materials. These are primarily man rights concern non-discrimination, employee • Individual guidance to farmers • Education of school teachers – improving the quality the cocoa farmers growing the cocoa used in our own of the education rights, occupational health and safety and the risk chocolate and cocoa farmers in general, and, finally, the • Access to planting materials of human rights violations within our supply chain. • Development and training of local parents groups people involved in the global palm oil production chain. • Safe loan and savings options This is described in our policy for Human Rights, supporting the children, and establishment of local which can be downloaded here. and regional grievance mechanisms Our responsibility for sustainable cocoa farming Some of our results:* We believe our responsibility towards the cocoa industry • Productivity and living conditions have improved Some of our results:* The policy was prepared in consultation reaches beyond human rights. To improve sustainability • Use of environmentally friendly cultivation with our law firm which has validated that in the cocoa sector, we need to take action towards social • Almost every child in the programme communities is methods has doubled now going to school it complies with the UN Guiding Principles. as well as environmental and financial sustainability. • 10 times more farmers are now replanting • The dropout rate is four times lower than in 2012 cocoa trees systematically Please read below about how we strive to achieve this, • Occurrence of children engaged in hazardous activiand how we work to enhance sustainability in the proties has declined significantly and is increasingly rare duction of another of our raw materials: palm oil. • Average number of hours children help with permitted tasks at their parents’ farms has decreased from A clear need for change 33 hours to 14 hours per year Improving the livelihood of the cocoa farmers has been the core of our work on responsibility and sustainability at Toms Group A/S for the last decade. That is a consequence of the clear need for change which confronted us when we started our close cooperation with the Ghanaian cocoa farmers back in 2006. Our approach Our long-standing engagement and commitment in Ghana is built on cooperation with the approximately *At the beginning of 2017, a third-party evaluation was finalised by international Agri Logic of the results from our latest 5,000 farmers who grow all of our West African cocoa. Danida-supported project running from 2012–2016. A project in partnership with Oxfam IBIS and Source Trust and with COOP The Ghanaian cocoa accounts for the vast majority of as co-financing partner. our total cocoa supply. Toms Group A/S Page 16 Our Responsibility 2017 How we continue the fight for sustainability Improving productivity and sustainability To continue the positive trend that we have set in moThe objective of our 2017 programme was mainly to build the capacities of farmers to develop business-related skills in tion during the last decade, in 2017 we developed and order to become more professional cocoa farmers. This included: implemented the Toms Sustainable Cocoa Sourcing • Training in good agricultural, environmental and social practices across all communities (1147 farmers: 1,542 Programme. female, 2,379 male). • Building of 8 demonstration farms which are being used to optimise the adoption of new farming practices. As the main partner in this, we decided to continue • Training of 586 farmers (376 males, 210 females) in business skills and assisting 825 farmers to set up additional working with SMS – an organisation previously known livelihood activities to better help them diversify their family incomes. as Source Trust – which was a key partner in the Danida • Individual Coaching and Farm Development Plans are new elements of our projects. Developed during 2016 to projects. improve adaption and fine-tuning of the new methods to the individual farmer and soil type. During 2017, 1,753 farmers were farm visited and coached. The Toms Sustainable Cocoa Sourcing Programme is being implemented in two cocoa growing regions of • Access to planting materials in order to rehabilitate the ageing farms. In collaboration with the Cocoa Research InGhana: Western and Brong Ahafo. stitute of Ghana (CRIG), the programme set up community-based seedling nurseries and trained farmers to manage them. Through the collaboration with WCF, we were able to secure a total of 7,614 pods with the potential to proThe programme continues the last decade of close duce 190,350 seedlings for the program. Seedlings are scheduled to be distributed to 250 farmers by April 2018. cooperation with the 5,000 farmers who live in the 112 • Access to Labour Services and Agro-Inputs on loan. communities located in these districts. • Village Savings and Loans (concept developed by CARE to turn financial independence into better lives). 12 Village and Savings Loans Associations have been set up in the program in 2017. In continuation of the former projects’ scope and results, • Additionally we initiated a new approach for rehabilitation of very old and inefficient cocoa farms: 5.5 acres of the scope for our 2017 project was to: cocoa farms belonging to 3 farmers have been rehabilitated in the program as at the end of 2017. 1. Further promote productivity and sustainable cocoa practices Fighting child labour 2. Continue the positive development in the Better income and living conditions for the farmers are key to eradicating child labour and building up the conditions eradication of child labour and children’s necessary for the cocoa communities to be sustainable in general. This empowers the farmers to give their children the schooling childhood and schooling that every parent wishes for their children. 3. Attract more young people into cocoa farming As shown in the box on page 15, our former Danida partnership progamme achieved making child labour extremely rare and getting almost every child in the programme communities to go to school. The objective of this year’s project Here is a summary of our initiatives and results in each has been to ensure that these strong results last and that the positive development continues. of these areas. For more information, please visit our We do this in collaboration with local community based NGOs, such as CODESULT and PROMAG (previously engaged in webpage at tomsgroup.com. these activities in our previous projects). We build capacity and educate communities to monitor and remediate any child labour cases and continue the development of a shared, fully adopted understanding of children’s rights. In 2018, we continue our fight for a sustainable cocoa industry through Toms Sustainable Cocoa Sourcing In 2017, 84 communities have been assisted to institutionalize Community Child Protection Committees (CCPCs). 177 inprogramme. dividuals have been trained (CCPCs members) on child labour and how to scout for child labour cases in the communities. Some of the key results achieved in 2017 are: To reach wider, we also fight for sustainability as active • 1,742 farmers trained on children’s rights and how to eradicate child labour. members of the leading international, cross-industry organizations in the field. See more on next page. • 3 cases of child labour were identified and have been solved. The children are now going to school and their school attendance and well-being are being followed up. Supporting the next generation of cocoa farmers As partners in the MASO Programme (together with MasterCard Foundation), we seek to empower the youth as agents of change in the cocoa sector by making cocoa farming and businesses in cocoa-growing communities an attractive and economically viable career choice for them. In 2017, we have enrolled 73 youth in the MASO programme. They now have all embarked upon the journey which will help them acquire the skills and knowledge necessary for them to function effectively as cocoa farmers and as successful business men and women in the cocoa sector. Toms Group A/S Page 18 Our Responsibility 2017 Sustainable palm oil RSPO palm oil for one specific ingredient. The palm oil in Palm oil represents a very small part of some of our prodthis ingredient is RSPO certified, but at the mass balance ucts. This is also the case for the majority of manufactursegregation level. ing companies in the food and beverage industry, which is why the global use of palm oil is enormous. So are the In 2018 we will reach our goal of 100 per cent RSPO negative social and environmental consequences if palm certified segregated palm oil, and in early 2018 we will oil is produced in an unsustainable manner. be audited in the RSPO standard. Finally, we will continue our work with RSPO to support the global development Therefore, we consider it part of our responsibility to do towards making sustainable palm oil the norm. what we can to make sustainable palm oil the norm. Why palm oil? In 2017 we achieved absolute assurance of RSPO The reason why we fight for sustainable palm oil is that, certified palm oil for 100 per cent of our products. (See grown in the wrong place and in the wrong way, the cultithe box below for information on the Roundtable on vation of palm oil can be devastating for people, wildlife, Sustainable Palm Oil, RSPO, sustainability certification nature and our climate. But, as oil palm trees produces system). far more oil per hectare than any other crop, it is not a responsible or sustainable solution to shift to other oil Together we are stronger • Cocoa Forest Initiative Our goal is to reach 100 per cent segregated RSPO sources. Ghana produces approximately 20 per cent of the In 2017, Toms Group became a signatory to the new certified palm oil. Segregation ensures that certified world’s cocoa – and Toms buys less than 0.5 per cent of initiative Cocoa Forest Initiative working for environsustainable palm oil is physically kept apart from nonWe therefore fight for a global transition to sustainable the cocoa produced in Ghana. Changes that reach the mental sustainability in the cocoa industry. At the UN sustainable palm oil throughout the supply chain, that it palm oil by following the leading international standard whole cocoa production industry therefore require action Climate Change Conference (COP23), together with is traceable and fully present in the end product. and guidance of RSPO. By doing this, we follow the by the leading cocoa and chocolate manufacturing comtop cocoa-producing countries Côte d’Ivoire and Gharecommendations from WWF and support the internapanies and call for broad cooperation across the industry na and leading chocolate and cocoa companies, we In 2017 we achieved 94.4 per cent of this goal, as one tional goal in the Amsterdam Declaration of 100 per cent in different kinds of associations. announced far-reaching Frameworks for Action to end single supplier has not been able to source segregated sustainable palm oil supply chain by 2020. deforestation and restore forest areas. To fulfil our responsibility in making this happen too, we actively take part in a range of national and international • Danish Ethical Trading Initiative cooperation initiatives: In 2017 we continued our membership of DIEH which promotes ethical trade and responsible supply chain • International Cocoa Initiative (ICI) management among Danish companies and public Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Since 2009 we have been a partner in ICI to support institutions. RSPO is a not-for-profit association created in 2004 the initiative’s important efforts to improve the lives to promote the growth and use of sustainable of children and contribute to the elimination of child palm oil products through credible global standards labour in cocoa-growing communities and the cocoa • CEN/ISO standard and engagement of stakeholders. supply chain. Read about the impressive results here. The European Committee for Standardization (CEN) RSPO palm oil is a credible way to tackle tropical and the International Organization for Standardization deforestation and environmental and social issues • World Cocoa Foundation (WCF) (ISO) are driving the development of a joint standard of palm oil production. For more information, see Since 2011, Toms Group has been supporting the WCF for traceable and sustainable cocoa which can help rspo.org to help to achieve our shared goal on cocoa sustainabilaligning industry efforts and bring sustainably imity. WCF supports cocoa communities, education, field proved cocoa production into the mainstream. Toms programmes and scientific research. For more informahas been an active participant in the development of tion, visit the WCF website. this standard from the beginning. The standard is forecast to be finalised in 2018. Read about the standard • Cocoa Livelihoods Program here. Toms Foundation supports the WCF Cocoa Livelihoods Program running from 2014 to 2019. The programme is working to increase farm-level productivity of cocoa and food crops of 200,000 smallholder cocoa-growing households in Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana and Nigeria. For more information on the programme and its impressive results, click here. Toms Group A/S Page 20 Our Responsibility 2017 LABOUR Toms Group A/S Page 22 Our Responsibility 2017 Labour A matter of respect We are against all forms of discrimination and seek Diversity We strongly believe that a diverse workforce improves our performance potential, strengthens our competitiveness, to meet all our employees and applicants with and makes Toms a better place to work. “We strive to be an inclusive workplace where each employee thrives respect, regardless of differences in: and has the opportunity to develop. We believe in the importance of • Gender, age, sexuality, ethnicity, disability In all recruitment processes for both employee and management positions, we always strive to have candidates our employees having a good work–life balance, and we also want and life situation of the under-represented gender among the candidates. to support employees having a healthy and active life.” • Views and opinions, religion, interests, ambitions, Likewise, in general we also strive to maintain a diverse philosophy of life, personal priorities workforce in terms of other diversity parameters. This is from Our Responsibility Policy, where we deFor all except two parameters, the survey showed a highscribe how we aim to make a positive contribution along er score than the average Danish manufacturing comSource: Toms Diversity Policy. Other examples of how we put the words in our diversity our value chain. This is not least the case when it comes pany in the food and beverage industry. Several drivers, Read the whole policy here. policy into action are: to our 1,200 employees who, as the key to our long histoincluding Job Satisfaction, are Top in Class. ry and success, have developed Toms into the company • Career development: Through annual personal perwe are today. formance dialogues with each employee, we evaluate Denmark and Sweden Poland our employees’ needs for training and development. Below we describe how we have continued our efforts The purpose is to ensure a continued match between in 2017 to ensure our employees’ health, security and Job satisfaction and motivation Job satisfaction and motivation employees’ competences and the future requirements opportunity to develop at Toms, respecting the necessary of the organisation. work–life balance. • Language teaching: In addition to the training and Employee engagement survey educational opportunities we offer our employees Every year we conduct a systematic employee engagewithin their own specific job area, we offer classes in 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 ment survey. We do this to highlight any challenges and Danish, English or German to employees who, for varipotential for improvement of our work environment. ous reasons, need to be better at one or more of these Loyalty Loyalty languages. Through the employees’ anonymous responses, the survey measures how employees evaluate their work at • Systematic engagement survey: Annual employee Toms on a range of parameters covering job satisfacengagement survey. (See details and results of recent tion, motivation and dedication as well as a number of survey in the previous section “Employee engagement “drivers” for these: reputation, management, cooperation, survey”). job content, wages and working conditions, and opportu0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 nities for learning and development. • Flexi jobs and wage subsidies: As far as possible, we Average Danish manufacturing company in the food and beverage industry Average Polish manufacturing company in the food and beverage industry meet the needs for arrangements with flexible jobs and Toms Toms The 2017 survey conducted in Denmark, Sweden and wage subsidies to help employees maintain a connecPoland had a response rate of 91 per cent. tion to the labour market. We are very happy with the great results in Denmark and Results for Poland were generally lower. We have adWork environment in numbers Sweden. But the value of the survey is first and foremost dressed this separately in Poland through follow-up These initiatives help us in our efforts to meet our emThe survey at our two Danish production sites and the its ability to show us areas where we can improve. We meetings with all employees, followed by action plans for ployees’ diverse and changing needs for training, supSwedish office showed a generally high level, not least on have therefore worked to focus on ensuring a thorough possible improvements. port and development, and strengthen the benefits of a the parameters Job Satisfaction and Loyalty. evaluation process at both team and country level. diverse workforce for Toms. Toms Group A/S Page 24 Our Responsibility 2017 Denmark Poland Gender distribution in management Our health and safety organisation at our two factories in In 2017, we have taken a number of initiatives in Poland The six Board Members on the Board of Toms Group A/S are up for election every four years and are elected by the Denmark is structured in 15 safety groups, each responsito improve workplace safety. general meeting. In 2016, Board Member Flemming Sundøe retired and Carsten Wehrmann was elected to the ble for a workplace area and the people employed in that board; accordingly, the 100 per cent male gender distribution was maintained. No female candidates were identiarea. These include additional marking of emergency exits fied in the recruitment process. There are, in addition, three staff-elected Board Members, two of whom are female. and roads; installation of additional fire extinguishers; The Board of Directors aims to have at least one female board member elected by the general meeting by 2020. In 2016, all safety groups made a complete workplace establishment of a “safe platform” for handling recycled assessment of their area and on this basis produced an cardboard; purchasing of two additional electric hand The executive management group at Toms comprises eight members, two of whom are female. action plan. trucks and training for workers in the use of electric hand The group of managers below the executive management level comprises 68 members: 28 per cent women trucks. and 72 per cent men. This is the same gender distribution as in 2016. In 2017 we have been working to complete more meaExecutive Management Middle Management sures from the workplace assessments. Staying healthy From 2018 we will implement yearly workplace assessWe aim to offer a healthy working environment for all ments, in order to go into a few topics in depth each employees. Employees are offered vaccinations, free year, and we have reviewed all the topics for our industry access to healthcare services such as physiotherapy and over a 3-year period. The topics for 2018 are accidents, massage, either on-site or near their place of work, and 25% training and instruction – which is in line with our contindiscounted access to spinning and gym facilities and 28% ued focus on accident prevention. sports clubs. Occupational accidents We work systematically and in a targeted way to continually improve workplace safety at our factories. Our focus in this work is both the optimisation of the physical conditions and the creation of a culture where safety is balanced 75% 72% against the company’s other goals. We believe that our total efforts on health and safety at work are best measured by the accident frequency. Below Women we report on this parameter for our production and packaging factories. Men The graph below shows the accident frequency for the past years at our two factories in Denmark, our German Chocolate factory and our Polish Packing Facility. A guide for all of us we translate our Code of Conduct into behaviour in our Occupational accidents per 1 m working hours In 2017 we introduced an internal Code of Conduct to daily lives and trains our employees, through a series of guide us all through large and small choices in our daily dilemmas, in how each of them should act towards each 60 life. It describes what we at Toms believe to be ethical other, our customers and other business partners. and responsible behaviour. It aims to help us all always 50 to behave properly in our relations with our customers, In 2018, all employees will revisit the Code of Conduct 40 suppliers, colleagues and society. to ensure a continuous focus on ethical behaviour across 30 Toms Group. Our Code of Conduct is based on the ten principles in the 20 UN Global Compact in order to ensure that this initiative With the introduction of this Code of Conduct, we 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 reinforces our compliance with the Global Compact prinhave set up an e-mail address (whistle@tomsgroup. Danish Chocolate Factory Candy Confectionery Factory German Chocolate Factory Polish Packing Facility ciples. We believe it is essential that our commitment to com) to help our employees confidently report serious the Global Compact is not only a statement of intent. breaches of the rules which they discover. This internal The number of occupational accidents showed an increase in 2017 for our Danish chocolate factory while the level whistleblower scheme is being introduced as part of the was unchanged at our candy confectionery factory. The regrettable increase is due to an increase in production Our strong foundation must continue to be reflected e-learning programme for the purpose of enhancing a along with overtime and use of temporary workers. At our German factory, the number of lost working day cases in actual operations. Therefore, as part of our Code of work environment that promotes openness and ensuring per 1 million working hours was 40.6 in 2017, equivalent to the level in 2016. At our Polish site, the number was Conduct, we have described how our guidelines result in that important information is not withheld. markedly lower, with 7.8 cases per million working hours. certain specific rules and how they are reflected in actions In 2018 we will keep focusing on accident prevention, training and instruction. and decisions. Occupational health and safety It is our general duty to ensure the safety and health of workers in every aspect related to their work. Below we An accident is defined as a work-related accident involving lost working time, excluding those accidents in which time lost is This is described in an e-learning course, which has been describe our efforts and results for each of our sites. restricted to the day of occurrence. It is worth mentioning that our statistics cover all accidents, but only count the working rolled out and completed by all employees in Toms Group hours of the hourly workers. during 2017. This course contains a description of how Toms Group A/S Page 26 Our Responsibility 2017 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE Toms Group A/S Page 28 Our Responsibility 2017 From cocoa shells to energy As part of our partnership with Ørsted, we use our cocoa shells, a biodegradable waste product in chocolate production, to produce district heating. This is used for heating Danish households, thus contributing both to Environment and climate the environment and to savings for Toms. In 2017 we supplied 373 MT of cocoa shells to the Avedøre Power Station. This was 16 MT more than in Environment and climate is one of the cornerstones of our 2016. At the power station, the cocoa shells are used approach to our responsibility. We have an objective to minimise as biofuel to produce district heating. our impact on both global climate and the local environment In 2017, the 373 MT of cocoa shells produced district through targeted efforts at energy savings, support of green heating approximately equivalent to the annual heat consumption of 98 Danish family homes. conversion and responsible use of resources in our supply chain. Energy Denmark German factory is on the optimisation of energy-related Green power Total energy consumption at Toms Group increased by The energy consumption per MT product produced at performance, as well as the improvement of energy effiIn 2017 we purchased green certificates from Anholt 0.5 per cent in 2017, and is now 5.7 per cent below the our two Danish factories has decreased by 7 per cent in ciency and energy use. offshore wind farm corresponding to our entire energy total consumption in 2012. 2017. This was mainly a result of volume increase in our consumption in Denmark. Compared to 2012, by the end of 2017 Toms Group has Danish chocolate factory. This resulted in a reduction of 3.3 per cent in energy reduced the emission of CO2 per MT product produced consumption compared to the previous year. A further The certificates include “climate for investment”, ensurby 29 per cent. Measured in terms of CO2 , in 2017 we have increased our reduction is expected for 2018 due to investment. ing that more than 70 per cent of the price of the green total CO2 emissions by 8.5 per cent as a result of volume Supported by funds from the German Federal Office for certificates is reinvested in the development of new This was mainly a result of purchasing green energy. increase. Economic Affairs and Export Control, in 2017 we built a renewable energy. Most recently, the money from the Please see below for more information on the developnew air compressor station and installed a new screw air climate investment has been invested in the construction ment and initiatives at our factories in Denmark and Germany compressor. This will help us reduce our CO2 emissions of the Linko Gas biogas upgrading plant. The biogas is Germany separately. With the introduction of the energy management sysfurther in 2018. produced from slurry from farms and organic waste from tem according to ISO 50001 in 2012, our focus at our the food industry. Climate Partnership Since 2009, Toms has been in a Climate Partnership with The plant upgrades biogas to bio natural gas, which Toms Group Energy Consumption (MWh) Toms Group CO2 emissions (MT CO2 per MT produced product) the energy company Ørsted (formerly DONG Energy). makes it possible to transport bio natural gas to the natural gas grid and thus achieve better distribution and The purpose of this partnership is to achieve energy higher utilisation of CO2-neutral energy. 60.000 13000 savings by reducing energy consumption and reduce our overall impact on the climate from our Danish factories. 11000 We will do this by reducing our energy consumption, re55.000 ducing the use of fossil fuels and transferring our electricity to renewable energy. 9000 50.000 7000 Renewable energy from Anholt offshore wind farm Our entire energy consumption in Denmark is renew2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 able, as our total energy purchases in Denmark goes to production of the same amount of energy at Anholt Our total energy consumption in Toms Group is now 5.7 Compared to 2012, by the end of 2017 Toms Group has offshore wind farm. percent below the total consumption in 2012. reduced the emission of CO2 per MT product produced At the same time, 70 per cent. of our energy purchase is by 29 per cent. reinvested in the development of new renewable energy. Toms Group A/S Page 30 Our Responsibility 2017 ANTI-CORRUPTION Toms Group A/S Page 32 Our Responsibility 2017 Anti-corruption We have 2,500 suppliers, more than 1,000 employees, and customers in 100 countries. A major part of our responsibility towards all of these people is to ensure that our relationship with them is based on fairness, honesty and high ethical standards. To achieve this, we must demand the same high stanSuppliers dards from our business partners that we demand of As part of a long value chain, our continued responsible ourselves. business conduct depends to a great extent on our suppliers’ approach. That is why the expectation to respect In the “Labour” section, we described how we work to enhuman rights, labour standards, the environment and sure that all of us at Toms are aware of our ethical stananti-corruption is reflected on an operational level as dards, and how we train our employees in the standards a significant part of our Supplier Code of Conduct and described in our Code of Conduct for employees. hence our requirements for all our suppliers. We also explained that, as part of this, we have develThis has been the case since 2009, and, as part of our oped a whistleblower scheme that will give all of our emgeneral work for responsible sourcing, we use Supplier ployees the possibility to confidently report any serious Questionnaires to assess all our suppliers. In 2017 all breaches of the rules that might be discovered. of our supplier audits conducted outside Denmark and Sweden (approximately two-thirds) included social and These initiatives, as well as the numerous codes of environmental issues, based on our Supplier Questionconduct which we review and sign as suppliers for our naire. customers, help us to constantly ensure that we meet our own as well as the international standards for responsible We have not registered or been made aware of any cases business conduct. This including measures to safeguard from our suppliers or other business partners related to against corruption. corruption. In the event of any such cases, they will be taken very seriously and we will act immediately. Toms Group A/S Page 34 Our Responsibility 2017 Toms Gruppen A/S Toms Allé 1 2750 Ballerup, Denmark Telephone: +45 44 89 10 00 Fax: +45 44 89 10 99 Registered office: Ballerup E-mail: info@toms.dk Registration no.: 56 75 93 28 Website: www.tomsgroup.com Established: 30 January 1924 Financial year: 1 January 31 December
