WAY BEYOND GOOD Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 2 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO We’re striving to contribute We have kept up the momentum on I am enormously proud of the strides we responsible sourcing in 2017 by increasing have made in 2017. But we have a long way more to society and the the minimum supply of liquid packaging board to go. Our employees have a big role to play environment than we take out made with wood from Forest Stewardship in helping us achieve our ambitions and our – to go Way Beyond Good. Council™ (FSC) certified forests from 70% to new team of Way Beyond Good champions are 89%. We also had the honour of presenting the getting people involved across the business. Vancouver Declaration at the FSC’s General Our bold Way Beyond Good ambitions are We are working with partners through Assembly, pledging together with other leading driving progress across all three of our initiatives such as the Net Positive Project companies to ensure that our use of forest responsibility pillars: company, sourcing and to help drive progress in our own business materials contributes to the United Nations products. The latest rating from EcoVadis and beyond, as well as inviting input from Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). recognises that progress, placing SIG in the external stakeholders through our new top 1% of the 30,000 or more businesses Our new SIGNATURE PACK marks a significant Responsibility Advisory Group. assessed on wide-ranging corporate milestone in our roadmap for responsible This Performance Update highlights responsibility topics. products. It is the first aseptic carton to these and other key stories from 2017, be linked to 100% renewable forest-based As part of our commitment to being a and sets out the progress we have materials. Sales of our 82% renewable responsible company, we have established a made towards our responsibility EcoPlus packs also continued successfully. partnership with BRAC, a development NGO, roadmap this year. I look forward to to pilot our flagship Cartons for Good project We support the SDGs and our commitment reporting further progress in our next in Bangladesh. The innovative project will use to the principles of the United Nations Global full Corporate Responsibility Report our technology to help communities preserve Compact is unwavering. At COP23, together for 2018. surplus food at harvest time with a specially with IKEA, we supported the launch of the designed mobile filling unit. In future, we will FSC’s Bonn Initiative that aims to help quantify channel our support for Cartons for Good the contribution that FSC-certified forests through the SIG Way Beyond Good Foundation can make specifically to SDG 13 on climate we are setting up. action. The new targets we have set for our own business will support our efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across Rolf Stangl the value chain. Chief Executive Officer About this report social and environmental issues, our approach to responsibility at see our 2016 Report, produced www.waybeyondgood.com. This interim update on our in accordance with the Global performance in 2017 supplements Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 We welcome stakeholder views our biennial full Corporate Guidelines Core option. on our approach. Please share Responsibility Report. your feedback via email at You can also read our UN Global waybeyondgood@sig.biz. For more information on how Compact Communication on WE SUPPORT we manage our most material Progress and find out more about WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 3 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 INSIGHT FROM EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS In 2017, we formed an independent Responsibility I think SIG’s Way Beyond Good approach sets a perfect starting Advisory Group (RAG) of external point for their net positive work. SIG corporate responsibility experts. employees have already made great contributions within the Net Positive The role of the RAG is to offer an external view, Project, weighing in on questions advise our Responsibility Steering Group and of methodology and helping to Group Executive Board, and challenge us to ensure that we develop net positive continually improve. methodologies that are fully in line with accepted international RAG members represent key stakeholder standards, such as the ISO standards groups across our regions. The group will meet for lifecycle assessment. with senior SIG executives at least twice a year. We may also consult individual RAG members At these early stages of the net “We supported the launch of the on specific issues related to their areas of positive movement, a company like Way Beyond Good strategy with expertise as part of our wider stakeholder SIG has a real opportunity to make a local teams in the US and Latin engagement on responsibility topics. huge difference – not only by striving America. It’s clear that SIG has to create more good than harm The RAG is chaired by Greg Norris. He is deeply considered sustainability through the lifecycles of its products, Co-Director of the Sustainability and Health in their strategy, resulting in an “Through collaboration with people but also by setting a powerful Initiative for Net Positive Enterprise at the integrated approach of doing from SIG over the last few years, example to other companies. SIG can Harvard School of Public Health and leads business by doing good. Here I have seen the depth of their show others that, while challenging, the methodology working group within the in Brazil, SIG is backing up this commitment and the seriousness net positive is possible and it makes Net Positive Project. strategy with the investments in of the pursuit of net positive by good business sense. local infrastructure necessary to the company. The ripple effects from leadership increase recycling. I look forward That goes all the way to the like SIG is pursuing can be really to working with SIG to build a just CEO. Speaking to him, I was very powerful. That’s why I’m grateful to and sustainable world.” encouraged not only by the sincerity accept the opportunity to chair an of that pursuit, but also the real advisory group to SIG and help them Joe Sellwood desire and the willingness of the make the most of this opportunity.” Director, REVER company to listen to candid input (BSR’s local partner in South America) from advisors – even if it may not Greg Norris always be complimentary. Chair, SIG Responsibility Advisory Group WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 4 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 OUR NET POSITIVE COMMITMENT We want to become net positive in the long term by contributing more to society and the environment than we take out – across our value chain. We call that going Way Beyond Good. INN OVA TE SM AR N TE R RU SO As one of the world’s leading solution providers for the food NG LU LO TI O and beverage industry within the field of carton packs and TH E N ON PURSUE A NET-POS filling technology, we partner with our customers to bring CTS TI BI O ODU R ITIVE PR food products to consumers around the world in a safe, AM PR COR OM sustainable and affordable way. H N IT PA VE LE PO AM N W HE ENTIRE LIFE-C IB Y RA CROSS T BI Our Corporate Compass (right) shows how we aim to fulfil S NS this purpose. This strategy for our core business includes TE TI YCLE ON TY A FO PO bold ambitions to go Way Beyond Good that we will deliver OT BILI RESPO ES through a detailed responsibility roadmap for our company, PR NSI INA IN sourcing and products. BL T EC STA IN Partnering with others SU Collaboration will be critical in achieving wider net positive impacts and is a key principle of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. SIG is one of an elite group of businesses that have committed to go net positive and we are encouraging suppliers and others to do the same. We are a member of the Net Positive Project. In 2017, we contributed to its work to align on the principles to be followed, to develop a methodology to consistently measure both positive and negative impacts on society and ST RI VE RESP ES the environment, and to create a case study resource to share FO R ONSIBLE SOURCING RV IC CE SE pioneering net positive examples at product and corporate level. RT IFI AN D ED TS SUS DUC We are also part of the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTI) TAI NAB PRO LE SUP ALS, PLY OF ALL MATERI that aims to cut emissions enough to prevent the worst effects AMBITION of climate change. We have submitted our new greenhouse gas reduction targets to the SBTI for approval (see page 9). WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 5 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 CONTRIBUTING TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SIG supports the United Nations special responsibility in ensuring that the Understanding our contribution world’s forests are managed sustainably Sustainable Development because forest products are an essential We are conducting a full analysis of all 17 SDGs and 169 accompanying targets to identify where Goals (SDGs). We recognise that part of the goods we produce for customers we have the most potential to make a significant business has an important role to and our success is dependent on long-term contribution. To complete this analysis, we will access to those raw materials. play in partnering with others to draw on the guidelines on business reporting end poverty, ensure prosperity for Collectively, we recognise that forests on the SDGs being developed by the Global play an essential role in mitigating climate Reporting Initiative and the United Nations all and protect the environment. change, protecting biodiversity and providing Global Compact. We are also engaging with livelihoods to hundreds of millions of people, sustainability ratings agencies such as EcoVadis Our commitment to go Way Beyond Good aligns that are working towards integrating the SDGs in and we want to ensure that our use of with these global goals and our responsibility their assessments. forest materials contributes to sustainable roadmap sets out a series of specific objectives development, not least to local people who At the FSC General Assembly, we participated that will enhance our contribution to the SDGs. are dependent on the forests. in an event with the FSC, the World Business In 2017, for example, we have set new Council for Sustainable Development, WWF By pledging our support for FSC certification “It was a great honour for me targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and leading businesses to discuss how to as the most credible and widely acceptable to present the Vancouver across our value chain (see page 9) which will better understand, enhance and communicate choice for promoting sustainable forestry Declaration at the FSC’s 2017 contribute to the SDG on climate action. And contributions to the SDGs. Forest certification and by calling upon others to support this General Assembly. We believe that our Cartons for Good flagship programme is one of the indicators set out by the United movement, we aim to work together to achieve this initiative, with its commitment (see page 8) will support several of the SDGs Nations to measure progress towards the goals sustainable production and consumption to FSC certification, is a key by working with partners to target hunger, and the FSC’s analysis identifies 11 of the SDGs through market transformation. tool in achieving parts of the poverty and food waste. (and 35 of the accompanying targets) where the Our Chief Financial Officer, Samuel Sigrist, United Nations Sustainable FSC forest management certification can make The Vancouver Declaration presented the Vancouver Declaration at the Development Goals the biggest contribution. to support the SDGs via FSCTM FSC’s 8th General Assembly. SIG was also the At the COP23 global climate conference, certification exclusive top sponsor of the General Assembly Samuel Sigrist together with IKEA, we supported the launch of In October 2017, we joined the Forest which sets the direction of the organisation. SIG Chief Financial Officer the FSC’s Bonn Initiative that aims to develop Stewardship Council™ (FSC) and other leading Our sponsorship funds facilitated the methodologies to quantify the contribution businesses in a pledge to ensure that our attendance of FSC members who otherwise that FSC certified forests can make specifically use of forest materials contributes to global might not have had the resources to attend to SDG 13 on climate action. The aim is to sustainable development goals. the assembly and exercise their membership enable companies and governments to better rights. See pages 15-16 for more about our SIG and other signatories to the Vancouver understand and promote the role of responsible FSC commitment. Declaration acknowledge that we have a forest management in mitigating climate change. WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 6 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 CHAMPIONING WAY BEYOND GOOD We are harnessing the energy and Linnich Germany Neuss Germany enthusiasm of our people to raise An exhibit and a questionnaire in the site Employees took part in an awareness raising lunch awareness of responsibility issues canteen got people thinking with a local charity that about food waste. We also collects and distributes food across the business and help us demonstrated the concept which cannot be sold in go Way Beyond Good. for our Cartons for Good project (see page 8), using supermarkets because its expiry date is too short. seasonal ingredients to Our employees play a vital role in delivering make pumpkin chutney at on our ambitions. Volunteers across the the local autumn market. Cluj Romania business are helping us engage our people on Linnich Germany important responsibility topics through regular Chester USA Cluj Romania campaigns in each region. Together, they form Two chefs showed people how to A local chef cooked up recipes using the a network of Way Beyond Good champions. make delicious meals out of leftovers ingredients most often wasted in people’s Neuss at a ‘lunch and learn’ on food waste. fridges at home and, together with a local We provide toolkits with tips on how to run Linnich Cluj charity, employees prepared meals for Employees were given misshapen fruits Chester each campaign, including information on and vegetables that are often thrown 250 people in need using unwanted food the topic we want it to focus on. With the away to take home and cook. from restaurants. Employees can now easily Mexico City share their leftovers from lunch through an sponsorship and support of a member of our Group Executive Board, the champions then Mexico City Mexico Rayong allocated area in the office, avoiding food going in the bin because their colleagues come up with creative ideas and activities to A buffet lunch gave employees a chance don’t know it’s free to take. to share food and tips on how to cut São Paulo make the campaign resonate in their region and engage employees effectively on the food waste at home, in the office and at restaurants. Campo Largo Rayong Thailand selected topic. Whakatane A team from SIG shared tips with In 2017, they began running awareness Campo Largo Brazil 70 children at a local school to help them and their families reduce food Competitions encouraged employees waste, and asked them to put these tips activities and events at all our major locations to donate food to local families in need into practice at home. worldwide. The first campaign on food waste (nearly five tonnes in total) and aimed to offered great opportunities to get people inspire local children to waste less food Whakatane involved in fun – and tasty – ways. The in the school canteen. A scoreboard also highlighted the amount of food being New Zealand champions’ next challenge is to promote our wasted in the SIG site canteen. At the local school, flagship project, Cartons for Good (see page 8). SIG volunteers ran a São Paulo Brazil competition for children to make the pies that not only External speakers were invited to looked and tasted best but talk about food waste issues and we had the least food waste partnered with a local NGO to offer snacks left over. made with unusual parts of foods such as cake made from banana skins, bread made from beetroot peel and paté made from vegetable stalks. Whakatane New Zealand Rayong Thailand WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 7 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY Being a responsible company is essential to earn the trust of our customers and other stakeholders. Our goal is to halve our environmental footprint and double societal benefits across our value chain by 2030, while meeting our business growth targets. 2030 goal Halve environmental impacts and double societal benefits WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 8 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 Cartons for Good: Our flagship project RESPONSIBLE COMPANY Our flagship project, Cartons for Good, will help to enhance farmers’ livelihoods, We are partnering with BRAC, an international development organisation, Working with a responsible company promote children’s nutrition and education, to pilot Cartons for Good in the Manikganj is becoming increasingly important to and cut food waste. region of Bangladesh in 2018. The food our customers as stakeholders expect preserved will be used to provide free A third of all food produced worldwide is businesses to drive higher standards school meals throughout the year for wasted every day, yet over 2 billion people throughout their supply chain. underprivileged children attending are malnourished. Even in developing schools run by BRAC. To demonstrate our commitment to countries where rates of malnutrition are responsibility and achieve our Way Beyond among the highest in the world, food is Not only will this give the children essential Good ambitions, we have set targets on still wasted due to a lack of adequate storage nutrition, it will also improve their education all our most material environmental and and preservation. by enabling them to stay in school instead social topics. Our Responsibility Steering of going out to work because they cannot We are using our technology, expertise Group coordinates implementation of the afford food. and enthusiasm to tackle this challenge. roadmap and ultimate accountability for Our innovative self-contained mobile food Find out more and view a video about the our performance lies with our CEO and filling unit will help communities preserve pilot in Bangladesh on our website. Group Executive Board. surplus food at harvest time, which they We verify our credentials through could not otherwise sell. With our mobile recognised third-party assessments, such solution, there is no need for them to invest “We run schools for underprivileged as EcoVadis and the Supplier Ethical Data in their own cooking or canning equipment children across the country. Often, Exchange (SEDEX). In 2017, we retained our to do this. they cannot afford to pay for their EcoVadis Gold status and are now ranked education or even for food. Most of in the top 1% of participating companies. 1 Farmers bring them drop out of school because they To show how we are performing against their surplus need to go out and work to buy food crops to sell at our ambition to become a net positive for themselves and for their families. harvest time. business, we need to be able to measure That’s why we run a milk programme our impacts at each stage of the value to attract them to come to school. chain – from forests and suppliers to our They know that if they come to school, own operations, customer use of filling they are not only getting an education, machines, and consumer use and disposal 3 2 but a pack of milk too. Converting that into a meal will mean that not of our packs. Local schools The crops are turned give the packs into nutritious meals only will they learn, they will also We are working on ways to quantify our and preserved in have something to eat. That’s a to children so environmental footprint and societal they don’t have SIG packs using our very good idea.” impacts as we continue to drive progress to drop out of specially-engineered towards our ambition. school to work mobile filling unit. for their food. Mohammad Anisur Rahman Director Dairy and Food, BRAC WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 9 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 EcoVadis Gold: SIG ranked in the top Targeting greenhouse gas reductions 1% of companies We’re committed to cutting our carbon footprint across the value chain. We We’ve made great progress in the first SCOPE 1 & 2 –50% established a methodology to quantify year of Way Beyond Good and that progress Scope 3 emissions from our supply chain has been recognised in an independent in 2016 and this year we have built on assessment by EcoVadis. We were already in the top 4% of companies assessed the this initial work to develop new targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Building sustainability by 2030 previous year and now we are in the very top 1%. By 2030, we will reduce greenhouse into our new technical EcoVadis conducts a detailed independent gas emissions across our value chain (scopes 1, 2 and 3) by 25% per litre of centre in China assessment of our policies, processes and food packed.1 performance on environment, social, ethics Our new technical centre for product innovation and supply chain criteria. Not only have we We chose ‘per litre of food packed’ as and customer support in China will be housed maintained our Gold rating, we have also our comparator, rather than revenue or in a state-of-the-art sustainable building. On SCOPE 1 & 2 –60% significantly increased our overall score number of packs produced, to better completion in 2018, we are targeting gold from 64 to 77. reflect our corporate purpose to get food standard from LEED (Leadership in Energy products to consumers around the world and Environmental Design), a recognised in a safe, sustainable and affordable way – green building certification. regardless of the size of the pack or by 2040 The building will be highly efficient with energyour company turnover. saving features such as LED lighting, sensors We have also developed new scienceto turn off lights and air conditioning when based targets for emissions from our rooms are unoccupied, and adaptive shading own business. We are now targeting a for windows to maximise natural light while 50% reduction in our Scope 1 and 2 controlling glare and heat from the sun. More than greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 – 75% of the offices and meeting rooms have daylight. SCOPE 1, 2 & 3 –25 and a 60% reduction by 2040 – from % Water use will be minimised through rainwater the 2016 baseline. collection and water recycling. Solar panels on The metrics accompanying these targets the roof will heat water and generate renewable We improved our scores in all four are now included in our key performance electricity to power the building’s highly efficient categories and we’re now in the top 1% indicators (see page 24). We have per litre of food air conditioning units. We will also promote use of around 30,000 participating companies submitted our new greenhouse gas packed by 2030 of public transport, low-emitting vehicles and for both environmental management reduction targets for approval by the bicycles to travel to and from the site. and sustainable procurement. We aim Science Based Targets Initiative to support to enhance our focus on labour and fair We are now exploring the potential for on-site global efforts to prevent the worst impacts business practices over the next few renewables at other sites, including a 3.2MW of climate change. years through the actions set out in our 1 Scope 3 emissions include our paper mill in New Zealand. roof-top solar unit planned at Rayong in Thailand. responsibility roadmap. WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 10 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 Suzhou site combines Best Employer with award-winning Mohammad Anisur Rahman,safety performance Director Dairy and Food, BRAC Our production site in Suzhou, China, was awards to encourage people to share ideas named the Best Employer in the region in on how to improve safety. Together with 2017. SIG ranked first among more than routine safety checks, this has enabled us 100 other companies based on a to spot and eliminate more than 70 barriers combination of public voting, employee to safe behaviour at Suzhou. surveys and expert evaluation. In 2017, we extended the criteria for our Suzhou also won the SIG CEO Safety Safety Excellence Awards to recognise Excellence Award in 2017, achieving more smaller production sites and offices that than 1.5 million working hours and over demonstrate a strong commitment to three years with zero lost-time cases. The behaviour-based safety too. team at Suzhou put this success down to making safety – and our life-saving rules – part of the site’s DNA. Over the last year, the focus has been on behaviour-based safety to understand and prevent at-risk 1.5 million hours behaviour and reinforce the site’s excellent safety record. Building trust and Building trust has been a major focus of our leadership training in 2017, in response to Getting everyone at the site involved is key. Team meetings start with a discussion on with zero lost-time cases strengthening feedback from our 2016 global employee engagement survey that showed we need to safety and the site holds regular quizzes and leadership for provide stronger leadership. our people More than 250 top managers were coached in transformational leadership during 2016 and we rolled out training on this new model to the next level of managers across the business in 2017. In addition, 367 supervisors have now completed a combination of e-learning modules and face-to-face training to get their ‘Leadership Licence’. The aim is to empower leaders to create a positive, motivating work environment. We encourage constructive feedback and managers are assessed by employees to understand how they can further develop their skills to complete the transformational leadership training. WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 11 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 Managing change Engaging In 2017, we ran a series of in-depth training sessions Romania. We have also made this training an integral part Mohammad Anisur Rahman, Director Dairy and Food, BRAC In September 2017, we announced changes We communicated the changes to all employees on ethics and compliance. More than 200 employees of our in-house technical and sales training for participants to the business to enable us to continue our long-standing success in an increasingly our employees and we are engaging with those affected to provide outplacement on ethics participated, including purchasing teams and staff at in SIG’s CombiCollege. challenging competitive environment. services and other support in line with local our new service centre in Cluj, legislation. We aim to avoid compulsory To continue to grow profitably in the redundancies as far as possible. future, we are investing worldwide in the modernisation and expansion of our plants, in In 2017, we also made the transition from the development of innovative products and local human resources representatives new markets, and in research, development to a central team that employees and technological expertise. Central to this contact remotely. is our unwavering commitment to invest in Through our 2016 employee engagement training and developing our people to survey, we heard from our people that ensure we have the right skills to succeed we need to manage change better. We in a changing environment. responded by engaging in a dialogue about All of this requires resources and it has this new system for HR support that was wellbeen necessary to realign our cost structure received by both managers and employees. to make the investments that will drive This included tailored communications to “We got this training “I found the training very “SIG’s procurement teams future growth. The resulting cost-saving different groups of employees, information right at the start when useful and engaging. are dealing directly with measures include a reduction of roles in booths and consultations to listen and the new Business Centre Discussing real life suppliers and they have administrative and corporate functions. respond to concerns. opened in Cluj. Seeing examples made it easier to understand what those ethics at the core of the to relate to the theory in relationships mean as a business was a breath the Code of Conduct and customer. The training of fresh air, especially in understand how to react was particularly useful to such a competitive space. in real life situations. help them understand real We need to win at the The training will also help life issues they may come customer, but not by all my HR team make sure across in their work. means or at any cost. all employees are For example, they need And if something doesn’t aware of what is to know when an invite feel right, always ask expected of them.” from a supplier is against and don’t be afraid to our policy in order to call Legal for advice.” Ioana Balogh politely decline.” Team Leader, Gabriel Albert HR Global Henrik Wagner Network Engineer, Global Sourcing & Romania Procurement Director, Switzerland WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 12 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 Our roadmap: progress in 2017 FOCUS AREA 2020 TARGET PROGRESS IN 2017 Define a methodology to measure our We have established a methodology for measuring greenhouse gas emissions at each stage of the value chain environmental footprint and societal benefits and we have begun work to extend this to cover our environmental footprint. We are also working through the across our value chain to establish a baseline Net Positive Project to develop a methodology for businesses to measure their positive and negative impacts (see for our 2030 goal page 4). Quantifying societal impacts is particularly challenging. One aspect of this is our support for communities and we are developing a tool to measure the impact of our community engagement programmes. Environmental Put a science-based CO2 reduction target in place We have committed to cut scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2030 – and by 60% by 2040 – footprint covering our entire value chain (by 2018) and reduce scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 25% per litre of food packed by 2030 (from the 2016 baseline). We have submitted our new greenhouse gas reduction targets for approval by the Science Based Targets Initiative (see page 9). Achieve compliance with ISO 50001 and revised ISO We achieved recertification to the ISO 50001 energy management standard, following audits at three of our main 14001 standard at all production plants production sites in Europe. Nine production sites and corporate functions underwent audits to achieve Groupwide recertification to ISO14001 and we are preparing for the revised standards that will apply from 2018. Reduce energy rate* by more than 35% (from 2014) Our energy rate increased by 4.6% from last year (10.6% from 2014) largely due to the optimisation process for our newly-built combined heat and power plant in Linnich that enables us to produce our own electricity on site and will help us cut greenhouse gas emissions in the long term. We also implemented initiatives to better analyse and reduce energy use, including introducing over 1,000 energy monitors at Linnich and reusing heat generated in production at Suzhou. Cut operational greenhouse gas emissions rate* We have cut our operational greenhouse gas emissions rate by a further 63.5% during 2017 to achieve an (Scope 1 and 2) by more than 50% (from 2014) overall 65% reduction from 2014, achieved primarily through the transition to 100% renewable electricity at our production plants (see page 17). Reduce waste rate* by more than 45% (from 2014) Our waste rate has increased by 4.6% from the 2014 baseline, partly as a result of better waste reporting. This standardised reporting has enabled us to benchmark performance across all our sites to help us better understand the impact of improvements and identify best practices for waste reduction that we will begin implementing in 2018. One example of best practice is the introduction of a new facility to internally recycle waste polymers on site at Suzhou in 2017. * Energy, emissions and waste rates are per million square metres of sleeves produced. WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 13 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 Our roadmap: progress in 2017 FOCUS AREA 2020 TARGET PROGRESS IN 2017 Employees Increase employee net promoter score year by year; Achieve a sustainable engagement score above We will measure progress towards our goals on employee net promotor score, engagement and cultural entropy industry benchmark; Achieve cultural entropy level through our next employee engagement survey, which is planned for 2018. below 10% Maintain voluntary turnover below 5% We maintained a voluntary turnover of 4%. Make our training and development investment We have continued to invest in our people’s development, offering a range of new training modules and providing above industry benchmark an average of 23.8 hours of training per employee, just below the industry benchmark of 24 hours per employee. Health and safety Zero lost-time case rate We have decreased our lost-time case rate by 32% to 0.36 during 2017. Our behaviour-based safety programme has now launched at four sites and contributed to safety excellence at Suzhou (see page 10). We also continue to focus on our life-saving rules and initiatives to address specific issues such as risks to hands and fingers in parts of the production process. Achieve a life-critical safety elements score of 100% We maintained a score of 96% at all production sites. Our emphasis on standards, education and behaviour will at all production sites help us improve this score. Maintain a health rate of more than 97% We have conducted an analysis of the key health issues for SIG employees to help us develop a suitable health rate metric and a health management system to focus on key topics such as ergonomics when lifting. Governance Mandatory annual Code of Conduct training for all We have begun developing e-learning modules to train employees on aspects of our Code of Conduct. We have and ethics employees also set out detailed policies on gifts and entertainment to provide guidance for staff in each region. In-depth training on specific areas of compliance for More than 200 people in high-risk roles across the business completed in-depth training on compliance with our high-risk roles every two years Code of Conduct (see page 11). SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) at all Our site in Mexico became the first of our office and service sites to complete a SMETA audit. We also conducted large sites with more than 40 employees an internal assessment of our New Zealand paper mill in preparation for its SMETA audit in 2018. All our production sites were audited in 2016 and the next audits of these sites are due in 2019. Communities Double the number of community and education We have increased our community and education activities across the business and we are developing a global programmes over five years framework to help local teams ensure all programmes align with our priorities and deliver tangible benefits for communities and our business. Launch a global flagship project using our expertise We have begun work on our flagship project, Cartons for Good, by adapting our technology to create a mobile to support communities filling unit, establishing a partnership with an NGO to help us reach communities who need it and identifying a region in Bangladesh where we will pilot the project in 2018 (see page 8). WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 14 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Impacts from the materials and services we buy are a significant part of our value chain footprint. Our goal is for all our A-materials to come from certified sources and to increasingly buy from suppliers that share our net positive commitment. 2030 goal GROWTH All raw materials from certified sources and 50%Grow above of total sourcing spendmarket on net positive suppliers WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 15 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 Promoting the business call for FSC certification to support RESPONSIBLE TM the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals SOURCING We continued our engagement with We spend around €1 billion a year with suppliers and we aim the Forest Stewardship CouncilTM to promote high ethical standards among all our suppliers, (FSC) in 2017 and reconfirmed our focusing initially on significant suppliers1 that have the commitment to remain actively biggest impact on our business. engaged in the development of As we work towards our own net positive ambition as a the FSC certification scheme. company, we are also encouraging suppliers to set similar SIG was the main sponsor of the goals. In 2017, we were pleased to welcome the Stora Enso FSC’s General Assembly, where we had Consumer Board Division, one of the main suppliers of liquid the honour of presenting the Vancouver packaging board for our packs, as a fellow member of the Net Declaration – a business call for FSC Positive Project. Our aim is for 50% of our purchasing spend certification to support the United to be with net positive suppliers by 2030. Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Around 60% of our total spend goes on the raw materials used to make our cartons. Recognised external certifications such as FSC provide us, our customers and consumers with reassurance that the materials we use to make our packs are produced in a way that minimises environmental and In signing the Declaration, we joined social risks. other leading companies in pledging “Our forests are a wonderful By 2020, we aim to source 100% of our A-materials – liquid to continue to increase our sourcing yet delicate natural resource, packaging board, polymers, aluminium, ink and solvents – of FSC-certified materials and call upon and a lot of people’s lives from certified sources. Our customers can already include the others to do the same (see page 5). depend on their sustainable FSC-certified label on any of our cartons and we have begun By the end of 2017, it had already been and responsible use. By sourcing forest-based polymers2 that are certified through signed by 65 companies including IKEA, committing to using FSCthe ISCC PLUS or CMS71 schemes. In 2017, we introduced new H&M and M&S. certified wood and forest purchasing policies defining responsibility requirements for products, our partners are polymers and aluminium, complementing the existing policy helping to protect our on liquid packaging board. forests – and the planet – We made another significant step forward in our responsible for future generations.” sourcing goals in 2017 by purchasing 100% of electricity for production from renewable sources to help reduce our Kim Carstensen environmental footprint. Director General of FSC (above left, with our CEO Rolf Stangl) 1 S  uppliers are defined as significant based on their potential impact on our ability to meet customer needs, the high volumes we purchase from them and sustainability risks. 2 Using a mass balance system (see page 20) WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 16 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 Reaching the next milestone Certifying mass balanced plant-based polymers on our FSC TM journey Our innovative SIGNATURE PACK is 100% linked to More than 60 billion SIG packs have now been sold with the forest-based renewable material from renewable FSCTM label, showing how responsible sourcing is supporting European wood sources. The liquid packaging board sales. Over 80% of SIG cartons sold in 2017 carried the FSC is made directly from forest-based material and the label. With the share rising to 88% in the month of December, polymers used for laminating the paperboard, creating we are well on our way to achieving our target of 100% by 2020. the barrier layer and making the spout are linked to This follows the previous milestone on our FSC journey in forest-based material via a mass balance system 2016 when we became the first carton provider to secure a (see page 20). “Joining the net positive “At BillerudKorsnäs, initiative is an important sustainability is an sufficient supply of FSC-certified liquid packaging board to In line with our 2020 commitment to obtain 100% of and logical next step in important part of our guarantee that our customers can choose to include the our A-materials from certified sources, we set out to Stora Enso Consumer core business and a key FSC label on any of our cartons. identify a suitable certification for the plant-based Board division’s element to support our SIG has led the industry in providing 100% global coverage polymers used in the SIGNATURE PACK to ensure sustainability strategy. customers. Therefore we of FSC chain of custody certification (licence code FSC C020428) they are sourced sustainably and do not contribute In this, we aim to realise are proud to be rated by and FSC-certified carton packs that can be traced back to source to unsustainable land use practices. concrete actions that EcoVadis for the fourth since 2009, when we introduced FSC labelled packs at a large The International will help us fulfil our time in a row among the scale for juice and dairy in many countries worldwide. Sustainability and Carbon purpose, which is to top 1% of all companies Certification (ISCC PLUS) for ‘Do good for people and assessed to the highest In 2017, we continued to source 100% of our liquid packaging board from FSC-certified paper mills and increased the biomaterials does just that. the planet. Replace fossilrating for sustainability It certifies that the plastics based materials with and to share this top minimum supply made with wood from FSC-certified forests from 70% to 89%. are made from – or are renewable solutions’. rating with our customer linked via a mass balance system to – bio-based raw Joint value chain activities SIG. This shows our materials sourced from either sustainable agriculture will bring this ambition strong alignment on or bio-waste that would otherwise be disposed of. The 60bn to its maximum, creating sustainability along polymers we use are linked to tall oil, a wood-based added value on the the value chain.” residue from paper production. market. Therefore, we look forward to working All our European sleeve and spout production plants Henrik Essén SIG packs have 88% jointly with SIG on the been sold with have achieved certification to ISCC PLUS to ensure full SVP Communication and net positive activity.” Sustainability, BillerudKorsnäs the FSCTM label traceability of renewable credits along the supply chain. External audits are performed every year to ensure full compliance with ISCC PLUS standards. This works in a Eija Hietavuo of SIG packs sold similar way to the FSCTM chain of custody certification SVP Sustainability, in December we have in place for our liquid packaging board and we Consumer Board, Stora Enso 2017 carry the have suitable purchasing policies in place for both. FSCTM label WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 17 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 Towards certification of our Completing the switch to Introducing bio-based aluminium supply chain 100% renewable electricity solvents for printing at production plants our packs The Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) We are the first in our industry to source all our electricity The printing process for our packs involves launched a certification programme for for production from renewable sources. At the start of the use of small amounts of solvents. In 2017, the responsible production, sourcing and 2017, we made the switch to 100% renewable electricity we sourced more of these solvents from stewardship of aluminium in December at all our production plants worldwide. plant-based ethanol for use in our European 2017. manufacturing. Although the amounts per pack In Brazil and Europe, we buy green electricity from the are small compared with our three key raw In anticipation of this launch, we worked grid. But in China and Thailand this is not a viable option materials, this move away from fossil-based closely with our value chain partner so we purchase power through local renewable energy materials supports our long-term ambition to Amcor during the year to assess the projects certified to the GoldPower® standard. go Way Beyond Good. We are also engaging readiness of our supply chain against the GoldPower® projects deliver measurable emissions with ink suppliers to explore the feasibility of requirements of the ASI’s Performance reductions as well as creating benefits for local introducing more plant-based ingredients for Standard for the sustainable sourcing communities, such as air or water quality improvements other components, such as the binders used of aluminium foil. to make the ink stick to the packs. “Engaging suppliers on or job opportunities. One project in Thailand extracts Together, we engaged third-party improving sustainability methane from wastewater to generate electricity and verification body DNV GL to conduct pilot assessments with our aluminium performance from mine to manufacturing is a produce more than 5.7 million litres of treated water per day for local communities. Engaging with foil and foil stock manufacturers in our supply chain in Europe and Asia. These challenging task. We are proud to work together In 2017, we purchased 35,900MWh of GoldPower® services suppliers assessments were designed to give us a snapshot of performance against the with SIG and Amcor to bring visibility over their electricity in Thailand alone, saving 20,323 tonnes of CO2 equivalent emissions. on ethical standards ASI Performance Standard in our supply supply chains, build In 2017, we extended our engagement on chain and identify areas for improvement capacity and help all ethical standards beyond our significant for suppliers in readiness for the new ASI stakeholders to get ready suppliers to those that provide services that certification. for ASI through our pilot are not directly related to production. We have We will continue to work with value chain audits. This is a pioneering identified approximately 50 high-risk suppliers partners in 2018 to share best practice approach to multi-tier in this category, based on the services they 100% and support continuous improvement engagement that delivers provide and their country of operation. among our suppliers, as well as value and benefit for encouraging engagement with smelters all involved.” We are now working with them to communicate and mines to enhance transparency and assess compliance with our responsibility and promote responsible practices of our electricity for requirements. Around 70 suppliers took part Dr Colin Morgan throughout the supply chain. production from in workshops held at our production plants Principal Consultant, DNV GL renewable sources in Europe and Asia, where we introduced our Way Beyond Good ambitions and explained our expectations of suppliers. We will hold a similar workshop in Brazil in 2018. WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 18 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 Our roadmap: progress in 2017 FOCUS AREA 2020 TARGET PROGRESS IN 2017 Ethical supplier Include new social responsibility requirements in Approximately 96% of our contracted suppliers of key raw materials (by spend) have either signed our Business standards 100% of contracts with suppliers of our key raw Ethics Code or have demonstrated they have an equivalent code in place through platforms such as SEDEX or materials EcoVadis. Our new procurement software, to be rolled out to all suppliers, includes a functionality to monitor suppliers’ acceptance of our Business Ethics Code. We are exploring how this could help us extend our 2020 target to cover all our significant and high-risk suppliers. Audit 10% of high-risk suppliers each year We identified 12 significant suppliers as high-risk because they had provided no evidence of their commitment to corporate responsibility (CR). Two of these (17%) were selected for audit, but one has since been removed from our list of suppliers. As a result, we only audited one (8%) of our high-risk suppliers in 2017. Provide regular training (at least every two years) We trained everyone in our global, regional and local procurement teams on their role in implementing our on ethical supplier standards and sustainable new Responsible Sourcing Directive which sets out our processes for assessing suppliers’ CR performance and sourcing to all employees who interact frequently promoting improvements. We also trained 27 buyers and quality managers to conduct high-level CR checks during with suppliers regular visits to suppliers’ sites and trained six people to conduct in-depth CR audits. Sustanable raw 100% FSCTM labelled packs (work with customers to We reached a milestone by selling our 60 billionth FSCTM labelled pack and increased the share of packs sold with materials include the FSC logo on 100% of the packs we sell) the FSC logo on them to 88% by the end of 2017 (see page 16). 100% A-materials from certified sources We sourced 100% of our liquid packaging board from paper mills with the FSC Chain of Custody certification, increased the minimum supply made with wood from FSC certified forests from 70% to 89% and worked with key suppliers to understand how they can help us reach 100%. We continued to explore options for certification of polymers, including ISCC PLUS for biopolymers (see page 16) and worked with one of our value chain partners to begin pilot audits of our aluminium supply chain in anticipation of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative’s new certification (see page 17). We also introduced new purchasing policies that set out our responsibility requirements for sourcing of polymers and aluminium, alongside the existing policy on liquid packaging board. Energy sourcing 100% renewable energy and Gold Standard CO2 offset We have made the switch to 100% renewable electricity at all our production plants (see page 17) and we plan to for all non-renewable energy (at production plants) introduce renewable alternatives for gas in 2018. Sustainable Increase the rate of full truck loads delivered to We increased the rate of full truck loads delivered from 92% to 93% and introduced a new stacking process that logistics customers enables more sleeves to be transported per truck. Ensure logistic partners use trucks that meet Euro Our partners used Euro 6 trucks for 60% of outbound road transport from our European production plants, up 6 emissions standards for 100% of outbound road from 47% in 2016. transport from our production plants in Europe WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 19 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS Our goal is to offer customers the most sustainable solutions on the market. We are cutting environmental impacts across the lifecycle through responsible sourcing and manufacturing – and a strong focus on product innovation in our packs, our filling machines and our technical service. 2030 goal Offer customers the most sustainable food packaging solutions – compared to carton or other materials WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 20 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 SIGNATURE PACK: the world's first aseptic pack RESPONSIBLE 100% linked to forest-based renewable material PRODUCTS Our SIGNATURE PACK is the world’s first manufacturing their polymers equivalent to We partner with customers to offer aseptic carton pack that is 100% linked to the amount we buy to make our SIGNATURE solutions that meet their needs. Many of forest-based renewable material. It won PACK cartons and spouts. The certified our customers – major food and beverage the 2017 Beverage Innovation Award for plant-based materials are mixed in with producers – are increasing their focus best carton or pouch. The judging panel conventional fossil raw material to produce on sustainability and have set targets commented that “the SIGNATURE PACK is a the polymers and the totals are balanced to improve environmental and social commendable environmental step forward”. through recognised and audited certification performance throughout their value chain. schemes to ensure strict traceability and accountability. With Way Beyond Good, we can help them meet those targets. Packaging is part of the We believe this mass balanced approach lifecycle impact of our customers’ products supports a wider transition from fossil to bioand the footprint of our cartons from based raw materials within the conventional cradle to gate is up to 70% smaller than and highly efficient polymer industry, instead alternatives such as bottles and cans.1 of using niche small scale producers with All our cartons are made up of 70-80% a limited number of plastic grades. In renewable materials on average and are October 2017, we partnered with a mass fully recyclable. Our innovative EcoPlus balanced forest-based polymer supplier pack is 82% renewable and our awardto present and discuss mass balancing winning new SIGNATURE PACK is 100% at the Sustainable Brands conference linked to forest-based materials (see right). in Copenhagen. We are working to further enhance the The polymers used in the coating and environmental credentials of our packs, The pack builds on the success of our closures of SIGNATURE PACK cartons our filling machines and our technical EcoPlus design, which increased the are certified to ISCC PLUS (see page 16) service. Our efforts to cut the impacts of renewable wood-based content of each and those used for the barrier layer our company (see page 7) and sourcing carton to 82% by removing the need for an of the packs are certified through the (see page 14) also play an important role in aluminium barrier layer while providing the alternative TÜV SÜD CMS71 scheme. reducing lifecycle impacts of our products shelf life performance expected from an Many major consumer brands are targeting a as we work to become a net positive aseptic carton. SIGNATURE PACK takes this a switch from fossil-based plastics to bio-based business in the long term. step further by using polymers that are linked packaging to enhance the sustainability to 100% forest-based material to make up the of their products and customers have rest of the carton, the barrier and the spout. welcomed our announcement of the new To link the polymer to forest-based material, SIGNATURE PACK. Development of the we use mass balance systems. This means pack was finalised in 2017, ready for market that our suppliers must include the launch in 2018. amount of plant-based raw materials in 1 See lifecycle assessments on our website. WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 21 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 Partnering with customers to promote EcoPlus launched by sustainable consumption in Brazil Carrefour Mohammad Anisurin Spain Rahman, Director Dairy and Food, BRAC Sales of our 82% renewable, aluminiumfree EcoPlus packs successfully continued in 2017 with the official launch of the packs for three types of milk under the brand of Spanish retailer Carrefour. Following their corporate principles to think and act sustainably, Carrefour is now filling Spain’s first UHT milk in an environmentally friendly packaging with 28% less CO2 emissions along the product lifecycle. “Cemil knows that caring for the environment is as important as caring for the quality of products and people's health. We always seek to promote environmental sustainability by raising awareness We are helping customers in Brazil publicise among our employees, partners, Cutting polymer use their social and environmental programmes, producers and consumers, promoting sustainable consumption in our packs More than enhance their reputation and promote recycling among consumers through our and supporting the preservation 750 tonnes dedicated website entitled ‘Eu Penso Meio of the environment. In recent Ambiente’ (‘I think environment’). industry audits on food quality and Our combibloc RS structure has saved of polymer saved since safety and social responsibility, we more than 750 tonnes of polymer since it The portal uses dynamic content to March 2016 received a very high evaluation – went into production in March 2016. The inform people about ways to preserve our one of the highest results in Brazil. material composition of the new structure environment and natural resources, including The ‘Eu Penso Meio Ambiente’ optimises the properties of the carton, changing attitudes and choosing more portal in partnership with SIG improving stability during processing sustainable products. is an important tool for sharing while contributing to better environmental SIG customers such as Piá, Godam, Cemil information and promoting performance. RS reduces the carbon footprint and Latco have set up their own pages on environmental education for of our standard packs by 5% from cradle the site to raise awareness about sustainable its entire chain.” to gate for 1 litre packs and by 6% for 200ml packs.1 consumption and share information about their own sustainability initiatives, including João Bosco Ferreira those we work on together in partnership. President, Cemil 1 C  alculation based on SIG lifecycle assessment tool, cradle to factory gate, EU28. WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 22 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 Using technical service to Track and trace: Enhancing transparency help customers become on product quality and food safety more sustainable Our new digital track and trace solution enables our customers to prove the In 2017, we surveyed customers across our regions to quality of their products to consumers in understand how important they consider sustainability a fast, practical and accessible way. criteria to be in the technical service we offer them. Of We developed the solution in partnership the 90 customers we asked, 87% said that services to with our customer, Languiru – the second help them reduce their CO2 footprint in particular are largest production cooperative in the important or very important. region of Rio Grande do Sul in Brazil – Feedback from our service teams confirmed that to support its ‘Qualidade do início ao Fim’ customers are interested in technical solutions that can (‘Quality from Beginning to End’) dairy improve environmental performance. With this in mind, product line. we have designed several technical upgrades to reduce At the time of production, each filled “With this unprecedented energy and water use that can be retrofitted to existing pack is printed with an individual QR project, we have no doubt SIG filling machines or purchased with new fillers. code, using anti-fraud paint. The trays that from now on we have Our new cleaning unit, specially designed for use with and pallets that packs are transported a greater competitive SIG filling machines, uses 83% less water and 47% less in also have unique codes to trace the advantage within this energy than manual cleaning. As parts do not have to be packs’ journey from factory to retailer. market compared to manually cleaned, it also saves time for operators and many other brands Using the new solution, Languiru can enhances cleaning quality. without this technology. locate every single packaged product at Through this process, A separate water reduction kit is designed to reduce any point in the supply chain – from the consumers have the amount of water required for cooling in our filling collection of raw milk products to the convenient and safe machines. Tests show this can cut water use by 50-60%. point of sale to consumers – for quality access via QR Codes to The kit will be available in 2018. checks and, if necessary, product recalls. full information about There is also demand from customers for sustainability Consumers can scan the QR code on the production of the certificates that demonstrate the environmental their pack to find out more about the UHT milk inside performance of a filling machine has been checked or product from a website that includes the carton.” improved through regular preventative maintenance information about the product itself as or technical upgrades. We are now exploring the well as Languiru’s quality system and Dirceu Bayer potential to offer such a certification. production process. President, Cooperative Languiru WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 23 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 Our roadmap: progress in 2017 FOCUS AREA 2020 TARGET PROGRESS IN 2017 Our packs Create a 100% renewable aseptic pack We have developed SIGNATURE PACK, the first aseptic pack that is 100% linked to renewable forest-based material.1 Like EcoPlus, SIGNATURE PACK eliminates the need for an aluminium layer in our conventional packs, although this limits its use to products such as UHT milk. We also began a project to create a 100% renewable aseptic pack with enhanced barrier properties that could be used for other products such as juices. Offer a carton made of 50% recycled content We continued to engage with suppliers to discuss a common approach for the use and measurement of recycled content in our raw materials. Ensure environmental performance is one of the Environmental performance has been established as a core value driver for our product innovations, alongside core value drivers of our product innovations other factors such as cost and convenience. We have begun raising awareness of this among project leaders and we are developing a system to track how many of our innovation projects include environmental performance as a core value driver. Filling machines Reduce energy use by 20%, hydrogen peroxide use We completed the concept phase for our next generation filling machine that includes innovations designed to by 35% and water use by 25% per hour of runtime in reduce use of energy, hydrogen peroxide and water. We are also testing a prototype new drive system that can our next generation filling machine reduce energy use by around 40% and we have developed a system that will cut water use by up to 80% in one of our new filling machines for small format packs. Technical service Support sustainability improvements for at least We have surveyed customers to understand their needs and developed technical upgrades to our filling machines 50% of our customers through technical service that will support sustainability improvements for customers (see page 22). Recycling Partner with stakeholders to support collection and We have developed a checklist to help local teams find a suitable approach to support collection and recycling of recycling of beverage cartons cartons in each region. Product safety All production plants certified based on We achieved Group-wide recertification to the ISO 9001:2008 standard and trained quality managers worldwide in ISO 9001:2015 and all sleeves and spout production preparation for our transition to the ISO 9001:2015 standard. All our production plants achieved AA or A grade in plants certified based on BRC Packaging Issue 5 the latest round of BRC audits in 2016/17. We continued to communicate about food safety through a dedicated with AA Grade internal newsletter and we have introduced an online database where our people can get updates on evolving regulatory requirements. 1 Including liquid packaging board directly from forest-based materials and polymers linked to forest-based materials via mass balance systems WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS 24 SIG Corporate Responsibility Performance Update 2017 KEY PERFORMANCE The table below shows the key performance indicators (KPIs) Most of the data for 2016 was assured with limited assurance we use to measure our performance on our most material by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH WirtschaftsprüfungsINDICATORS issues and additional strategic topics. gesellschaft for the publication of our full Corporate Responsibility Report in 2016. We plan to have KPI data assured again for our next full report in 2018. MATERIAL ISSUE METRIC 2015 2016 2017 RESPONSIBLE Operational energy use (GWh) 276 309 323 COMPANY Energy rate (MWh/million m of sleeves produced) 2 181 200 209 Energy rate (% change from 2014 baseline) –4.2 5.8 10.6 Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions (thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent) 21.3 29.3 34.5 Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions (thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent) 80.7 78.0 0 Energy and greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions rate (tonnes CO2 equivalent/million m of sleeves produced) 2 70 72 25 Greenhouse gas emissions (% change from 2014 baseline) –11.3 –6.7 –70.0 Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions (million tonnes CO2 equivalent)1 – 1.372 1.31 Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions (grams CO2 equivalent/litre of food packed)1 – 119.4 109.8 Waste rate (tonnes non-product output/million m2 of sleeves produced) 37 35 37 Waste rate (% change from 2014 baseline) 5.7 0 4.6 Lost time cases 23 21 15 Health and safety Lost time case rate (per 200,000 hours worked) 0.55 0.53 0.36 Sustainable engagement score (% favourable responses) – 74 –3 Employee engagement Employee Net Promoter Score (% promoters minus % detractors) – –16 –3 Training and development Training and development investment (average training hours/employee) 28.5 24.8 23.8 Labour rights Plants completed SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit4 – 7 8 A-materials from certified sources (% by spend) 27 39 47 RESPONSIBLE Responsible sourcing SOURCING Electricity in production plants from renewable sources (%) 31.2 33.4 100 Deforestation Packs sold labelled with FSCTM logo (%) 42 56 80 Ethical supplier standards New suppliers screened using social responsibility criteria (%) – 100 100 Sustainable product innovation Impact mitigation potential of innovations related to current standard product See 2016 CR Report See pages 20-22 RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS Recyclability SIG packaging portfolio that is recyclable (%) 100 100 100 Significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts 100 100 100 Food quality and safety are assessed for improvement (%) Significant fines for non-compliances (€) – 0 0 1 S cope 3 emissions include our paper mill in New Zealand. Categories include goods and services, energy Scope of data production, transportation, travel, commuting, use of our products (filling machines) and product end of life (cartons). See our 2016 CR Report, p22. Unless otherwise stated, data in this report covers all our global operations, except our 2 2016 figure recalculated as required by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Whakatane paper mill in New Zealand and our joint ventures in the Middle East. 3 Next employee survey planned for 2018. 4 Includes all sites with a valid SEDEX certification, based on audits conducted every three years. WAY BEYOND GOOD RESPONSIBLE COMPANY RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS
