2017 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORTING ENTITY: TRAFIGURA GROUP PTE. LTD. CONTENTS 1. INTRODUCTION 4. ENVIRONMENTAL 2. HUMAN RIGHTS 4.1 ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS 2.1 ASSESSMENT, POLICY, 4.2 MEASUREMENT OF GOALS OUTCOMES 2.2 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 5. ANTICORRUPTION 3. LABOUR 5.1 ASSESSMENT, POLICY, 3.1 ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS GOALS 5.2 MEASUREMENT OF 3.2 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES OUTCOMES Trafigura has become one of the world’s leading commodity trading firms by delivering reliable and efficient services to its customers and by making the global supply chain work better. Integral to this process is our commitment to acting responsibly. I am pleased to confirm Trafigura’s ongoing support of the UN Global Compact and, as presented in this Communication on Progress1, our commitment and efforts to continuously integrate the 10 principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption within our business strategy, management frameworks, organisational culture and values. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders. Trafigura is a committed and active member of the Swiss and International UN Global Compact communities and supports the advancement of the broader development goals of the United Nations. As one of the world’s leading commodity trading firms, we are leveraging our experience and expertise to develop a more responsible business. We have set ourselves an important ambition: to be acknowledged sector leaders in corporate responsibility. Each division and operating company of the Trafigura Group are required to implement, measure and report performance against our corporate responsibility policies and principles. Our 2017 Responsibility Report, which reflects on progress and on lessons learned during the year, as well as spelling out measures we have put in place to strengthen implementation going forward forms part of our formal Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact. Trafigura’s Corporate Responsibility Policy and Business Principles, along with our Code of Business Conduct, encapsulate our approach to corporate responsibility and align with the UN Global Compact principles. Jeremy Weir Chief Executive Officer Trafigura Group Pte. Ltd. 1 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress, covering the period October 1st, 2016 – September 30 th, 2017. 3 1. INTRODUCTION We are committed to being an active member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and to the ongoing implementation of its 10 principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We are continually strengthening our approach to corporate responsibility across our direct operational activities and business relationships. We face growing expectations from stakeholders. Our partners and investors are increasingly risk-sensitive. Governments and regulators are more conscious of the commodities sector. Counterparties, lenders, NGOs, local communities, insurance providers and the media, amongst others, expect us to demonstrate that we are operating responsibly. Our engagement with internal and external stakeholders is critical to informing our business strategy, decision making processes and management approach to promote continuous improvement in performance across the Trafigura Group. Trafigura’s governance framework aims to ensure our Corporate Responsibility Policy, associated Business Principles and Code of Business Conduct are implemented consistently across our diverse organisation. Our Health, Safety, Environment and Communities (HSEC) Steering Committee promotes best practice and drives performance. A non-executive Board member and the Global Head of Corporate Affairs co-chair the Committee. It includes COOs and functional Heads from across the organisation. The following index tables have been designed to outline how Trafigura is upholding the principles of the UNGC and demonstrates Trafigura’s commitment to transparency and accountability. This document is to be read alongside Trafigura’s 2017 Responsibility Report, available at www.trafigura.com/responsibility. 4 2. HUMAN RIGHTS 2.1 ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS Our expectations in relation to human rights are detailed within Physical trading is at the core of our business. With a significant fixed employee (and selected contractors) HSEC awareness raising asset base in developing economies, we are acutely aware of the training in English, French, Spanish, Portuguese and Chinese. In impacts of our operations on nearby communities. Understanding addition, we require business partners to apply comprehensive, local contextual issues and engaging respectfully in our operating comparable and complementary policies and principles, as outlined environment is critical to maintaining our social licence to operate. in our contractor screening and engagement processes. Our activities stimulate socio-economic development in local communities and for their national economies. We create employment, We are committed to continuously strengthening our develop skills, build infrastructure and procure from local suppliers. social performance. Our focus in 2018 will include: At the same time we recognise that our activities can also have • To continue to support the development and execution of guidance an adverse impact on local communities and their way of life. for the application of the UNGPs to the commodities trading sector. We seek to minimise or mitigate such negative consequences. • To continue to support and promote the activities of the EITI and the application of the EITI Standard to the commodities trading sector. Basic human rights are understood as the rights outlined in • To monitor and respond to the ‘Dirty Diesel’ the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. issue through dialogue and direct action. Trafigura is committed to respecting human rights across its • To deliver improvements on the handling of operational-level business operations and value chain activities. Our approach grievances against the Trafigura standard. is enshrined in our Corporate Responsibility Policy, associated • To deliver refinements to Trafigura’s responsible sourcing strategy Business Principles and Code of Conduct and is informed by the and support counterparts as required in mitigating risk. UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) • To explore opportunities of working with expert third parties and other internationally recognised principles and standards. in mitigating wider risk linked to artisanal small-scale mining that are unrelated to our direct business interests. 5 2. HUMAN RIGHTS UNGC PRINCIPLE: HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2017 Responsibility Web Supporting business processes and documentation Report Reference Our Approach (p. 4-13) http://www.trafigura.com/ • HSEC Incident Reporting and Investigation Guidelines • Third-Party HSEC Incident Reporting and Investigation Guidelines Society (p. 14-23) http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • Trafigura Employee Handbook • Contractor HSEC Code of Conduct Health & Safety http://www.trafigura.com/hsec• Trafigura HSEC Contractor Terms (p. 24-31) resourcecentre/ • Trafigura HSEC Contractor Screening and Management Process • Community leadership: what it means to us People (p. 40-45) http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • Group and Operational Level Grievance Mechanisms global-grievance-hotline/ • Operational-level guidance for the handling of external complaints and grievances Conduct (p.46-49) • Online HSEC Awareness Training http://www.trafigura.com/ responsibility/2017-responsibility-report/ • HSEC Assurance Programme • Metals and Minerals Responsible Sourcing and Supply Chain Expectations and programme of work 2.2 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Key monitoring and performance highlights in 2017 to support alignment of our business with UNGC have included: • Performance improvement plan instigated across all major assets to deliver enhancements to Trafigura’s grievance management system. • Pilot responsible sourcing programme launched in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and Zambia, incorporating desk-based and site-based due diligence of suppliers of metals and minerals to Trafigura. • Supporting the development of guidance for the application of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) to the commodities trading industry. • Support for the EITI-mandated multi-stakeholder working group in developing guidance on ‘first trade’ reporting of crude oil sales by State Owned Enterprises. 6 3. LABOUR 3.1 ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS Our approach to managing our people and our contractors is enshrined At Trafigura, we maintain a working environment based on integrity, in our Corporate Responsibility Policy, our Business Principles, our ethical conduct, equal opportunity and mutual respect. We have Code of Business Conduct and employee handbook (which forms built up a distinctive culture that binds our global organisation part of the terms and conditions of employment with Trafigura). Our and drives performance across regions and disciplines. Being able employee handbook provides documented coverage of employee to recruit, retain and develop skilled and high performing people rights, conditions and responsibilities, including work environment is critical to maintaining our competitiveness. Respect, diversity expectations in relation to equal opportunity and diversity, and and competitiveness are fundamental tenets. We engage with discrimination, health and safety at work and code of conduct. employees and contractors, both directly and through their trade unions and other representatives, on issues that may affect them. Trafigura’s Human Resources team oversees our people strategy on behalf of the Group. Our people strategy in 2018 will focus on: We oppose discrimination of any kind. We treat all employees • Building the technical capabilities and interpersonal skills of our staff. fairly, and with dignity and respect. We do not tolerate any form of • Developing people management and leadership child labour, forced or compulsory labour across our direct business skills within the organisation. activities or those of our business partners. Where there are staff • Improving the efficiency and productivity of our workforce through grievances, whether individual or collective, we address them continuous improvement of processes, systems and work organisation. promptly and collaboratively. We are committed to full operational • Career development opportunities for employees compliance with applicable labour legislation and regulations, who have demonstrated they are ready and able ILO core conventions and associated company standards and to take on increased responsibilities. requirements. Furthermore, we maintain and support the rights of our employees to bargain collectively and to freedom of association. 7 3. LABOUR UNGC PRINCIPLE: LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 2017 Responsibility Web Supporting business processes and documentation Report Reference Our Approach (p. 4-13) http://www.trafigura.com/ • HSEC Incident Reporting and Investigation Guidelines • Third-Party HSEC Incident Reporting and Investigation Guidelines People (p. 40-45) http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • Trafigura Employee Handbook • Contractor HSEC Code of Conduct http://www.trafigura.com/hsec• Trafigura HSEC Contractor Terms resourcecentre/ • Trafigura HSEC Contractor Screening and Management Process • Online HSEC Awareness Training http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • HSEC Assurance Programme global-grievance-hotline/ • Group and Operational Level Grievance Mechanisms • HSEC Assurance Programme http://www.trafigura.com/ responsibility/2017-responsibility-report/ 3.2 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Key monitoring and performance highlights in 2017 to support alignment of our business with UN Global Compact Principles have included: • 1,007 employees joined Trafigura Group in 2017 (63 percent office workers and 37 percent blue-collar workers). • 18 people hired onto the Global Commodity Trading Graduate Programme (including four from the Apprentice Programme), 26 onto the International Trader Opportunity and five people onto the Impala Terminals Graduate Programme. • 32,959 learning and development-related activities completed across the Group, including e-learnings, structured on-thejob training, classroom training and skills evaluations. • 1,016 employees had a career development opportunity, including a change of role or a promotion. • 120 employees internationally relocated. 8 4. ENVIRONMENTAL 4.1 ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS Our Corporate Responsibility Policy and Business Principles define Trafigura requires that the planning, design and operation of all Group our commitments for our direct operations and those of our activities and facilities explicitly consider and target environmental business partners in relation to environmental protection and risk in its many forms. We are committed to pollution prevention and responsibility. Our commitments are further articulated through a compliance with all relevant domestic and international environmental range of risk screening, management and performance assurance legislation and regulations. Furthermore, we are committed to processes. Trafigura’s commitments extend to our business promoting environmental protection and minimising the impact of partners, as articulated within our HSEC Contractor Code of our business activities on the environment where we operate. Conduct, contractual clauses and HSEC risk screening processes. 9 4. ENVIRONMENTAL UNGC PRINCIPLE: ENVIRONMENTAL Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 2017 Responsibility Web Supporting business processes and documentation Report Reference Our Approach (p. 4-13) http://www.trafigura.com/ • HSEC material risk registers • HSEC Incident Reporting and Investigation Guidelines Environment (p. 33-39) http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • Third-Party HSEC Incident Reporting and Investigation Guidelines • Contractor HSEC Code of Conduct http://www.trafigura.com/hsec• Trafigura HSEC Contractor Terms resourcecentre/ • Trafigura HSEC Contractor Screening and Management Process • Online HSEC Awareness Training http://www.trafigura.com/ • HSEC Assurance Programme responsibility/2017-responsibility-report/ • Environmental Management Systems, including ISO14001 certification at a number of existing facilities • Oil spill response contingency plans • Greenhouse Gas (GHG) inventory • Group and Operational Level Grievance Mechanisms • Shipping and Chartering Desk requirements and measures on ship owners and chartered vessels (including compliance with the International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention) • Oil Companies International Marine Forum (OCIMF) Ship Inspection Report (SIRE) Programme approvals • Oil Spill Response Ltd (OSRL) Membership • Oil spill response plans in place across relevant assets and associated training and desk top emergency response exercises • Centralised trucking fleet management processes 4.2 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • Detailed reporting on Scope 1, 2 and 3 Key monitoring and performance highlights in 2017 to support Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. alignment of our business with UNGC Principles have included: • Formal assessment of GHG emissions reductions in • Ongoing programme of due diligence relevant to the chartering Colombia following first year of early operations for of vessels and the appointment and management of shipImpala Terminals’ multimodal logistics network. to-ship (STS) transfer and waste management providers. • Commitment to CDP Reporting. 10 5. ANTI-CORRUPTION 5.1 ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS Trafigura’s Compliance team oversees our compliance activities on Trafigura conducts its business within laws and regulations. We behalf of the Group. Our conduct strategy in 2018 will focus on: face varying cultural norms in diverse geographies. Wherever • Continuing to develop our KYC programme. we operate, our objective is to conduct ourselves in line with • Continued development and extension of training on key risk the principles of internationally recognised standards. areas to all staff members across all Group companies. • Enhanced coverage and depth of stakeholder engagement, We expect high standards of behaviour from our people particularly amongst the financial community. and aim to encourage our counterparties, contractors • Work with regulators regarding key issues for and suppliers to adhere to a similar framework. the commodities trading sector. • Active engagement with international forums, industry Our Code of Business Conduct sets out behaviours expected of all bodies and trading partners on ethical business conduct. our staff. Our management teams work together with Compliance, Legal, Human Resources and Corporate Affairs departments to promote these behaviours amongst our employees and contractors. Trafigura strictly prohibits the offer or acceptance of a bribe in any form, including kickbacks or the use of any route of which the intention is to provide improper benefits to third parties, in both public and private sectors, whether made directly or indirectly. 11 5. ANTI-CORRUPTION UNGC PRINCIPLE: ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 2017 Responsibility Web Supporting business processes and documentation Report Reference Our Approach (p. 4-13) http://www.trafigura.com/ • Code of Business Conduct • Code of Business Conduct for Suppliers Society (p. 14-23) http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • Know your Counterparty (KYC) Screening Process and Procedures • TradingHub’s Market Abuse Surveillance Tool (MAST) Conduct (p. 46-49) http://www.trafigura.com/hsec• Counterparty Due Diligence resourcecentre/ • Contractor HSEC Code of Conduct • Trafigura HSEC Contractor Screening and Management Process http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • Trafigura Employee Handbook conduct/ • Impala Terminals Confidentiality Information Barrier (CIB) Policy • Vessel Screening processes http://www.trafigura.com/ responsibility/2017-responsibility-report/ • Engagement with Banks and other stakeholders (including involvement in debate regarding emergence and evolution of regulations relevant to Trafigura) • Daily updates from Thomson Reuters Accelus • Membership of International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA), the Futures Industry Association (FIA) and the Commodity Markets Council Europe (CMCE). 5.2 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Key monitoring and performance highlights in 2017 to support alignment of our business with UNGC Principles have included: • Over 680 Trafigura employees trained on our Code of Business Conduct. • Anti-money laundering training delivered to over 565 staff members in 39 locations. • Anti-bribery and corruption training delivered to over 570 staff members in 39 locations. • 3,965 vessels screened by IMO number to mitigate risk associated with the reflagging of vessels by sanctioned countries, entities or individuals. 12 Trafigura Group Pte. Ltd. 10 Collyer Quay #29-00 Ocean Financial Centre Singapore 049315 Trafigura Group Pte. Ltd. and the companies in which it directly or indirectly owns investments are separate and distinct entities. In this publication, the collective Email: enquiries@trafigura.com expressions ‘Trafigura’, ‘Trafigura Group’, ‘the Company’ and ‘the Group’ may be www.trafigura.com used for convenience where reference is made in general to those companies. Likewise, the words ‘we’, ‘us’, ‘our’ and ‘ourselves’ are used in some places to refer to the companies of the Trafigura Group in general. These expressions are also TH/0243.1e used where no useful purpose is served by identifying any particular company Last updated: December 2017 or companies.
