November 4, 2018 Hilding Anders COP 2017 November 2018 Alexander Roswall Communications Manager Hilding Anders is the leading bed manufacturer in Europe and Asia, with headquarters in Malmö, Sweden. What started as a family business in 1939, has grown into a company with more than 9,000 colleagues in over 40 countries. Through selected core brands and private label concepts, we’re able to offer beds and mattresses for all needs, and bring a good night’s sleep to people around the world. hildinganders.com 4 November 2018 SCOPE OF REPORTING  Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Hilding Anders International reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour Principles, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Pepyn Dinandt Chairman & Group CEO 2 4 November 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment, policy and goals In 2012 we started the company wide initiative focusing on Corporate Governance, Visual communication and Performance Management. Training material includes all headlines of UN Global Compact, namely Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. The process was completed in 2013 and adjustments were made in 2015. Implementation 2015 was the year when we included an interactive online course as part of our induction process for new employees. This course provides new employees information and understanding of who we are as a company, our values and our support of all principles in UN Global Compact. We use our communication channels to communicate our support of the Ten Principles of UN Global Compact. Measurement of outcomes are assessed both systematically as part of our HR department follow up system as well as ad hoc by Group Management when visiting sites. Outcome and issues are put on the table as part of Group Management meetings. LABOUR Assessment, policy and goals 2012 was the year when our entire corporate governance set up, including all principles of UN Global Compact, was implemented on Group level. The past year saw a continuation of this implementation. Health and safety for our employees is a high priority issue and all plant managers are instructed to inform and educate staff on how to conduct their work to safeguard their health & safety. Best practice cases are also communicated internally within the group. Implementation Health and safety issues are highly prioritized within the group and on the agenda of all supply chain meetings. Measurement of outcome The amount of lost time injuries has decreased as opposed to previous year. Returning to our whistleblower policy that was set up in 2012; we have not received any notification during the last year. 3 4 November 2018 ENVIRONMENT Assessment, policy and goals In line with UN Global Compact principles 7-9 the Group focuses strategically on the following areas: • Centralization: affect overall policies on travel, company cars, meeting structures. • Construction of beds and mattresses: waste per bed, non-conformity and recyclability. • Fill rates: affect transportation costs and CO2 footprint. • Product packaging: affect amount of plastic and cartons used without increasing product damages which would affect transportation and returns negatively. Implementation Additional focus was put towards our carbon dioxide foot print in 2013 and further initiatives were implemented in 2015. Group Management performs follow-up on all travel expenses. Measurement of outcomes Outcome is followed continuously and General Managers in different business units work with continuous improvement program. ANTI-CORRUPTION Assessment, policy and goals In 2011 we overhauled our entire corporate governance set up including all relevant policies with the Ten Global Compact principles as starting point. 2015 was the year where we’ve taken further action. Implementation In 2015 we revised our business compliance policy, adding the section “Competition and Antitrust”. This section highlights Hilding Anders’ policy to engage in fair competition wherever we conduct business, and to be in full compliance with local and global competition and antitrust laws and regulations. In 2016 we revised our business compliance policy adding the section “Anti-Corruption” which references to our Anti-Corruptions policy and clearly states that Hilding Anders is committed 4 4 November 2018 to conducting all aspects of its business in keeping with the highest legal and ethical standards and expects all employees and other persons acting on the company’s behalf to uphold this commitment. Measurement of outcome Hilding Anders measures the outcome of our approach in two ways: Corporate Governance issues are very much on the agenda of our business meetings and hence get the attention it deserves. Secondly, our Whistleblower system allows the organization to challenge management and improve Hilding Anders’ organization further. 5
