Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Message from the President Taking on the Challenge of the Technologies that Society Needs At Tamron, through our core business of making lenses as the“New Eyes for Industry,”we strive to be a company that creates joy and excitement, and which contributes to society and the environment. In recent years, expectations have been placed on companies to tackle solutions to social issues in the medium-to-long term through the Sustainable Development Goals（SDGs）adopted by the United Nations, and the Charter of Corporate Behavior 1 instituted by Keidanren（Japan Business Federation）. Similarly, a decade has passed since Tamron introduced CSR management, and we have reaffirmed the recognition that business opportunities lie in solutions to social issues. Car-mounted lenses and surveillance lenses hold promise to potentially solve their respective social issues in terms of a safe driving society and secure lifestyles. In new fields such as drone lenses, we will also contribute to social issues through technological development from a medium-to-long-term perspective. Looking ahead, we will work through our Opto-Science R&D Center on lenses for medical use serving future needs and high-sensitivity surveillance cameras while also quickly adapting to the latest technologies as they emerge. Tamron formulates a medium-term management plan and reform-oriented themes as part of its corporate strategy.2 Initiatives in the areas of the environment, society and governance that reflect current circumstances are crucial to achieving these goals. Given this, in FY2017 we reviewed our twelve CSR themes and identified key CSR issues. Moving forward, we will ensure steady implementation and outcomes consistent with the new twelve CSR themes, including CSR procurement. On the other hand, unfortunately we failed to meet our CO2 emissions reduction target for FY2017. Even so, we promoted energy saving initiatives and installed solar power generation at Tamron Optical（Foshan）Co., Ltd. In FY2018 we will make greater efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. Cultivating High-quality Human Resources with an Awareness of Improving Productivity At Tamron, we require our employees to be aware of productivity improvements so that they can become high-quality human resources who can adapt to change. Boosting productivity is essential to achieving a healthy work-life balance. This gives employees the opportunity to develop their skills and spend time with their family, leading to a more fulfilling life. By President & CEO extension, these employees will go on to create technologies and products that excite our Tamron Co., Ltd. customers. At our overseas sites, we also require human resources who can respond to risks in a convincing manner and create value with a sense of speed. We hire research and Shiro Ajisaka development staff, including overseas, and implement schemes such as job rotations, thereby cultivating human resources who can succeed at the global level. The lifeblood of a company is its people. With this in mind, Tamron will develop an internal environment that allows people to take on their work in a bright, enjoyable and positive way. Supporting the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Tamron continues to be an active supporter of the 10 principles laid out in the U.N. Global Compact as part of its global expansion. We recognize that these 10 principles represent guidelines that truly multinational corporations must put into practice, and thoroughly educate our employees on the principles, including those in our overseas sites. We have compiled this CSR report with a focus on engagement with stakeholders, and as a tool for disclosing non-financial information, which is encouraged by Japan’ s Corporate Governance Code. We would greatly appreciate your comments and suggestions for how we can further improve. 1. The Charter of Corporate Behavior was revised by Keidanren（Japan Business Federation）in 2017. 2. Please visit the Tamron website for information about our Mid-to Long-Term Management. WEB http://www.tamron.com/ir/management_policy/ 1 Tamron CSR Report 2018 Corporate Philosophy With its firm commitment to developing high-quality, innovative and technologically advanced products that satisfy customer needs, Tamron is securing a leading position in the worldwide optical industry. Our primary objective is to sustain strong corporate growth based on a high level of customer satisfaction achieved by providing superior products at the right price, thus also contributing to the prosperity of our shareholders and employees. Brand Message New Eyes for Industry Company Profile Outline of Business Operations Trade name Tamron Co., Ltd. Commercial/ 19.5% Head office 1385 Hasunuma, Minuma-ku, Saitama-shi, Saitama, Japan industrial-use optics Tel. +81-48-684-9111 Founded November 1, 1950 Incorporated October 27, 1952 Capital 6.923 billion yen Percentage Optical 5.6% of sales President & CEO Shiro Ajisaka Components by business segment Employees 4,640（consolidated；excluding 1,265 temporary employees） （FY2017, consolidated） Net sales 60.496 billion yen（consolidated；as of December 31, 2017） Listed First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Domestic plants One each in Hirosaki, Namioka and Owani in Aomori Overseas plants Foshan, China and Hanoi, Vietnam Photographic 74.9% Consolidated subsidiaries Products United States, Germany, France, Hong Kong, China（Shanghai）, Russia, and India ［Employees］ ［Net Sales for the Previous Five Years］ （person） Consolidated（regular employees） Consolidated（temporary employees） （Billion yen） 8,000 （1） Consolidated 1,814 800 1.“Temporary employees etc. 736 719 7,000 4,090 3,985 （Consolidated） ”shows the 700 684 6,000 935 1,265 average number of temporary 599 605 employees. 600 5,000 5,829 2. The increase in the number 500 4,000 4,728 4,640 of regular employees in 400 3,000 2015 was mainly due to a 300 2,000 2,545 2,694 change in the employment status of workers at Tamron 200 1,000 Optical（ Foshan）Co., Ltd. 100 0 （Tamron’ s manufacturing 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 FY . subsidiary in China） 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 FY （2） 目 次 ● Message from the President… ………………………… 1 ● Corporate Philosophy / Company Profile / Table of Contents…… 2 ● Special Feature：Striving to Create a Sustainable Society…… 3 Editorial Policy ● Participation in the UN Global Compact… ………… 5 （1）This report was issued to disclosure to our stakeholders including customers, employees, shareholders, investors, business partners, local ● Relationship with Employees… ………………………… 6 communities, public institutions, NGOs and NPOs, of our activities for protecting the environment and discharging our social responsibilities. ● Relationship with Shareholders and Investors……… 7 （2）This reports covers activities at all the Tamron Group including Tamron Co., Ltd., Tamron Optical（Foshan）Co., Ltd., and overseas sales subsidiary ● Relationship with Business Partners…………………… 8 companies（except for some information on environment data and so on）. （3）Guidelines mainly referred in compiling this report： ● Relationship with Customers… ………………………… 9 E nvironmental Report Guidelines, Ministry of the Environment（2012 version） ● Management System…………………………………… 13 Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & Reporting Manual Version 4.3.1 Environmental Accounting Guidelines, Ministry of the Environment（2005 ● Relationship with the Environment… ……………… 15 version）. （4）We also referred to GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and ISO ● Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved…… 16 26000：2010 Manual on Business Entities’ Social Responsibility in extracting the needs for disclosing information to our stakeholders. ● Reducing environmental impact… ………………… 17 （5）We worked on information disclosure sharing our perspectives with our stakeholders, by referring to the warranty processes in the AA1000 Warranty Standard. ● Relationship with Society……………………………… 19 （6）We selected the cover design to express our corporate attitude attempting to contribute to the environment of the earth and the harmony with all ● Activities at Tamron’ s Overseas Subsidiaries… … 21 stakeholders through lenses. ● Independent Third-Party Opinion…………………… 22 Tamron CSR Report 2018 2 Special Feature Striving to Create Working from a medium-to-long-term perspective, Tamron has Through the new twelve CSR themes, Tamron will contribute Striving to Create a Sustainable Society（Tamron’ s CSR Management） Under a CSR policy1 of contributing to the economy, society advanced, and with various social issues such as human and environment as eyes for industry to realize its corporate rights and labor becoming increasingly serious, there philosophy, Tamron aims to enhance its corporate value and is an even greater expectation placed on the initiatives develop a sustainable society. In 2007, we set twelve CSR companies pursue to solve social issues. In December 2017, themes against the backdrop of the internal and external Tamron identified key CSR issues and redefined its twelve environment of the time. In the time since, we have set CSR themes in order to promote initiatives designed to goals and targets on a yearly basis to inform our activities. solve social issues in the medium-to-long term. In today’s world, however, as typified by the phenomenon 1. Please visit the Tamron website for information about our CSR Policy and Action Declarations. of global warming, the sustainability crisis has steadily WEB http://www.tamron.com/csr/csr.html Identifying Key CSR Issue and the Twelve New CSR Themes We identified key CSR issues（materiality）in the course of risk that would occur in relation to a social issue）. After three steps in order to address social issues in a decisive considering the validity of the evaluation results, we manner. identified 15 key CSR issues. These were revised down to First, in light of the fact that Tamron’ s business is global in twelve CSR themes and consequently approved by the CSR nature, we identified and acknowledged social issues based Committee. on various guidelines and indexes, including ISO26000, the To respond to the key CSR issues that were identified, we Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, SDGs2 and the have revised the twelve CSR themes under which we have RBA Code of Conduct（formerly known as the Electronic operated since 2007, and newly added CSR Procurement Industry Citizen Coalition, or“EICC”）. Next, we evaluated and SDGs themes2. Our activities will be conducted under the level of importance for each stakeholder involved with the new twelve CSR themes. Tamron in a business capacity, and the level of importance 2. SDGs stand for“Sustainable Development Goals,”and as the name suggests, refer to to Tamron（the probability and the level of impact on a goals designed to further sustainable development. The process for Assess the degree of Identify key CSR issues identifying key CSR issues STEP 1 Identify social issues STEP 2 importance for each issue, and consider STEP 3 and revise the CSR themes its appropriateness 《New Twelve CSR Themes Twelve New CSR Themes Key CSR Issues Relevant Page in this Report Association Table》 SDGs Contributing to social issues through business（including new businesses） P3 ～ 4 Quality and Product Safety Enhancing product quality and safety management P9 ～ 12 High Importance to Stakeholders Reducing CO2 emissions Recycling resources and reducing waste P12 Environment Environmentally friendly design P15 ～ 18 Reducing harmful chemical substances Water management Human Resources and Human resource development（improved productivity） High P6 Human Rights Providing comfortable workplace Importance to Tamron Occupational Health & Safety environments and promoting diversity P14 Social Contributions Fostering the development of the next generation P19 ～ 20 CSR Procurement Promoting CSR procurement P8 Crisis Management Preparing for（rebuilding from）major disasters P13 Compliance P7、14 Improving the governance framework Corporate Governance P7 Information Disclosure Expanding the disclosure of non-financial information P5、P7 Information Management（Personal Information / Security） Enhancing internal reporting systems P7 3 Tamron CSR Report 2018 a Sustainable Society identified key CSR issues as social issues to be addressed on a priority basis. solutions to social issues through its core business activities. Tamron and the SDGs I n 2015 , t h e U n i te d N a t i o n s a d o p te d t h e Su s t a i n a b l e examined them a number of times. In FY2017 we conducted Development Goals（SDGs）, a set of uniform international verification to ascertain how the SDGs relate to Tamron’ s goals towards achieving a sustainable society. The SDGs are b u si n e s s a c t i v i t i e s . T h e fo l l o w i n g t a b l e（ “Examples of comprised of 17 goals and 169 targets. To eliminate poverty, Relationships between Tamron and the SDGs” ）illustrates the nations and companies are expected to promote economic relationships between Tamron’ s current activities and the SDGs. growth and address environmental issues while satisfying a In FY2018, we will consider activities aimed at achieving the wide range of social needs including education, health and SDGs, including contributions to sustainable society through new employment opportunities. business endeavors. Tamron recognizes the importance of the SDGs, and has 〈Examples of Relationships between Tamron and the SDGs〉 Goal 3： Goal 9： Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable at all ages industrialization and foster innovation 【Target 3.6】 By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents Goal 12： Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Goal 11： 【Target 12.4】 Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment Tamron’ s Activities Tamron’ s Activities ［Lenses for Vehicle-Mounted Cameras］ Developing Technologies with a Medium-to-Long-Term Perspective Supplementing driver awareness with lenses for cameras ［Environmentally Friendly Design］ that visually recognize the surrounding areas and lenses for Reducing waste and raw materials through sensor cameras, etc. parts recycling Considering people and the environment ［Traffic Monitoring Camera Lenses］ t h ro u g h t h e p ro p e r m a n a g e m e n t o f The effect of preventing traffic accidents through controlled environmental substances lenses for high image quality traffic Traffic Monitoring Camera Lenses Reducing raw material usage through monitoring cameras lighter and more compact products (Model DE005) Tamron Eco Label Tamron CSR Report 2018 4 ISO26000-4.7 Respect for international norms of behavior Participation in the UN Global Compact In August 2007, Tamron began participation in the United at the head office and plants in Japan and overseas meet Nations Global Compact in an effort to establish the foundations through videoconferencing. In FY2018, Tamron will continue for its CSR initiatives. Advocated by the United Nations, the to thoroughly disseminate the ten principles both in Japan and UN Global Compact is an international initiative supporting overseas, and strive to further enhance its performance. ten universal principles related to human rights, labor, the environment and anticorruption. Tamron has adhered to the Ten GC Principles and continued to engage in corporate activities that fulfill its social responsibilities. In FY2017 Tamron conducted training on SDGs, mercury-related laws and the UN Global Compact, targeting the employees of Tamron Optical（Foshan）Co., Ltd., Tamron Optical（Vietnam） Co., Ltd., and Tamron’ s other overseas subsidiaries, as part of efforts to foster a strong recognition of the principles. Tamron’ s CSR Committee meets monthly to closely monitor the progress of CSR activities which is related to the Ten GC Principles. The committee is an organization under the direct control For further details about the GC, please visit the United Nations of the President and CEO. Representatives from all divisions website at: WEB http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ COP Report（Communication on Progress） The following table describes Tamron’ s accomplishments and efforts during FY2017 in line with the Ten Principles. Relevant Principles Tamron’ s Policies Results for FY2016 Page 1 Business should support and respect ・We support basic human rights in our the protection of internationally ・C arried out operations based on P6 Human Rights Action Declarations. proclaimed human rights. the Human Rights Protection & L a b o u r Sta n da rd M a na ge m e nt ・W e declare respect for human rights and Regulations. elimination of discrimination in our Compliance ・C larified management items for P6 2 B usiness should make sure that Regulations. o p e ra t i o n s a n d s t re n g t h e n e d they are not complicit in human ・We clarify management items and strengthen checks and balances（Japan and rights abuses. check function.（established the Human Rights P8 Tamron Optical Foshan）. Protection & Labour Standard Management Regulations） ・E s t a b l i s h e d o p p o r t u n i t i e s fo r 3 B usi n ess sh o uld u p h o ld t h e ・We declare respect for the right of our periodic consultation bet ween freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right employees to organize in our Labour management and workers. P6 Organization Memorandum. ・I m p r o v e w o r k i n g c o n d i t i o n s to collective bargaining. through labor union activities. ・We stipulate the importance of complying ・Operation of the“Tamron Kids DayP6 4 B usi n ess sh o uld u p h o ld t h e with labour-related laws and regulations and care Center” elimination of all forms of forced Labour maintaining a proper work environment for ・Making every day a“no overtime” and compulsory labour. P14 our employees in our Compliance Regulations. day（Tamron head office） ・Implemented CSR 5 B usi n ess sh o uld u p h o ld t h e ・We vow not to use child labour. We do not related e-learning, ・E stablished a manual to check the age of ef fective abolition of child employ workers under the age of 15, which with content applicants at the time of hiring（Tamron Optical P7 labour. is stipulated in our employment rules. including SDGs, Foshan and Tamron Optical Vietnam）. mercury-related ・Ratio of females promoted to management 6 B usi n ess sh o uld u p h o ld t h e ・We have targets for employing persons laws, and the UN positions：10.2%（domestic） elimination of discrimination with disabilities and a policy to increase Global Compact； ・Ratio of eligible employees taking parental in respect of employment and the ratio of female managers in order to e -learning was leave：100%（domestic） P6 occupation. realize a diversified work place. undergone by a total ・Ratio of hiring of persons with disabilities： of 1,404 employees. 2.31%（domestic） ・We have a provision to prevent environmental deterioration through efforts such as the ・N um b er of incid ent s involving P8 following： leakage of harmful chemical 7 B u s i n e s s s h o u l d s u p p o r t a （1）Reducing CO2 emissions； substances：None P20 p re c a u t i o n a r y a p p ro a c h t o （2）Reducing industrial waste； ・Support for ecosystem protection Environment environmental challenges. （3）Finding alternatives to harmful chemical （Tamron head office） P14〜 substances；and reducing the use of ・Improve management system of harmful chemical substances mercury use products P18 （4）Conserving biodiversity 8 Business should undertake initiatives ・We have a policy to clearly establish environmental ・Rate of decrease in CO2 emissions：3% increase to promote greater environmental objectives and targets for the following： （compared to FY2016, on a unit sales basis） P12 responsibility. （1）Reducing CO2 emissions； ・Waste reduction target：not achieved 9 B usin ess sh o uld e n co u ra ge t h e （2）R educing industrial waste emissions to ・Efforts to reduce product weight and size： P14〜 development and diffusion of ultimately achieve zero emissions；and Weight：0.7% increase, Size：1.3% decreased P18 environmentally friendly technologies. （3）Promoting environmentally-friendly designs. ・Achieved compliance with chemical regulations ・We have a policy to regulate acts of endowment Anti-Corruption 10 B usiness should work against ・T he Compliance Promotion Commit and political donations and terminate ties with co rru p t i o n i n a l l i t s fo rm s , tee held workshops for employees to P7 anti-social forces in our Compliance Regulations including extortion and bribery. learn more about compliance. and Action Declarations. 5 Tamron CSR Report 2018 ISO26000-6.3 Human Rights / 6.4 Labour practices Relationship with Employees Tamron fosters self-disciplined employees with a challenging spirit and strives to provide positive workplace environments grounded in fair evaluations and compensation as well as mutual understanding. Overview of FY2017 Activities Challenges for FY2018 ● Considered measures aimed at achieving diversity ● Reforming personnel systems to focus on addressing diversity ● Conducted training to strengthen the management skills of managers ● Further cultivating our global human resources Human Resource Development Systems Tamron seeks to cultivate ambitious and selfdisciplined Main Benefits Programs for Childcare（Japan） employees. In FY 2017, we revised training for new employees in occupation-based training programs and further strengthened Program Term Overview training for managerial reinforcement. In occupation-based training, we have held technical education and optical basic Until the child turns 1 lecture for sales staff. In any educational training, we are working Parental （Extendable up to 14 months of An employee can take leave to leave care for a child. on improvement based on effect confirmation of education and age） satisfaction survey. Extended Up to the day a child turns 18 An employee can take leave if months of age, or April 15 of certain circumstances apply, such parental 《Training System Diagram》 leave the year after the child turns one, whichever is longer as being unable to find a place at a day-care center. Occupation-based training Rank-based training programs Company-wide training programs Until the child begins elementary An employee can take paid leave Child care school（Up to 5 days per year） Training for sales and Manager training for a child care, vaccinations or leave （10 days if the employee has Training for On-the-job health checkup for a child. E-learning two or more children） Training for mid-career administrative staff engineers training hires Reduced Up until April 30 of the school An employee can shorten their Training for new year in which the child becomes working day by up to two hours working graduate hires a fourth grader in elementary as long as they work at least six hours school. hours. Number of Female Employees Taking Paid Parental Leave2 250 （employees） Initiatives Aimed at Work-Life Balance Japan Tamron Optical（Foshan）Co., Ltd.（China） Tamron Optical（Japan Vietnam）Co., Ltd. 200 150 128 73 Tamron pursues a number of initiatives aimed at promoting 100 59 111 harmony between work and home life. Regarding overtime, in 3 65 46 53 82 50 2015 we introduced a system where employees must obtain 8 30 24 25 28 27 0 approval from their department general manager and officer in 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 FY charge in advance and wear a permit in order to work overtime. Since FY2017, we have implemented twice-weekly no-overtime 2. T he name of the parental leave system varies from country to country. Employees at Tamron Optical（Foshan）Co., Ltd. in China are entitled to 178 days leave after childbirth（98 statutory + 80 days without exceptions to better enhance the effectiveness of recommended）. Employees at Tamron Optical（Vietnam）Co., Ltd. can take up to six months’leave the initiative. before and after childbirth. In Japan, male employees who have just become a father can take parental Tamron helps both male and female employees balance their leave of up to one month. A total of 24 male employees took advantage of the system in FY2017. work with their childcare responsibilities. For instance, the Tamron Kids Day-Care Center1 was opened at the head office. The center employs permanent nurses and also offers care for Promoting Diversity sick children to ensure peace of mind. One hundred percent of female Tamron employees in Japan who have had a child have Tamron believes in the importance of utilizing a diverse range made use of leave before and after childbirth and the parental of human resources and values in order to create new value, leave systems and subsequently returned to work. Through these and aims to improve the percentage of female employees in initiatives, Tamron has met the standards set forth in the Act on management positions as a part of its diversity management 3 Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-generation efforts. In FY2017, female employees accounted for around Children, and had also been awarded the“Kurumin Mark,” 10.2% of employees in management positions（domestic）. which is given to companies that promote a childcare-friendly Saitama Prefecture, where our head office is located, has been workplace. promoting the Saitama Prefecture Womenomics Project, which is designed to invigorate the prefectural economy through the power of women. As part of this project, Tamron has been certified as a“Diversified Workstyle Promoting Enterprise”and elevated to“Platinum+,”in recognition of achievements such as having male employees take childcare leave for at least five consecutive days. Japan requires companies to maintain a 2% hiring ratio for people with disabilities, and in FY2017 Tamron again exceeded this ratio at 2.31%. Tamron’ s overseas plans and sales subsidiaries are primarily run by local staff, ensuring that a diverse range of human resources enjoy success across the company. Tamron Kids Day-Care Center 3. This refers to efforts to accept diversity including gender and racial differences and people of different ages, characters, academic backgrounds and values, 1. Tamron Kids Day-Care Center has been certified as a small-scale office and to make broad use of human resources to improve productivity. nursery office, five children of the area are also accepted. Tamron CSR Report 2018 6 ISO26000-6-2 Organizational Governance Relationship with Shareholders and Investors We are committed to fair and transparent management practices as well as enhancing corporate value, which is achieved by strengthening corporate governance to build up trust with shareholders and investors. Corporate Governance Basic Policy Corporate Governance Structure Ever since the company was first established, we at Tamron have sought to forge good relationships with all stakeholders, achieve sustainable growth and enhance corporate value in line with our management General Meeting of Shareholders philosophy. In support of those goals, we have adopted the basic Election/ dismissal Election/dismissal Election/ dismissal approach of ensuring fair and transparent management practices while Board of Auditors （Corporate Auditors and Accounting Auditor developing a highly effective corporate governance system that seeks Independent Auditors） Coordination Audit Audit to improve the speed and efficiency of decision making and business Coordination execution. Coordination Board of Directors （Directors and External Directors） Corporate Governance System Overview Nominating Committee Compensation Committee Tamron is a company with corporate auditors and includes a Board of Directors that functions as a body to make important decisions and President & CEO Internal Audit supervise the execution of operations, as well as an Audit & Supervisory CSR Committee Management Meeting Board as an auditing body that is independent of the Board of Internal Audit Compliance Committee Directors. Tamron also appoints multiple independent external directors possessing a wealth of knowledge, expertise and independence and Each department/subsidiary has set up a Nominating Committee and Compensation Committee as advisory bodies to enhance supervisory functions. In addition, by establishing a Management Meeting and introducing an Executive Officer system, we have developed a framework for executing business matters in a way that responds smoothly and quickly to changes in the external Shareholder and Investor Engagement environment. To the Board of Directors, Tamron appoints 12 directors （two of whom are external directors）and 4 corporate auditors（three of To ensure that information is disclosed to shareholders and investors in whom are external auditors）. a timely and appropriate fashion while deepening mutual understanding Tamron respects the principles of the Corporate Governance Code and forging a relationship of trust, Tamron endeavors to engage in twowhich came into effect in June 2015, and is working to achieve a further way communication. In addition to twice-yearly earnings presentations strengthening of corporate governance, along with continued growth and for institutional investors and securities analysts delivered by the the enhancement of corporate value over the medium and long term. president and top management team, we also hold individual and smallgroup meetings and take part in conferences aimed at domestic and （1） Board of Directors overseas investors run by securities firms. Meetings of the Board of Directors are held twice a month, in principle, Our earnings presentation for the fiscal year ended December 2017 was attended by all Directors and Corporate Auditors, for reviewing the held on the same day our earnings were announced. In addition to the execution of duties by the Directors and deciding on important issues as presentation materials used, earnings details were also posted to the set forth in the basic policy of the company and the Companies Act. company website that same day, underscoring our efforts to disseminate timely and unbiased information and enhance the information we （2） Audit & Supervisory Board Meeting once a month in principle, the Audit & Supervisory Board disclose. audits the process of decision making by the Board of Directors and the execution of duties by Directors, by attending the Board of Directors meetings and checking approval documents. （3）Nominating Committee and Compensation Committee Compliance To enhance the independence and objectivity of Board of Directors functions concerning director appointment, dismissal and compensation, To promote compliance, Tamron has established the Compliance Tamron has established a Nominating Committee and Compensation Committee, which is chaired by the Representative Director and Committee. Each committee is chaired by an external director, with a deliberates on basic items for the promotion of compliance, and the majority of its members external officers（external directors and external Compliance Promotion Committee, which comprises members selected auditors）. from each business division and provides training and education on legal （4） Management Meetings compliance. Tamron has established management meetings attended by directors In FY2017, the committee conducted training on themes such as the and full-time corporate auditors to discuss and consider issues related to lawful disposal of industrial waste, which is essential for Tamron’ s management and the execution of duties, and to quickly respond to the continuity as a manufacturing business, and on the beefed up operational changing management environment. standards in the Subcontract Proceeds Act. In addition, the committee offers support to overseas subsidiaries in developing their own internal （5） Accounting Auditor regulations and periodically provides them with global legal information Tamron has concluded an auditing agreement with Wako Audit related to the Tamron Group’ s business activities. Information security and Corporation and receives audit from this firm in its capacity as the protection of personal information are managed appropriately in accounting auditor. accordance with internal regulations. Thanks to these company-wide initiatives, zero legal violations were reported in FY2017. 7 Tamron CSR Report 2018 ISO26000 6.6 Fair Operating Practices Relationship with Business Partners Tamron respects human rights, ensures compliance with laws and regulations, and establishes good relationships with business partners to grow and contribute to society together. Summary of Activities in FY2017 Tasks for FY2018 ● Revised the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct ● Further reinforce CSR procurement with business partners ● Launched the chemSHERPA scheme ● Improve operation of the chemSHERPA scheme Business Partner Accreditation Program for CSR Procurement Working Together with Business Partners to Manage Chemical Substances In order to contribute to society in accordance with its CSR policy and Tamron maintains a policy of avoiding the use of harmful chemical Action Declarations, Tamron works together with its business partners substances in the materials used to make its products. We ask business to comply with laws and regulations, and continually aspires to serve as partners to manage chemical substances based on the standards a partner that delivers high quality products and services. For product in Tamron’ s environmental quality assurance system. To reduce the and environmental quality, we conduct surveys to check the status of workload associated with chemical substance management for Tamron our suppliers through on-site or paper-based audits in accordance with and its business partners, in FY2017 we launched chemSHERPA 3, a our assessment standards. new scheme for transmitting information on the chemical substances While Tamron has engaged in CSR procurement since 2008, in FY2017 contained in products. This scheme provides an effective way to verify we made revisions to the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct based that the standards are being met by Tamron and its partners. on the latest edition of the EICC Code of Conduct1. We distributed Tamron also implements internal analysis work using equipment including the revised code of conduct to all suppliers along with a request for Inductively Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission Spectrometry（ICP-AES） their compliance. We also conducted an SAQ survey2 for 130 business and Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry（GC-MS）to ensure only partners in Japan and overseas to gauge the current status of CSR the safest and most secure products are delivered to customers. In July promotion. Moving forward, we will analysis the results of the survey 2019, the scope of application of RoHS is being expanded from the and further promote CSR procurement with the cooperation of business original six substances – Cadmium, Lead, Hexavalent chromium, Mercury, partners. Polybrominated biphenyls（PBB）, and Polybrominated diphenyl ether（PBDE） 1. T  he EICC Code of Conduct sets out standards for environmental responsibility – to include four additional substances, all of which are types of phthalates： and ethical business practices in the electronic equipment industry supply Bis（2-ethylhexyl）phthalate（DEHP）, Benzyl butyl phthalate（BBP）, Dibutyl chain, requiring safe working environments and the treatment of workers with dignity and respect. Due to a name change from EICC to RBA in October 2017, phthalate（DBP）, and Diisobutyl phthalate（DIBP）. Tamron’ s systems also this is currently referred to as the RBA Code of Conduct. allow it to analyze these four substances. 2. S elf-Assessment Questionnaire. This is a table of questions designed to enhance CSR procurement that is made up of themes such as“Corporate Tamron is also establishing the frameworks and systems needed to Governance Related to CSR,” “Human Rights,“Labor,” “the Environment,” “Fair ensure compliance with other new regulations relating to the control Corporate Activities,” “Quality and Safety,”and so on. of harmful chemical substances that may be established in different countries around the world in the future. Procedures for Selecting Suppliers 3. c  hemSHERPA is a new scheme for sharing information about the chemical Request the supplier to make efforts in CSR, covering aspects substances in products in the supply chain. Through widespread adoption including labour, health and safety, environmental protection, the scheme aims to reduce the burden on those providing and receiving management and operational mechanisms and ethical management, information. in addition to promoting environmental and quality assurance Check whether the supplier complies with the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct Response to Conflict Minerals Periodical evaluation Carry out quality audits, environmental quality No A portion of the minerals（tantalite, tin, gold and tungsten）produced audits, process audits and paperbased audits in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries Yes of Africa are being used to fund armed militants that violate human Accreditation as business partner rights and cause environmental destruction. These minerals are now collectively referred to as conflict minerals and are regulated. CSR management implemented Tamron has declared a policy of not using illegal conflict minerals by business partners related to the violation of human rights or environmental destruction in order to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities within its procurement activities . In FY2017, Tamron asked 355 of the company’ s suppliers 4 History of Our Activities to complete surveys relating to conflict minerals. All of the suppliers 2008 R  equested all business partners to comply with the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct responded, submitting completed questionnaires in relation to a total 2009 Requested business partners to perform SAQ of 10,242 component items. The survey results show no evidence that 2010 Introduced case examples on“occupational health and safety”and Tamron makes use of conflict minerals that are used to fund armed “human rights protection” militants. 2011 Held CSR Procurement Workshops for all business partners in Japan and abroad 4. Please see our corporate website to view our policy on conflict minerals. 2012 H eld internal training sessions and in-house hearings 2015 Requested business partners to perform SAQ WEB http://www.tamron.com/csr/procurement.html 2016 Q uestionnaire Collection and Evaluation 2017 The Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct was revised and distributed to partners with a request for compliance. The SAQ survey was conducted in conjunction with this. Tamron CSR Report 2018 8 Relationship with Customers Tamron is committed to contributing to society by supplying customers with safe, unique and quality products and services, putting the highest priority on satisfying customers, dealers and OEM customers. Summary of Activities in FY2017 Tasks for FY2018 ● Created unique products that customers appreciate ● Create unique products and new challenges ● Mass production of recycled materials ● Promote environmentally conscious design Tamron Products Familiar to All Photographic We leverage our optical technologies and imaging to create many“eyes for industry.” culture Contributing to the propagation and development of photographic culture and imaging technologies Daily life ・Lenses for DSLR cameras Manufacturing ・Lens units for video cameras ・Lens units for compact digital cameras Contributing to safety and Supporting factory automation Contributing to our economy, society and security in everyday life and quality enhancement environment with eyes for industry ・Lens units for security cameras (including infrared) ・Industrial lenses ・Security cameras ・Lenses for automotive applications Developing Unique Photographic Lenses Appraisals of Tamron’ s Products The SP 70-200mm F/2.8 Di VC USD G2（Model A025）released in The 18-400mm F/3.5-6.3 Di II VC HLD（Model B028）is a February 2017 is a large aperture telephoto zoom lens compatible revolutionary lens as the world’ s first5 APS-C lens with a focal with 35 mm full-frame digital SLR cameras. In addition to improved range of 18-400mm, offering a zoom factor of 22.2. Equipped with optical performance, the lens boasts higher AF speed and vibration compensation（VC）1, sharp images can be captured even accuracy, enhanced vibration compensation（VC）1 and a shorter under low-light conditions such as sunsets. The Model B028 is minimum focusing distance. The lens employs an eBAND coating2, also designed with a splash-resistant sealing making it well suited fluorine coating3 and a dust and drip-resistant construction, and to outdoor shooting. The SP 150-600mm F/5-6.3 Di VC USD also provides support for teleconverters4, marking a significant G2（Model A022）is a next-generation lens with advancements advance across all the necessary performance metrics for a largein various features over the predecessor A011 model, including aperture telephoto zoom AF speed and accuracy, and a vibration compensation（VC）1 lens. mechanism. In recognition of their performance, these two models have won prestigious EISA Awards in Europe6. SP 70-200mm F/2.8 Di VC USD G2 （Model A025） 18-400mm F/3.5-6.3 Di II VC HLD （Model B028） Category Model Award Awarding Organization Imaging Model B028 EISA PHOTO INNOVATION 2017-2018 European Imaging and Sound Association （Photographic lens） Model A022 EISA DSLR ZOOM LENS 2017-2018 （Europe） 1. V  C stands for Vibration Compensation, which helps prevent blurry images. Tamron lenses for Sony cameras do not offer Tamron’ s VC mechanism because Sony includes an imagine stabilizing mechanism in the body of its DSLR cameras. 2. T he acronym eBAND coating standard for Extended Bandwidth & Angular-Dependency Coating, which is a proprietarily developed membrane that makes images clearer and more complete. It uses a nanotechnology-based coating technique to form a multicoated surface with a super-low refractive index membrane to significantly reduce unwanted reflections compared to multicoated surfaces made from resins. 3. The fluorine coating is a coating with excellent water and oil-repelling properties applied to the front surface of the lens element. The coating makes the lens surface easier to wipe clean and offers excellent durability. 4. A teleconverter is an accessory mounted between the camera and lens to expand the focal length of the lens. 5. World’ s first among exchangeable lenses for DSLR cameras per a Tamron study in May 2017. 6. T amron lenses have received an EISA award for twelve consecutive years since 2006. EISA is an acronym for European Imaging and Sound Association. This organization sponsors the EISA Awards along with editors and senior engineers from related media including photography, video, sound, and mobile electronics. Every year the awards recognize leading products in the fields of photography and audio visual media. 9 Tamron CSR Report 2018 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment / 6.7 Consumer Issues Lenses Underpinning Safety and new challenges Lenses for Automobiles To contribute to the safety and security of society, Tamron has Lens for Cameras that Visually Sensing Camera Lenses focused on the developed of lens units （including infrared units） Recognition the Surrounding Area （nighttime pedestrian detection） for surveillance cameras installed inside and outside buildings, （side view） as well as lenses for automobiles. Cameras and lenses have Sensing Camera Lenses become essential features of cars. Tamron is engaged in the （vehicle spacing control, front collision avoidance, etc.） Sensing Camera Lenses development of car-mounted lenses that are broadly categorized （passenger detection） under two fields, lenses for cameras used for visual confirmation, Headlight Lenses such as rear-view cameras, and sensing cameras used for lane（light dispersion） keeping and autonomous driving systems. As regards traffic monitoring lenses, Tamron has developed a zoom lens that can be equipped with autofocus and remote operation capabilities, making it possible to flexibly monitor different types of road at different distances, and which incorporates image processing technologies so that users can extract the information they need for specific applications. Sensing Camera Lenses Sensing Camera Lenses Rear View Camera Lens The Japanese government has set the goal of commercializing （lane-keeping detection） （driver monitoring） （rear view） autonomous driving by the year 2020. In May 2017, the government unveiled a roadmap to the introduction of autonomous driving, kicking off a nationwide effort to promote the widespread adoption of autonomous driving technologies. In 2018, the Kids and Transportation Safety Act went into effect in the 1 United States, requiring the installation of rear view cameras and underpinning the growing awareness of automobile safety in Japan and overseas. In this way, there have been increasing demands for lenses tailored to this car-driving society, and Tamron will actively pursue development in this field. 1. K  ids and Transportation Act. This law requires that all new cars come equipped with a rear-view monitor. Monitoring and Security Camera Lenses By the year 2020, roughly 90% of the security market is expected to have transitioned from analog cameras to net worked cameras. The majority of these cameras are believed to be fitted Shutterless Far-Infrared Camera Module with image sensors that capture images up to two megapixels or three megapixels in size. To meet these market needs, Tamron has successfully developed a Shutterless far-infrared Tamron has developed a zoom lenses （Model DF033）with 40x camera module that does not require calibration2 by means magnification for combination with 3-megapixel cameras. By of a mechanical shutter. This lets users watch over someone moving multiple zoom groups and focus groups, the size of the for nursing or family care without interrupting their sound lenses can be reduced while maintaining the high magnification. sleep because there is no shutter noise and videos are not Moreover, the ability to move multiple zoom groups enables interrupted part of the way through. By combining the fareven higher resolution across the entire zoom range, from visible infrared optical technologies and image processing technologies light to near-infrared. that Tamron has acquired to date, it is now possible to detect the temperature even in a pitch-black environment and record footage. This technology can be used to detect people, enabling night-time monitoring without l i g ht i n g e q u i p m e nt , a n d to detect abnormal temperatures for equipment monitoring. 2. Calibration refers to corrective processing of the variation in images that occur due to far-infrared light optical characteristics, and various factors such as operating temperature and the shutter. a zoom lenses with 40x magnification（Model DF033） Shutterless Far-Infrared Camera Module Tamron CSR Report 2018 10 Evaluation by Distributors and OEM Customers Enhancing our Technological Development Capabilities Each year, we ask our OEM customers and Tamron brand Automating Assembly （Japan） distributors to complete a customer satisfaction survey. The Having declared the goal of developing a production line with results of this year’ s survey mirrored that of the previous year, no human intervention, Tamron began to introduce assembly with Tamron meeting its target to receive an overall score of 5.0 automation lines from FY2017, and is rolling out the systems on a points. In the“development capability”category, which was sequential basis. As a precursor, we installed automated assembly down in the previous year, we received favorable comments equipment for the lens barrels of each lens group. By linking the such as that“there was an increase in the number of attractive transitions between each process with automated conveyors, products,”and recorded a highly regarded score of 5.1（+0.5 we successfully developed a line capable of fully automated compared with the previous year）this year. Looking ahead, production. In developing the equipment, we adopted design Tamron will devote all its strength to responding to the needs of philosophy of highly versatile equipment using as few custom its customers. parts as possible and also tried to make the units compact. This has enabled us to build a large variety of production lines. Results of Customer Satisfaction Survey in 2017 Moving forward, we will look to automate processes that require （OEM Customers and Distributors） a high level of proficiency and difficult tasks such as automated The survey was conducted at 17 companies. conveyance during inspection Delivery FY2017 processes. In doing so, we will 6.0 FY2016 stabilize quality and steadily Handling of 5.0 accumulate technologies and repairs Cost 4.0 expertise. We aim to further 3.0 boost productivity by rolling out these automated lines to 2.0 each production plant. 1.0 Automated lens barrel assembly equipment Response to 0.0 Communications complaints Initiatives to Boost Productivity （Overseas） Assembly Management System at Tamron Optical（Foshan）Co., Ltd. Tamron Optical（Foshan）has installed an assembly management Quality Development capability system uniquely developed to meet production needs. By digitizing record processing and management that was previously performed on paper, real-time results can be monitored, the Technical capability notification process in the event of a fault has been simplified, and 1.Very dissatisfied 2.Dissatisfied 3.Slightly dissatisfied fault trends can be analyzed. The system also supports employee 4.Slighly satisfied 5.Satisfied 6.Very satisfied training. Training can be provided using operating standards Development Technical Response to Handling （procedures）so that employees can easily understand the more Delivery Cost Communications capability capability Quality complaints of repairs Overall challenging parts. By further digitizing assembly management, FY2016 5.2 4.3 5.4 4.6 5.2 4.8 5.4 5.2 5.0 Tamron Optical（Foshan）aims to FY2017 5.1 4.5 5.3 5.1 4.9 4.9 5.3 5.1 5.0 achieve efficiency improvements, Gap －0.1 ＋0.2 －0.1 ＋0.5 －0.3 ＋0.1 －0.1 －0.1 0.0 visualization and cost reductions, l e a d i n g to g re a t e r b u s i n e s s improvement. Expanding After-sales Services Globally This year marks seven years since Tamron started its“worldwide Assembly management system 3-day repair turnaround program,”where it returns repaired products within three days of receipt. In addition to providing technical support to overseas subsidiaries, distributors and Improving the Polishing Process at Tamron Optical（Vietnam）Co., Ltd. domestic contractors, Tamron pursues activities ensuring that Tamron Optical（Vietnam）was established in 2013, and it has it can provide services tailored to the characteristics of each been already five years since then. The production of many market. products is continually being transferred from Tamron Optical For the Japanese market, Tamron provides the Tamron Lens （Foshan）. The ratio of in-house machining rose to three times Life Members program, which provides members with services that of 2016 levels. In an effort to stabilize quality and improve such as discounted repair fees. While customers can register the efficiency of production, improvements were made to for the service free of charge online, we have also begun machining methods during a section of accepting written registration applications in an effort to cater to the lens component polishing process. customers who are not familiar with PCs. We make every effort Work that was once performed with a to ensure our services are available to customers of all ages. single grip is now carried out using three Through our repair acceptance desk in Ueno, Tokyo and the grips, allowing the process to be carried Tamron Lens Customer Service Desk telephone service, we out in sets of three lenses. As a result, will continue to field customer feedback to share internally as machining productivity has improved we strive to make further improvements to our products and three times within the same time period. Grips during polishing services. 11 Tamron CSR Report 2018 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment / 6.7 Consumer Issues Relationship with Customers Environmentally Friendly Design Tamron performs product assessments starting from the design Lens Assessment Item Table stage. Of the various product assessment items, particular Evaluation Items emphasis has been placed on effective management of the light weight design and reduced volume items. Environmentally １. Extended usage of lens ７. R  educed use of packaging materials friendly design results with respect to new models released ８. Use of recycled materials for ２. Light weight design packaging materials in FY2017 included a 0.7% increase in light weight design and a 1.3% decrease in volume.1 The main reason for the increase ３. Reduced volume ９. Product labeling requirements was the switch to metal for some components to improve ４. Energy efficiency during usage 10. Packaging labeling requirements interchangeable photographic lens per formance and fit 11. Proper management of controlled ５. Use of recycled materials environmental substances design concepts. Moreover, Tamron practices the appropriate management of chemical substances based on its internal ６. Ease of disassembly Environment-related Substance Management Regulations, which reflect the requirements of the RoHS directive and the REACH regulation. Tamron products that feature environmentally friendly Component Recycling design bear the Tamron Eco Label.2 Following on from its efforts in 2016, Tamron proceeded with In particular, we have been focusing on reducing the amount efforts to standardize production lines and equipment. We of plastic waste generated, which amounted to over 150 tons have standardized different production line equipment for per year. In order to reduce the amount of waste deriving from photographic and industrial-use optics businesses, which are manufacturing processes, the rear caps for Tamron’ s DSLR now operating lines for new products. We will continue these camera lenses are made using 100% recycled plastic runner efforts to reduce the environmental impact in terms of resources materials.3 From FY2010 to FY2017, we used a cumulative total and energy consumption during production. of 147 tons of recycled material（in 6.66 million rear caps）. Tamron has also considered new recycling methods at Integrated 1. Calculated using production volume from FY2017comparing conventional models. Design, Production Technology and Production Sub-committee 2. For more information about Tamron Eco Label certified products, please visit the meetings to further promote recycling. As a means of reducing Tamron website： waste while maintaining quality standards and ensuring that WEB http://www.tamron.com/csr/environmental_activities.html product functionality is not affected, Tamron adopted“Preconsumer Closed Recycling, which involves mixing recycled Tamron Eco Label The label was designed to resemble materials with virgin materials. Since FY2017, Tamron started to an eye gently looking at our economy, utilize these recycled materials for the mass production of the society and environment. The eyebrow filter screw rings, a component of interchangeable lens for SLR symbolizes a flowing stream of air and cameras. Tamron will continue to expand the introduction of water, the pupil represents the green in the earth, and the tree in the pupil recycled materials in components, examine new areas to target stands for our work for the three Rs of and promote waste reducing and recycling. “reduce,” “reuse”and“recycle.” 3. Waste material that occurs when pouring plastic resin during the production process. The Process of Pre-consumer Closed Recycling 5 4 3 2 Packaging Inspe Pulveri ction zation Molding 1 Virgin Materials 6 Delivery Transportation “Pre-consumer Closed Recycling”involves the use of recycled material made from waste and surplus material from the production process to create the same type of material (or product). 12 7 8 9 10 11 Delivery Acceptance Acceptance Handled by Re-pellet Shipping Packaging Business Partner Inspection Manufacturing Inspection Handled by Virgin Materials + Pulverized Materials Tamron Tamron CSR Report 2018 12 Management Systems At Tamron, we strive to enhance our product and service quality while reducing environmental impacts through our integrated management system. Additionally, we ensure the continuity of our business by avoiding various management risks using our risk management system. Management System Integrated Management Policy Tamron has been awarded blanket ISO 9001 （quality）and ISO14001 （environment）certification applicable to the entire Tamron Group’ s As a member of the international optical industry, we will continue integrated management system, including Tamron’s head office, its to manufacture products that deliver customer satisfaction and help achieve our goal of Contributing to Society by Creating domestic sites including the Hirosaki, Namioka and Owani plants, Eyes for Industry, while being considerate of environmental as well as overseas production sites including Tamron Optical conservation. （Foshan）in China. Tamron has also completed its migration to the 1. We will supply our customers with high quality and reliable new ISO 9001, 14001-2015 edition of the standards. Tamron’ s plant products by using our originality, ingenuity and technology, in Vietnam is also operating after obtaining blanked ISO 9001 pursuing sustainable development with profits arising out of and 14001 certification. On another front, Tamron is working to customer delight and satisfaction. obtain TS16949（to be migrated to IATF16949）certification, quality 2. We will keep abreast of both internal and external issues management systems for the automotive industry in relation to caraffecting the company, as well as the needs of employees, mounted lenses requiring greater quality. shareholders, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders, so Under the integrated management policy, Tamron aims to achieve as to maintain an accurate awareness of risks and opportunities. the development of high-quality products that are used safely and 3. In running our business, we will comply with all related laws, standards and treaties at home and abroad, respecting the securely by customers and provide satisfaction, while also taking requests and demands made by our customers and the local environmental considerations into account. community. 4. We will work on preventing environmental contamination, Audit System and Identifying Problems reducing CO2 emissions, as well as reducing waste emissions and the use of harmful chemicals, while seeking alternatives and Tamron regularly performs internal quality and environmental audits contributing to the safeguarding of biodiversity. covering the head office and three Aomori plants. In addition to 5. We will continue to work on improving the effectiveness of our the internal audit, the head office and three Aomori plants audit integrated management system. each other to check their systems and manufacturing processes. 6. To achieve this management policy, we will establish specific objectives and targets, periodically evaluating our progress. We periodically arrange to receive audits from external audit 7. To enhance recognition of our integrated management, we organizations to maintain certifications while continually improving will maintain good communications while providing sufficient the integrated management system. As a result of external audits education and training to all people working for Tamron. implemented in FY2017, the effectiveness of the policy and 8. We will closely cooperate with society in all countries and management processes adopted at our sites was assessed at level regions where we operate and disclose information to 4 on a scale of one to five. We quickly develop improvements to stakeholders as necessary on our quality assurance and address in the areas identified in these three audits, disseminate environment conservation efforts. the improvements throughout the Tamron Group, and endeavor to 9. To ensure the company’ s smooth operation, without the continually improve in our activities. occurrence of negative impacts on the economy, society or the environment, we will implement preventative actions to the maximum extent possible in line with the company’ s Integrated Risk Management Management System; in the event that a negative impact does occur, we will fulfill our responsibility to society by taking In the past, Tamron has used a risk management system and prompt action to mitigate the damage and support recovery identification of risks and opportunities through SWOT analysis to efforts, and will also take steps to prevent reoccurrence. build consensus in the management review process. We identified March 30, 2016 both external and internal issues, determined priority risks in Integrated Management System Representative terms of risk and opportunity, and translated this into action. In terms of business continuity planning（BCP）, we have completed development at Tamron’ s plant in Foshan, China in addition to Integrated Management System Implementation System the head office and three plants in Aomori Prefecture, and the Representative necessary systems have already been put in place. Tamron is also （President） working to strengthen its crisis management systems so as to be Quality/Environmental/ Risk Committee prepared in the event that a major natural disaster does occur in Consolidated / Risk Management Oﬃcer the future. Main Secretarial Office （CSR Administration Section） Responding to Emergencies Aomori Consolidated Omiya Consolidated Tamron Optical（Foshan） Administration Manager Consolidated Administration Manager Administration Manager As part of their risk management initiatives, Tamron’ s head office Hirosaki, Namioka, and Owani Manager and three plants in Aomori Prefecture, as well as Tamron Optical Secretarial Oﬃce Secretarial Oﬃce Secretarial Oﬃce Foshan, hold firefighting drills led by employees, while departments （CSR Administration Section） （Operation Promotion Section） （ISO Information Management Oﬃce） that handle chemicals carry out emergency response drills for Sub-committees （Waste Reduction, Eco-friendly Design, CSR Procurement） chemical spills. Additionally, Tamron’ s head office stepped up its initial response capabilities, by implementing training on how to Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical start back-up power generators in case of a blackout in accordance Head Oﬃce Plant Plant Plant （Foshan） Co., Ltd. with the BCP and by making changes to its emergency contact system. ※In an emergency, we have established a risk management system under risk management officer. 13 Tamron CSR Report 2018 ISO26000-6.2 Organizational Governance / 6.5 The Environment / 6.7 Consumer Issues Creating Safe and Comfortable Workplace Environments Compliance with Laws and Regulations To protect the safety of its employees, Tamron aims to maintain In FY2017, revisions were made to mercury-related laws in and improve mental and physical health, and create a safe, Japan in connection with the Minamata Convention on Mercury 1 healthy and comfortable workplace environment. We have set taking effect. Mercury is currently a prohibited substance for out Occupational Health and Safety Regulations and established use in Tamron’ s products, and none of our products contain this an Occupational Health and Safety Committee, with patrols substance. We conducted a survey of past Tamron products that being carried out by health and safety administrators to prevent are no longer in production, and determined that fluorescent occupational accidents, etc. lamps containing mercury are used in some Fotovix series In FY2017, there were 9 occupational accidents（ 4 of which products. Information is provided on Tamron’ s website so that occurred in Japan, 1 of which occurred in Tamron Optical customers can dispose of these products appropriately. In terms （Foshan）in China, and 4 of which occurred in Tamron Optical of equipment and fittings, we have developed a management （Vietnam））and 4 commuting-related accidents（ 3 of which system to ensure that when mercury is used in a product, it is occurred in Japan and 1 of which occurred in Tamron Optical disposed of appropriately in accordance with the law. Tamron （Vietnam））. Most occupational accidents involved injuries also completed the proper disposal of PCB2 waste that had been sustained at production sites, while most commuting-related stored on Tamron premises. accidents occurred while employees were commuting by At Tamron Optical（Foshan）, the environmental management bicycle or on foot. Tamron analyzes the cause of each accident level has increased year after year. In FY2017, three surprise and thoroughly ensures measures are taken to prevent repeat inspections were conducted by the Guangdong Province occurrences. Regarding commuting-related accidents, we hold Environmental Protection Review Team, and Tamron Optical traffic safety seminars to boost awareness and are making （Foshan）earned high marks each time. efforts to prevent accidents, including the recurrence of similar At Tamron Optical（Vietnam）, wastewater that had not been accidents. In addition, to prepare for serious accidents, each adequately treated was temporarily released into the purification year we hold regular first-aid training sessions covering topics system of the industrial zone. Thorough wastewater treatment such as CPR, and take measures to minimize injuries. measures are now being enforced to ensure appropriate Regarding mental health issues, mental health checks are held wastewater handling. In the future, we will proceed with further twice a year. In-house seminars are also held in relation to selfmeasures in consultation with the industrial zone and Hanoi care and caring for one’ s direct subordinates； in FY2017, a total Environmental Office. The state of compliance with major laws of 85 employees participated in these seminars. Tamron also and regulations in FY2017 are presented in the following table. provides services such as health consultations as part of its 1. T  he Minamata Convention on Mercury is an international treaty adopted at efforts to create a safe and health workplace environment. the Diplomatic Conference held in October 2013. Its purpose is to protect people’ s health and the environment from human-caused emissions and discharges of mercury and suchlike, by way of management throughout the entire mercury lifecycle. 2. P CB is an abbreviation of Poly Chlorinated Biphenyl. While PCB has generally Environmental Accounting（Japan） been used as an insulating oil for electrical equipment and as a heating medium for heat exchangers, adverse health effects due to the gradual In FY2017, total environmental accounting in Japan amounted accumulating of PCB following chronic ingestion have been reported. to investments of 30.18 million yen and costs of 277.44 million yen. The changes in investments and costs related to reducing Compliance at Respective Sites CO2 emissions （i.e. global environment conservation costs） , which ◎：Compliance ○：Exceeded statutory requirement temporarily is a particularly important item, are shown in the graph below. △：Request for improvement made by local government In FY2017, a total of 49.66 million yen was spent on investments ×：Administrative action as a result of violation of law/regulation and costs associated with reducing CO2 emissions. Head office Aomori plants Foshan Vietnam Energy saving (Energy Saving Act) ◎ ◎ ― ― <Change in Global Environment Conservation Costs> CO₂ reduction (Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures) ◎ ◎ ― ― （Thousands of yen） t-CO2/non-consolidated sales（Millions of yen） Chemical substance management3 ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ 350,000 322,997 0.25 Global Air ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ 300,000 ◎4 ◎ ◎ ○5 environment 0.20 conservation Water quality 250,000 0.20 costs Costs 0.19 0.15 Soil ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ 200,000 0.17 0.16 0.17 Global environment Noise ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ 150,000 0.10 conservation 100,000 costs Investments Vibration ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ 73,256 63,195 CO2 50,000 28,283 49,659 0.05 Basic unit Odor ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ 0 0.00 of sales Occupational health & safety ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ （Japan） 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 FY 3. L aws related to managing and investigating chemical substances apply to * The greenhouse gas coefficient from the Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & domestic sites； international directives including RoHS and REACH apply to Reporting Manual Version 4.3.1 is used for managing medium-term targets with a the entire group. benchmark year of FY2016. For consistency purposes, this same coefficient has been 4. Values for groundwater temporarily exceeded certain standards, but our used to re-calculate basic unit of CO2 emissions from FY2016 to FY2017. treatment measures prevented contamination from spreading outside our facilities. 5. A l t h o u g h t h e w a s t ew a t e r t e m p o ra ri ly e xce e d e d s t a n d a rd v a l u e s , countermeasures are currently being taken and standard values are now being met. Tamron CSR Report 2018 14 Relationship with the Environment Tamron is considerate of the environment in all aspects of its business operations and constantly works to be in harmony with the environment. Summary of Activities in FY2017 Tasks for FY2018 ● Implemented measures to reduce CO2 emissions ● Examine ways to reduce CO2 emissions further ● Implemented environmental management systems ● Formulate a medium-term plan for key CSR issues Environmental Impacts In Japan, Tamron carries out design work, creates prototypes The Owani Plant and Tamron Optical（Foshan）manufacture and fabricates metal molds at its head office plant located plastic components used to make peripheral components for in Saitama Prefecture, while the Namioka Plant manufactures lenses, and these processes produce runner materials1 and lenses, the Owani Plant molds plastic components, and the other waste. Air cargo, marine shipping, and trucks are used Hirosaki Plant assembles products. Tamron manufactures parts to transport components and products between plants, which and assembles products at Tamron Optical（Foshan）in China results in CO2 e missions from the burning of fuel. （Please see and at Tamron Optical （Vietnam）. p.17 of this report for more data.） These sites use electricity, heavy oil, kerosene and other energy 1. W  aste material that occurs when pouring plastic resin during the production sources for developing, designing and manufacturing, which process. produce CO2. Our plants in Namioka, Foshan and Vietnam also use water for polishing and cleaning lens elements. INPUT（2017） Sites covered Energy Water Transportation energy2 Head oﬃce（including Tokyo Sales Oﬃce and Osaka Sales Oﬃce）,the three plants Electric power 79,132,000kWh Clean water 589,000㎥ Diesel 167kℓ in Aomori Prefecture, Tamron Optical Heavy oil 195kℓ Groundwater 186,000㎥ Gasoline 45kℓ （Foshan）and Tamron Optical（Vietnam）. Kerosene 9kℓ Total 775,000㎥ Total 212kℓ Site coverage：96% Diesel 16kℓ Gasoline 2kℓ Raw/auxiliary materials 2. Data during transportation covers energy LPG 4,000㎥ used to transport parts and ﬁnished Metal (brass and aluminum) Natural gas 100,000㎥ products by ground and commercial Glass vehicles connecting Tamron’ s ﬁve satellite Total 726,000GJ Plastic oﬃces in Japan and Tamron Optical Chemicals (drugs, solvents, and cleaners） （Vietnam） . Tamron Optical （Foshan） data Paper Gas (nitrogen, oxygen, and argon) covers company-owned vehicles only. Copy paper 20t Electrical components Cardboard Transportation between Manufacturing of raw materials/ Development, design and components at suppliers production at Tamron factories and distributors Use by customers (logistics/commercial vehicles) OUTPUT（2017） Reference guideline： CO2 Recycling CO2 emissions during transport2 Manual for Calculating and Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions Ver. 4.3.1 Electric power 43,268t-CO2 Plastic4 164t Diesel 437t-CO2 Heavy oil 529t-CO2 Cardboard 283t Gasoline 106t-CO2 3. Regarding to Pollutant Released & Transfer Kerosene 21t-CO2 General waste (thermal recycling) 247t Registered（PRTR）substances, industrial waste Total 543t-CO2 Diesel 43t-CO2 Waste liquid 135t includes 1.3 tons of xylene and 1.9 tons Gasoline 4t-CO2 Waste oil 105t of ethylbenzene. 0.3 tons of xylene and 0.5 145t tons of ethylbenzene were also released LPG 27t-CO2 Metal into the atmosphere. Natural gas 222t-CO2 Paper 28t Polishing sludge 10t Total 44,114t-CO2 4. The amount of plastics recycled represented Other 12t 48 tons of thermal energy and 116 tons Waste contracted for intermediate processing Total 1,129t of material. Industrial waste3 1,186t General waste 862t Products Total 2,048t Total for products 1,261t 15 Tamron CSR Report 2018 ISO26000-6.5 The Environment Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved While we worked toward achieving medium-term environmental objectives and targets for the first year of the program, we failed to meet the CO2 emissions reduction target. Achievement of Environmental Objectives and Targets in FY2017 In consideration of the Paris Agreement1 and the policies of reduction in the amount of waste plastic from the Head Office JEITA2, Tamron has set new medium-term environmental targets Mold & Tooling Technology Center. Significant increases reflected working from FY2016 as a benchmark year, to cut Group-wide an increase in molding volume due to the transfer of dies, and CO2 emissions （on a unit sales basis3）by an average of around molding inspection work associated with the introduction of a 1.3% each year, and by 16.55% by FY2030. new molding resin. Two other factors were our failure to meet In FY2017, while the target was to achieve a 1.3% reduction the targeted waste plastic material recycling rates at the Mold & in CO2 emissions, emissions actually rose by 3%, missing the Tooling Technology Center and Hirosaki Plant. In each case, we target. This is primarily due to the fact that we missed our initial were unable to discharge the planned amount of waste plastic sales targets and were thus unable to achieve CO2 reductions due to changes in the status of the recycling process. consistent with sales. As regards environmental impacts other than CO2 emissions, each Tamron site has set individual targets, because each site manufactures a different category of products. In FY2017 we were unable to meet three targets. One missed target was the FY2016 to FY2030 Mid-Term Environmental Targets4 Progress in FY2017 FY2017 Reduction rate of 16.55％ CO2 reduction CO₂ reduction target 1.3 reduction emissions （versus FY2016 basic unit of sales；cumulative annual average） （approx.） per basic Average annual reduction of 1.3% unit of sales Results 3% increase 2016 2030 (benchmark year) (mid-term target year) Status × Environmental Targets Achieved in FY2017 Environmental targets FY2017 targets FY2017 results Status Waste plastics volume 3% reduction Head Office 28.7% increase × vs. 2016（basic unit of sales） （Mold & Tooling Technology Center） Material recycling rate for waste 5 32.3％ × plastics 50% Reduce industrial Material recycling rate for waste plastics Hirosaki Plant：44.3% × waste Hirosaki Plant：50% 3 Aomori plants Namioka Plant：25% Namioka Plant：25.4% ○ Owani Plant：6% Owani Plant：6.1% ○ Tamron Optical Industrial Waste Reduced by 2% com12.7％ decrease ○ （Foshan） pared to 2016（basic unit of sales） Promote ・Promoted environmentally-friendly ・Promoted environmentally-friendly designs Lightweight： Environmentally-friendly All sites designs 0.7%increase, Compact：1.3% decrease（compared to conven△ ・Incidents of environmental noncontional models；calculated based on 2017 production volume） design formity：0 ・Incidents of environmental non-conformity：0 Environmental Targets for FY2018 1. A multilateral international agreement to curb Environmental targets FY2018 targets climate change adopted on December 12, 2015 in Paris, where the 2015 United Nationals Reduce CO2 emissions by approximately 2.55% compared Climate Change Conference（COP21）was held, CO2 reduction target All sites to FY2016（basic unit of sales；cumulative annual average） and went into effect on November 4, 2016. The agreement set forth overall targets such as limHead Office（Mold & Waste plastics volume 3% reduction vs. FY2017 （basic iting the average rise in global temperatures to Tooling Technology Center） unit of sales） under 2°C compared with pre-industrial levels. 2. T h e J a p a n E l e c t r o n i c s a n d I n f o r m a t i o n Material recycling rate for waste plastics Hirosaki Plant：45% Reduce industrial Technology Industries Association（JEITA）is 3 Aomori Plants  Namioka Plant：20% an industrial group representing companies in waste  Owani Plant：3% the fields of IT and electronics that seeks to contribute to the comprehensive development Tamron Optical Industrial Waste Reduce by 2% compared to FY2017（basic unit of sales） of the electronics and information technology （Foshan） Material recycling rate for waste plastics 10％ industry as well as facilitate the development of the Japanese economy and cultural prosperity Promote environmen・Promote environmentally-friendly designs All sites by promoting the sound production, trade tally-friendly products ・Incidents of environmental non-conformity：0 and consumption of electronic equipment and components. 3. Basic unit per sales： Total CO₂ emissions（ｔ-CO₂） Consolidated sales（million yen） 4. The greenhouse gas coefficient from the Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & Reporting Manual Version 4.3.1 is used for managing medium-term targets with a benchmark year of FY2016. 5. T  he material cycle refers to the process of collecting waste from used products and production processes, treating the waste and using the result as a raw material for products. Tamron reuses a form of waste plastic known as runner materials, and is also seeking to improve its material recycling rather than thermal recycling（heat recovery）, so that recycled materials can be reused outside of Tamron. The material recycling ratio of waste plastics indicates the percentage for which material recycling was carried out compared to the total amount of waste plastics. Tamron CSR Report 2018 16 Reducing Environmental Impacts Tamron strives to reduce CO2 emissions, electricity consumption, waste and water consumption at the company’ s plants using its integrated management system. Breakdown of CO2 emissions Measures to Reduce CO2 Emissions CO2 accounts for most of the greenhouse gases released by In FY2017, Tamron implemented activities through the CO2 Tamron. As regards the sources of CO2 emissions（ excluding Emissions Reduc tion Commit tee, and used streamlined distribution and logistics）, electricity usage accounts for 98.1%, electric power management sensors to identify excess power followed by heavy oil at 1.2%. Given this mix, our energy saving usage. When excess power was discovered, the committee activities focus on reducing electricity consumption. examined whether reductions could be made. When possible, reduction measures including operational improvements were implemented and the effects verified. A solar power generating Electricity Heavy oil Natural gas and others system was installed at Tamron Optical（Foshan）in China in August 2017. Cumulative power generation has now reached 128,000 kWh, which is equivalent to reducing CO2 emissions by 70 tons. Tamron Optical（Foshan）has also replaced 4,167 Natural gas lights with LED lighting and switched to energy efficient types Heavy oil and others of motors. At Tamron Optical（Vietnam）, efforts are being 1.2% Electricity 0.7% made to reduce standby power consumption. For instance, 98.1% on plant closure days, the power supply to equipment such as compressors, cooling towers and process cooling water supply systems is cut, provided it does not run the risk of causing malfunction. In addition, the third Friday of every month has been designated as No My Car Day, and certain days in the summer and winter are designated as Eco Life Days （an initiative launched by Saitama Prefectural Government）, as part of the company’ s efforts to raise environmental awareness among all Trends in CO2 Emissions of the executive officers and employees at the head office. CO2 emissions were reduced by 13.1t-CO2 through these efforts in Since FY2011, the CO2 emissions （excluding emissions during 2017. transportation） from Tamron’ s head office, the three plants in Tamron will continue to work on further CO2 reductions Aomori Prefecture, Tamron Optical （Foshan） in China and Tamron by sharing information and taking a long-term approach in Optical （Vietnam） has been on the rise. In FY2017, overall CO2 considering the introduction of energy-saving equipment. emissions rose 4.0% compared to FY2016 levels. Viewed by The measures taken to reduce CO2 emissions in FY2017 are geographic location, our sites in Japan saw a 2.6% decrease, outlined below. while Tamron Optical （Foshan）saw a 2.5% increase and Tamron Optical （Vietnam）saw a 21.2% increase. The rise from Tamron Optical （Vietnam）is primarily due to a higher rate of in-house production from capital investment, and the heightened requirement for precise air conditioning for humidity control in lens machining rooms as a result. The basic unit of sales for overall CO2 emissions increased by 3.0% compared with the FY2016 level. In FY2018, we will consider comprehensive energy saving measures to reduce emissions by 16.55% by the year 2030 by adding Tamron Optical （Vietnam）to the integrated management system. Head office Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical (Foshan) Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Basic A solar power generating system （Tamron Optical （Foshan）in China） 45,814 unit1 45,000（t-CO₂) 44,281 44,114 42,432 t-CO2/ 7,084 39,744 5,848 net sales 40,000 6,224 7,542 (Millions Main CO2 Emissions Reduction Measures Implemented in FY2017 2,504 of yen) 35,000 0.729 0.70 0.708 Site Measure Reduction (t-CO2） 30,000 0.637 0.60 0.601 25,000 0.581 Head Improving compressor operation 0.50 Office （Mold & Tooling Technology Center） 1 20,000 0.40 Namioka Improving operation of continuous 17 27,545 28,229 27,826 25,630 26,272 Plant evaporation machine 15,000 0.30 Owani Switching air conditioning units to Plant energy-saving types（9 units） 57 10,000 671 640 636 483 369 0.20 Intro du c tio n of a sol ar p ower 70 5,149 5,384 5,965 6,043 5,971 5,000 0.10 Tamron generating system 1,143 1,200 1,238 1,028 919 Optical Switching over to LED lights 0 2,732 2,980 3,065 3,024 3,041 （Foshan） （4,167 lights） 250 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 FY （in China） Switching to energy efficient motor types （38 units） 50 1. T he greenhouse gas coefficient from the Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & Tamron Optical Reporting Manual Version 4.3.1 is used for managing medium-term targets with a Reducing standby power consumption ― benchmark year of FY2016. For consistency purposes, this same coefficient has been （Vietnam） used for this report to re-calculate basic unit of CO2 emissions from FY2010 onward. 17 Tamron CSR Report 2018 ISO26000-6.5 The Environment Waste Reduction Initiatives Trends in Water Consumption The total amount of waste generated in FY2017 by the The total water consumption of the Tamron Group as a whole in Tamron Group as a whole, increased by 5.9% compared FY2017 decreased by 1.8% compared with FY2016. In May 2017, with FY2016. This is mainly due to the increased rate of inreclaimed water recycling facilities were installed at Tamron house manufacturing, higher molding volume and the increase Optical（Foshan）in China. We have since managed to recycle in disposal of cardboard and waste plastic at Tamron ptical 2,957 tons of production wastewater. Tamron Optical （Vietnam） （Vietnam）. made improvements to the cooling water systems of its molding machines to reduce water usage and wastewater production. As a result, water usage and wastewater generation were reduced Head office Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical (Foshan) Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Recycling ratio of industrial waste (Japan) by 12%. The increased usage at the Namioka Plant was due to （ t） 2,200 98.6 98.6 98.2 （%） 100 a higher number of operating days compared with the previous 99.9 99.9 2,080 year, and longer operating times for equipment. 2,000 161 1,933 2,048 95 203 287 1,800 90 Head oﬃce Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical (Foshan) Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Basic unit 1,600 1,516 1,569 (1,000㎥) Thousand 98 85 1,400 900 ㎥ / sales 831 849 (billion yen) 80 800 769 789 775 1,200 66 16 1,045 999 1,417 1,283 1,301 75 39 78 78 1,000 700 14 70 800 600 13.2 12.9 12 65 12.1 600 11.8 57 49 61 401 30 500 10 60 400 202 10.4 247 263 226 278 400 650 533 566 471 455 8 200 123 90 93 99 68 55 0 89 86 85 82 84 50 300 6 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 FY 0.5 4.1 0.3 200 0.5 0.6 4 1. W  aste volume for the Owani Plant reported in FY2016 was corrected from“4lt” 100 162 179 199 220 226 2 to“40t.”Accordingly, Group-wide waste volume was corrected from“1,934t” 7 11 7 10 8 9.9 7 8.9 7 8.7 to“1,933t.” 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 FY Ascertaining CO2 Emissions in the Supply Chain （FY2016） Tamron calculates its CO2 emissions based on direct emissions Scope 3 emissions, Category 1 emissions（emissions generated （Scope 1）and energy-derived indirect emissions（Scope 2）. In from the extraction and production of all products and services 2017, we received support from the Ministry of the Environment that have been purchased or acquired）accounted for a large in calculating supply chain emissions and also calculated indirect proportion of the total. Moving forward, we will work to improve emissions（Scope 3）for FY2016. As a result, we verified that among the accuracy of our calculations and further reduce CO2 emissions. CO2 Emissions for FY2016 by Scope and Category * Scope CO2 Emissions(t-CO2） Scope 1 Scope 1：Direct greenhouse gas emissions from the use of fuel, etc. 1,395 Scope 2 Scope 2：Indirect greenhouse gas emissions generated due to the use of purchased electricity or heat 41,541 Category 1 Emissions generated from the extraction and production of all products and services that have been purchased or acquired 112,203 Category 2 Emissions generated from the manufacturing or transportation of purchased or acquired capital goods 50,939 Scope 3 2 Indirect Category 3 Upstream emissions from purchased fuel and upstream emissions from the electricity and heat manufacturing process 2,365 greenhouse Category 4 Emissions associated with distribution of purchased products and services from a supplier to the company 13,720 gas emissions related to Category 5 Emissions from the external disposal and treatment of waste generated from business activities 3,644 business Category 6 Emissions from the use of transportation by employees for business purposes, such as employee business travel 328 activities in the supply Category 7 Emissions from the use of transportation by employees to commute for and from plants and offices 8,393 chain（except for Scope 1 Category 8 Emissions associated with the operation of leased warehouses, etc. 50 and Scope 2 Category 11 Emissions due to the use of sold products and services by consumers 1,274 emissions） Category 12 Emissions due to the disposal and treatment of sold products, their containers and packaging when they have been used 4,409 Scope 3 Total 197,325 * Scope of Calculation：Head Office, Hirosaki Plant, Namioka Plant, Owani Plant, Tamron Optical（Foshan）, Tamron Optical（Vietnam） （including CO2 emissions of 504t-CO2 during transportation） * M ethod of Calculation： “Emission factor database for corporate GHG emissions accounting over the supply chain Ver. 2.4”and“Carbon Footprint Communication Program Basic Database Ver. 1.01” 2. Please visit the Tamron website for more details such as information on the categories excluded from the calculation of Scope 3 emissions. WEB http://www.tamron.com/csr/environmental_activities.html Tamron CSR Report 2018 18 Relationship with Society Tamron supports activities that contribute to the development of photographic and imaging culture, while striving to be a company that fosters future generations, takes part in local communities and is beloved by society. Contributions to Photographic Culture The 10th Railroad Scenery Photo Contest Tamron sponsors the Railway Scenery Photo Contest in order to promote train culture and local revitalization in Omiya, known as an important railroad town in Japan and also site of our head office. As part of this contest, a photo exhibition is held at the Omiya Sogo Department Store showcasing the winning entries. This local event is made possible with the much-appreciated support of the City of Saitama, the Saitama Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Saitama City Board of Education. In 2017, a railroad photography talk show presented by contest judges was held at the Railway Museum to celebrate the 10th iteration of the contest. A total of 5,809 submissions were received for the general and student divisions combined. General Division Grand Prize （Saitama City Mayor’ s Prize） Mr. Sakae Takehana “The Passage of Time” “I was moved by the unseen passage of time hidden in the Quadrantids meteor shower, the diurnal motion of the stars, the flowing river and a rushing homeward-bound commuter train.” Student Division Grand Prize（Saitama City Board of Education Superintendent’ s Award） Humorous Photo Contest Award（Saitama City Chamber of Commerce and Industry President’ s Award） Mr. Yusei Oka “Cherry Blossoms of Katsunuma” Ms. Honoka Kuzuya “Mouth Tunnel” “A station enveloped in cherry blossoms. It was as if a station on an abandoned “My younger sister loves trains and is always watching them from the side line had been restored.” of the river. I took this photo when we visited together. When I showed it to her, she was delighted.” 14th Macro Lens Photo Contest This photo contest accepts entries shot from any macro lens, regardless of manufacturer. For the 14th contest a total of 3,854 entries were received. The contest has two categories：the Nature Division for nature enthusiasts that enjoy taking pictures of plants and insects and the Genre-Free Division for amateur photographers using DSLR cameras to take pictures of food, their children or pets. Many of the entries featured beautiful, warm natural scenes captured delicately in only ways a macro lens can. 14th Macro Lens Photo Contest Grand Prize Ms. Mami Fujimoto “Oh! Summer vacation” 19 Tamron CSR Report 2018 ISO26000 6.8 Community Involvement and Development Growing Together with Local Communities Supporting Adaptive Athletes Supporting Nature Restoration Tamron has provided support to adaptive athletes to spread Tamron’ s Omiya head office continues to support the nature recognition of adaptive sports through the power of sports restoration project carried out by the Ecosystem Conservation photography. 2017 marked a year of activities as each of the Society-Saitama together with local citizen groups at the Shibakawa three athletes we support narrowed down the specific goals Daiichi Flood Control Reservoir and surrounding areas. Many in the lead-up to Tokyo Paralympics to be held in 2020. The years ago the Minuma Tambo area of the reservoir area was an environment surrounding the athletes has also undergone abundant wetland with significant change, with the London 2017 World Para Athletics white herons. Today the Championships broadcast live on television. Tamron will support reservoir continues to various athletes providing hope and inspiration around the world see a number of wildfowl through sports together with the power of photography. such as swans and even short-toed eagles visit WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/special/athlete/ Shibakawa Daiichi Flood Control Reservoir the area to feed. Supporting the Cookie Project Tamron provided advertising suppor t and donations to Cookie Bazaar 2017 held in Saitama City in March 2017 and organized by the Cookie Project. This organization works to help the disabled live independently Mr. Hokinoue in the community. Cookie bazaar 2017 Developing Future Generations Cooperating with Photography Workshops Tamron provides assistance for photography workshops and photo shoots that help to foster the next-generation of photographers. At a workshop titled“How to Take Photos While Paying Attention to Lens Choice”held by the photography club of the Tokiwamatsu Gakuen junior and senior high school, Tamron provided simple lectures covering basic knowledge and the selection of Ms. Takakuwa Ms. Tsuchida interchangeable lenses, and also loaned out lenses. This was a valuable opportunity Contributions to the Local Community Made by the for students to touch and use a range of lenses they Three Tamron Plants in Aomori Prefecture wouldn’t normally have the The Hirosaki Plant, one of the three Tamron plants in Aomori Prefectures, opportunity to shoot with, has reached its 50th anniversary of operation. In recognition of its such as l arge ap er ture contributions to industrial development and job creation, the plant received lenses. Loaning out lenses for students to try a certificate of appreciation from the Governor of Aomori Prefecture. Each of the three plants are active in their local communities, running bottle Science Classes for Children top and pull-tab collection activities with the proceeds going to charity, Tamron has organized science and sponsoring local festivals such as paper lanterns at the Hirosaki Cherry classes for children at local public Blossom Festival and the Owani halls and elementary schools in Hot Springs Summer Festival. Each Saitama City to spur interest in Tamron plant also takes part in the sciences. In FY2017, we held neighborhood clean-up activities. a total of 10 classes, with a total Going forward, the three plants of 220 people participating. In will continue to make a concerted January, we also held classes effort to contribute to their local in the town of Owani in Aomori communities. Prefecture, where the Owani Milk carton camera （Owani） Ta m ro n re ce i v i n g a ce r t i f i c a te o f Plant is located. appreciation from Aomori Prefecture Tamron CSR Report 2018 20 ISO26000 6.8 Community Involvement and Development Activities at Tamron’ s Overseas Subsidiaries Tamron’ s subsidiaries outside Japan continue to strengthen their relationship with local communities. Tamron Europe GmbH Seven years have passed since, as part of the expansion of the company’ s premises, Tamron Europe installed photovoltaic（PV）panels on its roof to generate its own power and reduce CO2 emissions. In FY2017, due to unfavorable weather conditions, the amount of power generated by these PV panels decreased by 10% to 56,000 kWh from the previous year, equivalent to a reduction in CO2 emissions of 30t-CO2. To date, the system has produced a total of 433,000 kWh of electric power and reduced CO2 emissions by approximately 300 tons. From the summer of 2017, Tamron also began replacing the light bulbs in all company buildings with their LED equivalents. About 95% of the bulbs have now been replaced. As part of its CSR activities begun in 2009, Tamron Europe also continues to provide donations of 7,500 Euros to an organization in Cologne（Koln） that provides support for children with cancer. The group has undertaken wide-ranging activities such as newly establishing and renovating hospital wings within university hospitals, constructing and operating lodgings Rooftop PV panels as Tamron Europe GmbH where family members accompanying patients undergoing treatment can stay, providing financial assistance for families of patients, and promoting research into new treatments. Moving forward, Tamron will continue to support the cause as much as possible. Tamron Optical Shanghai In an expansive development, Tamron Optical Shanghai retired the scholarship project it has continued since 2014 and held a photo contest dubbed“Youth Attitudes”as a new endeavor from 2017. Over a six-month period, a total of more than 2,000 submissions were received from university students attending five institutions in Sichuan Province, and many of the photos were exhibited in a gallery. In December, a grand presentation ceremony was held at Sichuan University of Media and Communications, one of the two major media Award ceremony for the“Youth Attitudes”photo contest （Sichuan University of universities in China. Six entrants won awards and were presented Media and Communications） with Tamron lenses. After the award ceremony, a photography lecture was held for the university students in attendance, where they were able to enjoy hands-on experience with Tamron’ s lenses. Tamron Optical Shanghai also provided stuffed toys to“Jingdong Charity Fund” organization. In addition, Tamron donated two cardboard boxes worth of clothing（ around 80 items of clothing） to, Feimayi（“Flying Ants”）, another charity. The donated clothing is distributed through the charity organization to disaster affected areas and districts suffering from poverty. Photographs being exhibited Tamron USA Tamron USA took part in “Backpack Pirates Festival,” an Tamron USA will continue to actively pursue these kinds of CSR event to provide stationery supplies to children growing up in activities in the future. economically disadvantaged environments. Three Tamron USA employees photographed the event as volunteers. In addition, more than $850 in donations was raised from employees and their families to help those affected by Hurricane Harvey, which struck the state of Texas in August 2017. In 2017, Tamron again took part in a Food Drive and Coat Drive project to support the homeless with food and clothing, the Dress a Girl for her Prom project, which donates dresses and accessories so that more female students can attend their schools’proms, traditionally held around the time of high school graduation, as well as the BACKPACK PIRATES FESTIVAL TOYS FOR TOTS Toys for Tots project that delivers toys and other Christmas WEB Food drives http://www.licares.org/ presents to children in need. Dress a Girl for her Prom http://www.jlli.org/ Toys for Tots http://www.toysfortots.org/ 21 Tamron CSR Report 2018 ISO26000 7.5 Communication on Social Responsibility Independent Third-Party Opinion ［Current Title］ ［Areas of Specialization］ Full-time Lecturer, Faculty of Economics and Business, Research into regional CSR and CSV, strategic marketing, and internal marketing（to penetrate management philosophies） Saitama Gakuen University（current position since 2015） Part-time Lecturer, Yokohama City University / Kawaguchi ［External Activities］ Junior College Judge in the OICHI Business Awards run by the NPO OICHI （Cooperative Labor Association）since 2012 ［Career History］ MBA / Small and Medium Enterprise Management Consultant ［Works Authored］ （both acquired in 2008） Penetration of Management Philosophy in Practice（Soseisha, 2017） Doctor of Economics（2004, Completed the Doctor's Program of the Graduate School of Economic Science, majoring CSR evaluation system by local governments：About the Economic Science, Saitama University） subject of regionality evaluation and operation in the authorization system of Yokohama type area contribution After working as an editor for a publishing firm, from 2008 company（ Journal of the Japan Association of Regional to 2015 Shibata was responsible for CSR support as a Development and Vitalization, Vol. 4, Pages 237-246, 2013） management advisor（ handling Yokohama’ s program to certify companies contributing to the local region）at IDEC 69th Zen-Noh-Ren Conference Outstanding Research Paper Yokohama（ Yokohama City Small and Medium Enterprise （FY2017）– A Study on Efforts of Managements to Promote Mr. Kimio Shibata Support Center）. Management Philosophy：the Case of Enterprises Engaged in Regional CSR as Examples CSR Activities that Start with Reexamining the Obvious A decade has now passed since Tamron started to practice CSR by Tamron likely correspond to each of these targets. However, management, and along with the company’ s global expansion to unless each employee understands that the CSR activities and SDGs overseas sites, its initiatives have proceeded to the next stage. are connected, even if Tamron draws outside attention to its CSR However, as the business expands, Tamron’ s“local”stakeholders management that also addresses SDGs, the sentiment will not readily become increasingly ambiguous and difficult to identify. There is translate into practice in the field. That’ s because it is the employees no clear definition as to the extent of the local community. For that who put management philosophies and strategies into practice. reason, the true extent will differ depending on the subjective views In interviews, I get a strong impression that domestic employees of the person making use of the term, and the interpretation will also understand the management philosophy embraced by Tamron, but differ depending on the listener. In other words, the more Tamron’ s now, with the increased number of overseas sites along with the business expands, the vaguer the delineation of what “local” company’ s expansion, further innovation in employee training will be means. Generally speaking, when a company expands globally, it needed to ensure the management philosophy is understood and devotes greater attention to overseas endeavors. Consequently, put into practice to the same extent abroad as at home. the relationship between the head office and the local community For this reason, Tamron will need to develop a renewed awareness tends to become less apparent. Tamron, however, involves local of something which should be obvious：people don’ t think or feel the communities with photo contests that make use of its core business same, because the environments and cultures in which they grew up of lenses as a form of social contribution activities. This is impressive, differ. For example, in Japan water is often thought of as something as such activities suggest a strong awareness of CSV1. Having said easily obtainable, but that is not always the case elsewhere. This idea that, social contribution activities that strengthen coordination with is also a part of the SDGs, since“ensure availability and sustainable stakeholders are required by the SDGs that were newly added as CSR management of water and sanitation for all”is one of its goals. Water themes, making them all the more important. Accordingly, it will be is essential in the production of lenses, which represent Tamron’ s vital for Tamron to have each employee recognize, understand and core business, and a renewed acknowledgement of water may be act upon this emphasis on the relationships they maintain with local the most important factor in Tamron’ s further globalization. I expect communities, even beyond the ties established between Tamron and to see Tamron reexamine what is already under foot as it achieves local communities to date. business growth from a more global perspective. The SDGs are a set of unified international goals made up of 17 goals 1. C  SV stands for Creating Shared Value. This is an approach where a company seeks and 169 targets, and many of the CSR activities already been pursued to contribute to society by striking a balance between profits and solutions to social issues through its core business activities.（CSV was first advocated by Michael E. Porter） Editorial Team’ s Postscript This report contains non-financial information on Tamron’ s annual activities as a way to facilitate engagement with our many stakeholders. The special feature section of the FY2018 report focuses on key CSR issues and the SDGs in Tamron’ s future CSR management. We will accept the views expressed in the independent third-party opinion in all seriousness, strive to enhance areas such as education on the management philosophy including at overseas sites, and work to Head office Tamron Optical （Foshan） promote global CSR management. We encourage readers to share their frank comments and requests. The three Aomori plants Tamron Optical （Vietnam） Tamron CSR Report 2018 22 We are pleased to announce that our CSR report for 2017 was recognized with an award of excellence at the 21st Environmental Communication Awards sponsored by the Ministry of the Environment and the Global Environmental Forum, marking the four consecutive year that Tamron has won this award. Tamron Co., Ltd. Corporate Business Planning & Administration Board 1385 Hasunuma, Minuma-ku, Saitama-city, Saitama 337-8556 Japan Tel. +81-48-684-9114 Fax. +81-48-683-8282 E-mail：e-report@tamron.co.jp Website：http://www.tamron.com/ Published March 2018
