BATTRICK CONSULTANCY LIMITED SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Communication on Progress No.1, 2018 Battrick Consultancy Limited Premier Endeavour Quay | SF3-5 Mumby Road | Gosport | PO12 1AH | Hampshire | UK www.battrick-consultancy.com Statement for Continued Support of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) I am pleased to confirm that Battrick Consultancy Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Richard Battrick, Managing Director Battrick Consultancy Limited, United Kingdom, COP for 2018 Picture 1.0: Battrick Consultancy’s Managing Director, presenting to the United Nations Mine Action service (UNMAS) National Director’s Meeting (NDM), Palais des Nations, Geneva. Page 2 of 16 Contents Subject Page Statement for Continued Support of UNGC 2 Chapter 1 Highlights of 2018 4 Chapter 2 About Battrick Consultancy Limited 6 Chapter 3 Association and Governance 7 Chapter 4 Human Rights Principles 9 Chapter 5 Labour Principles 11 Chapter 6 Environmental Principles 12 Chapter 7 Anti-Corruption Principles 13 Chapter 8 The Ten Principles of the UNGC 14 Page 3 of 16 Chapter 1 – Highlights of 2017/2018 August 2017 Battrick Consultancy Limited signs letter supporting the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Future in Partnership and presentation with Southampton Business School, Southampton Solent University. Invitation to the Foreign Commonwealth (FCO) symposium on challenges posed by Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs). September 2017 Battrick Consultancy Limited receives welcome letter signed by Lise Kingo, Executive Director, United Nations Global Compact. Delivery of first Operational Response training to Her Majesty’s Coastguard, Port Edgar. Delivery of Operational Response training to Her Majesty’s Coastguard, Daedalus, Port Solent. Battrick Consultancy Limited sponsorship of the All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) for Explosive Threats, House of Lords, Westminster. October 2017 Attendance of the employer celebration event, University of Portsmouth. University of Nottingham endorsement of the Battrick Consultancy Limited delivered course for Legal Efficiency and Contract Management, on behalf of the Geneva International Centre for Humanitarian Demining (GICHD). November 2017 Presentation at the GICHD and DCAF (Democratic Control of Armed Forces) sponsored Ukraine national legislation workshop, Kyev. Support and attendance at the European Club for Countertrade and Offset (ECCO) symposium, Schipol, Germany. Delivery of Legal Efficiency and Contract Management course to the Afghanistan and Tajikistan National Mine Action Authorities on behalf of GICHD, Dushanbe. January 2018 Attendance and support of the University of Portsmouth employer forum launch event, Portsmouth. Accredited as preferred supplier of training to the UK Ministry of Defence (MoD) Career Transition Partnership (CTP). February 2018 Attendance and presentation at the ‘Quick Fire Innovations’ event during the United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) National Directors meeting, Palais des Nations, Geneva. Attendance and launch of the APPG Explosive Threats ‘Revive’ Campaign, supporting victim assistance, Westminster, London. Page 4 of 16 March 2018 Presentation and attendance at the UNMAS ‘Mine Action Innovation’ meeting during the Security and Counter Terror Expo, London. April 2018 Delivery of the GICHD Partnership for Peace (PfP) course, Spiez, Geneva. Presentation of the ‘Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Supply Chain and underwater explosive Risk Management’ at the Total DECOM 2018 (decommissioning projects in the Oil and Gas industry), Manchester. May 2018 Presentation of ‘Quality Management, Risk Management and Residual Risk’, in support of the GICHD expert panel at the Cambodian Mine Action Authority (CMAA) 25 year celebration, Phnom Penh, Cambodia. June 2018 Presentation and attendance at the Ukraine National Mine Action Standards (NMAS) workshop, Kyev. Picture 2.0: Battrick Consultancy delivery of the GICHD Legal Efficiency workshop for Afghanistan and Tajikistan National Mine Action Authorities. Page 5 of 16 Chapter 2 – About Battrick Consultancy Limited Battrick Consultancy is an independent consultancy specializing in security, defence and explosive risk activities. The company conducts risk assessment and mitigation for high profile international public-private agencies, across commercial and defence sectors, promoting understanding of risk management frameworks, approved codes of practice and safe systems of work for implementation in complex or hostile environments. Picture 3.0: Presentation at the Cambodian Mine Action Authority, Phnom Penh with the GICHD compliance team. We help clients deliver projects through design and implementation by promoting business assurance and providing honest leadership with practical, sustainable results. Our people: • understand the interface between public-private contracting; • have worked in first class organizations and embrace the concept of Value for Money (VfM); • are professional maritime and defence experts. Battrick Consultancy’s Vision Our vision is “to deliver quality assurance in maritime security and ordnance management”. Page 6 of 16 Core Strategic Mission Statement Battrick Consultancy’s mission statement is “to be an international brand and the company of choice for technical, maritime security support, ammunition and ordnance management know-how that clients value and trust”. Guiding Values Our guiding values support our core strategic mission statement: • Honesty: The first-class delivery of independent services that promotes mutual trust between the customer and ourselves that will enable our clients to realise their objectives. • Integrity: Battrick Consultancy will manage risk effectively and safely for clients operating in difficult and dangerous environments. • Respect: Our people, clients, suppliers and partners will continuously strive to deliver safe and effective services that are of a consistent high quality, on time and within budget. Picture 4.0: Delivery of Operational Response training to Her Majesty’s Coastguard (HMCG) service Senior Managers, Queensferry, Scotland. Approved Training Battrick Consultancy works in partnership as a recognised training provider with the ILM, the International Institute of Risk and Safety Management (IIRSM) and is now w preferred supplier of training to the UK MoD Career Transition Partnership (CTP). Page 7 of 16 Chapter 3 – Association and Governance Quality, Health, Safety and Environment. Battrick Consultancy implements HSE Management for OHSAS18001 on behalf of our Clients we operate a combined ISO9001:2015 and ISO14001:2015 Quality Management System. Information Security. Our company is UK Government Cyber Essentials compliant which supports our maturing business processes around Information Security and allows us to have better controls in place to defend against emerging Cyber threats. Maintaining Cyber Security for Battrick Consultancy is a business imperative and our organization is responding to the Cyber threat. HSE Policy. The Senior Management is committed to providing a safe place of work for all personnel and contractors, within all its business activities through the implementation of standards and controls that continuously improve the application and performance of the Safety Management System. To achieve this objective, we set ourselves targets aimed at fulfilling a set of broad objectives and values, which represent our societal obligations: • We are committed to meeting and bettering statutory and other requirements by the application of best practice; • We will communicate openly with employees, contractors, clients and legislative enforcement authorities on matters relating to occupational health and safety; • We believe in the provision of information for safe and efficient operations, and to empower and educate our workforce. Equality and Diversity Battrick Consultancy Limited promotes Equality and Diversity. Our Equality and Diversity policy applies to the whole of the organisation. The policy provides definition and examples of Equality and Diversity, including how this applies to us as a training centre and learning provider. Our processes and training standards required for Equality and Diversity are compliant with the Equality Act 2010. Page 8 of 16 Membership status EU Excert (Certifying Expertise in the Explosives Sector). We are also a company member of EUExcert, which aims to establish a foundation and vocational framework for the education of personnel operating in the European explosives sector. Armed Forces Covenant. The Armed Forces Covenant is a promise from the nation that those who serve or have served in the armed forces, and their families, are treated fairly. Battrick Consultancy became a signatory to the Employee Recognition Scheme in 2016. European Club for Countertrade and Offset (ECCO). ECCO aims to create an international platform to share information and best practices for offset and countertrade activities. Industry Board Participation Board Member of the UK explosive sector Standards Setting Body for Explosives, Munitions and Search Occupations (SSB for EMSO); Industry Advisor to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) for Explosives and Weapons; Member of the GICHD Expert Focus Group (EFG) for the new underwater International Mine Action Standard (IMAS 09.60); Founding Member of the UK Construction Industry Project Steering Group (PSG) for the Management of Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) in the Marine Environment (CIRIA C754); Board Member of the Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) UK Marine Liaison Group (MILG). Picture 5.0: Delivery of Quality Management workshop for GICHD, Columbia. Page 9 of 16 Chapter 4 Human Rights Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Battrick Consultancy’s goal is to influence that our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection. Based on our commitment we have set up a code of conduct, published on our website, to make our position clear for all our suppliers, employees and partners. Our Code of Conduct complies with the ISO 26000 standard and other international conventions. Implementation Battrick Consultancy has taken the following measures to prevent human rights violations in its work locations: • A complaints procedure for employees to submit their complaints and/or issues with regards to unfair treatment has been established. These complaints are revised by top management and discussed immediately. • We will also promote awareness of the International Code of Conduct (ICOC) for Private Security Service Providers. Company Contractors and Consultants will uphold the Company's Code of Conduct in respect of fundamental human rights, social justice and human dignity, and respect for the equal rights of men and women. • We will also promote awareness of mines and explosive remnants of war that can impact a number of political, economic, social, civil and cultural rights, including the right to life and to personal integrity, freedom of movement, the right to food, the right to an adequate standard of living, the right to health care, and the right to education. Picture 6.0: Battrick Consultancy delivery of the GICHD Partnership for Peace (PfP) course with guest lecturer from Nottingham University in Spiez, Geneva. Page 10 of 16 Measurement of Outcomes Battrick Consultancy will audit and evaluate all partners and suppliers against a set of defined principles, policies and guidelines through our International Human Rights Impact and Risk Assessment. Any contravention of human rights will be documented, and the responsible partner will be placed on probation and given a timeframe to address and resolve the issue. Continued non-compliance will result in the partner relationship being terminated. Senior management will audit suppliers annually without any warning to ensure that they are working within the defined guidelines of human rights. Figure 7.0: Battrick Consultancy sponsored student work experience with the Geneva International Centre for Humanitarian Demining (GICHD) Page 11 of 16 Chapter 5 – Labour Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Our company policies and professional service agreements state the right for collective bargaining. Our policies cover employee rights and compensation and responsibilities. We assess labour related risks. We have a dedicated resource that monitors and mandates environmental and safety risks. We will continue to refine our policies as needed and incorporate the principles of the UN Global Compact. Implementation We have committed to honour the Armed Forces Covenant and support the Armed Forces Community. We recognise the value Serving Personnel, both Regular and Reservists, Veterans and military families contribute to our business and our country. All employees are now entitled to a company pension scheme and personal accident insurance is set-up for specific activities. All employees are encouraged to practice exercise and receive a payment contribution towards gym and sports services they use. Measurement of Outcomes We have a 100 % compliance on approved working contracts. We have a decrease in working related injuries by 80% 2016 on 2017. We have been awarded bronze status by the Armed Forces Covenant employer recognition scheme, in recognition of our employer commitment. Picture 8.0: UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) Explosive Threats ‘Revive Campaign’ launch, House of Commons, Westminster. Page 12 of 16 Chapter 6 – Environmental Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Being mostly office based, the nature of the operations makes the company’s direct environmental impact relatively small. The environmental impact of our Consultancy service delivery is instead mostly indirect, via clients, businesses and suppliers. We are a proactive Consultancy in the security, defence and ordnance management sectors. That enables us to influence risk and quality management principles when dealing with residual environmental contamination issues with our stakeholders. Implementation We are ISO14001:2015 certified for office-based activities and have been so for over 5-years now, which underpins our risk-based thinking and raises awareness of customer environmental needs and expectations. We are closely engaged with providing service support to the Geneva International Centre for Humanitarian Demining (GICHD), leading on sharing risk and quality management best-practice in dealing with explosive residual contamination, helping reduce environmental contamination issues and return land to the national beneficiaries. Measurement of Outcomes Maintenance of ISO14001:2015 certification and specified objectives, certified with the UKAS registered DAS Certification Limited. Continued Board Membership status with the Department for Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) Marine Industry Liaison Group (MILG) for dealing with explosive contamination in the offshore environment. Figure 9.0: Future in Partnership and presentation with Southampton Business School, Southampton Solent University. Page 13 of 16 Chapter 7 – Anti-Corruption Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Battrick Consultancy Limited as has a zero-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion. The following company policy according to bylaws can be evidence of this: “It is the policy of Battrick Consultancy to pursue all of its business transactions in an honest and ethical manner. In doing business anywhere in the world, our company nor any person associated with the company may offer, pay, promise, authorize or receive any bribe, kickback or other illicit payment. We aim to continue to provide education for all level of employees up to management about corruption, as well as what to do if one should encounter it.” Implementation Internally, we maintain a check and balance system over transactions. The records are maintained through the company SAGE accounting system and our corporate services include dedicated modular training delivery in Ant-bribery Management System (ABMS) requirements, raising awareness of ISO37001:2016 and BS10500. Measurement of Outcomes Battrick Consultancy Limited has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. Company accounts are compiled using Bolden & Long accountants, who prepare documentation for online submission with the UK Government. Training delivery of ABMS requirements is incorporated into legal efficiency and contract management modules, designed for international organisations, and endorsed by the Institute of Leadership and Management (ILM), the International Institute of Risk and Safety Management (IIRSM) and the University of Nottingham, which is subject to annual quality assurance review. Picture 10.0: UK All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) Explosive Weapons conference, House of Commons, Westminster. Page 14 of 16 Chapter 8 – The Ten Principles of the UNGC Human Rights Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Picture 11.0: Presentation to the Ukraine National Mine Action Authority (NMAA) legislation workshop, Kyev. Page 15 of 16 This document contains Battrick Consultancy Ltd proprietary information and is issued Commercialin-Confidence. The contents of this document must not be divulged to any third party without Battrick Consultancy’s written permission. Information contained in the company's profile are drawn from the company web-site and brochures. Battrick Consultancy Limited Premier Endeavour Quay SF3-5 Mumby Road Gosport, Hampshire PO12 1AH United Kingdom www.battrick-consultancy.com Protected by Copyright © 2018 Battrick Consultancy Limited Battrick Consultancy is certified ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015 Registered in England and Wales, Company Number: 7428432 Page 16 of 16
