ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONTENTS MATERIALITY IN THIS REPORT YEAR IN REVIEW This report focuses on the Introduction 2 matters that are deemed Executive Chair & Founder’s Report 4 the most valuable and CEO Report 6 Our Year in a Snapshot 8 relevant for stakeholders by the Intrepid Group OUR BUSINESS 10 Our Journey 12 The following outlines the material items Our Brands 14 that are included within this report: Purpose and Values 16 n Our external environment Purpose Beyond Profit 18 n Responsible business practices The Intrepid Foundation 20 n Financial performance How We Create Value 22 n Customer satisfaction External Environment 24 n Employee engagement OUR PERFORMANCE 26 n Employee wellbeing Financial 28 n Our relationship with the communities Brand and Know-How 32 in which we operate Customer 36 n Corporate governance People 40 Social and Relationship 46 Environment 54 OUR STRATEGY 60 2020 Plan 62 OUR GOVERNANCE 66 Our Board 68 Corporate Governance 70 Risk Management 72 Our Material Risks 74 Policies and Guidelines 76 OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 78 INTRODUCTION Welcome to the Intrepid Group’s 2017 Annual Report. This integrated annual report sets out our vision, our journey so far, our performance in 2017, and the outlook for our multi-brand global business in 2018 and beyond. Intrepid was founded on the idea that a travel company should give back to the places and people it visits. Our vision is to ‘Change the Way People See the World’. That long-term vision means How responsible tourism can contribute to the that we are not only fully committed to responsible business practices that create value for all our stakeholders, we are also committed to being a business with a purpose beyond profit. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals OUR COMMITMENT TO RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Intrepid Group has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2008. The world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, the UNGC is both a practical framework for 11. SUSTAINABLE CITIES action and a platform for demonstrating corporate commitment and leadership. 01. NO POVERTY 05. GENDER EQUALITY & COMMUNITIES In 2017, we’ve combined the Intrepid Group’s first integrated annual report with our eighth Communication on Progress Report. It builds on our previous reports to the United Nations Global Sustainable tourism can be Tourism can empower women in A city that is not good for its citizens Compact and our commitment to support public accountability and transparency. By combining our linked with national poverty many ways, but particularly through is not good for tourists. Sustainable sustainability reporting with our financial results, this report demonstrates how being responsible reduction goals, such as promoting the provision of jobs and incometourism has the potential to advance drives long-term value for all our stakeholders. entrepreneurship and small generating opportunities in small and urban infrastructure and universal businesses, and empowering young larger-scale tourism and hospitalityaccessibility, promote regeneration of As part of our commitment to the UNGC, the Intrepid Group has identified nine of the 17 United people, women and ethnic minorities. related enterprises. areas in decay and preserve cultural Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that we can contribute to most as a tourism and natural heritage – all assets upon business. The nine goals outlined on the next page, are interlinked and need to be addressed which tourism depends. collectively. We recognise that by making a strong commitment to these goals across all parts of our business, the Intrepid Group can be a real force of good in the world. OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING 12. RESPONSIBLE 8. DECENT WORK & This full and transparent report aims to illustrate how our business creates value, both in the CONSUMPTION & 13. CLIMATE ACTION PRODUCTION ECONOMIC GROWTH short-term and long-term, for our stakeholders, including: n Employees n Supply chain partners n Shareholders A tourism sector that adopts Tourism contributes to, and is affected Tourism is one of the driving forces sustainable consumption and by, climate change. By lowering of global economic growth and n Customers n Travel agent partners n Regulators and government bodies production practices can play a energy consumption and shifting to currently accounts for one in every This report draws on the International Integrated Reporting Council’s (IIRC) International <IR> Framework significant role in accelerating the renewable energy sources, especially 11 jobs worldwide. With decent work to explain the Intrepid Group’s performance during the year ended 31 December 2017. global shift towards sustainability. in transport and accommodation, opportunities in the tourism sector, tourism can help tackle one of the society – particularly youth and Within the report we show how we create value for stakeholders, both in the short, medium and longmost pressing challenges of our time. women – can benefit from increased term. It sets out our relationship with stakeholders, what we do in our business, the outcomes of these skills and professional development. activities and our role within the community. The report focuses on six capital inputs of: Financial Environment Social and Relationship 10. REDUCED 16. PEACE, JUSTICE & 17. PARTNERSHIPS FOR INEQUALITIES STRONG INSTITUTIONS THE GOALS People Customer Brand and Know-How Tourism can be a powerful tool in Tourism is built on the interaction of Due to its cross-sectorial nature, For each, we illustrate our business activities, performance in 2017, how the capital contributes to our 2020 reducing inequality if it engages local people from diverse ethnic, religious tourism can strengthen private/ strategy and the outlook for each capital in 2018 and beyond. populations and key stakeholders in and cultural backgrounds. Billions and public partnerships and engage its development. It can contribute to billions of them. The industry has a multiple stakeholders – international, Intrepid Group is an independently-owned Australian company and all figures are reported in Australian urban renewal and rural development, unique potential to foster multicultural national, regional and local – to work dollars unless otherwise stated. and reduce regional imbalances by and inter-faith tolerance and together to achieve SDGs and other An independent audit of the group’s annual financial statements was performed by Deloitte Touche giving communities the opportunity understanding, laying the foundation common goals. Tohmatsu and a summary of these financial statements is included within this report. The rest of this annual to prosper in their place of origin. for a more peaceful society. report has not been subjected to independent audit or review. Information reported has been derived from the group’s own internal records and from information available in the public domain. Bagan, Myanmar 2 3 EXECUTIVE CHAIR & FOUNDER’S REPORT Almost 10 years ago, Intrepid committed to transparency and public accountability by becoming a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. This year, for the first time, we’re providing full visibility to all of our stakeholders by publishing our first integrated annual report. We firmly believe that not only do we have a responsibility to all our stakeholders, but that by working together we can achieve better outcomes for all. Our transparency helps that process, as it builds knowledge and mutual understanding. This is the first time since returning to being an independently-owned company that we’re publishing our financial results, but our focus is not on our short-term financial results. Our aim is to provide a complete view of our activities and how they are contributing to our 2020 strategy and the longterm success of our business. In many ways, it’s a good time to be in travel. Tourism is one of the fastest growing industries in the world, increasing by 4.6% in 2017 and now making up 10.4% of GDP. Consumers are spending more on experiences than things, with new destinations and markets opening up around the world. With this growth comes the responsibility of ensuring that destinations are preserved for generations to come. 2017 was the United Nations Year of Sustainable Tourism for Development, but the travel industry found itself in the news for all the wrong reasons, with protests against ‘overtourism’ in places like Venice and Barcelona. Elsewhere, human rights were violated, environments affected and the increasing impact of climate change is self-evident. The travel industry will continue to be impacted by the social and environmental events that face our world today. But what’s changing is the trust that people have in our governments and institutions. That’s why conscious businesses need to step up and play a greater role in society. As the world’s largest adventure travel company, every year we spend a substantial sum of money purchasing goods and services, which can make a real difference to the communities and places where we operate. In 2017, we’ve come a step closer towards becoming a certified B Corp, and as part of that, we updated our policies to ensure that these supply chain decisions are positive. Our Statement on Modern Slavery outlines the steps we’re taking to prevent human rights issues from occurring in our supply chain. Taking an industry leadership role on issues like orphanage tourism is not only in the best interests of our stakeholders, it’s also what travellers want too. The results we’ve seen this year confirm that our 2020 strategy is working. Having a purpose beyond profit is not only attractive to our staff, shareholders and travellers, but it can be profitable too! Planning for our 2025 strategy has already commenced. Our multi-brand approach, targeting different demographics and markets globally, will see us progressively digitalising and transforming our business for the long-term. Our goal is to be a billion-dollar business by 2025, delivering on our purpose of Changing the Way People See the World. In March 2017 I stepped aside from my role of CEO, appointing James Thornton as the Intrepid Group’s first non-founding CEO. James was later appointed as Chair of The Intrepid Foundation, to ensure that Purpose was fully integrated into our business. That strategy worked. Not only have we had a record year for the business, we also celebrated a record year for our not-for-profit arm, which raised almost $1 million for local and international charities. It’s clear that the more we grow, the more we can do. A key milestone for the Board in 2017 was to set the model for an innovative new Purpose initiative, 1-2-3. This initiative truly creates a legacy that ensures the shareholders in our business will continue to give back to the places and people we visit. Darrell Wade Executive Chair and Co-founder of the Intrepid Group 4 5 CEO REPORT In 2017, we had more customers travel with us to more destinations than ever before. We had another record year of both financial performance and another record year of donations to The Intrepid Foundation. For the second time since returning to independent ownership two years ago, we’ve seen growth in our passenger numbers, our revenue and our profitability. We’ve also seen growth in all regions and brands. These results confirm that our 2020 strategy of growing with purpose is working. This record growth enabled us to do more to grow the market for what we call ‘sustainable, experience-rich travel’. In August, we took a 50% stake in Chimu Adventures. The deal was funded from cash reserves and makes us a true seven continent operator. We also launched the first charter trip in our new Adventure Cruising range during the European summer, and the overwhelmingly positive response cemented our decision to make small boat cruising a key focus in 2018 and beyond. This new range is a testament to us not only living our core value of innovation, but also providing products that our customers want. In 2017, we achieved our best-ever levels of customer enjoyment on our trips, with an overall customer satisfaction score of 4.71 out of 5. Objectively, that’s fantastic. But one of our goals is to Be Better. That’s why we’re transforming our business, not only by investing more in digital, but by using technology to help us to better understand our customers. We’ve also ramped up our qualitative research, with initiatives like ‘guerrilla testing’ helping to bring our office-based staff closer to our customers than ever before. Our tour leaders know our customers better than anyone. They are the heart of our business and we believe they’re the best in the industry. In October, two of our tour leaders were awarded the Gold and Bronze prizes at the 2017 Wanderlust World Guide Awards, making Intrepid Travel the company with the most accolades in the history of the event. These awards are a tribute to the great work that PEAK DMC does in hiring and training our leaders. Leveraging our DMC (destination management company) network is a key strategic objective in our 2020 strategy, and our 2017 results show that this strategy is working. PEAK DMC not only opened new DMCs in Japan, Iceland and Central America, it also significantly outperformed targets and grew external sales. Urban Adventures is key to our 2020 strategy, and this award-winning start-up continues to be the fastest growing brand within the business, almost doubling its passenger numbers in 2017. This phenomenal growth is the reason we’re doubling our investment in Urban Adventures, with the goal of reaching one million travellers by 2020. Growth is nice on its own, but it’s this sense of purpose that has us excited about the future. It is just one reason our staff are more engaged than ever before. But one of the biggest challenges we face as we increase our scale and grow is to ensure that we attract, retain, and develop the best talent. To do that, we need to make sure everyone has equal opportunities. That’s why in 2017 we took our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact one step further, becoming a signatory of the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles. There are many significant achievements in this report, but I believe the work we are doing towards being a business with a purpose beyond profit is the most noteworthy. We look forward to sharing our progress in the next report. For now, please take the time to read over our 2017 Annual Report and Communication on Progress. James Thornton Chief Executive Officer 6 7 OUR YEAR IN A SNAPSHOT $10.7 MILLION $997K Normalised EBIT* Raised by (2016 $10.5 million) The Intrepid Foundation ($710k donated by Intrepid Group) ADVENTURE $341 MILLION CRUISING Group External Revenue* 94% Trip Fill in 2017 (2016 $297 million) 2017 New Innovator in Travel Philanthropy Award 15% 81 eNPS Growth in Intrepid Overall Employee Travel passenger Engagement Score numbers 42% 4.71/5 Of all staff and Overall Customer leaders are female Experience 298,137 3 NEW (2016 40%) (2016 4.70/5) Customers travelled Destination management with our tour companies established operator brands (Iceland, Japan and Central America) *non-audited non IFRS measure All amounts are in Australian Dollars unless otherwise stated Adventure Cruising, Asia 8 9 OUR BUSINESS Our Vision is to Change the Way People See the World. We will be customerobsessed, driven by passion, expertise, trust and a sense of fun. We will have the widest range of adventure travel experiences and continuously introduce innovative product. The Intrepid Group will continue to have a purpose beyond profit, with sustainability being at the core of what we do, and a focus on developing local economies through sustainable tourism. Patagonia, Argentina 10 11 OUR BUSINESS OUR JOURNEY Intrepid has come a long way since its humble beginnings in 1989. Back then, who would have known a company that began with two bearded backpackers, a typewriter and a kitchen table would eventually grow into the world’s largest provider of sustainable, experience-rich travel. The Intrepid Group now includes five tour operator brands, 20 destination management companies, and a not-forprofit foundation, employing 1800 staff in more than 25 offices around the world. Although we’re a bit larger these days, we’re still run by travellers, for travellers, and we still get a kick out of responsible travel and very (very) big adventures. INTREPID GROUP TIMELINE 1978 Peregrine Adventures begins in the foothills of Nepal 1999 Peregrine creates Geckos Adventures, now our youth brand 2011 2012 2017 Intrepid Travel founders form Intrepid Group portfolio of First acquisition as a newly private PEAK Adventure Travel, a strategic brands form under the PEAK company, Chimu Adventures 1989 venture with TUI Group Adventure Travel umbrella Intrepid Travel is born after an epic 2005 Africa overland adventure, Establishment and runs its first trip in Thailand of our first DMC 1993 2009 2015 Adventure Tours Australia Intrepid launches the Intrepid Travel founders (ATA) begins in the outback Urban Adventures brand take 100% ownership of the town of Alice Springs Intrepid Group 12 12 13 OUR BUSINESS OUR BRANDS We’re the largest provider of adventure travel experiences in the world, catering for all ages, budgets and appetites for adventure through our B2C and B2B brands. Our five tour operator brands offer more than 2,000 trips in more than 120 countries and on every continent, and our B2B destination management company PEAK DMC delivers innovative, competitive, low-risk, high quality travel products in more than 90 countries. What all our brands have in common is they are leaders in sustainable, experiencerich travel (we call it SERT). That means we only offer immersive trips, with local leaders, that enable our travellers to explore authentic local culture. We’re dedicated to creating innovative adventures that deliver the best travel experiences ever, for everyone. Halong Bay, Vietnam Intrepid Travel Peregrine Adventures Geckos Adventures Adventure Tours Australia Urban Adventures PEAK DMC Our style of small group Premium adventures Our adventures are for 18-29 Seeing Uluru or In 2009, we We deliver travel means you’ll eat, sleep with a genuine focus year olds who want to have snorkelling the Great created a new sustainable, and get around the local way. on immersive local a good time with others their Barrier Reef is a pretty style of day tour; experience-rich With three travel styles to experiences. We get you into areas often own age, but don’t want to special way to travel one that gets travellers away from destination management solutions choose from, our trips strike the perfect restricted to larger groups, allowing you spend their whole trip crammed into – that we’d never deny. But as any local standard city tours and off the beaten across five continents for the world’s balance between included activites to fully immerse yourself in a destination, a bus with 40 hungover backpackers. will tell you, it’s Australia’s backstories path to really connect with a destination, leading travel brands. and ‘you time’, and cater to a range of away from the crowds. Our journeys You want to meet locals, embrace new that really bring it to life. experiencing things only possible in a With a structure that combines the best budgets. Plus you’ll have the knowledge include hand-picked accommodation, cultures and actually learn stuff, while small group (of max 12). Our tours feature authentic Indigenous of international operating standards of a local leader, taking you out of the private transport, local guides, and a also making friends and hitting up experiences, use specialist vehicles and Run by passionate locals in more than with in-depth local expertise, our guidebooks and into a world you’re more considered pace. Premium means backstreet bars, street food stalls and are lead by the best local guides in the 165 destinations, Urban Adventures ditch B2B-only model offers businesses a waiting to discover. exceptional, but never artificial. cool secret spots along the way. business. And with over 80 trips across the tourist traps and introduce you to partnership that is trustworthy, stable n Over 1,000 trips across 120+ countries n Over 300 trips across 80+ countries n Over 90 trips across 50+ countries the continent to choose from, we’ve got awesome local highlights and hotspots. and transparent. n Average group size 10 (max 16) n Average group size 9 (max 12) n Average group size 9 (max 16) an Aussie adventure to suit just about A great add-on for before, during or n Operational capability across everyone! after a longer tour. n Departures guaranteed n Departures guaranteed n Departures guaranteed 90 + countries n Over 80 trips across Australia/NZ n Over 1,000 unique itineraries n Local DMC offices in 20 + locations n Average group size 15 (max 24) n Operating in 97 countries across n Carry 350,000 passengers annually, n Departures guaranteed 165 destinations for Intrepid Group brands and n Maximum group size 12 external B2B customers 14 15 OUR BUSINESS OUR VISION OUR PURPOSE CHANGE THE WAY SHARE, CREATE PEOPLE SEE LEAD BO O K THE WORLD SE LL MANAGE BUILD OUR VALUES OPERATE LIVE THE BEST TRAVEL EXPERIENCE GROWTH RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION Stakeholders in Think global, Thriving on new ideas EVER our own success act local and embracing change PASSION FUN INTEGRI TY We are inspired by It’s ingrained into Doing the the work we do and who we are and right thing the trips we offer what we do Sahara, Morocco 16 17 OUR BUSINESS PURPOSE BEYOND PROFIT The original founders of Intrepid Travel wanted to create a style of travel that could benefit both travellers and the places and people they visit. In fact, their first business plan included donations to communities before Intrepid was making any money. The Intrepid Group has grown since then, and so has our vision: we want to Change The Way People See the World. The Intrepid Group’s 2020 strategy includes the two key goals of Growth and Purpose. We believe that these two goals are indelibly linked. The more we grow, the more we can do. There are four ways that we put this purpose beyond profit in to action: RESPONSIBLE TRAVEL Creating an immersive local style of travel that ensures a larger share of the money generated through tourism stays in local pockets has always been a focus. We employ local leaders and use local suppliers. That means more authentic experiences and that tourism money stays where it belongs: in local communities. We ensure our trips and travellers have a positive impact on the places we visit, through initiatives like banning elephant rides and orphanage visits, as well as providing cloth bags and encouraging travellers to reject plastic water bottles in favour of reusable ones. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Intrepid was the first travel company to have a dedicated Responsible Business department. Since 2009, we’ve offset more than 290,000 tonnes of carbon emissions by investing in accredited renewable energy and carbon reduction projects around the world. We’ve adopted a global Human Rights Policy and are committed to protecting the rights of women, minorities and children, as well as supporting animal welfare and the environment. As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, we’re dedicated not only to operating our global business in a responsible manner but also to transparency and continuous improvement. Our aim is to be a business that creates shared value for our stakeholders. A business that is a force for good. THE INTREPID FOUNDATION In 2002, a not-for-profit arm of the business called The Intrepid Foundation was established to encourage travellers to give back to the places and people they visit. Its purpose is pretty simple: to empower travellers to make a difference and to help communities in the places we visit. BUSINESS AS A FORCE FOR GOOD Our belief is that by creating shared value for all our stakeholders, that purpose beyond profit can be profitable. But only by staying focused on being a purpose-led business for the long-term. In the short-term, it can mean making some difficult business decisions. The best example of this was our decision to end elephant rides. This came after The Intrepid Foundation funded World Animal Protection research in South-East Asia in 2010. At the time, the region made up 40% of our sales and elephant riding was considered a ‘must-do’ for travellers. The research found that elephants were being poached from the wild in order to fuel tourism demand. It also found that elephants can never be domesticated, and in order for them to accept human control they have to endure a very cruel breaking-in process. This research meant Intrepid could no longer consciously continue to offer elephant rides. In 2014, we announced we had become the first global tour operator to end elephant riding. The response from customers was overwhelmingly positive. We received global media coverage and huge engagement on our social media channels. We learnt that by doing the Elephant Nature Park, Thailand right thing and clearly communicating why, we could be a force for good. 18 19 OUR BUSINESS THE INTREPID FOUNDATION Established in 2002, The Intrepid Foundation The Intrepid Foundation is the charitable arm of the has supported more than Intrepid Group. As an instrumental part of the Intrepid 100 non-government Group’s ‘purpose beyond profit’ ambitions, the foundation organisations. provides a transparent and trusted way for all Intrepid The Intrepid Group contributes to Group brands and their travellers to support the The Intrepid Foundation in the destinations and communities they visit. following ways: n Donations are matched dollar-for-dollar – Up to $400,000 per year – Up to $1,000 per individual donor – Emergency appeals are not matched unless specified n 100% of administrative costs are covered by the Intrepid Group n We enable customer donations to be added to bookings on an Intrepid Group trip at the time of sale n We encourage workplace giving by Intrepid Group staff n Our tour operator brands partner with our foundation to raise funds OUR MODEL IS: The Intrepid Foundation supports local and international partner organisations tackling important issues all over the world – from conservation and wildlife protection, to education, health care and human rights. The Intrepid Foundation’s model is simple: You donate Intrepid Group doubles We receive money via We double your contribution donations and fundraisers for twice the impact We give You empower We give 100% of that Your gift empowers local money directly to projects communities around the world Seven Women, Nepal 20 21 OUR BUSINESS HOW WE GROW WITH PURPOSE Our founders wanted to start a business that not only benefits travellers, but also benefits the places and people they visit. More than just responsible tourism, Intrepid Group is committed to creating shared value for all our stakeholders through sustainable, experiencerich travel. OUTCOME INPUT INPUT OUTCOME Happy customers who We invest in innovative products We commit to giving back to Strong, resilient communities CUSTOMER become ambassadors for our and leader training to deliver the communities we travel that benefit from our brands and our business exciting experiences to our to by employing locally, travellers (see page 46) SOCIAL (see page 36) customers buying locally and investing in community projects OUTCOME INPUT A diverse team of We invest in our INPUT OUTCOME empowered and motivated people, culture and We commit to being carbon Destinations we travel people committed to training so that our neutral and to the sensitive to are preserved for the ENVIRONMENT providing customers with the PEOPLE team are safe, happy design of trips to minimise our generations to come best travel experience ever and able to delivering footprint on the environment (see page 54) (see page 40) against business goals OUTCOME INPUT INPUT OUTCOME Long term sustainable We maintain strong We invest in our brands and Increased value of our growth of our business financial governance and operations to ensure that brands across multiple across multiple regions and a healthy balance sheet we deliver the right product BRAND & regions (see page 32) FINANCIAL destinations (see page 28) to continue growth to the right market at the KNOW HOW right time SUSTAINABLE EXPERIENCE RICH TRAVEL 22 23 OUR BUSINESS EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT 7% Our ability to create shared value for stakeholders is Growth in directly influenced by the economic, regulatory, political international tourist and social environments that we operate in. arrivals in 2017 In a world that appears to be becoming increasingly divided, it is now more important than ever for businesses to be a force for good. Travel has always been a conduit for 4-5% cross-cultural learning, for the fostering of friendships and the interchange of ideas. It is an industry that truly has the power to change the world. Travel and tourism now represents 10.4% of GDP (Gross Domestic Product) of the global economy and this number continues to grow. With this growth comes responsibility, and travel companies need to integrate sustainable practice into their predicted growth in operations to ensure that popular travel destinations are preserved for generations to international tourist come. By achieving carbon neutral status in 2010, and now working towards B Corp certification, Intrepid has demonstrated its commitment to responsible travel. arrivals in 2018 ECONOMIC OUTLOOK 10.4% Consumer confidence slowed slightly for OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) countries in early 2017 as a result of fallouts from elections in the United States and Brexit in the UK, but from mid-2017 onwards consumer confidence continued the upward trend experienced in late 2016 and this trend is predicted to continue into 2018. of global GDP The IMF (International Monetary Fund) recently raised its 2018 and 2019 forecast for represented by the global output to growth of 3.9% as a result of higher than projected 2017 growth and increased global growth momentum . This, coupled with the fact that consumers are travel industry spending more on experiences rather than durable goods, means the outlook for the travel industry in 2018 and beyond is positive. TRAVEL INDUSTRY The UNWTO (United Nations World Tourism Organization) reported that in 2017 international tourist arrivals increased by 7% worldwide, well above the average trend of 4%, representing the strongest result in seven years . This momentum is expected to continue into 2018 at a rate of 4-5%. On top of this, spending on travel grew at 4.6%, 50% faster than the global economy. It was also the fastest growing economic sector. In 2017, one in every five new jobs created around the world were related to travel and tourism. Travel & tourism directly or indirectly creates 313 million jobs worldwide (one in 10) and it is predicted that over the next 10 years, 100 million jobs will be created through tourism activities. Intense airline competition is putting downward pressure on pricing thanks to low fuel prices and the number of competitors in the industry. It is now cheaper than ever to travel the world and consumers are taking advantage of this with 7.1% growth in passenger departures in 2017 . On top of this, airlines are flying more routes than ever before, opening up travel to new and exciting destinations. KEY CHALLENGES Moving forward, there are a number of key macro challenges for the travel industry, including: n Addressing the impact of climate change on destinations and the travel industry’s responsibility to ensure that responsible business practices maintain destinations for generations to come. n Ensuring the safety and security of travellers and employees in times of political and social unrest. n Harnessing the opportunity presented by emerging markets for increased outbound travel. n Noticing how an ageing and changing demographic influences the way people travel. Intrepid is working to ensure that the company is in a good position to predict, understand and act upon these challenges and trends impacting the business and travel industry as a whole. 24 25 OUR PERFORMANCE In 2017, we carried more customers than ever before, our financial and brand position is as strong as ever, our people are more engaged and we continue to have a positive impact on the environment and the societies in which we operate. 26 27 OUR PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL GROUP EXTERNAL Statutory Revenue Statutoryto Gross Revenue Group to Gross Revenue Revenue ($’mil) External Group REVENUE 400 2017 was another record year of financial performance $341m i 350 for the Intrepid Group with all brands and sales regions 25 341 40 performing strongly. ($297m) 300 276 250 A strong focus on growing the top line revenue across all brands and sales regions has In 2016 delivered beyond expectations, indicating that the macro strategy of growing with purpose is working. 200 Overall, we achieved 14.81% growth in group external revenue, growing external revenue to $341m. On top of this, we have grown EBIT (earnings before interest and EBIT 150 $10.7m tax) to $10.7m, up 1.9% on our normalised 2016 results. ii 100 On top of our record performance in 2017, January 2018 represents our biggest month of bookings ever recorded, and sets us up for another strong year in 2018. ($10.5m) 50 All brands and sales regions achieved growth in 2017, with the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and North America regions significantly improving on 2016 results. Overall, the Intrepid brand continues to be the strongest performer with 20.3% yearon-year growth (at like for like exchange rates). normalised EBIT Statutory Revenue Sell-Outs Other Group External Revenue A strong net asset position and cash balance also enabled an acquisition of a 50% for 2016 stake in Chimu Adventures in August 2017, our first investment since becoming ADJUSTMENT REASON FOR ADJUSTMENT privately owned in 2015. The acquisition will expand trip offerings in the Arctic and Antarctica regions and increase the global reach of the brand. Sell-outs External third party operated trips are shown as net of costs for statutory purposes. Other financial highlights included: n Net cash position up 6.96% on 2016 as a result of strong operating results. Other Other adjustments include our share of income from associates, n Slight decrease in overheads as a percentage of TTV (Total Transactional Value). discounts applied to revenue and foreign exchange. Following the split from the TUI group in 2015, the Intrepid Group is now in a stronger financial position than ever before as a result of strong financial control and governance. This will enable the group to invest further in sustainable growth across all brands and sales regions. DEFINITIONS• Total transactional value (TTV) Gross price of a tour, before any discounts or commission expense. Gross Group External Revenue Total group revenue, including income from associates and joint ventures, prior to discounts Departed Revenue Revenue reported at date of departure Booked Revenue Revenue reported at date of booking All amounts are in Australian Dollars unless otherwise stated i Gross group external revenue includes all revenue prior to discounts, including share of revenue from associates and sell-outs (sales of third party tours). ii 2016 EBIT included a one-off lease break incentive. 28 29 OUR PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL APAC departed TTV REVENUE BY DESTINATION 2017 VS 2016 SALES REGION PERFORMANCE 7.9% (excluding Urban Adventures) The Intrepid Group operates through three main outbound sales regions, being Asia (at like-for-like Pacific (based in Melbourne, Australia), Europe, Middle-East and Africa (based in exchange rates) London, United Kingdom) and North America (based in Toronto, Canada). Each sales region performed strongly in 2017, with North America and EMEA both achieving revenue growth in excess of 25%. +37.1% EMEA departed TTV Asia Pacific (APAC) +1.6% APAC is our most mature region, but still performed strongly during 2017, achieving an increase in TTV of 7.9% a great result for the region. 25.7% EUROPE ASIA (at like-for-like AMERICAS Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) The EMEA region achieved an impressive 25.7% growth in TTV at like-for-like exchange exchange rates) rates, further cementing our position in this market. North America North America AFRICA departed TTV +2.1% North America was the best-performing sales region during the 2017 financial year, 30.9% achieving 30.9% growth in TTV (at like-for-like exchange rates) and continues to grow into 2018. AMERICAS +33.7% DESTINATION PERFORMANCE (at like-for-like OCEANIA South-East Asia was again our best-selling destination, followed by South America, Southern Asia and Southern Europe. Our fastest growing destination was Northern exchange rates) Africa, with departed revenue growth of 56%, followed by Northern Europe with departed revenue growth of 53%. +4.8% OUTLOOK In 2018 we will again be aiming for strong top line performance across all regions and brands whilst also looking to grow our group EBIT. January 2018 was a record breaking month for bookings for both the Intrepid Travel and Peregrine brands. This dynamic start puts the business in a strong position to capitalise on another record year. The robust performance in January 2018 has been driven by strong sales performance across all sales regions. All amounts are in Australian Dollars unless otherwise stated Angkor Wat, Cambodia 30 31 OUR PERFORMANCE BRAND AND KNOW-HOW Intrepid Travel Peregrine Adventures Geckos Adventures Urban Adventures Solidifying its position Peregrine departed In 2016, Geckos Adventures In 2017, Urban as the hero brand of the revenue grew by was repositioned to Adventures In 2017, all Intrepid Group brands took huge steps business, the Intrepid Travel 1.1% (at like-for-like become a true youthwas the fastest brand grew again in 2017, exchange rates) during the year with brand, with the age-range growing brand in the Intrepid Group. towards our 2020 goal of growing the market for with 20.3% growth in departed revenue EMEA and North America both showing for customers changed from 18-39 to Departed passenger numbers grew by sustainable, experience-rich travel. (at like-for-like exchange rates). increased sales for the year. 18-29. This change to the age range a staggering 62% to 172,261 and TTV was implemented on 2017 trips. Despite increased by 53.6%. The day tour brand Double-digit growth was reported for A significant change impacting Peregrine’s halving the market for eligible travellers, continues to grow with purpose, with the Intrepid Travel brand across all sales results for 2017 was the reallocation of our The continuous improvement across our entire product range and brands the brand achieved departed revenue it’s award winning In Focus range of regions, with both North America and Comfort trips from our Peregrine brand to has ensured our customers’ trip experience is at an all-time high, and ensured we growth of 6% (at like-for-like exchange social impact tours now benefitting 23 EMEA growing by more than 20%. our Intrepid Travel brand which resulted in could deliver on our strategy of having the right product in the right market at the rates) for the year. The North American different local organisations. A brand both less departures and passengers for right time. In 2017, there was big focus on our market was the key driver of the growth, partnership with Foundation beneficiary Peregrine in 2017. themed products, with Cycling with a 36% year-on-year increase. ActionAid, saw Urban Adventures The launch of our Adventure Cruising product range in 2017 is proof that we are experiencing a 400% increase in traveller Peregrine Adventures had the biggest donate $100,000 in support of its Safe New trips were launched in North living our core value of innovation, and achieving 94% trip-fill across all charters is a numbers due to new trips and increased product release of the group in 2017, with Cities campaign. America and Africa making Geckos a testament to the fact that we are providing new products that our customers want. departures. the new Adventure Cruising range. Our more global 18-29 year old tour operator. South-East Asia continues to be the first charter itinerary in Croatia achieved Adventure All our brands undertook activities to strengthen their position in the market and Deposits were dropped to $99 to make brand’s biggest region, but in 2017 94% trip fill. In 2018, we’ve added new Tours Australia create blue water between the brands in the group. This resulted in variation across the price point more affordable for the itineraries in Europe and South-East Asia, customer and departure numbers but ultimately led to top line growth for all Northern Europe was the fastest brand’s younger demographic. Our smallest brand a total of 10 charter itineraries and we brands of the Intrepid Group. growing, up by 121%. Adventure Tours Australia achieved have 40 scheduled departures confirmed Other key statistics include: significant growth in 2017, growing Other key statistics include: for the 2018/19 season. The outlook for n 17% more departures in 2017 departed revenue by 12%. Peregrine is as healthy as it has been in n Overall 15% passenger growth in 2017 n Passenger numbers grew by 1% three years, with bookings into 2018 and n We ran 23% more departures globally n 16.5% bookings growth 2019 growing year-on-year. n Booked revenue was up 16.8% Other key statistics include: n 25% less departed passengers in 2017 n 16% less departures 32 n 15.8% growth in booked revenue 33 OUR PERFORMANCE BRAND AND KNOW-HOW 1 2017 was a milestone year for PEAK DMC. Not only did 5 we open our 20th destination management company 4 under the brand, but we also transformed the way we do business, grew external sales, and started to build the 2 3 brand in its own right. 6 5 6 1 1 Leveraging our DMC network is part of our 2020 strategy, and 2017 saw us deliver upon all 2 3 three metrics (Expansion, Efficiency and Sales). 1 10 PEAK DMC expanded into three new regions during the year, establishing new DMCs 7 8 (destination management companies) in Japan, Iceland and Central America. 3 2 9 11 2 4 We received assistance and funding from the Japanese External Trade Organisation to 2 1 1 12 launch a new DMC in the region, with operations commencing in May 2018. 2 Unprecedented growth in Intrepid Group sales to Iceland brought forward our expansion 3 4 3 plan and led to the creation of our own DMC there, which began operating trips in 5 October 2017. 7 5 3 1 4 The final DMC established in 2017 was PEAK Central America, which will carry more than 4 7,000 passengers in 2018 across the eight countries within the region. 2 5 6 Another important achievement in 2017 was the introduction of a new DMC system which 6 commenced in 2017, with full functionality being progressively rolled out in 2018. This system 7 will increase efficiency across the DMC network by simplifying and automating processes such as quoting, supplier management and financial reconciliations. The system will allow for the transformation of PEAK DMC and enable it to scale more quickly and easily without adding additional overhead costs. To top off a great year, PEAK DMC reported 20% growth in externally generated sales. This was as a result of a significant investment being made within the DMC global team to establish an internal structure that facilitated increased levels and types of enquiries. Where PEAK DMC operate from With this structure now in place, there was a large focus on generating new enquiries and pleasingly, a number of large new clients were won in the latter half of 2017. CENTRAL AMERICA SOUTH ASIA NORTH AFRICA & Other key statistics include: 1 Mexico City, Mexico 1 New Delhi, India MIDDLE EAST 2 San José, Costa Rica 2 Kochi, India 1 Marrakech, Morocco n 20% growth in externally generated DMC sales 3 Panama City, Panama 3 Kathmandu, Nepal 2 Cairo, Egypt n Maintained Overall Enjoyment Score of 4.73/5 year-on-year 4 Colombo, Sri Lanka SOUTH AMERICA EAST & 1 Quito, Ecuador NORTH ASIA SOUTHERN AFRICA 2 Galapagos, Ecuador 5 Beijing, China 1 Nairobi, Kenya 3 Lima, Peru 6 Kyoto, Japan 2 Arusha, Tanzania 4 Cusco, Peru 3 Hoedspruit, South Africa 5 Puno, Peru SOUTH-EAST ASIA 4 Johannesburg, South Africa 6 Buenos Aires, Argentina 7 Yangon, Myanmar 5 Windhoek, Namibia 7 Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 8 Bangkok, Thailand AUSTRALASIA 9 Siem Reap, Cambodia 1 Broome EUROPE 10 Hanoi, Vietnam 2 Perth 1 Reykjavik, Iceland 11 Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 3 Darwin 2 Venice, Italy 12 Kota Kinabalu, Malaysia 4 Alice Springs 3 Budapest, Hungary 5 Adelaide 4 Riga, Latvia 6 Melbourne 5 St Petersburg, Russia 7 Hobart 6 Istanbul, Turkey 34 35 OUR PERFORMANCE CUSTOMER 126K In 2017, we carried almost 300,000 passengers on our passengers departed on tour operator brands – a 35% increase on 2016. Intrepid, Peregrine or Geckos trips in 2017 On top of this, we understand our customers better than ever, and are continually (2016 114K) looking for ways to improve the full customer journey (prior to trips, on trips and after trips). In 2017, we dialled up the customer research, particularly on the qualitative side, implementing face -o-face customer research and guerrilla testing. Beyond the insights this uncovered, these activities brought our office-based staff closer to the customer than ever before. Pleasingly, 26% of our customers were return customers in 2017, up from 23% in the 172K prior year. This equates to 17% growth in repeat passengers year-on-year. passengers departed on Whilst our passenger numbers have increased, our health and safety performance has Urban Adventures in 2017 remained at a consistently high level thanks to the performance of our DMC network and global product team. (2016 106K) Our highlight for 2017 was the performance of our Urban Adventures business. Not only did Urban Adventures carry 62.4% more passengers in 2017, it continued to drive 26% change within responsible tourism, taking out the Tourism Cares, Hearts of Travel Award for Best New Innovator in the field of Responsible Tourism. Not only do Urban Adventures customers receive the Best.Day.Ever, they also receive a sense of purpose and knowledge that booking with Urban Adventures means giving back to local return customer rate communities. (23% in 2016) UNDERSTANDING OUR CUSTOMER In 2017, we focused on better understanding our customers so that we could provide them with the best travel experience possible. To do this, we have conducted extensive research on our customer database to better understand their needs and wants. We have collected and analysed more than 50,000 pieces of feedback from customers around their overall experience, and throughout their entire customer journey. We have increased our User Experience team by 250%, a large investment in understanding our customers’ needs, but one that is already seeing results in our customer performance. In addition to customer feedback, we held 88 User Tests on three continents, resulting in 368 videos and 3,000 minutes of footage. We ran our second ever innovation and design sprint in our London office, utilising Google Sprint & Design thinking methodologies to solve real internal and external customer problems. These methods have since been utilised across the business. Patagonia, Argentina 36 37 OUR PERFORMANCE CUSTOMER WHAT OUR CUSTOMERS WHAT WE DO WITH CUSTOMER INSIGHTS ARE SAYING The customer insights gained in 2017 have been used to drive change both on trips, before trips and after trips to improve our whole customer journey. We have added new features to improve our customers before and after experiences, HHHHH including implementing live chat and enhanced pre-trip messaging as well as introducing new products based on feedback from passengers. Sri Lanka Real Food Adventure January 2018 IMPROVING THE ON-TRIP EXPERIENCE Marie Our overall customer trip experience score has increased to 4.71/5 (versus 4.70 in 2016). This is an internal metric created to assess our trips based on a number Intrepid are amazing, I had of measures, including tour leader rating, product rating and a number of other the most amazing time. Our contributing factors to a customer’s overall trip enjoyment. tour leader was beyond We introduced more than 130 exciting new itineraries to our product range in 2017, amazing and I will definitely including our first full range of cycling adventures and our inaugural Adventure be travelling with them again. Cruising departures. We remain devoted to ensuring our customers can travel to more destinations across the globe and experience the greatest places on offer. Our trip feedback forms the basis for improving itineraries and leader training. This HHHHH year, PEAK DMC ran more than 40 new and refresher leader training sessions around India Real Food Adventure the world. Incorporating both classroom and practical learnings, our leaders cover January 2018 topics as varied as safety, incident management, customer service, brand training and responsible travel. This resulted in improvements in Trip NPS & Overall Enjoyment Georgia scores from our customers for the Peregrine and Geckos brands; allowing us to maintain high scores year-on-year for our largest brand, Intrepid Travel. Going on an Intrepid tour is a great way to travel. You OUTLOOK are in a small group, which makes activities and places We believe that we are only scratching the surface when it comes to understanding easier to get to. our customers and how we collect and analyse insights from their feedback. In 2018, we’re continuing to evolve our customer-centric approach to incorporate touch points across the entire customer journey to ensure we’re delivering the best customer experience ever. Vietnam 38 39 5. GENDER 8. DECENT WORK AND 10. REDUCED OUR PERFORMANCE EQUALITY ECONOMIC GROWTH INEQUALITIES PEOPLE 81 eNPS Our fast-growing business in now truly global. In Overall Staff 2017, our focus was on building the capability of Engagement Score our managers and teams around the world and on embedding purpose into our business. In 2017, we took a number of steps to ensure we continue to live our vision, ‘to Change the Way People See the World’. Our increased focus on diversity and 42% inclusion resulted in a 2% shift in the gender diversity of employees and tour leaders Female employees for the Intrepid Group. worldwide MILESTONES IN 2017: (up from 40% in 2016) UNCONSCIOUS BIAS TRAINING As part of our diversity and inclusion focus, in 2017 we rolled out our Unconscious Bias Training to all staff. On top of this, our Global Leadership Team and senior leaders undertook an Unconscious Bias Workshop to deepen their understanding of conscious and unconscious thinking processes and how they impact judgements, decisions and 1,771 ultimately actions in the workplace. As a company, we are committed to understanding employees, and unpacking our biases, and by doing so, understanding how this contributes to better business results. contractors and freelancers worldwide WOMEN’S LEADERSHIP FORUM (1,548 in 2016) In 2017, the Intrepid Group made a business commitment to continue to focus on gender equality as part of a broader commitment to the UN Global Compact and its Sustainable Development Goals. As part of this commitment, and in order to unearth a new wave of potential female leaders across our business, the Intrepid Group held our inaugural Women’s Leadership Forum in Siem Reap, Cambodia in September 2017. Twelve future female leaders from across our global business were invited to attend a four-day conference hosted by our female Global Leadership Team members. The conference was a huge success, and has spawned a Global Mentoring Program to help grow and develop our future female leaders. FOCUS ON DIVERSITY In 2014, Intrepid had two female tour leaders in India. We recognised at the time that we needed to do more to drive change within the diversity of employees in India (Women still make up less than 30% of India’s workforce). We are proud to say that at the end of December 2017 we now have 22 female tour leaders in the region, more than any other travel company. We are also happy to report that 27% of our tour leaders worldwide are now female. Although there is still a long way to go, this is a remarkable feat in an industry that has for a long time been dominated by male employers, particularly in countries where female employment in the travel industry is not a cultural norm. India 40 41 5. GENDER 8. DECENT WORK AND 10. REDUCED OUR PERFORMANCE EQUALITY ECONOMIC GROWTH INEQUALITIES PEOPLE WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES At the end of 2017 we also become signatories to the UN Global Compact Women’s Empowerment Principles. As part of this, we will be taking steps to set up our places of work for the future so that we understand and are openly discussing the underlying causes of inequality. It means ensuring our policies and practices support both females and males to work safely and flexibly in a way that allows equal caring responsibilities and ensures that an individual’s development, career progression and opportunities are not disadvantaged by the life-stage choices they make. It means shifting our organisational culture towards outcomes-based working rather than counting hours spent at a desk. FOCUS ON FEMALES ZINA BENCHEIKH Zina was announced as the permanent General Manager of PEAK Marrakech in November 2017, after joining the business as a Finance Manager in 2010. Zina undertook our internal development opportunities, including our Building People Managers and Building Business Managers programs, and is a user of our online learning system, Degreed. BECY KIEHA Becy is the first and only overland truck driver in East Africa. Driven by ambition and the memory of her late father, she has overcome challenging cultural norms to become admired across the travel industry in East Africa, where she is now known as ‘Mamma Africa’. As a part of our ongoing commitment to driving gender balance, her video profile among other similar stories will be released mid 2018 in a bid to inspire others. WOMEN IN TRAVEL AWARDS To further highlight our performance in 2017, we are proud to say that we had eight employees nominated and two employees win awards at the Australian Women in Travel Awards. GM Global Communications, Gillian Monahan, was awarded the Public Relations of the Year award, while UX Manager, Gemma Sherwood, was awarded the Technology award. This was a great result, and a testament to our ability to build great leaders from within. Becy Kieha, East Africa 42 43 8. DECENT WORK AND 10. REDUCED OUR PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC GROWTH INEQUALITIES PEOPLE BUILDING ENGAGEMENT AND CAPABILITY OF EMPLOYEES & MANAGERS We see managers as having a significant impact on the lives of the people who report to them, and therefore believe it as important that managers actively work to ensure all staff are developing to their full potential. During 2017, we conducted our first Manager Essentials Survey in order to provide managers with structured feedback to help them grow. We had a high overall participation in the survey, with 79% of relevant staff completing the survey. Pleasingly, there was a positive response rate of 83% from staff members on their managers’ performance. Most importantly, our managers received structured feedback on what they can be doing better to improve their performance, and therefore the performance of the Intrepid Group. On top of this, we launched 7 Essential Superpowers of an Intrepid Group Manager and conducted 32 manager exchange sessions with 130 managers in 22 countries. During the year, we rolled out our global development programs, including Building Business Managers in our London and Melbourne offices, Building People Managers in our Toronto, Colombo and Melbourne offices and our Train-the-Trainer program for our DMC staff. We doubled the usage of our online learning hub, Degreed, over the last 12 months and added 35 new pathways for employees to continue to grow and develop. During the 2017 year, employees viewed more than 10,000 videos, articles, books, podcasts and courses. We also developed Global Onboarding Toolkits for managers and new starters to get the best introduction to the company. Overall, our team is more engaged than ever as measured by our ‘Your View Staff Engagement Survey’. Your View was rolled out to over 1,670 staff and leaders globally with 77% participation and an employee net promoter score (eNPS) of 81. WANDERLUST TOUR LEADER AWARDS To top off a great year for our people at Intrepid, in October 2017 it was announced that two of our fantastic tour leaders were awarded with the Gold and Bronze prizes at the 2017 Wanderlust World Guide Awards. Khalid Lamlih from Morocco took out the gold award whilst Dinesh KC from Nepal took out the bronze award. It was also confirmed that Intrepid Travel had more finalists than any other company in the history of the awards – proving once again that we have the best tour leaders in the business, a testament to our PEAK DMC teams’ efforts in hiring and training our leaders. OUTLOOK In 2018, we will continue to focus on embedding purpose and capability across the organisation. Plans for 2018 include the development and delivery of a complete diversity and inclusion strategy, the implementation of parental and carer support guidelines as well as an increased emphasis on developing and retaining our world-class talent through further development programs, engagement in our online learning platform and mobility guidelines. Dinesh KC, Nepal 44 45 8. DECENT WORK AND 10. REDUCED 12. RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION OUR PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC GROWTH INEQUALITIES AND PRODUCTION SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP 1-2-3 Our style of travel connects people. As we’ve grown to Initiative become the world’s largest adventure travel company, our potential social impact has grown too. That’s why In 2017, the Intrepid our relationships with our partners and communities Group Board approved an are at the heart of everything we do. innovative new financial model to ensure our shareholders continue Built on the principle that sustainable, grassroots travel can promote cross-cultural understanding, the Intrepid Group strives to be a company that fosters peaceful, just to fund The Intrepid and inclusive societies. Foundation well into We aim to treat all people impacted by our business with fairness and respect. We look the future. to reduce inequality and show support to local communities by spreading our business across a number of suppliers who operate in the destinations we visit and ensuring our business earnings are distributed in a way that is beneficial to the local economy. Our By 2020, 1% of global aim is to benefit our partners and communities while achieving the responsible and revenue, 2% of global time sustainable growth of the Intrepid Group. and 3% of the Intrepid Relationship with our Partners Group founders’ equity will be dedicated to purposeThe Intrepid Group engages with over 5,000 partners globally, including travel agents, hotels, tour operators and transportation providers. based initiatives. A purpose initiative is defined as any We add value to our travel agent partners through our strategic relationships and the trust created by continually providing a reliable and exceptional product. activity carried out by the business that will benefit the Our decision to engage local suppliers means we are helping to create employment and generate income for local communities. environment, communities, our customers or our staff. B Corp Progress Report B Corp aims to help businesses shift their focus beyond profit generation and maximising shareholder value to also being a force for good. B Corps are for-profit companies certified to meet the highest standards of social and environmental performance, accountability and transparency. The Intrepid Group continued its pursuit of B Corp certification in 2017, with all of our sales and marketing companies and destination management companies completing their assessments. At the end of 2017, the Intrepid Group’s five largest companies went through an initial review audit with the B Corp certification team. The reviews confirmed that we were answering the questions with a high level of due diligence, and provided us with a very clear understanding of how the company is tracking in our endeavour for certification. For certification to be achieved by the Intrepid Group, 23 companies must complete the audit where each company will be weighted and graded. The requirement for certification is to attain a minimum of 80 out of a potential 200 points. A dedicated team is focused on preparing the Intrepid Group’s application for submission by March 2018. 46 47 5. GENDER 8. DECENT WORK AND 17. PARTNERSHIPS OUR PERFORMANCE EQUALITY ECONOMIC GROWTH FOR THE GOALS SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP Volunteer Sustainable Tourism Hub (STH) in Myanmar Program The STH initiative has been established to promote the inclusion of locally 20 owned small-medium enterprises in Myanmar’s growing tourism industry. The STH in Myanmar has been formed as a result of a partnership between: • The Intrepid Group • AVI an Australian organisation that works with individuals, organisations and hours provided to communities in response to locally identified development priorities each staff member to • The Australian government’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) spend volunteering The partnership forms part of the Business Partnerships Platform (BPP) funding initiative of DFAT’s overseas aid program. The aim of the partnership is to provide sustainable, experience-rich travel (SERT) 25% products and services for the growing tourism market in Myanmar by providing training and business management support to individuals and Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). The STH focuses on providing these opportunities to people who would otherwise face By the end of 2018, significant barriers to participation in the tourism market in Myanmar, such as women, ethnic minorities and people with a disability. we aim to increase The STH also aims to contribute to the development of locally-based responsible tourism the number of by providing a platform that brings like-minded organisations and consumers together. global employees To maximise its sustainability, the STH uses a strengths-based approach by harnessing existing organisations and systems, rather than bringing in new programs, with tourism participating in our business training content from the International Labour Organization (ILO), market volunteer program research from the Myanmar Responsible Tourism Institute, business advice from Ernst & Young, local legal advice and banking services from Yoma Bank. by 25% A group of 30 individuals and SMEs participated in a 12-week business training program and from there, 10 business ideas were selected to progress into the next phase of the STH program in 2017. The business ideas that were selected ranged from: • the creation of bags and jewellery made from recycled materials • a tea shop which incorporates a demonstration of the traditional tea-making process in Myanmar • cooking classes that employ local women to teach tourists how to cook traditional home cooked meals With ongoing support and assistance from a dedicated STH business coach, all 10 participants have prepared viable business plans. These plans were reviewed by pro-bono partner Ernst & Young (EY) to ensure they comply with local regulations. The STH is currently supporting the participants to find suitable distribution and venues to run their businesses and are expected to be up and running by September 2018, in time for the peak tourism season in Myanmar. 48 49 8. DECENT WORK 10. REDUCED OUR PERFORMANCE AND ECONOMIC GROWTH INEQUALITIES SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP Urban Adventures ‘In Focus’ Tours In Focus tours are run in partnership with local NGOs, non-profits, and social enterprises, enabling travellers to assist in tackiing real local issues. The Urban Adventures (UA) brand of the Intrepid Group run day trips in more than 160 cities around the world, with the aim of providing customers with the Best.Day.Ever. UA tours bypass the tourist traps, and take travellers into local communities. They work with independent businesses and local entrepreneurs to ensure money stays within the local economy. In 2015, Urban Adventures launched In Focus, a range of one-day tours which run in partnership with local social enterprises and non-profits. To mark the United Nations International Year of Sustainable Tourism for Development in 2017, Urban Adventures dedicated the year to promoting these experiences to travellers, working to grow a range of tours from just a handful of experiences into 30 responsible tours benefitting 23 different local organisations, across 16 countries. In Focus tours are a two-way interaction between the project and traveller: the local project is financially supported without resorting to charity donations, the traveller gains insight into an important social problem and a solution is brought into focus. The experiences and projects vary, but they all bring travellers face-to-face with a local issue and a program designed to address that issue. In December 2017, the UA team received the 2017 New Innovator in Travel Philanthropy Award at Tourism Cares Hearts of Travels Awards in New York City, recognising the sustainable impact that In Focus tours have in the communities they operate in. In 2018, Urban Adventures will have a dedicated team member to grow the In Focus program, with the aim of doubling the number of organisations offering these experiences, and gaining new supporters to continue doing their great work. Some of our In Focus tours include: n ‘From Farm to Feast’ tour in Nairobi that works alongside One Horizon Africa to help rural women launch pig and chicken farming businesses • 100 women supported over 2 years • AUD $13,000 raised from In Focus tour sales and donations n ‘Outcast Bucharest’ tour that partners with Romania’s Parada Foundation to offer job training to homeless and at-risk youth • One guide employed in 2017, with a second starting in 2018 • AUD $3,100 raised from In Focus tour sales and donations 50 51 1. NO 10. REDUCED 16. PEACE, JUSTICE AND OUR PERFORMANCE POVERTY INEQUALITIES STRONG INSTITUTIONS SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP Child Protection The Intrepid Group actively supports best practice in child protection and works to ensure that children and their families are protected from harm. The term ‘child protection’ refers to preventing and responding to violence, exploitation and abuse against children. This includes commercial sexual exploitation, trafficking, child labour and harmful traditional practices. The Intrepid Group recognises that exposure to tourism has the capacity to increase the risk of harm to children, and understands its responsibility and obligation to do no harm in the places we visit. In 2016, we removed orphanage visits from all our trips and our Responsible Business Manager, Liz Manning, became a steering committee member of ReThink Orphanages, a cross-sector network that aims to prevent the unnecessary institutionalisation of children by shifting the way travellers and donors engage in overseas aid and development. In 2017, the Intrepid Group and child protection specialists from ReThink Orphanages hosted forums for travel industry partners in an effort to raise awareness of the impact of orphanage tourism and to help other businesses ethically transitioning away from residential care. With the assistance of a child protection consultant, we updated our child protection guidelines and created a set of tips for our travellers as part of our responsibility and obligation to protecting all children. New customised web-based training modules for staff have also been developed, as well as a more in-depth ‘Train the Trainers’ module to support our operations teams in-country. For more information please visit www.intrepidtravel.com/en/our-stance-child-protection MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT “An estimated 40.3 million people are victims of modern slavery across the world” The Walk Free Foundation. The Intrepid Group issued a Modern Slavery Statement in 2017 which outlines the steps taken to prevent acts of modern slavery and human trafficking from occurring in our business and supply chain. The Statement on Modern Slavery also outlines the ways in which we work to prevent, identify and mitigate incidences of modern slavery, which encompasses forced labour and wage exploitation, involuntary servitude, debt bondage, human trafficking, forced marriage and other forms of exploitation. As a vertically integrated business, our in-country offices or PEAK Destination Management Companies (PEAK DMC), operate the majority of our tour itineraries. This enables us to manage our own operations and have greater oversight of the supply chain, as well as identify and mitigate risk areas of modern slavery and trafficking within the business. The Intrepid Group’s statement is currently compliant with section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act in the UK, however in 2017 the Australian Government moved to create new legislation that would look to prevent, identify and put an end to all forms of modern slavery in Australia. There was a Parliamentary Inquiry in Melbourne in August 2017, which if passed, will mean Australian companies will be forced to scrutinise their supply chains globally and make sure they are not complicit in forced labour or human trafficking. The Intrepid Group attended the Parliamentary Inquiry, where fellow members of the ReThink Orphanages steering committee provided testimonies at the Parliamentary Inquiry, to encourage the government to consider orphanage tourism and all forms of institutionalisation of kids as a form of modern slavery. If this legislation passes, Australia would be the first country to consider orphanage tourism and residential care as a form of modern slavery. 52 53 13. CLIMATE OUR PERFORMANCE ACTION ENVIRONMENT Protecting the environment by using resources in an efficient, fair and responsible way is paramount to ensuring future generations have a habitable planet to live in. All Intrepid Group trips are designed to limit physical and environmental impacts in order to preserve destinations for generations to come. Climate Change and Travel In July 2017, Al Gore released the follow-on documentary, An Inconvenient Sequel, and cofounder, Darrell Wade, joined Al Gore at a preview screening of the film followed by a Q&A panel discussing the progress that the world has made in grappling with climate change in the last decade. While the film showed that the world has made great progress in many ways, there is still an inconvenient – and urgent – reality facing today’s travellers. The act of travelling is a significant source of carbon emissions and that is a problem that the travel industry must face up to. The travel industry now makes up over 10% of global GDP, and is one of the fastest growing industries in the world. There are more planes in the sky and hotels on the ground then ever – both emitting large quantities of carbon. The UN may have made 2017 the International Year of Sustainable Tourism for Development but even now, there are no industry-wide plans to reduce carbon emissions. The irony is if we don’t take action, there will be no travel. There will be no reefs, no ski fields, no beaches and many of the world’s cities will be under water. A decade ago, the Intrepid Group realised that, although we were operating responsibly, we are part of an industry in which few businesses have made efforts to minimise their environmental footprint. The Intrepid Group strongly believes that travel can be a force for good in the world. We believe that travellers should expect more of the businesses they support. People are travelling more than ever, and while it is now common to pack resuable drink bottles and shopping bags, few offset their flights, which are often their trip’s largest source of carbon emissions. Al Gore’s An Inconvenient Sequel has had a big impact on us as a company. It shows how real progress can and has come from the grassroots and individuals, but also how important it is that businesses take responsibility for their environmental impact (see Enviro infographic page). Darrell Wade with Al Gore 54 55 11. SUSTAINABLE CITIES 13. CLIMATE OUR PERFORMANCE & COMMUNITIES ACTION ENVIRONMENT 2. REDUCE The Intrepid Group are committed to protecting our planet, and that’s why Encouraging our Using public transport Introducing efficiency travellers use refillable on our trips to reduce measures, including energy we follow the Measure – Reduce – Offset carbon management principles to drink bottles. fuel use per passenger. efficient light bulbs and manage the environmental footprint of our trips and offices around the world. Skype conferencing. Recycling waste in Minimising the number Conserving water use 1. MEASURE our offices around of flights included in in our offices and on the world. trips. our trips. We measure and offset the main sources of passenger emissions created on our trips from transport, accommodation and waste by our passengers. When it comes to our offices, we measure emissions from electricity, gas, waste, business travel and water. 3. OFFSET Investment in renewable energy projects such as: OFFICE EMISSIONS SOURCES GLOBALLY OFFICE EMISSIONS (TONNES CO2-E PER FTE) Waste Electricity 20.00 Company Vehicles 2017 2016 Marketing paper 15.00 Flights Office Paper 10.00 Gas 5.00 0.00 Australia/NZ Sth-East Asia Sth & Cen Asia Middle East Africa Europe Nth America Sth & Cen America 0 INTREPID GROUP CARBON EMISSIONS (TONNES CO2-E) WIND POWER PROJECT SOLAR FARM PROJECT WIND POWER PROJECT 45,000 42,039 42,466 Rajasthan, India Bambous, Mauritius Three locations across Mexico 40,000 37,645 36,471 TRIP EMISSIONS (TONNES CO2-E PER PAX) n Located in one of the most arid n Supporting technology transfer, n Generating clean energy from 35,000 districts in India, this project energy transition, and the first renewable wind sources, this 1.40 30,000 plays an important role in ever solar farm in Mauritius. project replaces the energy that 2017 2016 25,000 1.20 reducing CO2 emissions and would have been generated from 20,000 1.00 contributing to the economic n Additional benefits of the grid connected power plants, 15,000 0.80 growth of the area. project: predominately based on fossil fuels. 10,000 0.60 • 20 local jobs created 5,000 n Additional benefits of the project: n Additional benefits of the project: 0 0.40 • 220,000 tonnes of CO2 avoided 2014 2015 2016 2017 • 2 water storage tanks installed in • 50 graduates of the small wind 0.20 the community H VERIFIED STANDARD (VCS) H turbine design and production Office Emissions Trip Emissions 0.00 • 3 water filtration systems course Australia/NZ Sth-East Asia Sth & Cen Asia Middle East Africa Europe Nth America Sth & Cen America Antarctica 0 installed for public use • 152.8 hectares of reforestation in the communities of the Itsmo H GOLD STANDARD H region H VERIFIED STANDARD (VCS) H 56 56 57 1. NO 10. REDUCED 11. SUSTAINABLE CITIES OUR PERFORMANCE POVERTY INEQUALITIES & COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT PROJECT IN PUNO, PERU Improved homes for communities in remote Peru In 2016, Intrepid Group’s North America team launched the Travel for Good campaign, an initiative designed to give back to the communities we visit. For every trip purchased from within the US and Canada over a three-week period, the Intrepid In 2017, PEAK DMC Peru achieved Group donated 10% of the cost to partners of The Intrepid Foundation, raising more Rainforest Alliance certification that than AUD $200,000. certifies them as the best-scoring In 2017, these funds were distributed to four partners, including Kusimayo – an Sustainable Tour Operator in Peru organisation in Peru that improves the living conditions for children and adults affected by poverty and malnutrition in one of Peru’s poorest regions, the high plains of Puno. Located in south-eastern Peru, Puno is situated at 3,830 metres above sea level. Because of its elevation, it experiences extreme weather conditions, with an average annual temperature of around 8 degrees Celsius. The region’s economy is based on agriculture and farming, and many communities in the region struggle with poverty. The funds raised from the Travel for Good campaign went towards improving the houses and lives of 27 families living in the San Roque village in Puno. Solar heating and insulation was installed in each home as well a new, healthier kitchens. With year-round cold temperatures, many families traditionally cook over open flames, which has resulted in high levels of lung disease. The new kitchens have chimneys which increase the efficiency of the stoves, while also ensuring smoke-free homes. The combined efforts of this project mean that 27 families will now be able to live comfortably and safely in their homes, proving that having a purpose beyond profit really does change, and sometimes even saves, people’s lives and the impact they have on the environment. OUR 2020 CARBON GOAL By the end of 2020 we aim to lighten our overall global environmental footprint and reduce Intrepid Group’s carbon emissions per full time employee in our offices by 5%, n 5% reduction in energy use per full-time employee globally n 5% reduction in water consumption per full-time employee globally n 5% reduction in staff flights per full-time employee globally 58 59 OUR STRATEGY Our 2020 strategic plan was developed in 2016, after the Intrepid Group returned to independent ownership. It aims to deliver on our vision to Change the Way People see the World. Machu Picchu, Peru 60 60 61 OUR STRATEGY RIGHT PRODUCT TO THE RIGHT MARKET RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 2020 PLAN Right product, in the right market, at the right Global leader in sustainable travel time, to the right customer • B Corp certification (in progress) • Partnerships (public & private sectors) CHANGING THE WAY PEOPLE SEE THE WORLD • Powerful brands with a clear purpose and • Create shared value place customer led Our 2020 strategic plan revolves around our mantra of growth with purpose and was • Increase the value of our brands established in 2016 after our split from the TUI Group. The initial 2016 objective was about • Brand owners within organisational structure creating a sustainable and profitable business, and all objectives are aimed at achieving our overarching purpose of Changing the Way People See the World. There are six strategic pillars of our 2020 Strategic Plan: n Responsible Business DIGITAL MINDSET n Digital Mindset ES ER-FOCU OM SE Every employee chooses digital methods to ST E PRINCI n Leveraged DMC COR CU D transform our business n Flexible Independent Travel (FIT) PL SUSTAINABLE • Digital is at the forefront in everything we do n Be Better • Convenience EXPERIENCE US n Right Product to the Right Market • Agile business environment RICH TRAVEL E FOC • Maximise our technology Intrepid Group will meet the demands of a broad customer base and attract new people IN PL VES • Understand our customers TIN PE O to our style of travel by delivering outstanding sustainable, experience-rich travel (SERT) products through a multi-brand, multi-distribution, multi-region platform. GI N O UR Through our DMC network we are uniquely positioned to control the quality of product and LEVERAGE DMC customer service provided to our clients, and expand our distribution base into Flexible Our DMC network is our competitive advantage Independent Travel. • Expansion: Number of DMCs and capabilities With a digital mindset at the heart of our organisation, and a continual aim to Be Better, we • External 3rd party sales growth are committed to being the global leader in responsible travel. • Create competitive cost advantages across BE BETTER the network An Agile Intrepid Group FIT • Reset of business model metrics Exploit the FIT market opportunity • Develop business capabilities to offer FIT product range in a timely, efficient and competitive way • Multi sales channel approach • Intrepid “Tailor Made” pilot 62 63 OUR STRATEGY 2020 PLAN Growing with purpose needs a plan. This is how we will grow the market for sustainable, experience-rich travel and have purpose beyond profit. BE BETTER RIGHT PRODUCT TO THE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS LEVERAGED DMC FLEXIBLE INDEPENDENT TRAVEL DIGITAL MINDSET RIGHT MARKET In a rapidly evolving world we need to We are a multi-brand, multiWe are a global leader in Our DMC network is what sets us Attract a new market of travellers A digital mindset is not about be a flexible business. market and multi-distribution sustainable travel and are apart from the rest of the industry. by offering alternative product using technology alone but channel business. We need to committed to being a leader in choices through Flexible being to able understand This agility will keep us competitive, address the current mixed levels responsible business. Vertical integration allows us to Independent Travel. the power of technology to create opportunities for our people of performance within our multicontrol the customer experience and democratise, scale and speed STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES and lead to new experiences and brand portfolio. Our responsible business product delivery on the ground whilst We will exploit the FIT market up every interaction we have. improved service for our customers. strategy underpins our belief the compliance and safety record of opportunity by leveraging our We need to ensure that there that businesses need to have our DMC network ensures ongoing existing audience and DMC We want to instil a digital We will do this by designing and is an appropriate level of a purpose beyond profit to viability. network to grow revenue. mindset into all employees to delivering initiatives that reduce costs investment in each brand and increase the long-term value of ensure our customers have the and increase productivity, including sales region to ensure consistent our business and the impact for The next step with our DMC network best experience possible. speeding up decision-making and growth. We need to ensure that our shareholders, employees, is to grow the number of third party encouraging innovation. we are continually developing customers and the communities trips run by the network by leveraging Having a digital mindset will new and exciting products to we visit. our expertise and experience whilst enable us to engage our staff, The result will be a smarter, more agile, also expanding the products offered build capacity, maximise our meet customer demands. sustainable business that will be a by the DMCs. use of technology and deliver better place to work. growth and purpose beyond profit. • 1.9% growth in EBIT. • 7.9% growth in APAC Region • Significant progress made • 3 new DMCs established in Japan, • Acquisition of 50% of Chimu • Salesforce implemented towards B Corp certification. Iceland and Central America. Adventures, an expert in Tailor across all pillars of our • 6.96% increase in our cash position at • 25.7% growth in EMEA Region If achieved we will be the Made Travel. business, allowing us to offer a the end of the year. (at like-for-like exchange rates) largest B-Corp certified travel • 20% increase in externally generated greater customer experience. 2017 OUTCOMES DMC sales. 2017 OUTCOMES organisation • All three Salesforce clouds introduced • 30.9% growth in NA region • New offices in Melbourne and (sales, service & marketing) to (at like-for-like exchange rates) • $710k donated by Intrepid Group • 4.73 feedback score for DMC operated London to facilitate a culture improve efficiencies across all pillars to the Intrepid Foundation Intrepid Group trips (versus 4.57 for of collaborative thinking of the business. • Adventure Cruising introduced non-DMC operated trips). amongst staff. during 2017 ($997k raised by the with 94% trip fill in 2017. foundation overall). • New technology selected and • More than 130 exciting new implementation commenced to • Announcement of our itineraries added to our improve efficiency within DMC commitment to our 1-2-3 initiative product range. network. and for this to be in place by 2020. • Double-digit growth in DMC• Internal software developed and • Improved efficiency, including 2018 OBJECTIVES • Employee share scheme to be • Sales growth across all brands • 0.75% of net revenue to be spent 2018 OBJECTIVES generated external sales. in-use to enable scaling of the continual decrease in introduced to increase employee and sales regions. on purpose-based activities. FIT product through our DMC overheads as a percentage alignment with company vision. • 22 Peregrine exclusive • The Intrepid Foundation network. of TTV. adventure cruising departures • Integrated reporting to be introduced donations raised of $1m. in 2018. • Additional training for DMC to improve transparency across the • 25% increase in staff network to facilitate FIT product business and with our partners and volunteer time. offerings. broader community. Link to Capitals Link to Capitals 64 65 OUR GOVERNANCE Our Board and Global Leadership Team are committed to strong corporate governance and management of internal and external risks faced by the business. 66 66 67 GOVERNANCE OUR BOARD The Intrepid Group business is governed by the Intrepid Group Board, who have been appointed by shareholders. The Intrepid Group Board meets quarterly and is responsible for governance, as well as setting the strategy and overall direction of the business. The Board sets the culture and tone of the Group, living and endorsing the six values of Intrepid: Integrity, Responsibility, Fun, Innovation, Growth and Passion. The day-to-day management of the Intrepid Group is the responsibility of the company’s CEO and the Global Leadership Team. The Board takes their responsibility very seriously, and all members of the board attended all four board meetings during the year. No changes were made to the composition of the Board during the December 2017 financial year. INTRODUCING OUR BOARD MEMBERS (pictured left to right) GEOFF MANCHESTER Geoff Manchester is the co-founder of Intrepid Travel and Director of the Intrepid Group. Globally recognised as a responsible travel pioneer, “Manch” has ensured Intrepid delivers on its sustainable and responsible travel ethos as the company has grown. Integral to the creation of the Intrepid Foundation, Manch has championed the not-for-profit since its inception in 2002. From humble beginnings, the Foundation has raised more than $6 million for more than 100 conservation and community projects around the globe, supporting initiatives in environmental conservation, wildlife protection, human rights, health care, child welfare and gender equality. An ambassador for Conscious Capitalism Australia and a regular speaker on sustainable business issues in Australia and around the world, Manch is spearheading the Intrepid Group’s efforts to become a B Corp. DARRELL WADE Darrell Wade is the co-founder of Intrepid Travel and Executive Chair of the Intrepid Group. During the course of his career, Darrell has been recognised as a leader in entrepreneurship and as a passionate advocate for sustainable tourism. Leading Intrepid’s climate management program, the company realised its goal of becoming carbon neutral in 2010. Darrell was also one of the first Australians to complete Climate Project training with the Hon Mr Al Gore. Darrell’s achievements include winning the NAB SmartCompany Award, and being named the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year in 2002. Darrell is a board member of Melbournebased social enterprise Good Cycles, a mentor for the University of Melbourne’s entrepreneurship program, and member of the Executive Committee of the World Travel and Tourism Council. A dynamic leader and natural communicator, Darrell’s enthusiasm for and dedication to sustainable adventure travel continues to grow after decades in the industry. JAMES THORNTON James Thornton is the Chief Executive Officer of the Intrepid Group. Hailing from the UK, James began his career in the lucrative field of investment management before making a career change to join Intrepid Travel’s UK office as Sales & Marketing Coordinator. Over the past 13 years James has made an impact on the business in a variety of senior roles including UK & Europe Regional Director, General Manager Global Sales, and Managing Director of Intrepid Group. Focussing on the dual objectives of growing the market for sustainable, experience-rich travel and operating a company that has a purpose beyond profit, James has been instrumental in the growth of the Intrepid Group. James is a member of the Young President’s Organisation and the Australian Institute of Company Directors. 68 69 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board, and its sub-committees, are dedicated to ensuring the open and honest operation of the Intrepid Group at every level of the business. The Intrepid Group adheres to the ASX Corporate Governance Principles: 2 6 Principle 1 Principle 5 Lay solid foundation for Make timely and balanced disclosure management and oversight Principle 6 Principle 2 Respect the right of members Structure the Board to add Value 1 3 4 5 7 Principle 7 Principle 3 Recognise and manage risk Act ethically and responsibly Principle 8 Principle 4 Remunerate fairly and responsibly Safeguard integrity in company reporting The Board has delegated authority to the Risk and Audit Committee to oversee the following areas: financial management (including the external audit process), compliance and risk management and health and safety. The Committee meets quarterly and the Chair of the Committee reports back to the Board after each meeting. No changes were made to the composition of the Risk and Audit Committee during the December 2017 financial year. The Global Leadership Team (GLT) is chaired by the CEO and is comprises of the members of the Board and the heads of the departments and regions. The GLT meet quarterly, and are charged with implementing the strategies set by the Board and overseeing the management of the company. The GLT is also responsible for relaying the culture, tone and initiatives from the Board to the business. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS Across the year, a number of milestones were achieved by the Board and committees: n Setting the 1-2-3 purpose beyond profit model n Tracking progress against our 2020 strategy n Commencing the planning for our 2025 strategic plan, taking the company beyond the current 2020 plan n Developing a road map to expand and diversify the Board and Management of the Group 2018 AND BEYOND INTRODUCING OUR 2018 CORE STRATEGY TEAM 2018 saw the introduction of a new management sub-committee. The Core Strategy Team (CST) is made up of the senior members of the GLT and has the mandate of creating, 1 Chief Growth 2 Chief Purpose 3 Chief Information 4 CEO 5 Managing 6 Group Commercial 7 Group Finance Officer Officer Officer James Director, PEAK DMC Director Director monitoring and managing the annual business plan, budget, and goal-setting process across Michael Edwards Leigh Barnes Michelle Beveridge Thornton Natalie Kidd Tom Beadle Darshika Jones the entire Group. The CST will be responsible for the active management of the business. The GLT has been expanded to include representatives from key business segments and TOTAL MEMBERS MALE FEMALE DIVERSITY divisions as well as department heads. The GLT will act as a wider steering committee, charged with providing input and insight into strategic goals and projects. Board of Directors 3 3 0 0% The Intrepid Group believes in diversity amongst staff and strives to have diversity at all Core Strategy Team (non-Board) 6 3 3 50% levels of the organisation, including with senior management. We recognise that currently there is no diversity in the Board of Directors, and the board Global Leadership Team 12 6 6 50% structure of the Intrepid Group will be reviewed again in 2019 with the aim of increasing the (non board and CST) diversity of the members on the Board. 70 71 GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT Effective risk management is essential to achieving our vision to Change The Way People See The World. As a multi-brand business operating globally across a number of countries and cultures, we are exposed to a number of business risks that may materially impact on our ongoing business success. OUR APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT Intrepid Group has a multi-layered approach to the identification, management and mitigation of external and operational risks. Risk Governance is led by the Intrepid Group Board, who actively participate in the ‘top-down’ identification, assessment and acceptance of strategic risk. The Risk and Audit Committee have been appointed by the Board to oversee the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems across the organisation, while our leadership teams manage our business risks at an operational level. On top of this, the Intrepid Group has three lines of defence against risk. All three lines help to ensure that our business risks are mitigated. The first line of defence is the management team themselves, who promote a culture of risk awareness, control focus and ‘doing the right thing’ within the business. They have assigned nominated risk champions within business units to promote and implement risk management. The second line of defence is the group functions which are set up specifically to identify opportunities to further mitigate common Group-wide risk and set required control standards; communicating and reporting these to the wider business. The third line is independent assurance by way of external auditors. They provide independent and objective assessment of the effectiveness of risk management, operational controls and governance processes. They also provide guidance to management on risk and control through ad-hoc consulting as required STRATEGIC INTREPID GROUP AUDIT & RISK GOVERNANCE BOARD COMMITTEE OPERATIONAL GLT GOVERNANCE 1ST LINE MANAGEMENT OF DEFENCE Department Heads DMC GMs 2ND LINE GROUP FUNCTIONS OF DEFENCE Group Tech Services DMC Global Compliance Global 3RD LINE INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE OF DEFENCE External Auditors (Deloitte) Mekong Delta, Vietnam 72 73 GOVERNANCE OUR MATERIAL RISKS The Intrepid Group has identified the key risks to our stakeholders and our ongoing business success, as well as potential consequences if these risks are not addressed. This plan outlines what we are doing to mitigate each of our material risks. RISKS DETAILS CONSEQUENCE MITIGATING MEASURES LINK TO CAPITAL On trip safety Provision of travel includes potential risks to The risk of injury or trauma to customers, Intrepid Group Health and Safety Policy embedded into all parts of the business, both brand and DMC. safety for both customers and employees. including possible death, potentially Regular assessment of on-ground adherence of our Health and Safety policy via traveller reviews, leading to law suits, fines and penalties, leaders’ Trip Reports and Trip Safety Assessments. as well as significant reputational damage. Development and implementation of a Global Incident Management Plan which ensures any incident is dealt with in a timely and professional manner to mitigate any further damage to passengers or the business. Comprehensive insurance in place for the Group. All leaders and guides receive regular and comprehensive health and safety training. Maximise use of in-house DMC network where we have more direct control over quality assurance. Major Global Incident Intrepid Group and its passengers are The risk of a significant operational exposed to the inherent risk of domestic and/ disruption in our source markets and All trips are run in accordance with the travel advice issued by the Australian Department of Foreign or international incidents affecting some of destinations caused by a major global Affairs, with reference also made to the governmental travel guidance from other key source markets. the countries that we operate in, including incident in a country we operate in Our business model is based on having a balanced destination mix to minimise concentration risk. terrorism and natural disasters. leading to significant losses, a general decline in customer demand and We minimise the impact of any negative events in our source markets and destinations, should they increases in our insurance premiums. occur, by ensuring the effective execution of our incident management plans. The business is debt-free, and maintains a healthy level of free cash which allows it to absorb temporary shocks to its cash reserves resulting from regionalised destabilisation. Our DMC network has a strong relationship with local tourism bodies, travel and aviation associations and actively monitors the political situation in volatile destinations. Digital Transformation Inability to, or poor implementation of, Digital Inefficiencies is systems leading to the Implementation of Agile project management practices enable the projects and the wider business to Mindset strategy leading to us falling behind increased cost of acquisition and the react to changing circumstances to ensure we are working towards up-to-date goals. the marketplace. increased cost of doing business, as well as missed opportunities to expand, grow Continuing to execute our online driven strategy and the customer journey. Strategy is reviewed as part and improve. of the ongoing goals alignment process. Talent Management The Group's success depends on its ability Increased cost to the business to recruit We have ensured succession and development plans are in place for all identified business-critical roles. to retain key management and remain and onboard talent into key roles. competitive within the market. We run a suite of internal management development programs and invest in a mix of internal and external training to ensure our people have the right skills. We undertake a range of activities to build culture and increase engagement. We progressively grow the employment offering by increasing salary ranges, incentives and benefits within the affordability of the business. Economic Environment Spending on travel and tourism is discretionary An inability to react to changes in the Close monitoring and actioning of critical KPI’s (passenger numbers, trip fill, average selling price etc.). and price sensitive. The economic outlook market leading to the misallocation remains uncertain with different source of resources and an inability to meet Active management of, and investment in, resources for our yield management systems to ensure markets at different points in the recovery customer demand. flexibility and resilience in our business model. This will ensure that trip fill is maximised and capacity is cycle. Consumers are also waiting longer aligned closely to forecasts in order to protect margins and profit growth. to book their trips in order to assess their Maintaining a healthy free cash position to absorb any temporary shocks. financial situation. Continuing to ensure we have a diversified customer base and that we are targeting the growing sectors of the industry. Aim to obtain number one position in each market. Management has ability to adjust cost structure in response to changing market conditions. Myanmar 74 74 75 POLICIES AND GUIDELINES Responsible Travel Policy Supplier Code of Conduct Prevention of Discrimination, Bullying Global Human Rights Policy Prevention of Bribery & Corruption Volunteering policy Intrepid Group supports the 2030 PEAK DMC, as part of the Intrepid and Harassment in the Workplace The aim of this policy is to formalise our Intrepid Group is committed to carrying The Intrepid Group offers all staff the Sustainable Development Goals. The five Group, is committed to sustainable, This policy confirms the Intrepid Group’s commitment to protect human rights on business fairly, openly and honestly. option to spend up to 20 hours per principles (Respect, Support, Preserve, ethical business practices that obey stance that we do not condone any form within our sphere of influence and We inherently oppose bribery and calendar year volunteering for a charity Protect and Give Back) mentioned applicable laws, conventions and of discrimination, bullying or harassment ensure that all our people including corruption. We recognise that these of their choice, receiving paid leave in the policy outline our approach regulations. in the workplace, and will act to stamp our staff, passengers, suppliers and inappropriate ways of doing business for this time. The volunteering time is to embedding sustainable practices out any such behaviour reported to local communities, as well as other are a cause of hardship and crime in designed to benefit local communities throughout our operations. Carbon Management Program Management or Human Resources. stakeholders who are impacted by our several countries in which we operate. as well as our staff, and support our Intrepid Travel achieved carbon neutral business are treated with fairness and Laws in a number of countries hold our purpose beyond profit. Responsible Travel Guidelines status in late 2010. Each year, the Intrepid Animal Welfare Guidelines respect. companies, our staff and our suppliers These detailed guidelines are a part of Group measures and offsets its main We actively discourage the participation accountable for preventing bribery and Incident Management Plan our “Intrepid Group Responsible Travel sources of carbon emissions: those from of Intrepid Group passengers in OH&S policy for Australia corruption anywhere in the world in PEAK DMC and our other brands rely on Kit” and are designed to support our our trips and our offices around the world. activities that exploit animals, whether Intrepid Group recognises its moral and which we do business. its integrated Incident Management Plan global Intrepid Group Responsible Travel they be wild, domestic or working. legal responsibilities under Occupational to respond to any incidents, including Policy. They also act as a practical guide Flexible Working Policy Health and Safety (OH&S) legislation Code of Conduct natural disasters, crime and terrorism, for PEAK destination management We will endeavour to assist all Internship Guidelines to provide a safe and healthy work The Code is intended to assist in accidental injury and passenger health companies (DMCs) and third party employees to achieve their personal, The Intrepid Group wishes to provide environment. The Global Leadership overcoming ethical and legal challenges concerns. The IMP ensures the best operators when conducting Intrepid professional or family goals by opportunities to those seeking Team is accountable for ensuring local in day-to-day working life, and to possible response and care when Group brand leader training and as facilitating flexibility (where possible) in experience in our workplace; providing workplace health and safety standards provide a basis for dealing with conflict. unexpected incidents occur. guidance for DMC operations managers. their work arrangements. those opportunities in a fair and are met. equitable way. Global Study Support Policy Health and Safety To support the continued learning Our in-depth Health and Safety plan Privacy Policy NEW OR UPDATED POLICIES IN 2017 and development of Intrepid Group identifies the risks associated with This policy sets out the types of employees through study opportunities travelling, and details the steps taken to personal information we receive Business gifts policy Fraud policy purchasing decisions we make have a that enhance the capability of the assess and proactively respond to risks. and collect when customers use our The company policy on the receipt The company policy on fraud was real impact, not only on our business, company and promote personal growth While there are inherent risks in travelling, services, how we collect it, and what we of business gifts was established to established to facilitate the development but the environment and communities responsibilities. our health and safety policy is designed to do with it, as well as some of the steps provide guidance to staff as to what is of controls that will aid in the prevention, in which we operate. The aim of this ensure adequate assessment of itineraries we take to safeguard information. an appropriate business gift, and what detection, investigation and subsequent purchasing policy is to ensure that these Porter Policy and activities to support not only is inappropriate. Accepting excessive or prosecution of fraud against the Intrepid impacts are positive, while serving the The Intrepid Group believes in enjoyable but safe travel experiences. E-Waste Disposal Guidelines operational needs of the business. This expensive gifts could be viewed as an Group. responsible travel and is committed to This guideline outlines the process attempt to influence business decisionpolicy was updated in 2017 to include: ensuring respectful and fair working around the management of making. To maintain integrity (both Purchasing Policy • Virtual office guidelines conditions for all trekking porters. e-waste disposal to ensure data actual and perceived) certain gifts must Every year, the Intrepid Group spends • Global offices responsible protection and the minimisation of be politely declined. a substantial sum of money purchasing purchasing policy harm from potential environmental goods and services. With this purchasing and public health impacts. • Significant supplier code of conduct power comes responsibilities. The 76 77 OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The accompanying summary of financial statements, which comprises a summarised profit and loss statement and summarised balance sheet, have been derived from the audited financial statement of the Intrepid Group. 78 78 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIALS DIRECTORS DECLARATION SUMMARISED STATEMENT OF PROFIT & LOSS For the year ended 31 December 2017 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 In the opinion of the Directors of Intrepid Group Limited: (a) There are reasonable grounds to believe that the company will be able to pay its debts as and when they 2017 2016 become due and payable; $(‘000) $(‘000) REVENUE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 275,780 245,260 (b) The summary financial report has been derived from and is consistent with the full financial statements for the financial period ended 31 December 2017; Cost of sales (189,487) (167,344) Overheads (76,657) (70,312) (c) The full financial statements and notes thereto are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 and: Other income 1,468 6,461* (i) comply with Accounting Standards, and other mandatory professional reporting requirements; Share of net profit of associates and joint ventures 89 493 (ii) give a true and fair view of the financial position and performance of the Company for the 12-month financial PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAX 11,193 14,558 period to 31 December 2017. Income tax (expense)/benefit (4,088) (4,808) PROFIT/(LOSS) AFTER INCOME TAX 7,105 9,750 * Other income in 2016 included a one-off lease break incentive. Signed in accordance with a resolution of the Directors SUMMARISED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2017 2016 Mr Darrell Wade $(‘000) $(‘000) Executive Chair and Director of Intrepid Group Limited Current Assets 86,366 84,045 Melbourne, 27 March 2018 Non-Current Assets 77,261 74,969 TOTAL ASSETS 163,627 159,014 Current Liabilities 83,783 77,078 Non-Current Liabilities 3,535 3,252 TOTAL LIABILITIES 87,318 80,330 NET ASSETS 76,309 78,684 TOTAL EQUITY** 76,309 78,684 ** Total equity was impacted by a dividend paid to shareholders in 2017 and movements in our other reserves. The Intrepid Foundation is a separate reporting entity and is not included in the financial results of the Intrepid Group 80 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu ABN 74 490 121 060 550 Bourke Street Melbourne VIC 3000 GPO Box 78 Melbourne VIC 3001 Australia DX: 111 Tel: +61 (0) 3 9671 7000 Fax: +61 (0) 3 9671 7001 www.deloitte.com.au Report of the Independent Auditor on the Summarised Financial Information to the members of Intrepid Group Limited Opinion The Summarised Financial Information, which comprise the Summarised Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2017 and the Summarised Statement of Profit and Loss for the year then ended, are derived from the audited financial report of Intrepid Group Limited for the year ended 31 December 2017. In our opinion, the accompanying statements are consistent, in all material respects, with the audited financial report. Summarised Financial Information The Summary Financial Information do not contain all the disclosures required by the Australian Accounting Standards. Reading the Summarised Financial Information and the auditor’s report thereon, therefore, is not a substitute for reading the audited financial report and the auditor’s report thereon. The Summarised Financial Information and the audited financial report do not reflect the effects of events that occurred subsequent to the date of our report on the audited financial report. The Audited Financial Report and Our Report Thereon We expressed an unmodified audit opinion on the audited financial report in our report dated 27 March 2018. Responsibilities of the Directors for the Summarised Financial Information The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Summary Financial Information. Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on whether the summary financial statements are consistent, in all material respects, with the audited financial report based on our procedures, which were conducted in accordance with Auditing Standard ASA 810 Engagements to Report on Summary Financial Statements. DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU Craig Bryan Partner Chartered Accountants Melbourne, 29 March 2018 Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited 82 83 84 85 Intrepid Group supports the United Nations Global Compact & Principles Global Head Office Level 7, 567 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC, Australia, 3000 1300 854 500 or +61 3 8594 3903 enquiries@intrepidgroup.travel www.intrepidgroup.travel
