FIN NLAY (INTER RNATIO ONAL) LIMITE ED Countryy: Bangladeesh Time Peeriod:1/20117-1/2018 Self asssessment 9 Inclludes an exxplicit statem ment of conntinued sup pport for thee UN Global Compactt and its ten principles 9 Desscription of actions or relevant r pollicies related d to Humann Rights 9 Desscription of actions or relevant r pollicies related d to Labor 9 Desscription of actions or relevant r pollicies related d to Environnment 9 Desscription of actions or relevant r pollicies related d to Anti-Coorruption 9 Inclludes a meaasurement of outcome. Statemeent of continnued supporrt by the Chhief Executivve Officer Januaryy 11, 2018 United Nations Gloobal Compaact United Nations Executiive Office of o the Secrettary Generaal N.Y. 100017 Dear Siirs, Commu unication on o Progresss Statemment of Continued Sup pport We do hereby exppress our firm fi commiitment in th he ten Princciples of G Global Com mpact for advanciing collective goal of o internatiional coopeeration, peace and ddevelopmentt. As a responssible partneer we endeeavor to upholdu the ten princiiples of G Global Com mpact in conductting our bussiness. In this annual a com mmunicationn of Progresss we descriibe our actioons to contiinually improve the integrattion of Globbal Compacct and its prrinciples in our businesss strategiess and operattion. We also commmit to shaare this inforrmation witth our stakeholders. We havve been actively suppporting the Global Compact objectives by participaating in importaant events UN U Global Compact. C Yours truly, t A.Q.I.CChowdhury,, OBE Managiing Directorr & CEO Finlay F Housee (1st Floor), 11 Agrabad Commercial a Area, Chitttagong41000, Bangladesh Phonee: 880-31-716321-5, Faxx: 880-31-710 0006, e-mail: ceo@jfbdlttd.com FINLAY (INTERNATIONAL) LIMITED Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Finlay (International) limited support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any country or organization where flagrant human rights abuses are known. Finlay (International) Limited has a policy to treat all employees fairly and with respect. We give equal opportunity to both men and women and have a policy to pay them equally. We also provide free accommodation, medication and pure drinking water to our tea garden workers and their dependents. We work with our partners who share the same values and encourage others to do so. Implementation Finlay (International) Limited has a Grievance procedure in place and involves staff when there are major changes. We pay according to the industry standard and even more. We also look after the welfare of our employees. Measurement of Outcome In the past year Finlay (International) Limited did not experience any allegation of Human Rights violation. Labor Assessment, policy and goals Finlay (International) Limited supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organisation who uses forced or child labour. All Finlay employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements. They are aware of their entitlements. The workers are free to become members of Trade Union and elect Collective Bargaining Agent as provided by law of the country. The salary and wages of workers are fixed through negotiation between CBA and the management. The company follows the country’s law regarding employment, benefit, disciplinary procedures, etc. Implementation The company has HR policies which support best practice in terms of employment, benefits, appraisal, etc. Members of staff are selected for training to develop their skills. The workers are provided with following facilities: Finlay House (1st Floor), 11 Agrabad Commercial Area, Chittagong4100, Bangladesh Phone: 880-31-716321-5, Fax: 880-31-710006, e-mail: ceo@jfbdltd.com FINLAY (INTERNATIONAL) LIMITED 01. Wages– Negotiation with the Staff Union and Labor Union are under process and the new agreements are expected to be signed soon. 02. Housing – All workers are given free houses which are maintained by the company. The company has a policy to improve the standard of the labor houses by phase wise replacement of thatched roof with CI Sheet. In 2017, total 339 numbers of houses were renovated. 03. Healthcare We have 8 hospitals and 22 dispensaries under the supervision of 9 qualified doctors with good facilities. Free medical treatment is given within the tea estates and outside of the estates, if needed. Sanitation facilities are improved every year by constructing latrines. We upgrade Public Health for better health service to our employees by engaging more doctors. Adoption of modern and better medical facilities has enabled the company to provide improved medical services to its employees. Total of 66 workers have been treated under malaria eradication program under global fund prescribed by World Health Organization; 9,246 workers treated for Dysentery, 1,123 workers for gastro-enteritis, 166 for tuberculosis, 20 for leprosy, and 12,249 children were immunized in 2017. As part of our program to deliver better health services to our plantation workers the following actions were taken during the period under review: ¾ Mass awareness program was done in labor lines. ¾ Anti malarial spraying was done twice in the year. Mosquito nets were distributed to the workers to protect against malaria. ¾ In each tea garden 3 workers were deployed to clean all the drains to keep the labor lines clean and hygienic. ¾ Motivation programs by Midwives, Paramedics & Estate Medical Officers are in place. Contraceptives, contraceptive injection, IUD were provided; Tubectomy and Vasectomy methods were also carried out to reduce the population growth. 04. Food We provide food-grain (ration) every week to the workers and their 3 dependants at a highly subsidized rate. This ensures non-existence of poverty and hunger in our company 05. WaterEvery labor house is provided with source for pure water. In the past year, 2 Deep Tube-wells and 175 shallow Tube Wells were installed for supplying pure water to more workers. Water of “pucca” well was purified by giving medicine twice a month. Water is tasted at BTRI (Bangladesh Tea Research Institute) quarterly to check the presence of any Bacteria. 06. Education –To promote education among the dependents of the employees the company pays salary to the school teachers of the tea estates and maintains the schools. Finlay House (1st Floor), 11 Agrabad Commercial Area, Chittagong4100, Bangladesh Phone: 880-31-716321-5, Fax: 880-31-710006, e-mail: ceo@jfbdltd.com FINLAY (INTERNATIONAL) LIMITED 07. On the job training of workers is an ongoing process to improve their skills in maintenance of machinery, etc. as well as plantation works. 08. Seminar/MeetingIn each tea estate 3 workers participated in various seminars organized three times every year by Tea Estate labor Union. Similarly each staff member participates thrice a year in various seminar organized by Tea Estates Staff Association. Company bears the expenses for their attending such seminars or meetings. 09. Energy Company is working to develop solar energy in the tea estate for sustainable energy. 10. Production – The quality of the company tea production has further improved due to investment made during the year and better management. Measurement of Outcome The company has an equal opportunity policy regarding employment. Their wages and other benefits are enhanced periodically through negotiation with CBA. A performance appraisal system is in place for the staff and training needs are assessed and necessary action taken to improve skill. Due to better healthcare facilities the cases of diseases have decreased. The company was not under any investigation or involved in legal cases relating to Labor matters. A congenial relationship exists between the workers and the management. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Finlay (International) Limited has long been a believer in sustainable development. Apart from undertaking the normal cultural practices to sustain its tea gardens on a long term basis it is fully aware that environment must be preserved and improved to combat the increasing threat of climate change. With the repeated incidence of drought in the recent years it has become all the more important to take crash programs to grow Environment Improvement Trees and build water reservoirs for meeting increased irrigation requirements for survival of the tea and rubber plants. Implementation As a part of program to improve, the environment Finlay International has planted 92,360 Shade trees (Environment Improvement Trees); 39,150 Timber; 1,666 Bamboo; 600 Black Pepper in 2017. 121 hectares of new tea plantation was done in 2017. Finlay House (1st Floor), 11 Agrabad Commercial Area, Chittagong4100, Bangladesh Phone: 880-31-716321-5, Fax: 880-31-710006, e-mail: ceo@jfbdltd.com FINLAY (INTERNATIONAL) LIMITED Black pepper and bamboo generated extra income for the company. Apart from forestation and conservation of environment, Timber plantation is useful for construction and repair of labor houses provided by the company. Irrigation Company has 8 Permanent and 52 overhead (mobile) irrigation sets which could irrigate 2,681.91 hectares of land per cycle (15 days cycle) for irrigating tea areas and other plantations in the dry season. There more mobile irrigation sets are being imported which can irrigate further 252 hectares in 15 days cycle/ Company has 7 excavators for making dams, drains, and water reservoirs. This help in irrigation work and prevent water logging in tea plantation. In keeping with the Government requirement, Finlay International has adopted a policy of not felling trees for trivial reasons and discourages others from doing so. Permissions are taken from Government authorities if it is necessary to cut down old and diseased trees. Any unauthorized felling of trees is an offence leading to disciplinary action. Measurement of Outcome In pursuance of its policy to improve the Environment, Finlay International has successfully planted more trees in 2017, which inter alia, help reduce the day temperature within the desirable level during the summer. This is conducive to the survival and growth of tea plants. Due to plantation of shade trees and adoption of better irrigation facilities there was less mortality of tea plants in the fields and the nurseries during the year. There have been no environmental incidents within last year and the company was not subjected to any statutory notices or prosecution. Anti-corruption Assessment, policy and goals Finlay International has a policy of zero tolerance against corruption. The management as well as staff and workers are aware of this and under strict instruction not to participate in any corruption, bribery or misappropriation. Such offense is punishable leading to dismissal from service. We also endeavor not to do business with any organization that is suspected to be involved in corruption. Implementation Special care is taken at the time of recruitment to ensure integrity of staff, who is also briefed suitably not to get involved in corruption of any kind. They are made to understand the ramifications and consequences. Each departmental head is ultimately responsible for anti corruption within his jurisdiction. Finlay House (1st Floor), 11 Agrabad Commercial Area, Chittagong4100, Bangladesh Phone: 880-31-716321-5, Fax: 880-31-710006, e-mail: ceo@jfbdltd.com FINLAY (INTERNATIONAL) LIMITED Regular audit is being conducted within the company as a safeguard against corruption. Measurement of Outcome Finlay International has not been involved in legal cases or rulings related to corruption and bribery. The audit reports of internal as well as external auditors are used to identify any payments which could be related to corruption. Finlay House (1st Floor), 11 Agrabad Commercial Area, Chittagong4100, Bangladesh Phone: 880-31-716321-5, Fax: 880-31-710006, e-mail: ceo@jfbdltd.com
