2017-2018 Communication on Progress COP Communication on Progress CONTENTS Leading & Leaping COMPANY PROFILE 06 Company Overview 07 Statement of Continued Support 08 The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles 09 Sustainability Management System 10 Stakeholder Communication SDGs Chemical UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 12 Human Rights 16 Labor 18 Environment 22 Anti-Corruption PART1. COMPANY PROFILE PART1. COMPANY PROFILE With its pioneering spirit, dedication, and integrity, Hanwha Chemical has set many milestones as a leader in the Korean chemical industry through market-leading general-purpose plastics and a range of inorganic chemical products. Based on the market leadership in Korea, Hanwha Chemical is emerging as a leader in the global chemical industry by securing unrivaled creativity and competitiveness, leading paradigm shifts, and fulfilling its social responsibilities. Leaping Creative Chemical Leader Competitive 1st No.1 Leading Hanwha Chemical 2018 Communication on Progress 04 Company Overview Since its founding in 1965, Hanwha Chemical has led the Korean petrochemical industry through marketleading general-purpose plastics and a variety of inorganic chemical products. As the first producer of PVC goods in Korea, Hanwha Chemical succeeded in producing a full array of primary petrochemical products, including LDPE (Low Density Polyethylene), LLDPE (Linear Low Density Polyethylene), and CA (caustic soda/ chlorine). Based on its leadership in the petrochemical market, Hanwha Chemical is now achieving prominence in the polysillion and Toluene Diisocyanate (TDI) fields, leaping forward as a leader in the chemical industry with its unrivaled creativity and competitiveness. Company Information Company Name Hanwha Chemical Corporation Date Founded August 1965 No. of Employees 2,378 (As of December 2017) CEO Chang-Bum Kim Major Businesses PO, PVC, CA, TDI, and Polysilicon Head Office Hanwha Building, 86 Cheonggyecheon-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Key Economic Performance 39,654 Sales 2015 2016 2017 (Unit: KRW in billion) 32,695 34,828 5,884 Operating 2015 2016 2017 income (Unit: KRW in billion) 1,878 4,003 Products at a Glance Hanwha Chemical offer top-of-the-line products through R&D activities and market analysis. PO PVC •LDPE •HDPE •PVC Resin •OA •EVA •W&C •Copolymer •PA/MA •LLDPE Compounds •Terpolymer •CPVC •Paste Resin •ECO-DEHCH •Plasticizers CA TDI Polysilicon •Caustic •ECH •TDIs •Polysilicon Soda(NaOH) •Hydrochloric •TDI Derivatives •Chlorine(Cl2) Acid(HCL) •TM •EDC •HYPO •TDA •VCM 05 PART1. COMPANY PROFILE Comany Overview/Statement of Continued Support Statement of Continued Support Hanhwa Chemical devises strategies for sustainability management that focus on value creation and social contribution with its new vision statement, Be Creative and Competitive toward a Chemical Leader. Hanwha Chemical became a member of the United Nations Global Compact in January 2012 for the purpose of growing together with its stakeholders including customers, shareholders, partner companies, employees, and local communities. Hanwha Chemical honors and practice the UNGC’s ten principles of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anticorruption. This Communication On Progress includes data for the period from July 1, 2017 to June 31, 2018, related to the company’s activities and performance in compliance with the ten principles of UNGC. Through active engagement and communication, the company will make every efforts to create sustainable values for all stakeholder groups. Thank you. Chang-Bum Kim CEO Hanwha Chemical Hanwha Chemical 2018 Communication on Progress 06 UN Global Compact (UNGC) Hanwha Chemical became a member of the United Nations Global Compact in January 2012. Hanwha Chemical honors and practice the UNGC’s ten principles of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anticorruption as a responsible corporate citizen. The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles 1. Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2. Labour Standards Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 3. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 4. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 07 PART1. COMPANY PROFILE UN Global Compact(UNGC)/Sustainability Management System Sustainability Management System Integrity Declaration for Sustainable Growth Management As a forward-looking, socially responsible company, Hanwha Chemical requires all employees to observe six key principles in their daily operations. These principles reflect the Company’s business objectives and management philosophy: Environmental Partnership Management Management • We conduct all business to ensure social and environmental sustainability and benefit; Sustainable • We respect regional characteristics and contribute to local Society development; • We address the wishes of stakeholders and improve in areas where they raise concern; • We meet our duty to law and ethical standards sincerely and fairly; • We respect the importance of environmental management and comply with environmental, safety, and health guidelines; • We share with communities and contribute through social activities with pride and responsibility. Talent Volunteer Management Management Key Directions of Sustainability Management Hanwha Chemical conducts sustainability management with a view toward economic, social, and environmental goals, while also reflecting the diversity of opinions from stakeholders. Classification Directions Organization •Diversify the business portfolio through eco-friendly and futureoriented approaches Environmental • R&D Center •Continuously improve the stability and eco-friendliness of products Management • Environment Safety Team •Foster competitiveness in renewable energy technologies •Provide environmental, safety, and health management systems •Implement fair, systematic HR development Talent • HR Planning Team •Adopt systems to encourage work-life balance Management • HR Development Team •Empower female employees •Set clear objectives for social outreach activities Volunteer •Conduct social contribution programs to engage local communities • General Affairs Team Management •Promote employees’ voluntary and active participation •Continue in social contribution activities customized for beneficiaries •Grow the Company’s business with customers Partnership •Establish partnership based on growth and trust • Partnership Development Team Management •Provide education and other supports for partner companies •Comply with laws and market regulations Integrity •Conduct periodical education programs and appoint fair-trade • CR Planning Team Management compliance officers • Legal Affairs Team •Develop ethical guidelines and whistle-blowing system Hanwha Chemical 2018 Communication on Progress 08 Stakeholder Communication Hanwha Chemical develops close cooperative relationships with stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, suppliers, non-profit organizations and government agencies, and regularly provides them with relevant information through its, website and social media. The Company provides the communication channels listed below in order to reflect the opinions of stakeholders on sustainable development. Key Communication Channels % Shareholders and Employees Partner and Customer Local Communities Government Investors Companies and Environmental and NGO's Organizations • General shareholders' • Square channel • Suppliers' CEO meetings • Volunteer activities • Fair Trade Committee meetings • Employee meetings • Shared Growth activities • Environmental preservation • Mutual growth agreement • Annual reports, disclosures • Labor-management Council • Technology exchange • Safety Council • Win-Win index • IR meetings sessions • IR presentations Hanwha Chemical annually Hanwha Chemical encourages Hanwha Chemical assists partHanwha Chemical provides Hanwha Chemical operates Fair convenes a general meeting strong internal communication, ner and customer companies a range of socio-cultural asTrade Committee to ensure fair of shareholders and invescollecting creative ideas from through its various partnersistance for socially marginaltrade and mutually beneficial tors to inform them of its employees through Square, ship programs such shared ized groups. Working with local solutions, and Ethical Managecurrent business status and its own internal communicagrowth fund and energy efcommunities, the Company ment Committee to secure its financial performance. The tion channel. The Company ficiency diagnostic project, conducts periodic environmencompliance with laws and transCompany provides time for also maintains careful, cooperChaired by the CEO, the Comtal preservation activities, thus parent management. Hanwha shareholders to present their ative labor-management relapany conducts informal meettaking the lead in maintaining Chemical proactively responds opinions on key agendas. tions through its labormanageings with the CEOs of partner a clean local environment. to key industry issues through Through periodic IR sessions ment council and employee companies to address their meetings and voluntary agreeand analysis, as well as telmeetings. problems and seek mutually ments with government and ephone consultations and beneficial solutions. non-governmental organizadata updates, it discloses key tions. The Company also acmanagement performance tively fulfills its commitment data. to Mutual growth agreement and Win-Win Index, an index to measure how large corporations treat their subcontractors. 09 PART1. COMPANY PROFILE Stakeholder Communication PART2. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SDGs Environ. Economy Social Chemical Hanwha Chemical transforms itself to secure sustainable growth in all of its economic, social, and environmental performance, thus charting a path toward its utmost goal of becoming a future-oriented technology company that enhances the quality of life for everyone. Even with its accomplishments as a leader in the Korean market, Hanwha Chemical is not resting, but restarting a new chapter as a world leader in every way, including humanitarian activities and eco-friendliness. Human Rights Hanwha Chemical respects for human dignity and prioritizes human rights in its workplaces. The Company guarantees benefits and welfare programs of its employees, as well as contributing to the well-being of local communities by providing various social contribution activities. The Ideal Individual Hanwha Chemical has grown based on credit and loyalty – the credit that allows it to build trustworthiness and the loyalty that enables it to make a relationship last in any situation. The Company fosters talented for Hanwha Chemical individuals with its core values in mind, including a pioneering spirit, dedication, and integrity. Ideal Individuals Individuals who possess a high degree of pioneering spirit, dedication, and integrity Core Values Pioneering Dedication Integrity Spirit Individuals who seek changes, Individuals who value Individuals who behave fairly in innovation, and solutions to long-lasting relationships with observance of principles and with problems, and who think out of the Company, customers, and a sense of self-esteem the box to do so colleagues, and who endeavor to achieve greater goals • Individuals who abide by basic principles • Individuals who actively develop with an ability to resist the temptation of themselves to become top-tier experts in • Individuals who put top priority on shared immediate reward their fields goals with others • Individuals who treat others fairly • Individuals who discern new methods • Individuals who keep their pledges according to their ability and performance and opportunities with open-minds and to customers and consistently create to avoid conflicts of interest creativity customer value • Individuals who set and achieve goals with • Individuals who cooperate with colleagues indomitable spirit and high self-confidence and promote teamwork PART2. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 11 PART3. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Human Rights Welfare and Hanwha Chemical provides a variety of welfare programs that place great value on the personal lives of employees. In one example, the Company offers a personal leave program called Refresh, which provides Benefits all employees with vacations lasting ten or fewer days—time that they can use for self-development. The Company contributes to the well-being of employees by providing an in-house cafeteria, medical expenses for employees and their families, stipends of congratulations and condolence, and commuter bus services. In addition, employee clubs receive support, and the company provides an online library, welfare points, family days, invitation events for parents, and a variety of sports events. Happy Workplace Healthy Workplace • Commuter bus services at head office, Yeosu and Ulsan Plants • Medical expenses for employees and their families • Auto maintenance costs supports • Operation of medical service rooms at plants • In-house cafeteria • Periodical health exams for employees and their spouses • Employee clubs supports • Various sports facilities • Day-off and employee gifts on foundation day (October 9) and • Various sports events Labor Day (May 1) Self-development and Vacations • Degree programs including overseas MBAs, executive MBAs, and PhD Housing and Children's Education programs • Company housing at workplaces and dormitories for singles • Support for participation in overseas conferences • Supports for moving costs • Education expenses for other foreign language courses • Provision of interest-free housing loans • Financial supports for in-house and external job training and • Congratulatory money for children’s admission into schools leadership programs and education expenses • Online library for employees • Leaves and stipend for congratulation and condolence • Rewards for exemplary employees • Maternity protection programs including leaves and • Rewards for employees with long services (10, 20 and 30 years) and financial supports support for overseas travels • Work hours reduction during pregnancy • Rewards for outstanding employees by job function each year • Operation of daycare centers • 5-day work week and Refresh vacations (up to ten days) • Flexible working hours during child-rearing • Use of Hanwha Resorts across the country at member prices Hanwha Chemical 2018 Communication on Progress 12 Strategies of Hanwha Chemical's social contribution strategies assist people in creating their sustainable values today and tomorrow. Its CSR extends into fields of social welfare, culture and arts patronage, education, and Social Contribution other public charity work through cooperation with outside professional organizations, especially for future generations and the less privileged. VISION Building a Happy Tomorrow Together Hanwha Chemical creates a happy tomorrow with everyone to go far together MISSION Bright and healthy Happy lives Community growth future through shared by through sharing environmental value all employees and caring creation Directions Fostering expertise in social Realizing social contribution Fulfilling local needs contribution activities and motto through social through regional friendly developing socially responsible contribution activities volunteer programs products and services Social Welfare for the Underprivileged Hanwha Chemical implements a variety of social contribution programs to improve the welfare of the underprivileged. For example, the Company assists in vocational training for the disabled. The Company also provides the first birthday party for abandoned infants, delivers free lunch for the elderly living alone, and teaches Korean language for multicultural families, enabling them learn Korean culture. Furthermore, the Company conducts soccer classes for the children of low-income families. 13 PART3. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Human Rights Education for Future Leaders Since 2013, Hanwha Chemical has conducted the Energy Class for Tomorrow, a volunteer program that provides an opportunity for employees to help elementary students in communities near its plants. The program consists of interesting lectures for children and offers hands-on experience in difficult science topics. In the program, Company researchers, engineers, and other volunteers visit schools and deliver lectures on energy issues, renewable energy sources, and solar cells. The outcome for the children is to assemble and run a race with solar-power cars. The Company's objective is to focus on children who are marginalized in science education, including the children of multicultural and underprivileged families. It also continuously sponsors the Bugil Foundation, the most prestigious private education organization in Cheonan. Yeosu: Fire-free Village In cooperation with the Yeosu city fire station, the Yeosu Plant supplies basic fire-fighting equipment such as fire extinguishers and alarm-type fire detectors to marginalized areas where access such equipment is difficult. Volunteers from the plant visit and instructs residents on neighboring islands in the use of basic fire-fighting equipment and other fire-extinguishing activities. During these visits, the plant also provides other volunteer services, including haircuts and repair of home appliances; they deliver household necessities that are often in short supply, and they offer special events for the islanders. The plant continues to build fire safety nets through further cooperation with public agencies, NGOs, and regional communities, as part of its social contribution activities for local residents. Ulsan: Memorial Day Event for War Veterans and Patriots Every year, Ulsan Plant organizes a Memorial Day event for people of national merit residing in Ulsan City, including disabled veterans, their widows, and other war-bereaved, all in cooperation with the Ministry of Patriots and Veterans Affairs and the Social Welfare Center of the Nam-gu district of Ulsan. During the event, musical groups present a volunteer concert, souvenirs are donated, and a greeting ceremony is offered, all with the participation of the Hanwha Volunteer Corps, an employee organization at the plant whose members include veterans of national service and their children. Daejeon: Creating Ecological Habitats As a manufacturing enterprise, Daejeon R&D Center fulfills its environmental responsibility through a program to create ecological habitats. Through collaboration with regional NGOs, the center also installs signs for biological habitats at a public park in Daejeon City. Hanwha Chemical 2018 Communication on Progress 14 Labor Hanwha Chemical seeks cooperative labor-management relationships and mutually beneficial growth between management and employees by sharing corporate vision together. Through active feedback systems and programs, the Company also addresses employee voices for their equal opportunities and fair compensation. A Fair and Hanwha Chemical promotes employee engagement and satisfaction through fair performance-based assessment and compensation. Transparent Personnel System Hanwha Chemical evaluates and compensates individuals based on their competencies and performance. In addition, the Company encourages employee participation in establishing and evaluating objectives by conducting discussion sessions, in turn ensuring clear and fair evaluation processes. One-to-one feedback sessions are also conducted with team leaders to help employees understand evaluation results. The Company conducts a special promotion program that allows selected employees to be promoted within two years of that selection, thereby encouraging young talent to develop their careers with a frontier spirit and greater confidence. Labor-Management Hanwha Chemical seeks cooperative labor-management relationships and mutually beneficial growth between management and employees. The Company assists labor unions in understanding the current Partnership state of operations through informal CEO meetings, business presentations, and other communication channels. The Company also makes every effort to embed safety management in its business processes by appointing honorary safety inspectors along with an Industrial Safety and Health Committee, and through participation in international expositions of industrial equipment. Labor-management Cooperation Activities in 2017 Dates Activities Region Dates Activities Region January 3 Safety awareness event Ulsan August 2 Camp for employees' children Yeosu New-year mountain January 7 Yeosu October 20 Harmony day Yeosu climbing event April 22 Company athletic meet Yeosu November Communication education Yeosu April~July Cheering event for shift workers Ulsan December Kimchi-making event Ulsan Employees' parents NovemberMay 26 Yeosu Cheering event for shift workers Yeosu invitation event December 15 PART3. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Labor Diversity and Hanwha Chemical complies with the conventions of the International Labour Organization and all domestic labor laws. The Company prohibits child labor and forced labor, and it does not tolerate discrimiAntidiscrimination nation based on gender, religion, political affiliation, social status, nationality, or ethnicity, in hiring, assignments, promotions, compensation, or education. The Company also builds mutual respect and works against human rights violations in the workplace through inter-cultural training for both executives and employees. A Desirable Hanwha Chemical promotes gender equality and the empowerment of women at workplaces through a variety of programs. During pregnancy, the Company guarantees periodic prenatal screenings, and Workplace for allows mothers to adjust their office hours during pregnancy and the first stages of parenting. The ComMothers pany provides maternity protection programs that exceed legal requirements. It provides family days to help new mothers maintain a balance between work and family. The Company recognizes employees who are giving birth with a gift set called a “Mom's Package,” which includes guides offering advice on protecting mothers and their newborns as well as supplies that will assist mothers through their pregnancies. One month before new mothers return to work from their maternity leaves, the Company holds counseling sessions organized by trained personnel managers. These sessions help mothers relieve some of the psychological anxiety that may result from long-term maternity leave and address issues of resettlement at work. Prevention of Hanwha Chemical conducts sexual harassment prevention sessions for all employees at least twice a year and appoints at least one sexual harassment prevention counselor for each workplace, with strinSexual Harassment gent penalties for sexual misconduct. Hanwha Chemical 2018 Communication on Progress 16 Environment Pursuing its “2020 Long-term Master Plan for Low-carbon, Green Growth”, Hanwha Chemical proactively copes with the impact of climate change. The Company also endeavors to preserve local natural sources including air, water, and soil for regional communities. In particular, the Company adheres to stricter guidelines for the treatment of hazardous chemicals, especially for substances restricted domestically and overseas. Air Pollution Air Pollution Reduced through Pollutant Sources Management Protection The Company’s Yeosu Plant produces hydrochloric acid through the thermal cracking of chlorinated organic wastes. During the scrubbing process in its production of hydrochloric acid, the plant periodi* The Telemetry System (TMS) is an cally employs TMS* to monitor the concentration of pollutants. The plant also uses barcode tags and automatic, around-the-clock air pollution treatment system that allows implements LDAR* systems to track suspicious non-point sources of pollutants that may generate volathe Company to measure levels in the tile organic compounds (VOCs) and hazardous chemicals. Through this periodic monitoring, the plant concentration of air pollutants and to keep related data at an air-pollution maintains its emissions of air pollutants at 30% below legal maximums. control center. Yeosu Plant operates four TMSs. Control of Air Pollutant Dispersion Yeosu Plant has signed a cooperation agreement with Jeollanamdo Provincial Government to reduce air * The LDAR (Leak Detection And Repair) system is designed to periodically pollutants at Gwangyang Bay area. The plant has also installed an equipment to remove fume generated measure chemicals generated from during the tank truck distribution of PVC and CA products, and changed loading system from top to non-point pollutant sources, including valves, flanges, and pumps at production bottom. In addition, the plant upgraded chemical sampling equipements of chlorine, VCM, EDC and facilities. In the event of out-of-range other hazardous air pollutants to maintain sealed. Particularily, the sealing system of compressors and emissions, the system repairs emitting facilities. The Yeosu Plant currently pumps are replaced to double type to reduce the amount of air pollutant dispersion. operates an LDAR system for 6 production teams and more than 110,000 points. Water Conservation Wastewater Treatment To reduce risk factors caused from the violation of environmental regulations, all wastewater generated at the Ulsan Plant is treated primarily at on-site contamination prevention facilities; it is then transported to sewage treatment facilities within the industrial complexes where it is located. Ulsan Plant 1 transports and reprocesses wastewater at the Yongam Wastewater Treatment Plant, which has been operated by the government since February 2011. Wastewater Concentration Controlled by Water Analysis Laboratory Yeosu Plant operates an on-site water analysis laboratory to check wastewater parameters such as pH, COD, and SS in a daily basis for each process. Additionally, 11 major hazardous wastewater substances are analyzed by GC-MS* equipments that allow the plant to measure and maintain concentration levels of the wastewater discharges at 30% below those required by the regulation. CCTVs was also installed at waterway to manage non-point pollutant sources inside the plant. The plant monitors water quality with * GC-MS: Gas Chromatography Mass pH meters, and sends detected hazardous substances to wastewater treatment facilities through sumps, Spectrometer preventing the leak of the hazardous substances off the plant. 17 PART3. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Environment Waste Treatment Due Diligence with Outsourced Recycling Contractors and Soil Protection To maximize waste recycling, Hanwha Chemical continuously improves its production processes and develops new business relationships with outsourced recycling providers. Every year, the Company conducts due diligence with its contractors to fulfill legal requirements for waste treatment. Periodic Assessment of Soil Contamination Hanwha Chemical prevents soil contamination through thorough periodic assessments of its manufacturing facilities. The Company identifies BTEX (benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylene) and TPH (total petroleum hydrocarbons) from the soil surrounding storage tanks at designated sampling points, pursuant to Article 13 of the Soil Environment Conservation Act. These soil contamination assessments and management include neighboring regional communities and company housing facilities. Management of Enhanced Response Plans for Chemical Incidents Chemicals Through thorough assessment of each process at treatment facilities, Hanwha Chemical provides plans for the mitigation of external impact from chemical incidents. The Company uses assessment results to improve scenario-based training and contingency plans, and it conducts emergency drills on a regular basis. Stricter Chemical Management Guidelines Managers at the Yeosu Plant conduct weekly self-assessments for each process in the treatment of hazardous chemicals. The plant also supplies protective equipment for every individual to use during treatment of hazardous chemicals, and it deploys resources for disaster prevention near high-risk equipment and facilities. In addition, the plant periodically rates facilities and continually improves its erosion control measures, thus augmenting the safety of its chemical treatment equipment. The plant also holds careful checkups through non-destructive testing, including visual inspections. In line with the Company’s maintenance plans, old facilities which may be susceptible to damage and leakage are replaced as they reach the end of their expected life spans. Streamlining New Chemicals Information Gathering System Yeosu Plant has built database for all chemicals it uses, produces, and sells. The plant has also streamlined an integrated chemical product lifecycle management system which allows the plant easy access to information on hazardous products, manage a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS), and maintain information on materials in the supply chain. To preview new materials prior to their use, the plant convenes a Reactive Chemicals Subcommittee * REACH is the EU's new chemical management program. It includes the to deliberate on new materials and to approve the use of these new materials. Only materials that are registration, evaluation, authorization, approved by the subcommittee are used in the plant. During procurement, suppliers must provide full and restriction of chemicals according to amount and toxic level. information about chemical substances, and plant administrators must preview and verify these proce* RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous dures before approving final purchase, thus strictly managing the overall purchase process. Substances)regulates six hazardous materials used in the electronics material industry, including Pb, Hg, Substances Restricted Domestically and Overseas and Cd. To comply with both domestic and overseas environmental regulations, including REACH*, RoHS*, GHS*, * GHS (Global Harmonized System) is a globally accepted labeling system for and K-REACH, Hanwha Chemical provides an integrated chemical product lifecycle management system chemicals according to toxic level. to prevent health risks to employees and minimize environmental impact. Hanwha Chemical 2018 Communication on Progress 18 Strategies for To proactively deal with global climate change and participate in emissions trading schemes, Hanwha Chemical has introduced a company-level organization dedicated to climate change response. This organization Climate Change preemptively identifies risk and opportunity factors and devises strategies to address management issues reResponse lated to climate change. It also shares information on these climate change issues throughout the Company, thereby encouraging employee participation and promoting awareness. As part of the Group’s task force for emissions trading, the organization also assists in the enactment and execution of its Group-wide guidelines. Mid-to-long-term Vision and Target Vision To become a Green Global Chemical Leader through green, sustainable growth Target To participate effectively in emissions trading schemes through low-carbon systems and technologies Strategies and Major Tasks Strategies Major Tasks • Manage greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction objectives on a long-term basis Low-carbon infrastructure • Implement strategies for emissions trading schemes • Develop a special organization to address low-carbon issues • Implement GHG reduction tasks GHG reduction activities • Attract external funding for GHG reduction • Lay infrastructure for GHG management • Enhance marketing activities promoting low-carbon policies External partnerships • Implement external carbon offset projects • Prepare for government policies Green Global Chemical Leader PNP PSR 1st No.1 19 PART3. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Environment Analysis of The eco-friendliness of products is one of the most significant issues in sustainability management. Hanwha Chemical manages product quality through analysis of restricted hazardous substances (RoHS) Eco-friendliness and total volatile organic compounds (TVOC). In addition, Hanwha Chemical R&D Center has obtained certification from the Korea Laboratory Accreditation Scheme (KOLAS) for its advanced hazardous materials analysis system. Analyses and assessments include the following: Classification Details •R  estricted hazardous substances (RoHS), including Pb, Cd, Cr, Hg, Brominated flame Analysis of retardants (BFRs) * Phthalates are chemical additives used in Hazardous • Nine phthalates* the softening of plastics Substances •O  ther materials restricted upon request, such as heavy metals, in addition to those * T VOC stands for total volatile organic compounds designated in the RoHS * FA stands for failure analysis, for Aldehyde in particular • T VOC*, FA* and individual VOC* analysis, including 20L Small Chamber, Headspace, * Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) cause TVOC Analysis TD, Tedlar bags, HPLC, GC, GC, and MSD, for raw materials and finished products photochemical smog by generating and Evaluation • T VOC discharged from and FA for raw materials and finished products for oxidizing materials such as ozone through photochemical reaction in the air. construction and materials used in automotive interiors Hanwha Chemical R&D Center is laying the foundation for Sustainable sustainable growth through exploration of new, futureTechnology oriented business ventures, including eco-friendly energy Development and proprietary technologies and products, in turn achieving our utmost goal of becoming a creative, competitive leader in the global chemical industry. Eco-friendly Plasticizers(ECO-DEHCH) Current As the world’s awareness of environmental protection rises, the monitoring and Status regulation of chemical substances has become more stringent than ever. The market for PVC plasticizers* is also undergoing increased interest in eco-friendly materials. Along with this market change, the development of high-quality perPNP fect non-phthalate plasticizers is urgently needed. In addition to general-purpose plasticizers, the development of specialty plasticizers that fulfill the needs of more segmented markets is indispensable in meeting current trends in the PVC market. Our Solution In response to the growth of eco-friendly markets, Hanwha Chemical is developing eco-friendly perfect nonphthalate plasticizers. Following toxicity tests, it has completed verification and registration of these products as * A plasticizer is an organic substance eco-friendly materials. The Company begins the commercial production of perfect non-phthalate plasticizers. added to plastics or paints for To produce high-quality general-purpose and specialty plasticizers, the Company is also developing manufacimproving processability at high turing processes and assessments of the stability and processability of these products. temperature. Paste Resin for Eco-Friendly Wallpaper Current Eco-friendly additives with minimal amounts of VOCs are used in the production Status of eco-friendly wallpaper. However, low-VOC additives are known to cause some PSR production problems, including lower melt speeds and higher viscosity. Our Solution To resolve the problems of lower melt speeds and higher viscosity, Hanwha Chemical is developing a highperformance paste resin (PSR) that features a high melt speed and lower viscosity. Recently, the Company’s prototype undergoing screening through wallpaper manufacturers. Hanwha Chemical 2018 Communication on Progress 20 Anti-Corruption To fulfill the Company's social responsibilities, Hanwha Chemical’s employees are required identify values and act according to ethical management standards during their daily operations. The Company considers integrity to be one of the core values in its business performance. Under the Ethics Charter promulgated in April 2003, the Company prevents risk and misconduct that may arise from low ethical standards among employees and partner companies, and it reinforces its standards through a special organization dedicated to monitoring ethical management. Ethical The Ethical Management Committee is chaired by the CEO of the Company. The Ethical Management Secretariat oversees the company-wide ethical management, conducts education programs, and sends Management periodic reminders to inculcate ethical values and management principles among employees. Organizations Organizations of Ethical Management Ethical Management Committee Chairperson | CEO Committee members | Heads of Business Ethical Management Secretariat Ethical Management Officer | Team Leaders Code of Conduct for 01 We shall always respect customer opinions and strive to earn their trust through high credibility and loyalty. Ethical Management 02 We shall comply with local laws where business activities are conducted, respecting commercial practices and pursuing fair competition. 03 We shall maintain mutual trust and cooperative relationships with partner companies through fair, transparent transactions. 04 We shall not use our dominant position for misconduct against suppliers, and we shall not receive money or valuables, entertainment or conveniences from them. 05 We shall not provide or disclose internal or customer information outside the Company. 06 We shall not use Company supplies or expenses for personal purposes. 07 We shall prohibit loans, guarantees, and presents between employees. 08 We shall not discriminate based on academic background, gender, religion, family relationship, place of birth, disability, nationality, or ethnicity, and we shall respect all colleagues to make the Company a better place to work. 09 We shall actively participate in social contribution activities. 10 We shall endeavor to develop eco-friendly products and services, and we shall prevent accidents through stringent safety inspections and management. 21 PART3. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Anti-Corruption Key Ethical With the aim of protecting consumer rights while adhering to market regulations, Hanwha Chemical implements practical ethical management guidelines to allow its stakeholders to identify values and act Management according to ethical management standards. On every local holiday, Hanwha Chemical also posts ethical Activities management notices on digital bulletin boards reminders to employees. REMIND CHECK Ethical Management Guidelines Ethical Management Notices Hanwha Chemical implements practical ethical On every local holiday, Hanwha Chemical posts management guidelines. These guidelines prohibit ethical management notices on digital bulletin money and gifts from outside the Company, sexual boards reminders to employees. The Company harassment and misconduct, and undue assertion of also encourages its suppliers to practice fair, superior position. Violators are required to submit a transparent trade. report to the executives in charge. TALK PROPER Suggestion and Whistle-blowing System Guidelines for Advertisement and All internal and external stakeholders of the ComSponsorship pany may report corruption and unfair practices acHanwha Chemical prohibits improper marketing cording to the code of ethics and code of conduct to communication, but executes legal advertising the ethical management secretariat through phone and sponsorship under its principle-based mancalls, fax, e-mail, or the web. The ethical manageagement. The Company complies with advertisement secretariat guarantees protection of informament laws and regulations and has no record of tion on reporters and whistleblowers, promoting violations. fair, rational work procedures. Protection of Data Breach Prevention Customer The Company’s information security team supervises all security practices for information throughout Information the Company to the level required in all guidelines, especially for customer information. The information security secretariat and those in charge of information security at each plant conduct educational sessions to reinforce awareness of security among employees, and they encourage employees not only within the Company, but also at its suppliers to comply with regulations on information security. Classification Details •A  ccess control and firewalls to prevent hacking Technological and data breaches Information • Vaccine programs to stop malware Security • S ecurity programs to prevent leaks of personal information • Minimal collection of personal information • Privacy agreements for collection and use of Managerial personal information Information • Disposal of personal information after use Security • Periodic employee education on information security Hanwha Chemical 2018 Communication on Progress 22
