BUNSON TRAVEL SERVICE LTD t/a CARLSON WAGONLIT TRAVEL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS AUGUST 2017 – AUGUST 2018 Communication on Progress 2017 2018 1 Table of Contents 1. Message from our Managing Director…………………………………….. 3 2. Company details ………………………………………………..…………… 4 3. Back ground of the company ………………………………………………. 5 4. Communication on Human rights …………………………………….……. 6 5. Communication on Labor rights ……………………………………………. 7 6. Communication on Environment ……………………………………….….. 9 7. Communication on Anti-corruption ………………………………………… 13 8. Appendices ………………………………………………………….……….. 14 Communication on Progress 2017 2018 2 Message from our Managing Director H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY10017 USA Dear Sir, I am pleased to confirm that Bunson Travel Service Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Since we became members in August 2015, we have made efforts to embed the principles of the United Nations Global Compact in our everyday work and ensure we operate in a sustainable manner. As we submit our third annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication and also through UN Global compact website. Sincerely yours, Julie Dabaly Scott Managing Director Bunson Travel Service Ltd Communication on Progress 2017 2018 3 Company Details Company Name Bunson Travel Service Ltd Date 20-Aug-18 02nd Floor Park Place, Address Limuru Rd P.O Box 45456 00100 Number of 15-Aug-15 85 Membership Date employees Travel and Country Kenya Sector Leisure Finance Contact Name David Wachira Contact position Director Contact telephone No. +254732775566/ 3685208 Communication on Progress 2017 2018 4 About Us Bunson Travel Services herewith referred to as (BTS) is one of the leading and largest Travel Management Company established in East Africa in 1948. In 1950, we became the first Travel Agency licensed by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) in East Africa. In August 1999 we became the exclusive partner of Carlson Wagonlit Travel herewith referred to as (CWT). Carlson Wagonlit Travel is one of the world’s leading and largest Travel Management Company herein referred to as (TMC), with a global presence in more than 150 countries, and in over 3000 locations. CWT is a global leader specializing in business travel management. CWT is on a transformational journey to become the world’s first digital TMC with a strategy to create the perfect blend of people and technology. Carlson Wagonlit Travel Kenya herewith referred to as (CWT Kenya) is independently owned and operated by Bunson Travel Service. CWT Kenya is dedicated to helping companies of all sizes, as well as government institutions, non-governmental organizations, local companies, NGOS, and multinational with a consolidated offer of offline and online services. By making use of our CWT global network and providing leading-edge technology and innovative solutions, CWT enables clients across the globe to drive savings while delivering service and enhancing security and sustainability. CWT Kenya operates an effective Meetings, Events and Conferencing department, providing strategic know-how, services and technology solutions that help companies make the most of their investment. We focus our Cooperate Social Responsibility efforts on tree planting, regenerating forests and environmental education, mindfully paying attention to the impacts of our industry. Communication on Progress 2017 2018 5 CWT Kenya Office Location and Branches CWT Kenya is situated in three (3) strategic locations in Nairobi, (one) 1 in Mombasa and operates (four) 4 implant offices: Head Office Park Place Building, 2nd Floor, 2nd Avenue Parklands off Limuru Road, Tel: +254 (20) 3685 990 999 Email: info@carlsonwagonlit.co.ke Nairobi Branch Network:  Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (24 Hours / 365 Days)  Two Rivers Mall Mombasa Office  Imaara Building, 5th Floor, Dedan Kimathi Ave Implant Offices:  British American Tobacco (BAT)  Embassy of the United States and USAID  Stanbic Bank Communication on Progress 2017 2018 6 CWT Kenya List of Directors & Management Julie Dabaly Scott Kenyan Managing Director Email: juliedabaly@carlsonwagonlit.co.ke Years of experience: Over 30 years David Wachira Kenyan Finance Director Email: davidwachira@carlsonwagonlit.co.ke Years of experience: Over 20 years Michael Scott Kenyan Operations Director Email: michaelscott@carlsonwagonlit.co.ke Years of experience: 7 years Management Team Tamara Scott Kenyan Communications Director Email: tamarascott@carlsonwagonlit.co.ke Years of experience: 5 years Hamida Ibrahim Kenyan Travel Operations Manager Email: hamidaebrahim@carlsonwagonlit.co.ke Years of experience: 20 years Hailu Dabaly – Kenyan Transport Operations Manager Email: transport@carlsonwagonlit.co.ke Years of experience: 22 years Bansi Bhatti – Kenyan Sales & Marketing Administrator, Mombasa branch Email: bansibhatti@calsonwagonlit.co.ke Years of Experience: 8 years Communication on Progress 2017 2018 7 Awards and Accolades: The Power of Our Story CWT Kenya prides itself in being a market leader in the Travel Industry. Following our achievements, we have been crowned by:  Kenya's Leading Travel Management Company (2010 – 2015) by World Travel Awards  Kenya's Leading Travel Agency (2013 – 2015) by World Travel Awards  Top Selling Agency in Kenya – 2015 – Hahn Air  Most Improved in Market Share (Gold Category) – 2015 / 2016 – Air Rwanda nd  2 Overall Revenue Sales – 2016 – Kenya Airways nd  2 Runner-up Top Selling Agent – 2016 KLM  Outstanding Sales Performance – 2016 – Hahn Air  Top Agency Awards (for Outstanding Sales Performance) – 2016 – Lufthansa  Best Travel Agent – 2016 The Noble Conference Centre Ltd  Turkish Airlines Certificate of Contribution to Sales – 2016 – Turkish Airlines  3rd Best Performance in Revenue – 2016 / 2017 – South Africa Airways  Africa's Leading Business Travel Management Company (2016 and 2017) by World Travel Awards. Travel Industry Affiliations  International Air Transport Association (IATA) License. 41-22-66-84  Kenya Association of Travel Agents (KATA)  Kenya Association of Tour Operators (KATO)  Global Business Travel Association (GBTA)  Universal Federation of Travel Agents Association (UFTAA)  American Society of Travel Agents (ASTA)  International Association of Travel & Tourism Professionals (SKAL)  Africa Tourism Association (ATA)  American Chamber of Commerce (AMCHAM)  United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)  Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA)  Kenya National Chambers of Commerce and Industries (KNCCI) Business Registration and License  Certificate of Incorporation. C. 2187  KRA VAT/PIN Certificate No. P000591446P  KRA Tax & ETR Compliance Doc No. KRALTO6024832017  Nairobi City Council Business Permit No. 1020059  Tourism Regulatory Authority License • Tour Operator License • Travel Agency License Communication on Progress 2017 2018 8 CWT Kenya Association with Global Travel Management Company – Carlson Wagonlit Travel Carlson Wagonlit Travel is the world’s largest Travel Management Company with a global presence in more than 150 countries, and in over 3000 locations. They are a global leader specializing in business travel management. CWT is on a transformational journey to become the world’s first digital TMC with a strategy to create the perfect blend of people and technology. This enables the CWT Global Network to deliver the most seamless, personalized and integrated travel experience. Largest wholly owned Dedicated corporate network: innovation Award-winning mobile Business Travel, team app Meetings & Events CWT To Go™ Approximately 62.3 million Online & 19,000 employees Responsible business offline transactions worldwide ambassadors annually in 150+ countries Compliance officers 97% & territories in every region Customer retention globally Communication on Progress 2017 2018 9 Scope of this COP This COP covers our operational internal processes in relation to our customers, our staff, our suppliers and our community in adhering to the four main areas of the UN Global Compact i.e. human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption for the period August 2017 to August 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS UN Global Compact principles covered: Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our Commitment Bunson is committed to family-friendly policies that provide employees with a Safe and conducive working environment in line with the international human rights as well as adequate resources to perform optimally in their roles. These policies are aligned to the employment act to ensure full compliance with the law. A brief description of our Processes or System • The company has an able HR department which ensures that the rights of its employees and stakeholders are adhered to and none is violated. These policies are made clear to the employees through the HR policies availed to all new employees and accessible through the company intranet. • We have 26 annual leave days per year to all employees to enable them to have ample rest as required and are approved by respective line manager, 5 days compassionate leave for employees who are bereaved in their immediate family. • Maternity/paternity leave: We also offer female employees (3) three months Communication on Progress 2017 2018 10 maternity leave with full pay in addition to their annual leave entitlement while male employees are entitled to two (2) weeks paternity leave. • We also have in house fire marshals and first aiders. These fire marshals show all new staff the emergency exits and explain the fire alarm procedures and how not to obstruct emergency exits. • The company also advocates for clean desks policy where all employees are expected to keep their working desks and areas clean at all times • We provide a chill out room for employees to enjoy their lunch break which is equipped with a fridge and a microwave for their use Activities we implemented in the last year • Training on fire safety to all employees and a few were chosen to be fire marshals as part of our Safety Policy • We implemented the clean desk policy to all staff to ensure that they maintain a clean and environment friendly desk • All employees were taken through one fire safety and security training to equip them with the required knowledge • The fire equipment and emergency exit are inspected every morning by the contracted security vendor • All employees were taken through our Business continuity program BCP in preparation of any eventuality after the elections. • Promotion of employees’ expressions and concerns through an online survey to the HR department Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company • At least two fire drills must be executed in a year to inculcate a culture of safety awareness to all employees • Occupational Safety and Health Performance: Number of fatalities, Lost Time Injuries (LTI), Fatal Injury Frequency Rate (FIFR) and Lost Time Injury Communication on Progress 2017 2018 11 Frequency Rate (LTIFR) has not been reported in the last year • Tracking of leave accrual per staff member by HR and ensuring approved annual leave plans are in place so that employees commit to going on leave LABOUR RIGHTS UN Global Compact principles covered: Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our Commitment The company is committed to employee policies that are in adherence to the labour laws of Kenya, International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions and other International Standards, eliminating all forms of labour malpractices and also enforcing a culture of Bunson being an equal opportunity employer in support to a zero tolerance attitude in respect to employment and occupation. Bunson states clearly that no staff shall be discriminated against due to sex, race, color, political opinion, HIV status and beliefs. The company states clearly that each role will have a job description that outlines the scope and mandate of the role holder. A brief description of our Processes or Systems • We advocate the standard working hours for Bunson employees to be 40 hours a week and lunch break of 1 hour except those working on shift programs. • We have a transparent disciplinary process that gives either party freedom to air their grievance before a final decision is taken be it a gross misconduct or a general misconduct. Communication on Progress 2017 2018 12 • The recruitment process is structured and has a documented policy which strives to maintain diversity through gender, skills, race, values, attributes, and characteristics while offering equal opportunity to all potential candidates. • We don’t recruit persons under the age of 18 years since it’s a violation of children rights and we extend it to our vendors and partners and at the same time advocate for the abolition of child labour. • We also have compensation and benefits policy where employees are entitled to some benefits that are additional to their salary and allowances. • We have a learning and development policy where Bunson recognizes that employees are its most valued asset and commit itself to the best of its ability to provide an opportunity for continuous learning and professional growth towards organizational effectiveness. Activities implemented in the last year • Additional compensation and benefits in terms of revenue based incentives for travel and tours consultants • Addition of employees’ dependants to the company medical cover. • One training per month which falls under our Learning and Development Policy for the employees which supports growth of all employees with the aim of preparing them for senior management jobs in the future and also deal with the ever changing technology. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company • Less demands from employees as they understand the recruitment process and their compensation plan • Retention of staff • Diversity in employment as we have a total of 85 permanent employees; 41 male and 44 female employees Communication on Progress 2017 2018 13 Activities planned for next year • Competency based interviews for line managers and supervisors • Enforcement of leave management to ensure work life balance . Sustained training for all staff ENVIRONMENT UN Global Compact principles covered: Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our Commitment As a company, we are in the business of travel management and with that come a lot of carbon emissions from airplanes and vehicles, we are committed in ensuring that we operate and take initiatives that will promote our company as environmentally responsible and a company that embraces environmentally friendly technologies in its businesses. A brief description of our Processes or Systems At Bunson we are aware that in our daily operations, we use various products that can be harmful to the environment and ourselves as people, through the components they are made of (cleaning products) or the damage they do to the environment from the way they are disposed of or created. We are aware that we require various products and services in order to operate our business however, it is our responsibility to ensure we are aware of how these products and services are procured, built and disposed of, to ensure we minimize our footprint on our planet earth. GNLD Cleaning Products All of our offices (HQ, branches and implants) are cleaned using GNLD products. GNLD products have been “GREEN” since the 1960’s and are all made using 100% biodegradable raw materials. This ensures that the effects on our Bunson Travel staff and on the environment is as minimal as possible. Communication on Progress 2017 2018 14 Waste Paper Recycling Bunson Travel strives to be as paperless as possible. Along with implementing more technology in our operations we understand that while we are not fully paperless, we can also recycle the waste paper that we do produce at our head office and branch offices. Chandaria Industries, who supply us with some paper products, produce all of their paper products from waste paper. Responsible Bunson engaged Chandaria Industries on recycling our waste paper, which entails collecting any waste paper we have that is then collected by Chandaria Industries on a weekly basis.In turn, Chandaria Industries offer the equivalent products back to us (based on our recycling volumes). Taps on Timer All of the water basin taps in the bathrooms are push button taps that run for a few seconds and then automatically switch off. This is to ensure that taps are not left dripping or left running when there is no one using them. Along with conserving precious water, it is also a saving for the company’s monthly water bills. Toilet Flush All toilet flushes are fitted with 2 options to flush depending on what the toilet is used for. There is flush with minimal water and a flush with full water quantity. A lot of water is used when flushing a toilet and this allows us to minimize that amount when possible. Communication on Progress 2017 2018 15 Activities implemented in the last year 3rd November 2017 Renovation of JWPT Housing, Ruthumbi, Mt. Kenya Background to the Joint Wildlife Protection Team (JWPT) Established in 2008, the JWPT is a 5 man patrol team of rangers, who work in conjunction with Kenya Wildlife Service. They mainly patrol around the northeastern edge of Mt Kenya but are often called upon to secure other regions of the mountain when intelligence is sent to the Senior Warden. Their important work is evident from the snares they have destroyed and the individuals they have arrested and charged in the court. For instance, from January 2016 to September 2017, the team has destroyed over 400 snares, almost 40 charcoal kilns, confiscated 26 bags of charcoal, 434 fence posts and almost 1,500 timber pieces. They found almost 220 tree stumps and 24 additional logging sites. The team arrested 45 people for illegal activities including logging, marijuana farming and bush meat poaching. The work of the team is not only limited to patrols but also community education and engagement with the public living along the forest boundary, in dealing with problem animals and also educating the community groups on the best forest conservation practices. The team members attend court to testify on cases for the forest offenders they arrest and attend legal and magistrate training. The team patrols deep into the thick rainforest of the eastern edge of Mount Kenya. The map shows the different illegal incidents recorded by the team for the first 6 months of the year (January to June 17). Data was collected by the Spatial Monitoring and Reporting Tool (SMART) provided by the Zoological Society of London. Basecamp Renovations The team has not had permanent housing since its establishment, living in makeshift tents with a small covered wooden kitchen, but this never became a reason for the members not to put more effort in their work. Improvement for the teams housing has become possible this year with several donors coming to the table. Communication on Progress 2017 2018 16  The British Army Training Unit Kenya gave a donated five uni-huts units to house the team members.  Kenya Forest Service gave an old house that was moved and renovated to be used as teams cooking place and a mess.  The Eden Wildlife Trust contributed towards the construction of the entire base, including ablution block and construction of housing and mess area.  The Thin Green Line donated towards the building construction, solar and equipment inside the base.  Bunson Travel, in collaboration with Cookswell Jikos, donated a double stove jiko for the team’s kitchen. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company An Update from Naro Moru Primary School and Nkiria Primary School 11th October 2017 Mount Kenya Trust has recently completed the installation of a tree nursery at Naro Moru Primary school. The trees are doing really well and are being cared for tentatively by the Environmental club students. Recently Nkiria Primary school pupils’ environmental clubs received books, pens, and stationery from the sale of the trees in their nursery. ANTI-CORRUPTION UN Global Compact principles covered: Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Our Commitment Bunson Travel Management is committed to ensuring a corruption free environment; this is embodied in our Code of Conduct. We also have a disciplinary Procedure and Consequence Management policy that helps outline correction and progressive process to address an employee’s misconduct, Code of Conduct non-compliance or to prevent non-recurrence of Communication on Progress 2017 2018 17 undesirable behavior. Our Code of Conduct provide specific guidance on corruption related concerns such as fair competition, conflict of interest, acceptance and giving of gifts, improper payments, working with government and regulators. As per the Code of Conduct, employees are strictly forbidden to accept any bribe, improper payment or inappropriate favor of any other kind. Besides cash payments, such inappropriate payments would include: • Kickbacks or kickback schemes, especially in form of cash • Unexplained rebates • Personal favors such as club memberships, entertainment and preferential treatment A brief description of our Processes or Systems: • Our processes are guided by Policies and Process Documents. Some of these are as prescribed by CWT Global. • All our core functions and operations are automated and the systems monitored continuously for fraud prevention and response to business requirements. • We have a robust booking system (GDS) which has improved efficiency in core customer processes including activations, billing & reporting. The system is integrated into TRAACSour Financial Reporting System hence reducing reconciliation errors which are sometimes subject to manipulation • For nonautomated processes, we have in place robust manual processes to mitigate business and operational risk • The processes are both preventative and detective in nature. We have continuous monitoring of reports from the system and corrective action mechanism (e.g. Consequence Management) where any frauds or noncompliances are noted Communication on Progress 2017 2018 18 Activities implemented in the last year • Submitted our Second COP to UN Global Compact and committed to implementing its standards. • Communication and annual signing of Code of Conduct by all senior management as stipulated by CWT Global • Implemented TTS – an online booking tool which gives travelers from our various clients an opportunity to see the fares available for flights. This was to enhance more transparency between the company and the clients. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company • Increased transparency for example with regards to procurement decisions. • Reduced fraud events or incidences and revenue leakages. • Reduction in Customer Resolution timelines • Ethics and values measures; the company issued warning letters to two employees as a away to curb corrupt dealings or violation of the company’s code of conduct • Increased sensitization of policies to reduce instances of corrupt dealings How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? We intend to communicate to all our stakeholders through: • Upload the COP report on UN Global compact website • Upload the COP report on our website www.bunsontravel.com. Already part of the information in this report is available on the website under Bunson CSR. Communication on Progress 2017 2018 19 APPENDICES 1. Renovation of JWPT Housing, ruthumbi. Mt Kenya BEFORE: 2. TREE PLANTING AT EBURRU FOREST AFTER: Communication on Progress 2017 2018 20 Communication on Progress 2017 2018 21
