Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 18 0 1 1 0101 100 1 110 1 0 1 0 0110 1011 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 1 0100110 00 1 11 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 010 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 111 1 0 0110 11 0010 0 1 0110 11 000 0 1 1 0 1 0 0111000100011011 1 0100111000100011010 0 01 11 000 1 1 10 1 Image: ESA/ATG medialab 1111 01 1 0 1 ALLIES IN INNOVATION 0 1 10101 100 1 110 1 0100110 1011 0 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 0 110100110100010 1 11 110001011010 0110100111 100110 11 1 0010 010110 11 000 INTRODUCTION 1 11000100011010 0 01 11 000 1 1 10 1 1111 01 1 0 1 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION “AT TERMA, WE DELIVER SECURITY FOR COUNTRIES, ALLIANCES, AND INDIVIDUALS; SECURITY IS A MEANS TO MAINTAINING AND DEVELOPING PROSPERITY AND PROTECTING HUMAN LIVES AND SOVEREIGNTY.” Jens Maaløe, President & CEO Image: Royal Netherlands Air Force CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION 3 Foreword by Jens Maaløe This year, a key priority for us was to discover the linkages between our This is our third separate Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report, and purpose and our engagement towards social responsibility. this very report marks our first Communication on Progress (COP) following our engagement towards the UN Global Compact, which we formalized in Developing what we call our CSR Compass (see page 12), we clearly anchor April 2017. We have committed ourselves to support the Ten Principles, CSR within our business and our daily work. We have worked with CSR for which have guided and inspired the structure of our overall Corporate many years prior to this step, but we acknowledge that the time has come Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy as well as this report. to further strengthen our engagement and to work towards integrating CSR systematically. In this report, we present how 2017/18 has been a year with steady progress and several important milestones on our CSR journey. This commitment demands work, requires a long-term perspective, and the willingness to sometimes work in new ways; but in doing so, we will also You will read about the important steps taken this year to further integrate become more valued and valuable as a company. corporate responsibility in the strategic mindset of our organization. Our systematic approach revolves around the key areas: Human and Labor Rights, Anti-corruption and Business Ethics, Environment, and of course “This engagement is born from the how this translates into our work with our Supply Chain. firm belief that it is the right thing to I hope you will find the report interesting to read, and I look forward to do, and in doing so, we will yield sharing more on our future work and progress. additional benefits to our company and our stakeholders.” Jens Maaløe President & CEO 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION Our values, mission & vision OUR VISION Securing people through advanced technology. OUR MISSION Our engineering excellence provides mission critical solutions within Aerospace, Defense and Security to protect people and their assets. OUR VALUES Act globally Learn and improve • Be visible locally • Talk about successes • Respond quickly and mistakes • Be open-minded • Ask questions • Learn from each other Deliver the promise • Think ahead Show passion • Be responsible • Show dedication • Go do it • Make a difference • Go the extra mile Work with integrity • Show respect • Be honest • Help each other CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION 5 Our business model With this business model, we aim to illustrate the relations between our core business operations and our ethical commitment. Key resources Business activities Mission-critical products, +100 space missions and Financial capital software, and services for +1,000 space projects Finance investments and production space missions rely on Terma’s expertise and know-how Human resources To operate our business, we depend on our highly skilled and diverse workforce Airborne solutions and +2,800 aircraft manufacturing of electronics rely on Terma’s and aerostructures self-protection solutions Natural resources We rely on energy and water in our production facilities Radar surveillance to +2,500 SCANTER radars secure national borders installed (coastal surveillance, and critical infrastructure Vessel Traffic Services, Facilities and to keep people safe Surface Movement Radar, Two production facilities located in and naval applications) Denmark. In total, operations at 16 locations in 9 countries on 3 continents Command and control 10 regional navies and systems and self-protection coast guards rely on Partnerships for naval vessels Terma’s naval solutions Our business partners are essential for our operations and development Maintenance, support, and +4,000 radar systems, Supply chain update of Terma products aircraft, and navies Supplies in goods, materials, and in the global defense and supported worldwide services to support our own production security market CSR Compass “We are guided by one overall purpose: to deliver security for countries, alliances, and individuals; Security is a means to maintaining and developing prosperity and protecting human lives and sovereignty. In fulfilling this purpose, we conduct our business ethically, inspired by the UN Global Compact.” 6 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION Value creation Revenue We create value for our ”shareholder” the Thomas B. Thrige Foundation Tax contributions We comply with relevant legislation and pay our taxes in the countries where we operate Responsible employer We create work and train our team to maintain and develop competences/expertise Customers We enable our customers to keep people safe Contribution to communities We support the education of young people, and in 2017/18, we welcomed 32 interns, trainees, and students as part of their academic development CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION 7 Terma in the industry How would you describe Terma Interview with: How does CSR support our mission and vision? as a company? Generally and Steen M. Lynenskjold “Terma’s mission is to use technology to in a CSR context? Executive Vice President & Chief make the world more secure. Everything Commercial Officer (CCO) we do is mission critical; whether it is a Terma is the largest defense radar placed at an airport or a self-protection and security company in system for an aircraft: it has to work when put to use. CSR actually fits really well Denmark, we are a technology with what we do. The CSR policy helps us company, and everything in how we do business. That gives us some we do is around delivering guidance in how we conduct business.” technology to make the world more secure. What are the benefits of incorporating CSR in our strategy? “CSR is an important part of our strategy. You could say that CSR is helping us establish guidance for how we want to do things, how we conduct our business. This is about how we behave in society; it is for example our work on anti-corruption, how we deal with subcontractors, and with our impact on the environment. Over the last few years, we have conducted extensive Due Diligence on all our marketing consultants.” Terma’s mission is to use technology to make the world more secure. “From a CSR perspective, Terma is very towards corruption. Also, when it comes to Everything we do is much focused on behaving in the right way. Terma has proud roots in Denmark. This is the way of doing business, we use the same ethical standards throughout our mission critical; our home base, and most of our employees are based in Denmark. So we tend to say company, no matter where we operate in the world.” whether it is a radar that we can’t live off Denmark, but we placed at an airport couldn’t live without Denmark. I believe it gives us guidance in how to behave, conWhat are our goals and aspirations businesswise in the coming years? or a self-protection duct business, and work.“ “It is an exciting time for Terma! We are system for an What makes Terma unique in the industry with regard to CSR? on a growth journey, we have grown significantly over the last couple of years, aircraft: it has to and we look into growing further. There is work when put “Terma benefits from being a Danish company, Denmark being one of the least corrupt no doubt that we are benefitting from Denmark’s selection of the F-35 program, to use. countries in the world. There is no doubt but also our radar business and naval C2 that this fits well with our zero tolerance business are showing good progress.” 8 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION Our background Terma has deep and proud roots in Denmark, tracing its origins back to 1944 About this report and the brothers Orla and Svend Aage Jørgensen. In their small mechanical This Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report aims at providing insight shop, the brothers manufactured thermometers and manometers, giving into Terma’s work towards business ethics, environmental and social inspiration to the name Terma. In 1949, a limited liability company was created. sustainability, and covers the 1 March 2017 28 February 2018 fiscal year. Already in the 1950s, Terma worked with the Danish Defence in various projects to upgrade radars, computer systems, and air defense systems. This report represents our statutory statement on social responsibility and underrepresented gender in accordance with sections §99 a and b of the In 1980, the Thomas B. Thrige Foundation acquired the majority of the Danish Financial Statements Act. shares in Terma A/S. The foundation was created in 1933 by Thomas Barfoed Thrige (1866-1938), a highly skilled craftsman within the electro-mechanical Following Terma’s engagement as a signatory to the United Nations Global area and successful businessman from Odense, Denmark. Upon his Compact, it also constitutes our first official Communication on Progress. retirement, Thomas B. Thrige wanted to preserve his legacy and set up a foundation in his own name. Today, industrial foundations are a common but distinctive form of company ownership in Denmark. The foundation is an independent legal entity without owners. Long-term ownership allows Terma to focus on steady development and is without doubt one of the reasons why our company still thrives after so many years of existence. The Thomas B. Thrige Foundation supports two main purposes; activities Our approach to reporting is to focus on material issues and activities benefitting the Danish business community, primarily within craftsmanship in line with stakeholder concerns and relevance in terms of context, and industry, and extended higher education at foreign universities. The completeness, and balance. We strive for accuracy, timeliness, clarity, and Foundation grants 40–70 donations annually to universities, technical or reliability in the way we communicate. scientific museums, research purposes, international scientific conferences, PhD students, and case competitions for students. Terma’s Corporate Social Responsibility journey During the 2017/18 fiscal year, Terma has strengthened its engagement towards social responsibility, taking major steps such as becoming signatory to the UNGC, reviewing and enforcing its policies, and preparing a CSR strategy up to 2022 which aims at systematically integrating CSR in Terma’s business. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION 9 Formulating a systematic approach Terma initiated the work with CSR in 2009, and since then, we have reguThree main building blocks will help our ambitions and goals come larly strengthened our approach. Acknowledging the steady increase in to life and to integrate CSR in Terma: number and complexity of CSR related requirements combined with the expected growth of Terma at a global level called for a revised approach. TerCSR risk management: we will work towards an enhanced understanding ma’s latest CSR strategy does just that by looking towards 2022 with the of the CSR related risks and compliance issues. goal to integrate CSR within our business practices beyond compliance. CSR opportunities: we will identify where CSR brings opportunities and Our focus has been to ensure that CSR practices become anchored in all engage actively with the business on concrete work. relevant departments by establishing ownership, but also by making the business drivers tangible. Organizational development: we will keep raising awareness so that in turn it brings engagement and pull from the organization. “Systematically integrating CSR in the business processes also means making Our commitment to the connection with our values and Corporate Social Responsibility our business strategy. Only then can Starting our journey in 1949, Terma has deep and proud roots in Denmark we ensure that CSR becomes a part of and has a strong global presence through our subsidiaries and liaison Terma’s business in the long run.” offices. Terma Group develops products and systems for defense, non-defense, and security applications, including command and Morten Halskov, Senior Vice President, General Counsel control systems, radar systems, self-protection systems for aircraft, space technology, and aerostructures for the aircraft industry. We work closely with defense and emergency forces, public authorities, and international organizations around the world. We are guided by one overall purpose: to deliver security for countries, alliances, and individuals. Security is a means to maintaining and developing prosperity and to protecting human lives and sovereignty. Strong of this identity, our values, and our vision, we are committed to conducting our activities responsibly. We comply with legal requirements and strive to attain best practice, and equally important to live up to our commitment towards the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles. We acknowledge that social responsibility is an ongoing “CSR in Terma has been seen as something journey, and as part of a value chain, we too have a responsibility to use our sphere of influence in order to promote progress towards obvious for many years. We have strong ethical and responsible business practice. company values and a culture of “doing the right thing”. Nonetheless, we can see that Regular stakeholder engagement is crucial to our progress, and we are by defining what it means to Terma, we can open for dialog and communication with our key stakeholders. As part better engage our own organization and our of this engagement, we report regularly and openly on our progress and challenges. stakeholders and focus on where we can have an impact. It is also a clear signal of We expect all our employees, business partners, and relevant third our commitment.” parties acting on our behalf to behave in respect of this commitment. Our suppliers’ behavior is particularly important in this context, and we Morten Halskov, Senior Vice President, General Counsel expect them to live up to the same ethical standards as we do and to actively work towards improved responsible business practices. 10 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION CSR for Terma – Words from some of our leaders “CSR offers a set of values on which we can build a more cohesive society and a much more sustainable economy. For Terma, this means that we ensure that we put a positive mark on the society by valuing people and our planet.” Jesper Bøhnke Senior Vice President, Supply Chain Management “To me, CSR is that Terma demonstrates accountability towards both the local and the global society wherever we execute our business. In practice, this means that we must create value not only for the company itself, but also for the society where we operate. It can be seen in how we handle social, environmental, and ethical challenges, as should be expected from a company like ours which has signed up to internationally recognized principles for CSR.” Finn Jäger-Rasmussen Senior Vice President, Technology & Innovation “It’s about companies taking responsibility for the social and environmental impacts of their activities, no matter where we are in the world. It is important that the people within companies take these responsibilities. As a leader, CSR is important to guide my behavior towards ethical decisions and help me to be a role model.” Charlotte Ludvigsen Vice President, Applications CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION 11 Our Corporate Social Responsibility perspective Committing to work with CSR means defining what this concept represents for Terma. We have created our “CSR Compass” in which we connect our purpose with our CSR engagement, illustrating how our mission of providing security plays a positive impact on prosperity, human lives, and sovereignty. CSR Compass “We are guided by one overall purpose: to deliver security for countries, alliances, and individuals; Security is a means to maintaining and developing prosperity and protecting human lives and sovereignty. In fulfilling this purpose, we conduct our business ethically, inspired by the UN Global Compact.” m ber An y me att rac nit tiv mu S LAB HT OR R IG om ew dc ork ge RI nga AN pla GH ce An e HUM TS E SUPP IBL PON CHAIN RES S LY er partn An e ION nvir EN PT ess onm sin VIR RU NM OR bu en O Terma’s radar of engagement EN C le TIta sib lly co T n ns cio AN res po Structuring our work with CSR, we have decided to adopt the four focus areas of the United Nations us and pro al Global Compact (UNGC) placing Responsible Supply duce r An ethic Chain at the very core of our model as it encompasses all four areas and forms a key priority for Terma. 12 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION SCIENTSTS & OUR KEY EMPLOYEES POLICYMAKERS STAKEHOLDERS GOVERNMENT SHAREHOLDERS & INDUSTRY PARTNERS & PROFESSIONAL Key stakeholders and materiality ASSOCIATIONS Having an in-depth understanding of our stakeholders’ and our own material issues is vital for our business operations. Diversity & Inclusion Anti-Corruption Data Privacy Corporate Philanthropy & Sponsorship COMMUNITY Employees and Community Pollution prevention Talent attraction & retention TERMASUPPLIERS CUSTOMERS STAKEHOLDERS Health, Safety & Security Human & Labor Rights Responsible political involvement & lobbying Environmental compliance SCIENTISTS & OUR KEY Suppliers’ CSR performance EMPLOYEES POLICYMAKERS STAKEHOLDERS Product stewardship Conflict of Interest Environmental footprint REACH & other substitution THE THOMAS B. GOVERNMENT THRIGE & INDUSTRY FOUNDATION PARTNERS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS Diversity & inclusion Anti-corruption Data privacy Corporate philanthropy & sponsorship Employees and community Pollution prevention Talent attraction & retention TERMA Health, safety & security STAKEHOLDERS Human & labor rights Responsible political involvement & lobbying Environmental compliance Suppliers’ CSR performance Product stewardship Conflict of interest Environmental footprint REACH & other substitution CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION 13 Renewed governance CSR cannot be implemented as an isolated area, but needs to be integrated throughout the relevant functions and Business Areas. This year, our efforts to further strengthen our CSR priorities, and in turn adapt our structures and processes accordingly, have resulted in a renewed governance to drive future work. We have as such replaced the centralized, cross-functional working group which has been in charge of directing the CSR work from 2009 until the end of 2017/18 and created a CSR Board with a stronger business orientation. The CSR Board’s role will be to anchor the CSR performance and ensure the thorough implementation of the strategy within the organization and businesses. The main changes reside in the inclusion of representatives from the Business Areas, the production units, and the innovation centers. CSR governance structure Terma considers the establishment of an improved governance structure an essential part of being an accountable and transparent company. Executive Management CSR Board CSR Function 14 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION Terma and the Sustainable Development Goals A changing world changes expectations of companies, resulting in a new the increasing expectations of businesses. This is why we welcome the role for the private sector. Companies have a responsibility and a role to SGD framework as it offers a fresh perspective on how governments, civil play in shaping our common future. This acknowledgement is reflected in society, and businesses can work together in partnerships towards a our commitment to conduct our business in a way that supports the United common set of goals and develop a more sustainable and inclusive world. Nations’ (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the 17 goals, and 169 subsequent targets which were adopted by all 193 member states as This year, Terma conducted an initial assessment of the SDGs in the context part of the UN’s 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda in 2015. The SDGs of our core activities and impacts, to map our future commitment to the represent the most pressing global challenges today, highlighting the agenda. We have chosen to pursue and prioritize the 6 SDGs which are needs of billions of people, and act as a framework for our work towards most strategically aligned with our business operations and which can sustainable development and long-term value creation. They also reflect ensure the greatest influence. In this report, you can read how Terma contributes to the SDGs in each chapter. Throughout 2018/19, we look forward to following the development of this multi-stakeholder agenda and how to measure progress and impacts of businesses against the SDG goals and targets. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION 15 0 1 1 0 10 1 100 1 110 1 0 1 00 1 1 0 2 1 0 11 1 11 HUMAN 1 1 00 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 1 10 1 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 01 1 0 AND LABOR 11 0 0 10 0 1 01 1 0 11 000 1 RIGHTS 0 01 11 000 1 0 1 0 101101 1 0 1 0 1 0 110100110100010 10 1 1 1 11 01 1 0 1 1 00010 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 16 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS “WE ARE ONE OF THE MAIN WORKPLACES IN THE AREA IN TERMS OF NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES. THIS COMES WITH RESPONSIBILITY, ALSO TOWARDS THE COMMUNITY IN WHICH WE LIVE.” Jørgen O. M. Laursen Senior Vice President, Aerostructures Manufacturing Our Grenaa facility located in the Djursland region of Jutland, Denmark, is one of the biggest providers of jobs in that area. At Terma, we acknowledge that this responsibility and impact on human and labor rights is twofold; towards our employees and our local communities. Image: Royal Danish Navy CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS 17 Engaged and engaging provider of workplaces Why this matters Why this matters Our targets Our progress What’s next? Risks for society for Terma Terma impacts the We are committed to Ensure that we have Initial human rights In-depth assessment The labor rights risks communities in respect human and a clear overview and labor rights and engagement identified are limited which we operate, labor rights in all of of the risks and assessment with our supply chain as Terma has through our activities our activities and negative impacts carried out. with initial focus on matured in a as a workplace, operations, to we might generate the Tier 1 suppliers. strict regulatory our production, maintain our social via our business Human and Labor environment. our products, and license to operate, operations. This also Rights Policy Provide specific Nonetheless, safety technologies. and to protect our entails having the released. training and of the employees is Respecting and most important asset; relevant mitigation awareness. always top of mind. enhancing our employees. measures in place. fundamental rights Working on LTI The human and is key to sustainable reduction to labor rights impacts development and protect our in our supply chains prosperity. employees’ safety. are also risks that we need to further understand and mitigate. Understanding our impacts on human and labor rights Fighting slavery and trafficking in person At Terma, we are committed to respecting and protecting human and labor The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the Federal Acquisition rights in all of our business operations. Through own activities, and those Regulation, subpart 22.17 on Combating Trafficking in Persons, are of business partners, companies risk either causing, contributing, or being intended to tackle modern forms of slavery, ranging from bonded labor to linked with potential negative impacts on human and labor rights. abusive working conditions. At Terma, we live up to the national legislation in the countries where we operate, as well as the applicable International In 2017, we have integrated this engagement in our Human and Labor Labour Organization’s (ILO) Conventions to guarantee good working conditions. Rights Policy (see excerpts). We plan to transform this policy into relevant activities such as awareness and training, further assessment of our supply Along with this report, we are also publishing our second annual statement chain, and more. An initial assessment was carried out focusing on our pursuant to Section 54 of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. In this, we compliance to human rights relating to labor rights. It allowed an inward report our progress during the fiscal year 2017/18 on addressing the risk of checkup and confirmed our compliance to relevant requirements and the modern slavery and human trafficking in our own business as well as our lack of direct negative impacts. The next step will be to build up on this and global supply chain. This year’s statement as well as our first are available broaden the scope: analyzing the broader impacts and looking at other on our company website. stakeholders. We acknowledge the complexity of such issues and the need to further understand as well as manage the risks that could relate to our supply chain. We have carried out an initial risk assessment, considering the categories of products purchased, the country of origin, and the relationship between our direct Tier 1 suppliers and their suppliers in order to identify potential issues. On the basis of this, we have decided to adapt our engagement with our suppliers. In the coming fiscal year, we plan to carry out a more thorough impact assessment and engagement of our supply chain. 18 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS Human Rights and Labor Rights Policy – excerpt 1 We have a zero tolerance towards slavery and trafficking in persons. We are opposed to trafficking in persons and slavery in any form. Slavery is illegal and constitutes a violation of human rights. It may take many forms, including but not limited to; forced labor, exploitation, debt bondage, being physically constrained, and having restrictions on freedom of movement. Terma’s employees and relevant third parties must not engage in any practice that constitutes trafficking in persons or slavery. This includes, but is not limited to, the following activities: 1. Engaging in any form of trafficking in persons; 2. Procuring commercial sex acts during the period of participation to a U.S. government contract; Terma as a responsible employer 3. Using forced or bounded labor; 4. Destroying, concealing, confiscating, or otherwise denying access Total number of employees 1,470 by an employee to the employee’s identity or immigration (as per 28-02-2018) documents such as passport or driver’s license, regardless of the issuing authority; Over 50 years old = 554 Under 30 = 173 5. a. Using misleading or fraudulent practices during the recruitment (407 men, 147 women) (136 men, 37 women) of candidates or when offering employment positions, such as, failing to disclose in a format and language accessible to the worker, basic information or making material misrepresentations during the recruitment of employees regarding the key terms and conditions of employment including wages, fringe benefits, location of work, living conditions, housing, and associated costs (if relevant), any significant cost to be charged to the employee, and, if applicable, the hazardous nature of the work; 30-50 years old = 743 (533 men, 210 women) b. Using recruiters that do not comply with the local labor laws of the country in which the recruiting is taking place; 6. Charging employees recruitment fees; Terma considers our employees to be the most important asset. This year, 7. Failing to provide return transportation or pay the cost of return we have formultated a new Human and Labor Rights Policy to further structransportation (where relevant); ture and clarify our continued efforts to protect these universal rights and 8. Failing to provide housing that meets the host country housing promoting a positive impact. Part of our policy focuses on stating clearly and safety standards (where relevant); what we stand for in Terma: an inclusive workplace where every employee 9. If required by law or contract, failing to provide an employment is treated with dignity and respect, and where the rights of the individuals contract, recruitment agreement, or other required document in are respected. writing; and in a language that the employee understands. Terma takes responsibility for the wellbeing of its employees in the workplace, and we are committed to a healthy and sustainable working life with a continuous focus on being a safe and great place to work with happy and motivated employees. In Terma, we emphasize sound employment conditions and career opportunities, exciting and challenging jobs, as well as flexible working hours. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS 19 Being a female leader at Terma Human Rights and Labor Rights Policy – Interview with: excerpt 2 Charlotte Ludvigsen Vice President, Applications We create an inclusive workplace Our employees are our most important resource and the building blocks of our organization. We aspire to be recognized as a company with a second to none professional working environment where our employees can strive and progress, and where the What do you think about women and leadership in the context of your own diversity of talents is recognized. career at Terma? • We respect our employees as well as the employees of our “It’s never been an issue for me. I think we are all equal, and I don’t business partners and treat them with dignity and respect. feel a difference in the way I am acting. I think it’s more about the • We respect the rights of employees to form, join, or not join labor interest in leadership and in people that matters.” unions. This includes the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. What are the challenges for women specific to this industry? • We believe that all employees have a right to fair working conditions and fair wages. “There aren’t that many women in this industry. It’s not an issue, but it • We are committed to protect the health and safety of our makes the industry different. Imagine that during some of my visits, employees and of all visitors present on our premises. Therefore, I have experienced places that didn’t even have a women’s restroom!” we work to minimize health and safety risks in our operations. • We have developed our human resources policies in order to ensure Which strategies can help women in their careers? respect of our employees’ labor rights and we continuously work to improve employee satisfaction. “You need to be well aware of education and training as a strategy • We are dedicated to creating an inclusive workplace where in building your career and act upon it. Networking is quite important.” diversity is valued. • We do not tolerate discrimination, abuse, or harassment of any Looking back on your career so far, would you have done anything differently? kind. This includes maintaining a work environment free from harsh treatment and retaliation. “My choices have made me the one I am today. But if I should change • We believe that we have an important role towards the younger one thing, it would be to be more direct and follow just one path.” generations, not only respecting their rights and adhering to the legislation against child labor, but also providing them with Which accomplishments are you most proud of in your career? opportunities. Therefore, we engage with educational institutions to offer apprenticeships, internships, and other opportunities to “What I enjoyed most and I am most proud of has been to take part develop experience and expertise. in building something new. This has been the case with building the Service business in Terma and contributing to its success.” What would be your advice to young women today who are starting their career? “Believe very strongly in yourself, have self-trust, and make sure you go for it!” 20 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS Our employees are our most important asset. Terma regularly participates at exhibitions around the world which are vital for our business, here represented by our colleagues from Terma North America at an exhibition in the United States. A diverse and inclusive workplace Our next steps: A global Diversity Policy At Terma, we want to foster a good working environment where everyone We have had a policy for several years to systematically invite a female can thrive and flourish. We believe that there is strength in diversity and candidate for interviews for all managerial positions. This has sometimes gender equality, which contributes to a positive impact on our business and proven difficult as the pool of candidates might not always allow for this. is essential for adapting to a changing world. Only by having more dynamic teams working together with different backgrounds and ways of thinking, We have therefore prepared a revised Diversity and Inclusion Policy which greater value and progress can be achieved going forward. Terma strives will be rolled out in the coming fiscal year. It focuses on: towards an inclusive workplace, where we can attract new employees from the widest talent pool. • Broadening the appeal within employer branding • Reviewing the recruitment process Although the Aerospace and Defense industry is traditionally male dominated, • Training managers in biases when recruiting and acknowledging Terma being no exception, we are slowly increasing our focus on attracting performance more women to Terma. • Developing, maintaining, and projecting a welcoming culture. At the end of 2017/18, 21.4% of the Global Management positions were Based on the above considerations and assessheld by females (2016/17: 19.8%). ment, Terma sees a clear link with the SDG # 5 and its responsibility to ”Achieve gender equality and At Board level, provided the Board of Directors consists of the most qualified empower all women and girls”. members, Terma strives at having a fair balance between the genders among the members elected by the shareholder. During the fiscal year, the number of Board members elected by the shareholder was increased from four to five, and as of 25 May 2018, out of these five Board members, two are females. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS 21 Our commitment to security, personal safety, and health Operating heavy machinery at our production sites in Grenaa and Lystrup Terma provides a safe and healthy work environment for both employees makes these locations a natural focus for us as they represent the highest and visitors in accordance with applicable laws and international standards. degree of risk in terms of personal safety. At both sites, local representation Being a Danish-based company, we benefit from extensive national legislation of our Working Environment Organization is in charge of handling any in this area. unforeseen incidents as well as mitigation procedures to prevent similar future incidents. Our employees form the foundation for our success. The skills and competences of our workforce are some of our most important assets, and we will therefore Terma has comprehensive policies and manuals on personal safety, working not compromise the human and labor rights or the occupational health and environment, and emergency plans in place, focusing on awareness, safety of our employees. Being a highly technological company entails a responsibility, and prevention. On a regular basis, Terma conducts workplace constant focus for us on safety and what can be done to prevent and mitigate assessments and employee surveys that raise awareness on employee accidents and for employees to be aware of the risks surrounding them. safety. As per requirements in Danish legislation, we conduct a survey specifically on working environment (APV) every third year, to assess our General update on safety at Terma employees’ perception of personal health and safety at their workplace, including the psychosocial working environment. This gives us insight into At Lystrup and Grenaa, a total of what can be improved. 14 working accidents were reported In order to prevent and mitigate any potential accidents at our production during the 2017/18 fiscal year. sites, detailed information on all near accidents and corrective actions for these are accounted for in our management system. Detailed accounts of these incidents are all reported to the applicable national authorities. In Lost Time Injuries (LTI) Frequency: doing this, we ensure that any incident that could potentially lead to personnel injuries, if not corrected, are effectively prevented. This year, we saw a 2015/16 2016/17* 2017/18 small number of incidents that were dealt with and procedures to prevent 4.49 5.69 7.40 similar accidents were established immediately. Safety Excellence Program at Aerostructures Manufacturing *data in 2016/17 report for year 2016/17 were The manufacturing of aerostructures implies working with metals, chemicals, incorrectly reported with 4.43 and carbon fiber among other components. It is a demanding and at times challenging working environment, but the team at our Grenaa factory has a long experience and is continuously looking for new ways to improve. And LTI Frequency is calculated as follow: when a recent trend showed an increase in lost hours due to accidents, the management took a swift decision to set up a new program focusing on (Number of lost time injuries in accounting period) safety culture. × 1,000,000 (Total hours worked in accounting period) “At Terma, we take safety very seriously. Absence due to accidents Frequency: There is nothing more important than ensuring that our employees can work safely.” 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 0.13 0.16 0.25 Jørgen O. M. Laursen Senior Vice President, Aerostructures Manufacturing This is why we launched a Safety Excellence Program which will run from (Absence in hours) February 2018 until fully implemented in 2020. The purpose of the program will support us in reaching a world-class safety culture and behavioral safety. (Total hours worked in accounting period) × 1,000,000 The program includes communication and incentives specifically oriented The increase in LTI Frequency and Absence is assessed to be due to the towards improving the company’s security culture. The Safety Excellence intake of many new employees in the production area. To reduce the Program also includes activities that target improvements of our already number of LTIs and Absence, we have initiated a Safety Excellence high working environment standards for equipment and fixtures. program in Grenaa. See separate text. 22 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS The new Safety Management Framework will provide us with improved working environment standards for ”working in heights”and “working with forklifts” and improved standards for work at and in machines “Look Out / TAG Out system”. “So far, we have primarily focused on improving our technical safety level. Now, it is time to take the next step and improve our safety behavior and our safety culture.” Jørgen O. M. Laursen Senior Vice President, Aerostructures Manufacturing Data privacy Sound data management is at the core of Terma’s business: being able to manage our customers’ information on sensitive topics such as security and defense decisions is essential. In May 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation takes effect within the European Union. It relies on the similar principles of data privacy that existed in earlier regulation, but it has brought to light the need to demonstrate compliance and to document it. At Terma, we took the opportunity to go through our whole organization and assess for each phase of our value chain how we process personal data. As a result of this extensive process, we have updated some policies and procedures, but we also reinforced our employees’ awareness as they are at the forefront to ensure good practice. In the next fiscal year, we will implement additional training and awareness measures to make sure that everyone understands where challenges might arise. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS 23 A conversation on internships at Terma What is the motivation for Terma, and your Francesc: Interview with: department, to hire interns? “I began my internship at Terma during the Preben Schmidt Nielsen third semester of my Master’s degree at Director, Research & Innovation Preben: Aalborg University. During my research Management, TEC “Working within product development, we process, I came across Terma and was Francesc Joan Riera constantly need to bring forward new interested to join due to the field of work, Intern, Research & Innovation technology, and we also face the challenge but also based on the positive feedback Management, TEC of maturing these ideas. We are dependent from former interns. I was offered to take on new knowledge, and through Terma’s on two different projects; the Synthetic collaboration with three of the Danish Aperture Radars (SAR) project on satellite universities; Aalborg University (AAU), images and the Advanced Ground Aarhus University (AU), and the Technical Surveillance (AGS) project from NATO University of Denmark (DTU), we regularly concerning simulator data. welcome interns to help us. And, for my Master’s thesis, an expert We are keen to have students do their within Terma’s radar team came across an Master’s thesis or Bachelor project after academic paper on a product that we betheir internship is done which is what lieve we can develop and do even better. Francesc is now working on. Having interns It’s a great opportunity to see if this can also allows us to find the right people for translate into a product. At the end of the Terma as our interns can become candidates day, the thesis needs to be beneficial for for future employment at Terma after both Terma and me; the aim is for the graduation.“ company to have new research and hopefully a new product.” Can you elaborate on your time at Terma, what motivated your choice, your tasks, and Preben: responsibilities as an intern? “It is interesting to highlight that Francesc’s 24 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS It is interesting to highlight that Francesc’s work on the SAR project is now being published via a NATO working group. It shows how relevant our interns’ work is for Terma and for the industry. work on the SAR project is now being brings along a different cultural background allowed me to get closer to the Danish published via a NATO working group, a which is always stimulating.” culture. As an example, with your closed group which Terma and the Danish colleagues, you can begin a discussion on Defence are invited to, where the results What have you enjoyed the most and what has approaches to a project and end up from Francesc’s work will be presented. It been the most challenging? discussing whether Danish or Spanish shows how relevant our interns’ work is potatoes are the best. Danes like to argue for Terma and for the industry.” Francesc: on everything! It’s incredible.” “Before my internship, I was focusing on What are the challenges of having interns studying and getting good grades, but at Terma? during my time at Terma, I have been able to put my academic skills and knowledge Before my Preben: into a broader perspective. It is important “We highly depend on finding “the right as a student to be able to actively contribute internship, I was match” for Terma. The academic background of the student and our project must match for to the projects, learning how new products are developed, and how the company focusing on studying the internship to be a successful experience for both parties. Fortunately, our partner works. and getting good universities have a solid understanding of I have enjoyed getting to develop and readapt grades, but during Terma and the very specific requirements my field of expertise from one to two areas: with regards to the skills and academic machine learning and now radars as well. my time at Terma, expertise that must be met. “ This has also been the most challenging part as I had limited knowledge within the I have been able to Preben, what have you learned from Francesc? radar field. Fortunately, my supervisors were able to provide the support I needed, put my academic “Well, first of all we have gained significant it was crucial that they dedicated a lot of skills and knowledge academic results from Francesc’s projects. time to teach me new knowledge and On a more personal level, Francesc, and develop my skills and expertise. into a broader this goes for all our interns, contributes with new thoughts and ideas to a good and From a social perspective, there is a perspective. inspiring working environment and enables different dynamic and relationship between a broader mindset within the department. colleagues than between student and Franscesc comes from Spain and also teacher. Also, coming from Spain, it has CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS 25 Terma in the community Engaged in developing the future workforce As part of our engagement towards human rights, we also support and further strengthen the positive impacts we have. At Terma, we support the right to education, and we do so by supporting our employees’ continued In 2017/18, we have welcomed: education on the job and within relevant skills, but also by partnering with 32 educational institutions. We see a clear link with SDG 4 “Ensure inclusive Interns, trainees, and students 36 and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning.” Apprentices an increase of 9.09% since last year 4 Medals for craftmanship “It is important for Terma to advance the knowledge and expertise that we have within our walls; welcoming the younger generation is one of the ways to continuously improve and expand our capabilities.“ Niels Henrik Bundsgaard Senior Vice President, Group HR It is a win-win situation: the young people we welcome benefit from the experience of working with us and from the mentoring and guidance from our employees; while we as a company can learn from the new generations’ way of working and also from their questions and mindset. 26 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS Partnering with the community Interview with: Rikke Høi In recent years, Terma has had a partnership with a local sheltered Workshop Assistant workshop for mentally disabled people called Nærheden, which is located Nærheden across the street from our production facility in Grenaa. Every week, a resident at Nærheden, Inger-Lise, makes 1,000 pieces of 6 mm wide markers which are used for 2D and 3D through-transmission c-scan images for Terma Aerostructures. The purpose of the wide markers is to indicate areas of particular focus in these scans, such as attenuation changes, geometric features, and for the 2-axis scans to show boundaries between sections when more than one scan is necessary. Can you tell us a bit about Nærheden? “We supply the material and “Nærheden” “Nærheden was established in 1973, and we offer a secure environment for citizens with mental or physical disabilities to then cuts it up into small pieces. It is a come and be part of our daily activities and production. It is important win-win situation for us as it helps us reduce for us to make sure that the people here are happy and feel part of a cost and we support a good cause.” something bigger.” Anette Bjørnholt What are the daily activities at the workshop? Operator, NDT Level II, Aerostructures Manufacturing “At the moment, there are 16 persons at our sewing workshop The wide markers are important components in our production and entail a participating in our production and activities. Several other comhigh degree of precision skills to produce. Previously, the production of panies have a collaboration with us, so there are lots of activities wide markers was carried out by Terma’s own operators, using time and and small productions going on every day. For our participants, resources. Moving this production to Nærheden allows Terma to dedicate being part of Nærheden make them feel acknowledged and that focus on more specialized and demanding work, but it also generates a they contribute to something meaningful in their daily lives. closer relation to our local community, and for Inger-Lise, it is an exciting task to accompany her everyday activities. Collaborating with Terma, were there any challenges in the beginning of this project? Every week, Inger-Lise makes 1,000 pieces of “The collaboration with Terma went smoothly. Inger-Lise was eager 6 mm wide markers for and quick to learn a new skill. She really enjoys getting more Terma Aerostructures. responsibility, and very quickly, she had found a systematic approach to cutting the wide markers efficiently and with high precision. Our contact at Terma has shown great confidence in Inger-Lise and given us the freedom to control the production in the way best suitable for her. Projects like this benefit both Nærheden and Terma.” CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS 27 0 1 1 0 10 1 100 1 1 10 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 1 0100110100010 110 1 0 1 00 1 1 0 1 0 11 001 1 1 000100 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 00 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 1 10 1 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 01 1 0 11 0 0 10 3 0 1 01 1 0 11 000 1 ANTI0 01 11 000 1 1 CORRUPTION 10 1 AND BUSINESS ETHICS 1 1 11 01 1 0 10 1 001 01 1 1 00 1 0 1 0 10 0 1 1 0 1 01 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 10 10 0 28 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANTI-CORRUPTION AND BUSINESS ETHICS “IN OUR INDUSTRY, TERMA IS A SUPPLIER TO MANY MAJOR PROJECTS AND WORKS WITH A DIVERSITY OF PARTNERS. IT IS ESSENTIAL THAT THE RELATIONSHIPS WE BUILD ARE BASED ON TRUST AND A MUTUAL UNDERSTANDING OF A RESPONSIBLE AND ETHICAL BUSINESS.” Jørn Henrik Levy Rasmussen, Senior Vice President, Market Development Corruption is the abuse of entrusted power. It undermines the integrity of all involved, undermines fair competition, impedes business growth, and hinders societies’ development. Image: Lockheed Martin Corporation CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANTI-CORRUPTION AND BUSINESS ETHICS 29 Anti-corruption and business ethics Why this matters Why this matters Our targets Our progress What’s next? Risks for society for Terma Corruption is not only Operating globally Conducting our Anti-corruption Revise the building If this area is not illegal; it poses in interaction with business in an risk assessment blocks of our managed, Terma threats to the a variety of ethical manner carried out. anti-corruption would face legal, stability and stakeholders, we and ensuring that our management reputational, and security of societies, take an active role employees know the E-learning rolled system: revised financial risks as undermines in the fight against ethical decision they out to all marketing global policies well as erosion of institutions and corrupt practices. should take when consultants. and tools. employees’ trust. democracy, Not only because they face a dilemma hinders societies’ they are illegal, but and feel equipped Rollout of: development, and also because they to make it. Dedicated internal impacts vulnerable are dangerous for training. communities. businesses and communities. Employee code of conduct. Terma’s Ethics Line. From left: Terma’s Anupam Narain Mathur and Jørn Henrik Levy Rasmussen meeting with Mr. Ratan Tata 30 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANTI-CORRUPTION AND BUSINESS ETHICS Being a trustworthy business partner is an Terma teams with Tata Advanced Systems Ltd. essential ingredient for our company’s success, for Surface Surveillance Radar but more than that, it is part of our company values, “Work with Integrity”, and of our In partnership with Prime contractor Tata Advanced Systems Ltd., Terma was awarded a contract to execute Indian Navy’s Surface Surveillance company Narrative. Radar (SSR) project for 31 radars. This we apply in all our dealings with our stakeholders; may it be our customers, our suppliers, authorities, or our joint venture partners. The SSR program is the first procurement by Indian Ministry of Defence under the “Buy and Make (Indian)” category of the Defense Procurement Being true to our Danish roots Procedure. Starting our journey in 1949, Terma has deep and proud roots in Denmark. For Terma, being a Danish company, with our headquarters located just The project involves delivery, installation, and commissioning of radar outside Aarhus in the province of Jutland, also means that the business systems on Indian Navy vessels as well as delivery of simulators, culture we come from is deeply marked by an ethical and responsible establishment of depot level facilities, and integrated logistics support behavior. For many years, Denmark has been amongst the best rated with deliveries spread over 10 years. The radar is being manufactured in countries in the Transparency International Corruption Perception Index. India with Transfer of Technology from Terma, Denmark. Being upright and trustworthy are assets in a business relationship. We also recognize that even though Denmark is our center, we do business around the world. This means that we are exposed to diverse and sometimes “To secure our successful involvement in a challenging environments. We as a company need to raise our awareness large program like the Indian Navy’s Surface towards the challenges and ethical dilemmas that we might come to face. Surveillance Radar (SSR) project requires International partnerships a trustful and long lasting partnership with a Terma’s expertise and capabilities are within technological niches. Our leading national company. It was indeed a products and solutions are integrated in larger solutions in multi-partner very important milestone for Terma to be part projects. Therefore, it is part of our core know-how to collaborate with a of this program, and we strongly support the variety of partners. Building the right partnerships is essential in order to see our company progressing, for example gaining access and developing ‘Make in India’ initiative. Our participation new markets through partnerships with the local industry. Over the last few in the SSR program and long term commitment years, we have had significant successes with partners such as Jenkins will inevitably further strengthen the Engineering Defence Systems (JEDS), Tata Advanced Systems Ltd. (TASL), well-established collaboration between and Al Maskari Holding (AMH). Tata Advanced Systems and Terma.” Terma successfully delivered naval and surveillance systems for Royal Anupam Narain Mathur Australian Navy (RAN) programs. To pursue new business opportunities in Vice President & General Manager, Terma Asia Pacific the Australian market, Terma collaborates with JEDS on activities within sales, installation, support, and services. JEDS is trained and experienced in sustainment of Terma’s SCANTER radars. A C-Flex C2 system is installed at JEDS’ premises to provide training of Royal Australian Navy staff to facilitate helicopter operations on the new RAN Multi-role Aviation Training Vessel (MATV). “This successful partnership benefits all parties in combining JEDS’ local presence and close relations to customers with Terma’s expertise.” Bengt Larsen Marketing Manager, Jenkins Engineering Defence Systems CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANTI-CORRUPTION AND BUSINESS ETHICS 31 Anti-corruption Corruption bears many social and economic costs for the societies in which it flourishes; impeding sound development and a prosperous business environment. Terma has pledged its support to the 10th Principle of the UNGC; “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery” and works with SDG target 16.5; “Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms”. We recognize that corruption is a risk companies are exposed to when operating in an international business market such as the defense and aerospace industry. Our focus on anti-corruption During the 2017/18 fiscal year, we have carried out several activities in regards to anti-corruption. We decided to assess our exposure to the risk of corruption through a risk assessment. Although we had developed a solid set of policies and procedures over the years, we wanted to ensure that we had not overseen a blind spot. Being based in one of the least corrupt nations worldwide could easily have left us blind to a specific risk factor. It thus seemed like a natural step to take in our anti-corruption efforts, to reassess the robustness of our risk management system. The steps of the anti-corruption risk assessment process: • A desktop phase to review the risks linked to our industry • An online survey with 30 senior managers working from several locations around the globe • Two workshops: one to identify risks and the other one to rate their potential impacts • An analysis phase where the risks identified were reviewed and reassessed. The result made us confident that our foundation is solid, but it also made us aware that working with anti-corruption is a continuous process where improvements and iterations are required. The primary output of this assessment will be to revise our policies and procedures, and the secondary output will be to develop targeted training for those employees that are most exposed. • Revised Anti-Corruption and Business Ethics Policy • Global Gift and Hospitality Policy • An internal Code of Conduct supporting our employees’ understanding of their rights and obligations. Training and Due Diligence of marketing consultants We have identified our work with Marketing consultants as a focus area in regards to anti-corruption. Two main targets have been set: carrying out a Due Diligence process on all of our marketing consultants and completing anti-corruption training with all of them. Both targets were successfully met during the 2017/18 fiscal year. Our marketing consultants represent Terma’s interest in locations where we do not have a commercial representation. These consultants are carefully selected, and all have to go through a Due Diligence process that is carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark. 32 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANTI-CORRUPTION AND BUSINESS ETHICS In the 2017/18 fiscal year as an added measure, we have asked them to complete the online anti-corruption e-learning module developed by the United Nations and made available to companies like ourselves by the United Nations Global Compact. 100% of our marketing consultants have completed the e-learning. Terma’s Ethics Line To further strengthen our compliance system, we have decided to add another brick to the edifice and create a whistleblower system; “Ethics Line”. Providing employees and stakeholders with a reporting channel allows them to share their concerns and report suspected misconducts or violations to the legislation. Terma’s Ethics Line will be launched during the 2018/19 fiscal year. Developing a whistleblower solution At Terma, we are convinced that our compliance program success is based on the support of our employees. Our colleagues are the ones who face dilemmas and who have to make the ethical decisions in their daily work. In addition to training them and continue raising awareness in the 2018/19 fiscal year, we will roll out our Ethics Line. It will be a web-based solution where our employees as well as our stakeholders can raise their concerns in case of suspected violations to our internal rules or any relevant legislation. In parallel, we are developing the relevant ethics organization to be able to handle the reports that will come in, protecting the confidentiality and safety of the whistleblowers. • Creation of Terma Ethics Committee to handle Ethics Line investigations • Training of the Ethics Committee in investigation methods • Launch of Terma’s Ethics Line globally during the 2018/19 fiscal year. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANTI-CORRUPTION AND BUSINESS ETHICS 33 0 1 10101 100 1 110 1 0100110 1011 1 11 1 10001011010 0110100111 100110 11 4 0010 010110 11 000 ENVIRONMENT 1 0 01 11 000 1 1 10 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1010110100110100010 1 1111 01 1 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 00110101 001 10 11110110 101 00 1 34 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT “TERMA HAS ACTIVELY ENGAGED IN As an outset of our society’s development, THE FAST TRACK PARTNERSHIP TO environmental challenges are increasing, including FIND ALTERNATIVES TO THE CURRENT climate change, and Terma wishes to mitigate its SURFACE TREATMENT METHODS. WE impact. Committed production, design, and WANT TO PREPARE FUTURE DESIGNS innovation teams working under the strict FOR COMING ENVIRONMENTAL framework of the Danish environmental legislation REGULATIONS AND DO THE RIGHT have supported Terma’s engagement to be a THING BY ENSURING, WHERE WE responsible industrial partner. CAN, THAT OUR PRODUCTS ARE AS ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE AS POSSIBLE.” Jan Johansson, Senior Director, Business Transformation & Continuous Improvement Image: DONG Energy CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT 35 Managing our impacts on the environment Why this matters Why this matters Our targets Our progress What’s next? Risks for society for Terma Environmental Building a systematic Integrating The goal for 2017/18 Firmly embed the Lack of success challenges, including approach to reduce environmental to save yet another new policy and in mitigating our climate change and our environmental aspects into 1,000 MWh organizational negative global warming, are footprint and our strategy has been reached. structure. environmental increasingly pressing phase out hazardous with relevant footprint poses issues of our time. chemicals is non-financial KPIs. Developing an Align the potential severe Hazardous chemical essential for External Environmental environmental risks for both substances can our continued Substituting all Policy and Strategy sustainability society and the severely affect competitiveness. hazardous chemicals for 2018-22. approach on a environment. human health and as per requirements global scale. the environment in RoHS/REACH, Integrated For Terma, this could with dangerous while working environmental issues Develop a more mean non-compliance consequences. towards identifying as part of Terma’s comprehensive with legislation, more innovative and CSR strategy. baseline. financial, and sustainable solutions reputational risks for our products. Chemicals containing Continue substitution as well as losing out hexavalent process concerning on potential new chromium are hexavalent chromium. business and reduced by 34% customers. in one year. Continue our positive development in efficient energy consumption. 36 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT Over the last year, Terma has decided to take Nonetheless, we strive to comply with all applicable environmental legislation and aim to identify and explore possible ways towards reducing further action and look at the environmental our environmental impact. We acknowledge that in order to do so, we need performance strategically. The first step has to have a more detailed understanding of this impact. Therefore, during the been to increase the ambition level through 2018/19 fiscal year, we will work to develop a more comprehensive baseline. a dedicated policy on Environment and This will allow us to develop a unified and global strategic approach to Climate Change, which you can see below. manage our environmental impact within Terma. The next step has been to integrate within the We are continuously investigating our production processes to identify CSR strategy a section on environment with ways to reduce our footprint. An example without investment was the dedicated goals. More resources have been autoclave process where the flow of parts and use of autoclave space have dedicated to help Terma continue its work on been upgraded over the last couple of years. the environment by, among others, setting up Another opportunity for Terma is to make sure that replacement of relevant global KPIs. equipment is always to the most energy efficient models. In 2017/18, the three Danish Terma locations have reached this year’s goal to save yet another 1,000 MWh by installing more energy efficient equipment from Excerpt of our Environmental Policy LED lighting in offices and production to replacing ventilation systems with energy efficient types. In addition, several thousand square meters of In Terma, we work with integrity and strive to integrate an environmental production areas have been better insolated to ensure lower energy perspective into all our business. We recognize that it is inevitable for consumption due to heating and cooling. a production of world-class technology of high quality to affect the environment. Therefore, we want to ensure an increasingly sustainable Focus on our Grenaa factory business by effectively optimizing the use of natural resources and The main contributor to Terma’s environmental footprint is the energy reduce environmental impact through an innovative approach. consumption and carbon dioxide emissions of our production located in Grenaa, Denmark. In the region of Djursland, home to 80,000 inhabitants, We will do so by working: the largest electricity consumer is our plant. The facility produces parts • To obtain and maintain a (certified) environmental management made from carbon fiber, and part of the process requires energy consuming system to secure a systematic approach towards increased autoclaves to “bake” the parts under pressure. sustainability • To minimize impact on the climate by using energy more efficiently Being a large production facility means that reducing the energy consumption and reduce emissions of CO2 and other climate changing substances can be a challenge. • To prevent or reduce noise and pollution of soil, water, and air • To reduce and recycle waste • To focus on our design and supply chain in terms of Consumption of electricity per part produced Grenaa 2014-17 [kWh] optimizing environmental issues • To identify and comply with external requirements and the UN Global Compact principles 7-9 • To involve all employees and other stakeholders in improving Terma’s environmental footprint. Based on our External Environmental Policy and with the environmental principles of the UNGC, Terma works continuously to minimize risks and its environmental impact. Reducing our environmental footprint Being part of a highly technical industry, our factories have an environmental In 2014-17, a larger expansion of the production capacity in Grenaa has impact that cannot be avoided. The input needed for ensuring our production taken place due to F-35 business upscaling. The Grenaa plant has increased ranges from various materials to natural resources such as energy and water, the overall electricity consumption since 2014 by 22%, but the kWh and it also includes a wide array of chemicals and composite products. The consumed per part produced has decreased by 50% in the same period. We requirements from our customers and the specifications needed to ensure cannot say for certain if this reduction in energy consumption is due to a the optimal durability of our products present challenges towards a more more efficient production per part or the general increase in production. environmentally responsible approach. During the 2018/19 fiscal year, we will focus on building stronger data points to better understand our consumption and how to further reduce it. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT 37 We have also looked at other forms of energy consumption, specifically Efforts to reduce and recycle waste nitrogen gas (N2). Terma has taken initial steps to recycle instead of burn the increasing amount of composite waste (carbon and epoxy) from our aerostructures production. Recycle procedures are in place for all metal used in our kg N2 consumed per part production. We are currently in the process of looking for solutions to ensure reuse of this complicated mix of materials, and several external waste processors have been contacted. On top of the material complexity, the solution is also challenged by our customers’ requirements for confidentiality and the necessary use of some hazardous chemicals to meet the required product quality. Nonetheless, a continued focus is dedicated to this area, as returning raw materials such as carbon into a circular process benefits both the environment and society as a whole. Our work with substituting hazardous chemicals Balancing product capabilities and environmental concerns To avoid burns on parts when baking, nitrogen gas (N2) needs to be used in The radar antennas and aircraft parts that Terma produces have to sustain the autoclaves instead of atmospheric air. In 2017, more than a thousand harsh environments and must have an overall durability in extreme conditions. tons were consumed. But as the chart above shows, also the amount of N2 Those requirements are laid out by military and defense standards, detailing used per part produced has decreased significantly. A better flow and more specifications to ensure the material can resist being exposed to altitude, efficient loading of autoclaves at Terma have resulted in lower energy high and low temperatures, harsh weather, salt, sand, dust, shock, vibration, consumption by the N2 gas producer and reduced CO2-emission from transport. and other demanding conditions. This creates a challenge in finding the material and the chemicals that will ensure our products’ quality and durability while living up to environmental Environmental inspection of Terma A/S considerations and requirements, such as the EU legislative acts RoHS/REACH. by Aarhus Municipality In accordance with established national legislation, pursuant to the Danish Environmental Protection Act no. 866 of the Ministry of Environment and Food, Terma was subject to an environmental inspection in February 2018. The inspection was carried out by representatives from Aarhus Municipality in which our production facility in Lystrup is located. Terma is classified as an electro-technical enterprise, with a risk of environmental pollution due to the nature of our manufacturing operations. The inspection included a review of facilities, daily operations, waste handling, emissions, waste water, and noise, concluding that no findings were identified that gave rise to any concerns or remarks. Our production facility in Lystrup and our office in Herlev are subject “We focus in particular on removing to environmental inspections every 5th year. Due to the large scale hexavalent chromium (Cr6+) from production production site, our Grenaa facility is qualified to obtain an environmental approval from the municipal authorities, which our as it is a highly toxic material. Hexavalent facility currently holds, and we are working actively towards renewing this chromium is a part of most aerospace certificate. For many years, our Grenaa facility has been placed in the best approved surface treatment processes and category within legal compliance, systematic approach, and information. not easily replaced due to the necessary re-qualification to obtain flightworthy status.” The public inspection report is available here: https://dma.mst.dk/web/guest/vis-sag/-/sag/416835 Jan Johansson Senior Director, Business Transformation & Continuous Improvement 38 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT Despite the challenge of finding alternatives, we have succeeded in reducing Participating in environmental surveillance the amount of chemicals containing hexavalent chromium by 51% since While our overall purpose is to deliver security for alliances, countries, and 2015 in collaboration with our customers. individuals, our solutions contribute to other purposes as well, such as environmental surveillance space programs. These missions serve to Fast Track partnership increase our knowledge of phenomena related to, and subsequently how Terma participates in the Fast Track industrial partnership, which gathers we handle, climate change. We deliver product solutions for both ground Danish universities, leading research institutions, and industrial companies and space segments in several projects, as head and leading subcontractor in finding novel solutions for surface treatment problems, all partly funded by of the Danish ASIM program as well as to the Sentinel-5P Satellite, part of the Danish Fund for Innovation (Innovation Fund). The partnership research the European Commission’s (EC) Copernicus Programme. Read more about has so far been focused on finding improved corrosion prevention methods these two projects on the next page. in coastal areas, which applies well to Terma’s land and naval radar installations and the degradation of metallic and non-metallic structures in severe environments (hail, sea water, etc.) For 2017/18, our targets were: For 2018/19, our targets are: For this past year, the main aim was to ensure compliance with Continued focus on finding replacement for chemicals the EU legislative acts REACH and RoHS in several areas: containing hexavalent chromium: The process of substituting chemicals in the surface treatment baths is Aerospace: expected to start in 2018. First step will result in a 98% reduction of We have identified replacements for all chemicals containing hexavalent hexavalent chromium in the anodizing line. Regardless of any exemptions chromium in our aluminum anodizing line except the sealing process. The given to the defense industry, Terma will work on staying compliant sealing process is part of the anodizing of aluminum, a common surface with RoHS/ REACH. treatment, and is currently in review. Ensure that all new designs, including aerospace designs, are Design process for non-aerospace structures (such as made in accordance with RoHS/REACH, to ensure adherence radars or ship hardware installations): to environmental standards for all new designs: We have introduced procedures and design measures to ensure that all New procedures will be established in accordance with RoHS/REACH new design is compliant, not only with current RoHS/REACH legislation, requirements. but where possible also with expected future requirements. Prepare for future restrictions through initiatives such Replacement of surface treatment: as the Fast Track partnership: We are actively changing legacy products for new modern RoHS/REACH Thus ensuring that Terma remains at the forefront of environmentally compliant surface treatments, often with economic benefits, as the old conscious engineering. This is led by senior staff in the mechanical methods are becoming more expensive due to their scarcity. engineering department who meet monthly with partners and at two yearly conferences to discuss results. What is RoHS/REACH and how does it work? The directive on Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS), applicable to only electrical and electronical devices, and the regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) are legislative acts from the European Commission within the EU, with the main aim of ensuring a high level of protection for human health and the environment from the risks posed by specific hazardous chemicals. The legislations contain lists of restricted chemical substances with the intent to either significantly limit or restrict use of these in production. Particularly in recent years, surface treatment industries are affected by the limitations which are particularly relevant for Terma as our products receive surface treatment to resist the harsh conditions which they are exposed to. With this legislation, the objective is to transfer responsibility from public authorities to industry, a task that Terma actively works towards compliance with. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT 39 The ATMOSPHERE-SPACE INTERACTIONS MONITOR (ASIM) Interview with Carsten Jørgensen Senior Vice President, Space ASIM was launched on 2 April 2018 as Image: NASA part of the Dragon capsule on board the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket from Kennedy Space Center in Florida, USA. What is Terma’s role and contribution within the study high-altitude electrical discharges launched on 2 April 2018 as part of the ASIM project? in the stratosphere and mesosphere above Dragon capsule on board the SpaceX Falcon severe thunderstorms, the so-called red 9 rocket from Kennedy Space Center in “Terma was selected by the European Space sprites, blue jets, haloes, and elves, and Florida, USA. Terma experts will continue Agency (ESA) to head the ASIM program, monitor X-ray and Gamma-ray flashes. As to work on the ASIM project as support to currently the largest ever space project the Earth’s atmosphere hinders observations staff at the control center in Belgium to for Terma, which is part of the Danish of these phenomena in the electromagnetic provide optimal scientific measurements contribution and participation since 2008 spectrum, these missions are best carried to the scientists at the ASIM Data Science to the ELIPS (European Programme for Life out from space-based observatories such Center in Lyngby, Denmark, and worldwide.” and Physical Sciences) at ESA. As the as ASIM.” prime contractor, Terma is responsible for “ASIM is the largest space developing and ensuring progress and How can the study of these electrical discharges project that Terma has been technical management of the project, as hopefully contribute to our knowledge and the well as coordinating with ESA and consequences of the impacts of climate change? involved in – and one of the subcontractors, and not least for delivering most complex and challenging the ASIM observatory for handover to ESA, “These thunderstorm-initiated electrical tasks, comprising a number NASA, and SpaceX at Kennedy Space Center discharges that were a relatively unknown of new developments building in Florida. In addition to performing the phenomena until quite recently inject prime activities, Terma was also tasked with greenhouse gasses such as NOx and water on the deep heritage of the the development of the MMIA instrument in vapor into the stratosphere where they Terma space electronics and close collaboration with DTU Space.” become part of climate moderators. These software product domains. discharges, and other electrical influences It also shows the great role What is the overall purpose and goal of ASIM? and atmospheric interactions that will be that space can play in better observed by ASIM, are believed to have a “The Atmosphere-Space Interactions Monitor direct bearing on the Earth’s climate. ASIM understanding global issues (ASIM) is an observatory, which was data will deliver new and crucial knowledge and developing further designed to be installed on the European that scientists will be able to use in models knowledge.” Columbus module of the International and calculations of future climate forecasts. Space Station (ISS). ASIM will be part of a Carsten Jørgensen mission to better understand the way we After more than ten years of development, Senior Vice President, Space manage environmental data, being used to the ASIM observatory was successfully 40 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT The scientific studies carried out to develop ASIM were supported by pictures taken by the first Danish astronaut Andreas Mogensen during his space flight in 2015. At the revelation of a 1:1 model of ASIM at our office in Herlev just outside of Copenhagen, Carsten Jørgensen (left) had the pleasure of welcoming Andreas Mogensen (right) to host the event, where he also gave an exciting and insightful presentation of his mission. THE SENTINEL-5P SATELLITE The Sentinel-5 Precursor, also known as Sentinel-5P, is part of a fleet of satellites designed specifically for the European Commission’s Copernicus Programme, a unique environmental monitoring program dedicated to improve the way we understand and manage our environment and the effects of climate change. The Sentinel-5P was launched in October 2017 and is the first Copernicus atmospheric monitoring mission. On board is the advanced TROPOspheric Monitoring Instrument (TROPOMI), a far more complex instrument than the satellite platform itself. The TROPOMI is a spectrometer that maps the Earth’s atmosphere every day with a resolution as high as 7 x Image: ESA/ATG medialab 3,5 km to detect air pollution over cities. Specifically, it maps a variety of trace gases, such as nitrogen dioxide, ozone, formaldehyde, sulphur dioxide, methane, carbon monoxide, and aerosols that all affect the air we breathe, our health, and our climate. Several of Terma’s international locations have contributed to different stages of the Sentinel-5P mission from development to operations. Terma has provided expert consultancies during the system design, implementation, and test of the main flight software for the TROPOMI Instrument Control Unit (ICU). The software is responsible for all onboard control and data processing for the TROPOMI and for its communication with the Sentinel-5P satellite platform. Terma B.V., located in the Netherlands, has supplied ground support equipment for the TROPOMI, while our German office, Terma GmbH, participated in the launch operations of the Sentinel-5P at the European Space Operations Centre (ESOC) in Darmstadt. During the preparations for launch, one of Terma’s Spacecraft Operations Engineers participated as specialist in the Flight Control Team of the Sentinel-5P. Participating in this mission demonstrated Terma’s competitive advantage, in not only delivering top-end products meeting the performance requirements, but also having a team with the ability to take on the complex data handling and image processing of the satellite instruments. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT 41 0 1 1 0 10 1 1 0 01 1 0 1 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 110 1 0 1 00 1 1 0 1 0 11 0 1 11 1 1 00 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 1 10 1 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 01 1 0 11 5 0 0 10 0 1 01 1 0 11 000 1 0 01 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY 11 000 1 0 1 0 101101 1 0 1 0 1 0 110100110100 10 1 CHAIN 1 1 11 01 1 0 1 1 00010 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 0 10 0 0 11 1 0 10 0 1 1 0 01 1 0 42 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN “WE WORK PRIMARILY WITH SUPPLIERS BASED IN OECD COUNTRIES WHERE THE GENERAL STANDARDS FOR LABOR RIGHTS, ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION, AND ANTI-CORRUPTION LEGISLATION ARE QUITE HIGH. THAT SAID, SOME RISKS REMAIN AND THAT IS WHAT WE NEED TO FOCUS ON.” Jesper Bøhnke, Senior Vice President, Supply Chain Management Terma recognizes that its social, financial, and environmental impact is highly linked to its supply chain and business partners, and we therefore hold our suppliers, business partners, and other stakeholders to the same standards as we hold ourselves. Image: ESA/David Ducros CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN 43 Being a responsible supply chain partner Why this matters Why this matters Our targets Our progress What’s next? Risks for society for Terma Just like Terma’s Our engagement Have a strong Training of the Roll out our Code of Lack of success in own, the CSR towards CSR also Due Diligence Terma Supply Chain Conduct (CoC) for this could mean performance of the means being a system in place. department (20 Suppliers and negative impacts companies in our responsible supply persons): CSR Service Providers. for the communities supply chain has an chain partner and Ensure that we have introduction. and financial and impact on the engaging with our a clear view of the Roll out new Due reputational societies in which suppliers on CSR CSR performance Completed an initial Diligence setup, impacts for Terma. they operate. challenges. This of our Tier 1 risk assessment. including CoC to all has the potential to suppliers involved relevant suppliers. generate a closer in our production. relationship with Follow-up trainings: suppliers and an Human rights and even deeper labor rights with understanding. focus on slavery and trafficking risks, conflict minerals, and anti-corruption. Being a responsible company means engaging where possible in our sphere of influence to ensure that our partners adhere to the same principles as we do. It is about raising awareness, clarifying the requirements and standards. It is evidently working with our supply chain towards reducing the environmental and social risks. Integrating social responsibility During the 2017/18 fiscal year, we have reviewed our approach to a responsible supply chain. Several workshops took place with the Supply Chain and CSR teams to discuss potential social and environmental impacts of the goods Terma purchases for its own production. The aim was to build a clearer overview of the risks faced and to refine our approach to Due Diligence and general supplier engagement. Completed To integrate social responsibility with our supplier engagement, we need to better understand the risks linked to the categories and countries we purchase from. We have initiated an overall assessment of those during the 2017/18 fiscal year. 44 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN We have targeted an analysis of our supply chain: which categories, which risks can we expect from such categories, etc. We are building an overview of risks in each area. The initial outcome was to identify different groups of suppliers and how we wish to engage with them. On the way We also initiated a Code of Conduct for our Suppliers and Service Providers detailing our requirements. In the coming year, we plan on engaging with our suppliers to roll out this document and ensure there is a good understanding of Terma’s requirements towards our suppliers. “A Code of Conduct is one of the tools we can make use of to engage with our supply chain. In the coming years, I expect we will become better at discussing CSR with our suppliers and at knowing in more detail which challenges they face.” Jesper Bøhnke, Senior Vice President, Supply Chain Management Way ahead We want to continuously refine our CSR assessment of our supply chain, and we can do this through an improved Due Diligence process; including further engagement and feedback with our suppliers. We are looking at how we will practically include the CSR Due Diligence in our workflows so that it is a fully integrated aspect of how we select our suppliers. Building a strategy to 2022 Part of our engagement towards building a responsible supply chain is to integrate it in our CSR strategy towards 2022. The overall goal being integration, many steps will support us in that direction. What we plan for 2018/19 • A Supply Chain CSR Policy • Roll out the Code of Conducts for Suppliers and Services Providers • Further training of the Supply Chain team “Our aim is to have the CSR Due Diligence integrated so that it provides additional information on and support to how we manage our supply chain in general.” Jesper Bøhnke, Senior Vice President, Supply Chain Management CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN 45 Promoting internal awareness To integrate CSR in our Interview with: What is Corporate Social Responsibility to you? daily work in a meaningful Jette Bach Madsen Jette: way, we must make it Category Director, OEM Sourcing, “For me, CSR is about how Terma takes visible and relevant to our Supply Chain Management and responsibility for both the environmental Peter Greve Somerset employees, in particular in Category Manager, Electricals, and social impact of our business the Supply Chain function. Supply Chain Management operations and is a good corporate citizen. CSR is also about treating your employees Therefore, a significant effort with respect and dignity, and this often is made to engage with the translates into higher satisfaction, loyalty, organization. Hear from two and dedication among employees towards of our colleagues who their workplace. By having clear ethical attended a training session values as a leader, it better enables me to act and engage with my colleagues and in in January 2018. general to be more open-minded.” 46 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN better waste management which would and issues within CSR, most importantly CSR is a way for mean a reduced environment impact as well as reduced costs. Gaining full transparency how we need to look at the full supply chain. I now see CSR as a proactive way of Terma to be a good in the supply chain will help us in making sure that our suppliers also follow good strengthening our business and at the same time helping our society in a positive way.” citizen in the business ethics, and I definitely see good branding opportunities in terms of attracting Peter: “corporate world” new suppliers.” “Definitely awareness about the broad and a decent How did the CSR training session improve your scope of CSR: it is not just child labor or conflict minerals, but so much more than member of society, knowledge of CSR? that. I think the main lessons learned were; first, we need to take the whole supply by mitigating or Jette: chain into consideration and actively “Conducting this training session made involve our business partners and utilize reducing our CSR more personal and relevant for me and ethics as an active element in supplier negative impacts demonstrated that we care about these issues in Terma. Previously, I thought of selection. Second, the human resources aspects, meaning taking social responsibility and to show good CSR as mostly concerning environmental responsibility, but after the CSR training both internally in the company and externally towards society.” behavior towards session, I have gained a much wider perspective on the extensive range of topics Do you see any challenges in working with CSR people and the in the supply chain? environment. Jette: “Yes, potentially a situation can emerge in which the selection of suppliers is dictated by specifications, or other business reasons could conflict with our ethical values and Peter: norms. In order to mitigate this, we need a “For me, it’s all about demonstrating values, clear strategy on how to handle or even honesty, openness, respect, actively doing avoid such a situation or pushback; including something about it, and thus proving that tools to raise awareness and engagement we care. CSR is a way for Terma to be a amongst all our suppliers.” good citizen in the “corporate world” and a decent member of society, by mitigating or Implementing Peter: reducing our negative impacts and to show good behavior towards people and the CSR will enable us “Here, we are back to the idea that CSR efforts will benefit from making sense environment.” to demonstrate financially for the business. But it is our good behavior. important to do so, because it shows that What can be the impacts of CSR for Terma? Terma is a responsible customer and supplier Jette: Terma not only in the value chain, which in turn will spread to our partners. That is why CSR “In regards to our supply chain management, I believe it could help us not only in our sticks to the law and needs to be rooted firmly in our strategy.” cooperation with present suppliers, but best practice, but also sets its own also to attract new potential suppliers. Implementing CSR will enable us to demonstrate our good behavior. Terma not only sticks to the law and best practice, but initiatives and also sets its own initiatives and cascades down requirements.” cascades down requirements. Peter: “In practice, this could be concrete impacts such as lower energy consumption and CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN 47 We value your feedback We welcome any questions or comments you might have to this report and our performance. Please send your feedback to: Terma A/S Vasekær 12 2730 Herlev You can also send an e-mail to: responsibility@terma.com www.terma.com/about-us/csr/ ALLIES IN INNOVATION www.terma.com
