2018 Communication of Progress United Nations Global Compact Welcome Welcome to PMP Recruitment’s fourth annual Communication of Progress which continues to describe our approach to the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 Principles. The United Nations Global Compact was launched in 2000 to harness the power of collective action in the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship. The Global Compact is a framework for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, the Environment and Anti-Corruption. This year we have been reviewing how we may directly impact the Social Development Goals (SDG's) and Targets under each of the 4 core areas that cover the 10 Principles. We have therefore aligned PMP’s achievements with both the relevant Guiding Principle(s) and Social Development Goals (SDG's). This includes our performance in 2017/8 and our future commitments. As a stakeholder of the UNGC PMP Recruitment would appreciate any feedback and comments on its 2018 Communication Of Progress. 01 Statement of Support Everyday PMP’s people are changing lives... the essence of what we do is to offer sustainable employment so individuals can support themselves and their families every time we find someone a job it’s another life changed. Our goal as a social enterprise is to reconnect people with a sense of delight in their work, and to provide them with the support they need to live more meaningful lives. As part of the Cordant Group, PMP are proud to be seen as leaders in social business, and were honoured to be invited to speak at the UNGC SDGs Derby Conference to discuss how private sector employers can be more ethical. We believe businesses need to change how they operate and manage people we want to influence peers to be a catalyst for good. This document confirms our commitment to the UN COP Principles, and the Sustainable Development Goal, whilst also highlighting our key achievements in improving worker opportunities and creating a fairer society where the focus is on purpose, not profit gain, and wellbeing not wealth creation. The Principles have been embedded in our business and we are committed to ensuring they influence our strategy, culture and service delivery. Jamie Reynolds, Managing Director PMP Recruitment 02 Contents Business Update 4 Corporate Goal; Targets 2017/18 25 Social Business Update 5 Corporate Goal; Targets 2018/19 27 Guiding Principles Alignment 6 ● Social Alignment 28 ● Human Rights 7 ● Targets 2018/19 30 ● Labour 14 ● Environment 20 ● Anti-Corruption 23 03 Business Update PMP have developed the 5P strategy which aligns our key objectives as a brand. We want to be thought leaders and changemakers inspiring colleagues, clients and candidates. The 5P initiative has been developed with the objective of positioning PMP as industry experts and managed service supplier of choice. Our sustainability wheel highlights the areas which have been the focus of transformation in 2018. People Progressive Principled Productive Performance Focused Promoters Driven 04 Social Business Update PEOPLE PROGRESSION PRODUCTIVITY PROMOTION PERFORMANCE We launched our We developed the We reviewed We gave greater We’ve improved Fundamentals capabilities of our governance and focus to raising internal processes to Programme, an 8 National Resource control over spend in awareness, and much enhance productivity week onboarding Centre agents to order to improve our needed funds, for in turn improving process which improve service to profitability. This has Unseen by launching profit. We’ve moved enables new starters our candidates. The allowed us to invest in a calendar of to a single candidate to be effective, teams are now expert social causes, such as fundraising activity, management system, confident and able to in our clients sites, our collaboration with hosting national launched Cordant thrive in their new geography and modern slavery modern slavery Connect for a better role. The programme culture and are able charity Unseen, and seminars, holding a candidate journey gives them access to to better advise job has contributed to charity funday for all and easier job seeker the correct tools, seekers of the roles improving services for PMP colleagues and registration, and training and support most suited to their our clients, their families, and reviewed GDPR so that they feel location and candidates and launching Be Seen, Be compliance within our valued. circumstances colleagues Heard. entire operation 05 United Nations Global Compact Guiding Principles Alignment 06 Guiding Principle Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 07 Human Rights The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere By 2030, reduce at least by half the proportion of men, women and children of all ages living in poverty in all its dimensions according to national definitions implement nationally appropriate social protection systems and measure for all, including floors, and by 2030 achieve substantial coverage of the poor and the vulnerable | By 2030, build the resilience of the poor and those in vulnerable situations and reduce their exposure and vulnerability to climate-related extreme events and other economic, social and environmental shocks and disasters. PMP’s Impact Case Study PMP ‘s objective is to offer By gathering detailed market analysis and utilising data from PMP’s National Resource sustainable pay and working hours Centre we were able to propose a more competitive pay rate structure to a key client. This and are committed to supporting the led to an agreed pay rate increase of 11%. unemployed, and less fortunate back We introduced training and cross skilling which in turn gave access to better opportunities, into the workplace through flexible working and more achievable performance targets. recruitment drives, engagement with Job Centres and collaboration with In collaboration with the client, site incentives were introduced such as; refer a friend back to work providers. schemes and performance bonuses giving colleagues the ability to top up their salary. We retained 398 colleagues, whose contracts had ended at other sites, by transferring them to Ensuring job security, regular pay the clients location, and placed 57 people into roles using a local back to work provider. and working hours, PMP are able to support the wellbeing and stability of Quote from the key client: each employee, their families and communities. “The calibre and attitude of temp colleagues placed has the best we've ever seen. For us this confirmed that our decision to choose PMP was the right we're really happy with the service provided. PMP worked closely with us to build and deliver a fantastic recruitment solution and I want to say from me and my team how proud we are of that”. 08 Human Rights The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture By 2030, end hunger and ensure access by all people, in particular the poor and people in vulnerable situations, including infants, to safe, nutritious and sufficient food all year round | By 2030, end all forms of malnutrition, including achieving, by 2025, the internationally agreed targets on stunting and wasting in children under 5 years of age, and address the nutritional needs of adolescent girls, pregnant and lactating women and older persons. PMP’s Impact Testimonial Sustainable work allows our people Through training, upskilling, exploring temp to perm opportunities, placement with other to provide for themselves and their clients or Group brands, we ensure our people do not have to return to unemployment. families; giving them the foundation “I started working with PMP as a warehouse operative via the PMP Milton Keynes for better nutrition, less reliance on branch. I have found working with PMP a great experience as I get to do various food banks and access to essential different roles within the warehouse and gain valuable skills along the way. I like the health services. flexibility of working with PMP as it allows me to have a work life balance and spend time with my family. As part of the Retain, Retrain and Redeploy initiative launched in 2017, The PMP Site team are always helpful and a pleasure to speak to. They are always PMP support temporary colleagues professional in dealing with any queries that I may have relating to work and all to find a new role when they reach issues that I’ve had have been promptly dealt with. I would definitely recommend the end of their contract. PMP to all my family and friends because I have always thoroughly enjoyed working for them”. Ali Makbul, Warehouse Operative 09 Human Rights The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being | Strengthen the prevention and treatment of substance abuse, including narcotic drug abuse and harmful use of alcohol | By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents. PMP’s Target Health Awareness Month As part of our transition into a social Facebook LinkedIn In January 2018 PMP ran a campaign enterprise our Group has created a Reach Reach to promote health awareness. We collaborative working party focused Tip 14 keep snacks handy 560 3,863 posted tips across social media and encouraged our people to host on giving colleagues better access to Tip 13 drink more water 621 3,498 healthy events aligned to Dry health and well-being support. Tip 12 less salt intake 475 2,256 January, Love Your Liver Day, Tip 11 saturated fats 506 2,318 Obesity Awareness, Blue Monday and PMP are working on a toolbox of Tip 10 eat more fish 511 2,306 Celebration of Life day. support material; leaflets, guides and Tip 9 eating fruit and veg 624 1,592 helplines numbers, to ensure all our Tip 8 have breakfast 584 1,514 We reached thousands on social locations can offer assistance to Tip 7 take the stairs 588 2,054 media and raised over £1,000 for those who need it. All material will be multiple charities. Tip 6 competitive fitness 819 3,065 promoted on notice boards and Tip 5 stand up in meetings 422 1,837 campaigns will be run to raise Tip 4 get up from your seat 525 2,270 awareness of support available. Tip 3 get fit as a team 508 2,157 Tip 2 cycle to work 490 1,682 Tip 1 walk to work 879 3,046 10 Human Rights The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship | By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development, including, among others, through education for sustainable development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a culture of peace and non-violence, global citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity and of culture’s contribution to sustainable development. PMP’s Impact Investment in People PMP have launched a Step Up In the wake of Brexit PMP have invested heavily in the development of all colleagues through Academy which ensures that people various academies and learning programmes. In order to provide lifelong opportunities for in junior roles are given the all, our expert Learning and Development team build bespoke career paths, aligned with relevant training or apprenticeships, to ensure all employees are armed with the skills, opportunity to progress through our behaviours and knowledge to achieve their aspirations, and be successful in their roles. business. We also invested in our ‘leaders of tomorrow’, by launching a So far this year we have seen; high potential and operational excellence programme. As a business we offered our training expertise to support clients with their own development programmes. 271 1600 1037 2825 9302 People Pre-employment Accredited E-learning Classroom Completing Programmes Courses Courses Training Apprenticeships Carried Out Attained Completed Delivered 11 Human Rights The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere | Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision making in political, economic and public life | End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere. Eliminate all forms of violence against all women and girls in the public and private spheres, including trafficking and sexual and other types of exploitation. PMP’s Impact This year PMP welcomed the opportunity to publish it’s gender pay gap report, and in response formed a dedicated project team focused on monitoring potential discrimination in its operation through data analysis, role and responsibility review and by aligning hourly pay to the industry standard. As a business we are also committed to gender equality in our job role advertising. Recent research has shown that hidden gender bias in job descriptions can result in few applications and potential brand damage. The working party formed by PMP are committed to ensuring words, biased in favour of the opposite gender, do not appear. The project team will review PMP’s operation over the next 12 months in order to report back to the business. 12 Human Rights The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on high-value added and labour-intensive sectors. Promote development-oriented policies that support productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and encourage the formalization and growth of micro-, smalland medium-sized enterprises, including through access to financial services | By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value | By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training | Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms | Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment. PMP’s Impact Most Sustainable Supplier Award Winners We influenced major clients to In February 2018 PMP were awarded Most Sustainable Supplier by Nestlé. improve their pay rates to workers The award recognised; “the company who has demonstrated its drive to take a strategic supplied by PMP and in some cases perspective to its work, delivering excellent partnership services aligned with Nestlé’s UK negotiated an 11% increase on market objectives. Our judges are looking for commercial partnership, risk sharing and current pay rates. shared goals, continuous optimisation of costs and added value at every opportunity, demonstration of agility and flexibility with our changing demands and proactively We moved weekly, cheque paid cooperating and supporting the business to successfully deliver on project objectives”. employees to OnePay accounts so they received pay promptly, securely and efficiently, without incurring additional fees or costs. 13 Guiding Principle Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 14 Labour The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms | Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment | By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value. PMP’s Impact Be Seen, Be Heard We gave greater focus to raising We teamed up with award winning charity Unseen to launch a campaign to raise awareness awareness of modern slavery by of modern slavery across in high volume recruitment and supply chain industries. delivering national modern slavery The ongoing campaign is aimed at breaking down taboos and ensuring that our industry is seminars with guest speakers from aware of how to spot the signs, report suspicions and stamp out slavery. We want to Unseen rolling out training solutions influence peers to be more responsible, more transparent and to tackle slavery head on. to clients, starting the Be Seen Be Businesses need to realise that identifying modern slavery demonstrates that their strategy Heard movement, and promoting for change is working. Modern slavery isn’t a taboo it’s a serious issue which needs to end. fundraising activity including; collecting essential items for The Be Seen, Be Heard message is simple; We want awareness to replace ignorance Random Acts of Kindness Day, modern slavery needs to BE SEEN. We produced a range of official high visibility donating gifts to their children's safe merchandise printed with the modern slavery helpline number. By promoting the helpline we house and hosting a charity funday can give people the confidence to report suspicious activity, and support victims in finding the strength to come forward and have a voice. We need to ensure that everyone has a for all PMP colleagues. platform to BE HEARD. www.pmprecruitment.co.uk/knowledge-zone/be-seen-be-heard-abolishing-modern-slavery 15 Labour 16 Labour Productive Working Fundamentals Training 2018 Highlights We believe a good working environment is Having the right tools and training to do your essential we promote a culture where job is key. In a fast paced environment new people are valued, respected, treated fairly starter can sometimes feel thrown in at the Supporting Evidence and feel safe. As part of this commitment we deep end. launched self driven workplace audits across all locations to identify problem areas and This year PMP launched it’s Fundamentals take steps to make improvements. Programme, an 8 week onboarding process which enables new starters to be effective We became Disability Fast facts; Confident and are taking and thrive in their new role. The programme 154 Response across 7 Zones covers; company values, structure and goals, steps to support job seekers, 19 office locations audited health, safety and compliance in the with long term disabilities or 135 managed service sites audited workplace, IT systems, policies and health condition, in finding 77% were satisfied with their workspace procedures, resourcing, plus personal sustainable employment Main concerns; no windows, lack of brand development training modules offered as signage and slow internet e-learning. Non concerns; access to technology, We awarded our signage cleanliness and air conditioning/ventilation Progression is supported by Learning contract to a social enterprise Reviews, which take place on a weekly basis and are an opportunity for direct support Colleagues participated in from the colleagues line manager allowing them to share any successes, challenges or the Diana Awards barriers in their ability to carry out the role. We’ve raised £48,000 for Following the 8 week onboarding, multiple charities development opportunities are discussed and clear goals are set to further develop and nurture the individual, giving them a We promoted our colleague clear path to success. discount gateway 17 Labour Think Compliance Retain, Retrain, Redeploy 2018 Highlights E-learning modules in Eligibility to Work, Part of PMP’s social mission is to keep We created a real living wage Modern Slavery, Data Protection Regulations colleagues in employment and invest in each calculator and influenced and WhistleBlowing worker's future RRR; Retain, Retrain, clients to adjust pay rates Supporting Evidence Redeploy allows PMP to do exactly that! 2018 has been a major focus on compliance with almost 100 of our internal staff People are at the heart of any recruitment We converted 3,175 attending a 1 day training event on the law business, and although PMP are a trusted colleagues from temporary to relating to recruitment and management of supplier of temporary workplace solutions permanent roles temporary labour. Separate workshops were it’s never nice to see colleagues return to also held on how to undertake a fair and unemployment. By utilising the power of the proper investigation process whether Group, PMP are able to support temporary We redeployed over 200 covering accidents at work, grievances or colleagues throughout their journey, candidates after a major site matters relating to conduct or performance ensuring that when one door closes... we are closure at work. there to open the next. We put over 1000 people Through RRR, PMP have committed to through health and safety investing in colleagues through training opportunities, utilisation of the training apprenticeship levy and redeployment to other sites or roles in sectors such as We agreed a 2.5% charity cleaning, security or healthcare. contribution with our print supplier 1000+ temporary associates have been put forward for alternative work 97 have been recommended for retraining We moved to One Pay as an programmes alternative to salary 599 have been booked for registration in payments by cheque warehouse operative roles 18 Labour Back to Work Success Stories PMP have worked with Medaille Trust to support survivors of modern slavery back to the workplace 2126 collaborating with JtDT to offer additional behaviour Supporting Evidence and language skills. To date we’ve found employment for 5 survivors at an XPO Logistics site in Lives changed Manchester. through B2W schemes PMP are fortunate to work alongside a forward thinking client; XPO Logistics who offer employment 1235 to people with a range of disabilities. Through a close partnership with Reed, who specialise in helping Colleagues people with health problems back to work, PMP have Assigned successfully placed individuals who experience By PMP anxiety, dyslexia and dyspraxia, cardiovascular issues and loss of hearing at the clients Barnsley site. We currently collaborate with 25 Back to Work partners across our network 19 Guiding Principle Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 20 Environment The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development, including, among others, through education for sustainable development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a culture of peace and non-violence, global citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity and of culture’s contribution to sustainable development PMP’s Impact Testimonials The development of our existing I joined PMP 10 years ago and the business has continually supported and helped me workforce is essential in creating a progress. PMP invested in my personal development and enrolled me on to a high potential sustainable future. PMP have utilised course which helped me realise where my strengths really lay. I used the course as an opportunity to develop my skills, not only as a Manager but also as an employee. This gave the apprenticeship levy to; upskill me the confidence to successfully apply for the role of National Operations Manager which I colleagues, attract new talent and successfully achieved. I now feel as though this is where I belong within PMP and look revolutionise our workforce. forward to growing and progressing. PMP recognise that investment and Helen Buckingham, National Operations Manager development of our people makes them feel valued and appreciated. By boosting skills, and creating new When I came to the UK, I was looking for a chance to have new experiences in my life. I was working in the Judiciary system in Brazil for over 10 years and had an established law programmes to meet the needs of career, but I wanted a change. Do a Master’s degree, experience a new culture, improve my the industry, we’re creating more English skills, try different foods (although I’m not brave enough for the black pudding, I’m opportunities for personal growth afraid) and, above it all, face the challenge to build a career from the scratch. And PMP allowed me to do so. They looked beyond my CV and previous job experience to see my potential. And it has been an amazing experience. Tissiana Santos, Branch Coordinator 21 Environment The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle PMP’s Impact In 2018 PMP regionalised its operation with the objective of 14% delivering the same high level service but being more fuel efficient, and reducing mileage. Reduction in fuel expenses As a business we better utilised (2017 ‘v’2018) available technology by, where possible, replacing face to face meetings with conference calls or Google hangouts. 57K We moved to One Pay as an alternative to salary payments by cheque which reduced our impact on Less miles travelled courier transportation. approximately (2017 ‘v’2018) 22 Guiding Principle Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 23 Anti-Corruption The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour Unseen is in all its forms. incredibly proud to join forces with the PMP in PMP’s Impact our shared mission to tackle modern slavery. In 2017 PMP began a partnership with Unseen based on encounters with modern slavery in its own operation, and in response to increased press PMP have made great strides in coverage on the issue. embedding an ethical and sustainable business culture across the group and The business went through a process of changing the mindsets of its people encouraging their clients and through training, seminars and workshops. We needed to ensure that modern competitors to follow suit. slavery wasn’t seen as a taboo, and that suspicions weren’t being hidden in fear of blame. PMP’s people are now a driving force behind the abolition of modern They are now seen as one of the slavery; they want to spot the signs, protect others, and remove victims from leaders in their sector for raising situations of forced labour… and not just to benefit us but to benefit our clients, awareness of forced labour and candidates, colleagues and the industry as a whole. tackling modern slavery. In July 2018 we launched BE SEEN, BE HEARD, a campaign aimed at raising As a partner, I have been impressed awareness of modern slavery in high volume recruitment and supply chains by their sheer enthusiasm and genuine and encouraging best practice collaboration between business leaders. Find out commitment to inspiring change. more here. Andrew Wallis, OBE, CEO of Unseen UK To date PMP have raised over £35,000 for Unseen through multiple initiatives. 24 2018 Communication of Progress Corporate Goal; Targets 2017/18 25 Target 2017/2018 Our colleagues will understand what becoming a Partly achieved Social Enterprise means to them and our clients Develop and implement an internal HR training Work in progress module to focus on disability and mental health Staff handbook updated and communicated Work in progress digitally to all brands via the Employee Portal Cordant Connect, the Group’s onboarding Achieved for a significant part of the business system to be fully embedded in the business PMP to support all Cordant Group brands in Achieved in part; sister brands Cordant People and becoming a Stronger Together Business Partner Security now Stronger Together Business Partners 26 2018 Communication of Progress Corporate Goal; Targets 2018/19 27 Social Alignment Our Strategy Back in September 2017 our parent company, Cordant Group, became the UK’s largest social enterprise on a mission to change lives one community at a time. Everyday PMP’s people are changing lives... the essence of what we do is to offer sustainable employment so people can support themselves and their families every time we find someone a job it’s another life changed. OUR SOCIAL ENTERPRISE STRATEGY GOOD JOBS PROMOTING FOR ALL SOCIAL BUSINESS GIVING BUILDING FORWARD RESILIENCE MAXIMISING POTENTIAL 28 Social Alignment Our Strategy Good Jobs For All Giving Forward Giving access to sustainable employment We will give back to society through charity work and social partnerships. and reconnecting people with the workplace We’ll support social peers and engaging with social suppliers and encourage to ensuring they feel a sense of delight in employees to give back to society through fundraising and volunteering their role; We’ll offer sustainable pay and working Maximising Potential hours by; influencing clients to offer real living wage, guaranteed hours, temp to perm We will provide opportunities for our people to develop and enhance their employment opportunities and flexibility earning potential in order to live more fulfilled lives. We will ensure, colleagues and fresh talent looking for a route into recruitment, can achieve their goals We’ll ensure that working environments are and are given the opportunity to progress by offering personal development safe and productive, offering the tools to reviews, talent management and career path mapping as well as access to report concerns and making a commitment training, apprenticeships and development academies continually improving workplace wellbeing Building Resilience We’ll reward a job well done and nurture workplace success by offering; effective We will promote health and wellbeing by supporting our people to live more onboarding, job role training and meaningful lives and to overcome challenges life may throw at them opportunities for performance improvement We will commit to being an inclusive and Promoting Social Business diverse employer by making all jobs, internal and external, accessible to everyone and by We will inspire purposeful business practice, address social issues and collaborating with specialist partners increase our social impact in turn generating positive outcomes for society 29 Target 2018/19 Good Job Strategy We want to reconnect people with a sense of delight in their work and strive to create more sustainable jobs for all Sustainable Pay & Working Hours Create the wage calculator tool and trial with a client with a positive outcome on pay and/or hours for our workers Safe, Productive Working Environments Make improvements across our client network, in line with welfare facilities audit carried out by PMP Promoting Success Continue to improve temporary to permanent conversions for our in branch colleagues Inclusion & Diversity Identify timescale and implement process to; achieve Disability Confident level 2, and report on equal opportunity status Giving Forward Strategy We will give back to society through charity work and social partnerships which positively impact our communities Supporting Social Business Move signage and marketing print to Nuneaton signs, who are a social enterprise Charity Work and Volunteering Continue to encourage colleagues to engage with fundraising activity and entire brand to continue supporting Unseen Maximising Potential Strategy We will provide opportunities for our people to enhance their earning potential in order to live a more fulfilled life Progression Opportunities Implement Group wide job page. Review/improve Personal Development Review process, aim of 80% participation Development Academy We will identify a ‘step up academy’ at Level 3 for non management staff Building Resilience Strategy We will promote health and wellbeing by supporting our people to live meaningful lives and overcome challenges Health and Wellbeing Carry out wellbeing survey to all perm colleagues. Roll out a programme of campaigns to promote health and wellbeing 30 Oriel House | 55-57 Sheep Street | Northampton | NN1 2NE | UK 01604 602700 | www.pmprecruitment.co.uk As a stakeholder of the UNGC, and as business on a journey to becoming a Social Enterprise, PMP Recruitment would appreciate any feedback and comments on its 2018 Communication of Progress which now includes an assessment of how PMP supports some of the Sustainable Development Goals.
