FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CONTENT Franke Group Sustainability Report 2017 4 CEO statement 6 Group profile 8 UN Sustainability Goals: Our contribution 10 Strategy and value chain 13 Sustainability management 19 Environmental Responsibility 22 Energy efficiency in production 24 Water, waste water 25 Material efficiency in production 27 Resource-efficient products 29 Story: Energy savings thanks to energy check-ups 31 Social Responsibility 35 Executive staff development 36 Occupational health and safety 39 Story: A healthy working atmosphere 41 Economical Responsibility 43 Profitability 44 Business integrity 45 Human rights 46 Story: Expanding a sustainable compliance culture 49 Product Responsibility 51 Reliability and longevity of the products 52 Safety impacts of products 53 Product innovation 54 Story: Innovative, durable and robust 55 Appendix 57 Report parameters 59 GRI content index 63 Contact 3 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CONTENT CEO STATEMENT To keep our competitive edge and overcome pressing guidance in the area of social responsibility to Franke's market challenges, we remain focused on driving our management. In 2017, we directed our efforts at imstrategic focus topics: Operational Excellence, Innovaplementing concrete actions at the Group, country and tion Push, Marketing Excellence and Sales Excellence. team levels. Thereby, Franke aims to drive continuous Our development is a journey which is marked by conimprovement of the entire company and to further tinuous learning and successive adaptation processes. en­hance its attractiveness as an employer. We want to Franke has faced several challenging innovations when constantly improve ourselves through collective work drawing up the report for 2017. and thinking as well as investing into the development of our leaders and employees. “We have aligned our efforts As a global company, our impact on society and the environment is significant, and accordingly there is great with the UN Sustainable potential to do good. Dear Readers, Development Goals” Best regards, The subject of sustainability has become more than just a passion from a group of people who care about the In this reporting period, the focus was on translating the Patrik Wohlhauser environment. It now also demands global rethinking which United Nations Sustainable Development Goals to our President/CEO Franke Group goes beyond corporate responsibility. business activities and defining effective and measurable performance indicators. In addition to that, we also Franke takes responsibility for corporate management took the challenge of raising awareness for sustainability. being proactive with respect to economic, ecological To this end, we provided our customers with extended and social performances. This ambition drives us. Ac­ information on the environmental impact of our products cordingly, sustainability starts with our Be Accountable and services, for instance, by indicating energy effi­ Franke value and our Make it Wonderful brand promise. ciency classes. It is against this background that Franke offers futuredriven solutions – and contributes to a more sustainable world through the quality of its products and services, “We took the challenge the professional expertise of its employees and social and ecological commitment. of raising awareness for In order to guarantee effective sustainability managesustainability” ment, Franke joined the Global Compact of the United Nations in 2011 and thus committed itself to making the ten fundamental principles in the areas of human Franke works hard to optimize its services by improving rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption a part of work processes. Thanks to efficiency-enhancing and its corporate responsibility. We further commit ourselves energy-saving product innovations, we are furthermore to the goals of the Global Compact and have also inte­ achieving milestones, as with the Nautilus extractor grated the United Nations Sustainable Development hood by Faber, for example, with its energy efficiency Goals (SDGs) as a supplement to the Global Reporting “A”rating. Initiative (GRI) standards in this report. By being guided by the 17 goals for sustainable development, we aim In the area of social responsibility, the Employee En­ to make an impact by improving people’s well-being and gagement Survey, launched in 2016, allowed us to idenensure long-lasting solutions to protect our planet. tify our potential for improvement. This survey provides 4 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CEO STATEMENT 5 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CEO STATEMENT GROUP PROFILE Franke Group includes the divisions Franke Kitchen Systems, Faber Hood & Net Sales 2017 Locations worldwide Organization Cooking Systems, Franke Food­service Systems, Franke Water Systems and BY DIVISION Franke Group has production Board of Directors Franke Coffee Systems. The Group employs around 9,000 people worldwide companies and/or own representatives in 40 countries. Thomas A. Erb, Chairman Michael Pieper, Vice Chairman and generated consolidated net sales of CHF 2.1 billion in 2017. Dr. Andreas Hauswirth Headquarters are in Aarburg, Christian Mäder Switzerland. Dr. Michael Soormann Divisions Figures IN CHF M Europe (22 countries) Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Management Board Patrik Wohlhauser, President/CEO – 4.5 % Franke Kitchen Systems* 989 Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Franke Kitchen Systems Franke Foodservice Systems 657 Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Integrated systems for food preparation Franke Water Systems 239 Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Group Functions and cooking, including sinks, taps, counterFranke Coffee Systems 228 Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Finance Jürg Fischer tops, extractor hoods and cooking devices Reduction in CO2 emissions * Including Faber Hoods & Cooking Systems Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom Human Resources Beat Sigrist Operations Gianluca Mapelli 2017 vs. 2016 Information Services Markus Bierl Americas (5 countries) Legal & Compliance Martin Wyser – 5.4 % BY REGION Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Faber Hoods & Cooking Systems Mexico, USA Expert for exhaust air cleaning, extractor Divisions hoods and cooking technology Franke Kitchen Systems Reduction in lost day rate Asia/Oceania (8 countries) Patrik Wohlhauser (ad interim) Australia, China/Hong Kong, India, Faber Hoods & Cooking Systems 2017 vs. 2016 Japan, Kazakhstan, Philippines, Singapore, Ettore Zoboli 3.1% Thailand Franke Foodservice Systems IN % Thomas Campion Europe 60.5 Franke Water Systems Franke Foodservice Systems Africa/Middle East (5 countries) Roger Basler Kitchen appliances, accessories and Americas 27.9 Franke Coffee Systems Egypt, Morocco, South Africa, Tunisia, replacement parts in addition to a wide array of services for leading restaurant Increase in net sales Asia/Oceania 8.1 United Arab Emirates Thomas P. Meier Africa/Middle East 3.5 chains 2017 vs. 2016 Franke Water Systems 92.5 % Employees by region 2017 Brands Integrated systems for private and semipublic and public washrooms, including Production sites with quality Franke bkon Carron Dominox management certification Dart Valley Systems Eisinger taps, showers, sinks, accessories and water management systems in 2017 Elikor Easi Serv Eurodomo Faber Franke Coffee Systems A comprehensive range of coffee ma75.8 % IN % FIFO Futurum Kindred KWC Mamoli Mepam Newair Nokite chines for coffee preparation outside the Europe 60 home, including completely automatic Proportion of successful Americas 17 and traditional coffee machines in addition completion of online Code of Roblin S2K Sertek Spar Asia/Oceania 17 to coffee brewers Conduct training courses Africa/Middle East 6 6 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GROUP PROFILE 7 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GROUP PROFILE UN SUSTAINABILITY GOALS: OUR CONTRIBUTION All 17 Sustainable Development Goals (hereinafter SDGs) are important OVERVIEW OF THE ELEVEN SDGS AFFECTED for the promotion of sustainable development. To sharpen our focus, we have prioritized eleven of these goals where we believe as a company, Environmental Responsibility we can make the greatest impact. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. In 2015, the UN member states adopted a series of targets aimed at reducing poverty, protecting the Earth and ensuring prosperity for all. With these globally valid Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. priorities and goals as a guideline, the 17 SDGs are used as a way of joining forces to meet the most pressing chart on page 9), which were localized along our value Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat challenges in the world. The achievement of these goals chain. This enabled us to substantiate our contribution desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. by 2030 depends, in particular, on the actions of corpoto the SDGs. rations. Franke has accepted this responsibility and Social Responsibility makes its contribution to achieving the SDGs along with The SDGs identified were then embedded in our four sustainable development a priority. In the following sec­ reporting areas (environmental responsibility, social Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. tions of this report, we highlight the SDG actions that re­sponsibility, economical responsibility, and product Franke has initiated for the first time. responsibility) and concrete Franke activities were thus assigned to the SDGs. This systematic compilation helps Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. us to identify our risks and opportunities with respect to “The achievement of these the SDGs and to better define corresponding indicators, measures and goals. goals by 2030 depends on Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. Franke Group views sustainability not only as a social obthe actions of corporations” ligation, but also as an essential component of its longEconomical Responsibility term business success. We have achieved a great deal in this area in recent years and, in the interests of our many Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Integration of the SDGs in Franke’s stakeholders and the environment, we are committed to sustainability ambitions continuously optimizing our actions, en­hancing our effiBased on the materiality analysis in accordance with ciency, and constantly finding new solutions that inspire. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. the GRI standards, Franke has identified twelve essential topics on which the Group focuses for its sustainability management. We have investigated the extent to which Kirill Bourovoi Product Responsibility these essential topics promote the UN Sustainability Manager Group Sustainability Goals. The analysis resulted in a list of eleven SDGs (see Group Head of Learning & Development Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. 8 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 UN SUSTAINABILITY GOALS: OUR CONTRIBUTION 9 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 UN SUSTAINABILITY GOALS: OUR CONTRIBUTION STRATEGY AND VALUE CHAIN Our strategic areas of activity have one thing in common: They are all on society and the environment is accordingly great, as ucts, their manufacturing and their sales, all the way to is the potential to do good deeds. their actual use and disposal and/or recycling. Sustainresources-intensive and have a considerable impact on the environment. able consumption – inside and outside of our production After all, food preparation and housing are, next to mobility, the most The comparatively long period of utilization of our prod­ sites – is therefore a central concern of our strategy. ucts has a positive effect on the balance of energy and important areas of human resource consumption. raw materials over the course of the entire product life­The upstream and downstream processes, ranging from cycle. The majority of our products are designed for many maintenance to kitchen accessories and through to the years of use, reliability, and reparability: For example, the type of foods used or their method of preparation, have average lifetime durability of a private kitchen in Switzeran impact. At Franke, we consider health and safety of Our business model as well as for private bathrooms with tap systems and land is between 20 and 25 years. Baths, showers, and all people who come into contact with our products to The five Franke divisions are active with their solutions accessory parts. toilets must be designed to last for 30 years. This shows be a matter of our responsibility. This includes the health in four business segments. These are divided up into the that compared with other sectors of the consumer goods of our employees, as well as their work-life balance, as two areas of food and beverage preparation and water Longevity of our products industry (e.g. household appliances, cosmetics, elecwell as the safety of our products during their entire management and hygiene on the one hand and between Food preparation, sanitation and hygiene technology tronics, etc.), kitchen and sanitation technology have long lifecycle. After all, our products have an impact on food the commercial and private sectors on the other. In the and having a place to call home are, as we know, bare lifecycles. preparation (e.g. ovens and stove tops), water cleanlicommercial sector, everything revolves around equipnecessities – they are vital to human life. The everyday ping kitchens for professional foodservice, semi-public utilization intensity and the associated consumption of and public washrooms with integrated systems, and resources are considerable for these kinds of products: THE FRANKE VALUE CHAIN coffee preparation outside the home. In the private secNot only in domestic households but also in the comtor, on the other hand, the focus is mainly on equipping mercial sector, the majority of energy and resource condomestic kitchens with integrated kitchen systems sumption is linked to kitchens and bathrooms and thus Supply chain Locations Products for food preparation, cooking and exhaust air cleaning, to products that bear our brand name. Franke’s impact OUR STRATEGIC AREAS Raw materials Components Manufacturing Sales User Recycling Commercial Residential Restaurant Kitchen Sustainability along our value chain ness (e.g. taps and filters) and on the air (e.g. extractor Food and beverage Sustainable consumption of resources during the dehood systems). preparation LANDLORD BUSINESS OWNER HOME OWNER LANDLORD vel­opment and manufacturing of our products and the Franke Foodservice Systems Franke Kitchen Systems effects on climate change are central concerns of our In addition to customers such as restaurant chains, buildFranke Coffee Systems Faber Hoods & Cooking Systems strategy. As a production company, we are not only re­ing supplies stores or kitchen and bathroom providers, sponsible to the environment but also have an internal other large customers also rely on our products: As Washroom Bath responsibility, mainly to our employees and to our owner. a globally active original equipment manufacturer, we partner with global corporations – and our actions can We influence mankind and the environment across have a correspondingly positive influence on their reWater management our entire value chain and beyond the product lifecycle source efficiency. and hygiene LANDLORD BUSINESS OWNER HOME OWNER LANDLORD itself. People are involved and resources are required, right from the extraction and production of raw materiOutlook Franke Water Systems Franke Water Systems als, their transport and logistics, the countless providers We are, however, also taking a long-term approach that of semi-finished goods and components for our prodgoes beyond our products: Sustainability is a central pillar 10 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 STRATEGY AND VALUE CHAIN 11 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 STRATEGY AND VALUE CHAIN of our business strategy. Franke has set itself the targets accountability to the environment, society, and econoof being the world’s leading provider of systems for food and beverage preparation and for water management my. “For me, sustainability means fairness with respect to future generations,” says Michael Pieper, the owner SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT and hygiene, of growing both organically and through acof Franke Group. “In everything we do, we should be quisitions, and of growing its profitability further. Franke able to look our children and grandchildren in the eye Management and the owner base their efforts thereby with a clear conscience. This makes acting sustainably on long-term considerations and are conscious of their a must.” The existing management structures at Franke ensure that Franke has an optimum setup in terms of governance and that it is free of conflicts of interest. In addition to qualifying the Board of Directors with respect to sustainability, the internal guidelines affected should be identified and an overview of the most important stakeholders should be provided. Governance structure, committees under the standing committees held regular meetings in 2017. The Board of Directors Artemis Group Management is composed of three Franke Group has a three-tier governance structure: mem­bers. For more information about the governance structure of Artemis Group, see: ▸ www.artemis-holding.com ▸ About us Board of Directors of Artemis Holding AG (Artemis Group) 7 members The Board of Directors of Franke Holding AG is composed of five members. The board has no committees. The Franke Group Management Board is composed Management Board of Artemis Holding AG (Artemis Group) of ten members. For more details about the governance 3 members structure of Franke Group, see: ▸ www.franke.com ▸ About us ▸ Group Structure Board of Directors of Franke Holding AG (Franke Group) Separation of the chair of the Board of Directors 5 members (3 of whom are members of the Artemis Group Management) and executive management Thomas A. Erb, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Artemis Holding AG and Franke Holding AG, is neither a Management Board of Franke Holding AG (Franke Group) member of the Artemis Group Management nor of Franke 10 members Group. Three of five members of the Franke Holding AG Board of Directors are members of Group Management for Artemis Group. Each body has clearly defined purposes, duties and re­ Independent members of the Board of Directors sponsibilities defined by the organizational regulations No member of the Board of Directors of Artemis Holding and the terms of reference. The two Boards of DirecAG and its committees is involved in operative mantors of Artemis Holding AG and Franke Holding AG are agement. Three of the five members of the Board of responsible for the strategic direction of Artemis Group Directors of Franke Holding AG have executive positions and Franke Group and have a number of non-transferwithin Artemis Group. able and inalienable duties pursuant to the Swiss Code of Obligations. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to address recommendations to the Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Artemis Holding AG is comMichael Pieper, owner and President/CEO of Artemis posed of seven members. The board has three standing Group, is in regular dialog with the Board of Directors committees: the Audit, the Information Security and of Artemis Holding AG and is the Vice-President of the the Human Resources committees. The board and the Board of Directors of Franke Holding AG. 12 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 STRATEGY AND VALUE CHAIN 13 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GENERAL PRINCIPLES AND CODES OF CONDUCT Oversight of sustainability performance by cient and energy-saving buildings. USGBC is the the Board of Directors owner of the LEED building standard. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Artemis ▸ www.usgbc.org Supplier Code of Conduct Holding AG discusses risks and opportunities that are European Committee of Domestic Equipment ManuMinimum requirements regarding relevant for Franke Group within the framework of approv­ facturers (CECED), a business association that repemployment practices, environing the annual risk report. resents the household appliance industry in Europe mental protection and business Oebu, a Swiss association and think tank for sustainintegrity that must be met by all our Code of Conduct suppliers. The Supplier Code was Evaluation of sustainability performance of able business Legal compliance also approved by the Franke Group the Board of Directors Advance Women, with the objective of actively Health and Safety Management Board. There is no formal process for assessing the performance increasing the proportion of women in management Fundamental labor standards against child/forced labor and of the Board of Directors from a holistic sustainability positions in Swiss companies through an ongoing discrimination perspective. series of concrete measures Prevention of sexual harassment Sustainability Principles Anti-corruption Equal opportunity and diversity Precautionary approach Relevant stakeholder groups Rules for dealing with gifts and Employee relations The precautionary principle plays an important role for Franke Group considers the following stakeholder entertainment Personal safety and emergency Prevention of theft, fraud and displanning Franke Group as both a production and a sales orga­ groups to be relevant: honesty as well as rules concerning Business travel nization. The precautionary principle is reflected in the Customers and consumers the disclosure of information Information security management systems (quality, environment, occupational Employees health and safety) that are implemented at different Suppliers and business partners sites. In operations, the precautionary principle is imple­ Local communities, authorities, media, regulators The Code applies worldwide and Potential future employees is available on the intranet in mented by means of preventive approaches for environ13 languages. Sustainability Principles mental protection, occupational health and safety and O  wner Internally defined framework for quality assurance. Franke Group has in place a compreIn addition, an integrity line that can improving the economic, environ­mental hensive system for the control and management of all Basis for selecting stakeholders be used by all employees to report and social performance of Franke Group. risks involved in business activities. In accordance with Franke Group is aware that its business interacts with integrity concerns in a confidential and anonymous manner was rolled standard ISO 31000, corporate risk management is at various stakeholder groups. The above stakeholders out in 2013. the intersection of all management systems. All Franke have been identified as important for systematic stakecompanies have a clearly defined crisis organization and holder dialog, as they fulfill at least one of two criteria: conduct an annual risk analysis which identifies the key Either the stakeholder group exerts a strong influence risks. All production companies must furthermore have on the economic, environmental or social performance a business continuity management plan that guarantees of Franke, and/or the stakeholder group is strongly a quick and competent response in the event of an affected by the economic, environmental or social perNo employee representative sits on one of the Boards of General principles and codes of conduct emergency. Furthermore, our employees are supported formance of Franke. Directors. Employee representatives of the European comDifferent sustainability topics are addressed in direcduring crisis situations on business trips by an external panies meet regularly in the context of the Franke Forum tives and a number of internal policies deal with matters intervention specialist. Approaches to stakeholder engagement (European Works Council), with a member of the Franke related to sustainability and business ethics: To date, dialog with external stakeholders has been Group Management Board. Selected concerns can be Code of Conduct: Legal compliance, health and safety, External agreements and initiatives highly decentralized. We are furthermore working on addressed to the Board of Directors through this channel. fundamental labor standards such as child/forced Franke Group has been an active member of the UN formalizing interactions with the representatives of labor and non-discrimination, (sexual) harassment, Global Compact since January 2011. We also participate relevant stakeholder groups and are striving to create a Link between compensation and anti-corruption, gifts and entertainment, theft, fraud in the activities of the local Global Compact network in structured process for this dialog by 2020. the organization’s performance and dishonesty, disclosure of information. The Code Switzerland. The remuneration of the members of the Board of Direcapplies worldwide and is available on the intranet in ▸ www.unglobalcompact.org Response to key topics and concerns of stakeholders tors is not linked to the performance of the company. 13 languages. In addition, an integrity line that can be Sustainability topics are increasingly at the heart of many used by all employees to report integrity concerns Through the voluntary application of the Global Reportdiscussions with both internal and external stakeholders. Members of the Franke Group Management as well as in a confidential and anonymous manner was rolled ing Initiative’s Guideline for Sustainability Reporting (new The key topics and concerns that were raised include: other employees are incentivized by a combination of out in 2013. GRI standard), we aim to contribute to ensuring transRequirements of large customers regarding our suspersonal and financial targets. Depending on the position, Supplier Code of Conduct: Minimum requirements parency and comparability in sustainability reporting. tainability standards: surveys addressing sustainability personal targets may be linked to the social and environregarding employment practices, environmental management, certifications, etc. mental performance. protection and business integrity that must be met by Guidance on how products from Franke Group help all our suppliers. The Supplier Code was also approved Memberships in associations and organizations meet building standards: We have applied the criteria Processes for the Board of Directors to avoid by the Franke Group Management Board. Franke Group is active in a wide range of industry of the LEED and Minergie building standards to some conflicts of interest G  roup Policy: Equal opportunity and diversity, associations and initiatives in various countries. Many of our products in order to identify which products are The Code of Conduct stipulates how conflicts of interest employee relations, personal safety and emergency of these organizations deal with sustainability topics, best for complying with these standards. of board members are avoided. Board members are obplanning, business travel, information security. for instance define best practice standards or develop Operational Excellence program: achieving top per­formligated to refrain from any involvement in the handling of Sustainability Principles: Internally defined framework product labels, including but not limited to: ance, social and environmental standards through sysmatters affecting either their personal interests or those of for improving the economic, environmental and social U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), an organization tematic management of operational safety, reliability, a company or person with which they have an affiliation. performance of Franke Group. committed to a sustainable future through cost-effi­ efficiency and overall cost reductions through the Group14 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 15 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT MOST IMPORTANT STAKEHOLDERS 2017 Product Responsibility AG (Artemis Group). In 2017, Franke Group generated Reliability and longevity of the products sales of CHF 2,075.6 million, with 67 subsidiaries Safety impacts of products and 9,071 employees (FTEs). Total assets amounted to Customer insights: Structured interviews Consultation with and inclusion P  roduct innovation CHF 2,167.6 million as at the end of 2017. The prodwith end-consumers as well as online Local of the neighbors of production sites ucts of Franke Group are sold to various business panels and focus groups in various communities, in larger construction projects. authorities, Legal form, company size, and markets cus­tom­ers such as restaurant chains, wholesalers, countries are conducted by external service providers and our customer media, Outsourcing of work such as Franke Holding AG (Franke Group) is a private company kitchen studios or real estate developers in more than regulators insights department in order to better assembling and packaging of under Swiss law and is fully owned by Artemis Holding 100 countries. understand the needs of our products to institutions that provide customers. home and work for disabled adults by Customers and different Franke companies. Customer contacts: Franke service consumers technicians working in the field are in day-to-day contact with kitchen studios, architects, restaurant owners, real estate developers, etc. Our key account managers dedicated to large Career days: Participation in customers in order to better serve their recruitment days at universities. needs. Potential future employees Presentation of case studies Trade shows: Franke businesses are at universities and support of present at leading trade shows in many university projects. countries in order to display new products and foster customer relations. Franke Forum: Annual meeting of the Suppliers and business partners employee representatives of the European initial contact as part of the supplier companies with a member of the Franke Suppliers and pre-screening and evaluation Group Management Board. business partners process, mainly on issues related to quality and lead time. Consultation of the various works councils at plant level by the local Regular discussions between buyers Human Resources organization and suppliers, both on site and in the and/or local management. Employees context of audits. Communication through internal channels such as the CEO letter, employee magazine or intranet. Since the owner of Franke Group Employees attend an introductory is the CEO/President of Artemis program when joining the company Owner Group (holding company of Franke Group), he is well-informed Engagement opportunities and employee and consulted on major strategic participation at plant level decisions. wide Operational Excellence program. As in 2016, the Material efficiency in production Operational Excellence program also contributed to R  esource-efficient products improving the Group’s cost competitiveness in 2017. Social Responsibility Essential topics E xecutive staff development The following twelve essential topics are treated in the Occupational health and safety following chapters: Economical Responsibility Environmental Responsibility P  rofitability Energy efficiency in production B  usiness integrity* Water, waste water H uman rights* * Business integrity and human rights have previously been addressed in earlier sustainability reports. Now they have also been included as essential topics for 2017. 16 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 17 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Environmental Responsibility 18 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Essential topics and our contribution to No production is possible without the consumption of resources or the sustainable development generation of waste. The utilization of finite resources and the emissions caused by them have an effect on the Earth’s ecosystem, particularly on ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN PRODUCTION SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy climate change, and on the provisioning of future generations. SDG 13: Climate action WATER, WASTE WATER Since Franke was established over 100 years ago, many ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SDG 6: Clean water and sanitation­ individual initiatives related to environmental protection 2017 2016* have been launched, triggered by legislation, stakeholder concern or efficiency considerations. The environmental impacts of the activities of Franke Group are felt along Production sites certified in accordance 33/40 32/38 MATERIAL EFFICIENCY IN PRODUCTION the entire value chain. with ISO 14001 SDG 15: Life on land * Excluding Franke Industrie AG In order to pool our resources, we focus on those segments of the value chain that we can influence most and where the greatest effects are achieved. With respect commercial viability and the availability of environmenRESOURCE-EFFICIENT PRODUCTS to product development and innovation, we take into actally friendly technology. Bruno Triet, Chief Risk & Real SDG 13: Climate action count resource efficiency (with a focus on material, enEstate Franke Group, is thereby responsible for a major ergy, water and waste), and we invest in environmentally part of these activities and, in particular, for risk assessfriendly production processes. In the long run, however, ments which also include ecological aspects. A number we also intend to reduce the environmental footprint of of measures ensure that our environmental footprint is our logistics and transportation. reduced: Environmental management systems in the Franke Franke Group strives to consistently reduce the environcompanies ensure that ecological effects are identified mental impact of its operations, taking into account the and monitored. Franke Group works toward the continuous certification of all of its production sites in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard. By the end of 2017, 33 out of all 40 production sites were certified RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES DUE TO CLIMATE CHANGE according to ISO 14001. In addition to the renewals of Climate change is a strong driver for energy and water effiexpired certifications, we also aim to certify additional ciency. The need to use resources more wisely in the future production sites in the future. will increase demand for products that use less energy and/ As in the prior year, good practices were exchanged or water over their lifecycle. We have made it our goal at Franke to have our innovative products meet customer reacross all Franke businesses to learn from examples quirements in this regard. Based on the annual risk analysis, that have shown good results (e.g. recycling of waste we believe that the exposure of Franke Group to the risks of heat from presses and server rooms, or the substituclimate change (e.g. natural perils for production plants or tion of materials in production processes). transportation) is moderate. At present, there are no special The quality of this data at company and Group level CO2 regulations, for instance maximum emissions levels, which we are required to observe. However, Franke is aware has considerably improved due to the critical checking that rising energy prices are directly linked to production of environmental data recorded and subsequent recosts. This is why Franke intends to further reduce energy finement of definitions. The parameters presented to consumption in the future. all companies in Franke Group have been subjected to more stringent checks for both 2017 and 2016. 20 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL XXX RESPONSIBILITY 21 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY This meant that the numbers for 2016 also had to In addition, Franke is actively involved in charitable ENERGY CONSUMPTION (ABSOLUTE) be revised. Monitoring the environmental data enables objectives worldwide. An example of this is the plantUNIT 2017 DIFR 2017/2016 20161 the continuous checking of progress over time and ing of trees since 2013 under the auspices of the partadditional improvement measures to be defined. nership between Franke Philippines and the College As in prior years, compliance with environmental laws of Forestry and Natural Resources of the University Electricity MWh 105,506 0.8 % 104,715 and regulations must, of course, be observed as the of the Philippines – Los Baños (UPLB). 490 trees were Natural gas m³ 5,259,849 10.0 % 4,780,688 minimum requirement for all Franke operations. planted in 2017. District heat MWh 15,719 6.2 % 14,800 Heating oil extra light Liters 346,860 –23.7 % 454,594 Subtotal excluding fuel² GJ 639,992 3.2 % 620,305 Diesel Liters 1,574,069 –6.0 % 1,674,941 ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN PRODUCTION Gasoline Liters 298,166 –9.6 % 329,886 Total2 GJ 705,532 2.2 % 690,441 1 Excluding Franke Industrie AG and subsequent data corrections 2 Updated conversion factors for the calculation of energy consumption in GJ In 2017, Franke implemented measures in the follow­ing bottles by installing a drinking water facility, but also areas to reduce the environmental impacts in producenhanced drinking water safety. tion: The commitment to LEAN management at Franke Sustainable buildings, such as the installation of solar Group’s production sites continued to be pursued in ENERGY CONSUMPTION (RELATIVE TO NET SALES) systems at Franke Faber India Private Ltd. in India 2017, as in the prior year. UNIT 2017 DIFR 2017/2016 20161 (Aurangabad) or the increased use of the CO2-neutral wood chip plant at the Franke Water Systems AG Systematic energy management has been expanded production site in Unterkulm. With the wood chip inacross various Franke sites. Software for monitoring Electricity MWh/m CHF 51 –2.3 % 52 cineration and photovoltaic plant that Franke operates energy consumption online and in real time as well as Natural gas m3/m CHF 2,534 6.7 % 2,375 in Aarburg and the purchase of electricity generated installing additional metering points increase transpar­ District heat MWh/m CHF 8 3.0 % 7 by hydroelectric power, Franke is CO2-neutral at the ency of energy flows. This allows the defining of additional Heating oil extra light Liters/m CHF 167 –26.0 % 226 Aarburg site. improvement measures, such as optimizing hydraulic Fuel Liters/m CHF 902 –9.4 % 996 Improved lighting in buildings with energy-saving bulbs presses, switching lamps to LED or improvements to Total2 GJ/m CHF 340 –0.9 % 343 (e.g. LED), partitioning, motion sensors and daylight compressed air. 1 Excluding Franke Industrie AG and subsequent data corrections 2 Updated conversion factors for the calculation of energy consumption in GJ dimmers. For example, the production site in India (Pune) has replaced the previous factory lighting with Energy consumption LED lamps and not only reduced the use of plastic Franke Group mainly uses externally purchased energy. It obtains energy in the form of electricity, natural gas, CO2 EMISSIONS district heat and extra light heating oil. Energy consumpUNIT 2017 DIFR 2017/2016 2016 ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN GIGAJOULE1 tion for 2017 and the changes with respect to the prior year are listed in the Energy consumption (absolute) 800,000 table (see p. 23). Scope 1 (from fuels and combustibles) Metric tons (t) 16,255 2.1 % 15,920 705,532 Scope 2 (from electricity and district heat) Metric tons (t) 46,735 –6.6 % 50,054 690,441 700,000 The reduction in heating oil consumption of 23.7 per­cent can be explained by the increased utilization of the Absolute CO2 emissions Metric tons (t) 62,990 –4.5 % 65,974 600,000 CO2-neutral wood chip plant at the Franke Water Sys­ Relative CO2 emissions t/million CHF 30 –7.4 % 33 tems AG production site in Unterkulm. Natural gas con1 Excluding Franke Industrie AG and subsequent data corrections 2 Updated CO2 emission factors 500,000 sumption increas­ed by 10 percent in 2017 in comparison 379,822 with the prior year. Several Franke Group companies are 400,000 376,973 reporting an increase in natural gas consumption. In addition, a new production site came on stream at Strečno irregular utilization of fuel for generators in cases of energy consumption, for which Group sales are taken 300,000 (Slovakia) in 2017. In contrast to the previous producmalfunctions. into account, changed only slightly in comparison with 191,098 tion site in Slovakia, natural gas is used in Strečno for the prior year. 200,000 173,690 heating, which led to a significant increase in natural Whereas there were no major changes with respect to gas consumption. electricity consumption in comparison with the prior year, Greenhouse gas emissions 56,588 56,179 100,000 energy consumption for district heat increased slightly. In absolute terms, the greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 53,281 12,485 59,779 9,361 Consumption of both diesel fuel and gasoline declined This rise is primarily due to the increased use of the and Scope 2) dropped by 4.5 percent. This re­duction can 16,362 10,357 0 slightly in 2017 in comparison with the totals of the wood chip heating at the production site in Unterkulm. be explained by the drop in emissions from the electricity Total ElectriNatural District Heating oil Diesel Gasoline prior year. Among other things, Carron Phoenix Ltd. and used. Despite a slight increase in electri­city consumption city gas heat extra light Industrias Spar San Luis S.A. (Franke Kitchen Systems) Franke Group’s total energy consumption increased and an increase in district heat, CO2 pollution was reduc­2017 20162 achieved a reduction in fuel consumption by switching slightly compared to the prior year. The largest part of ed by indirect energy carriers (Scope 2). This is because, 1 Updated conversion factors for the calculation of energy consumption in GJ to electric forklifts. Furthermore, part of the fluctuation this increase is to be credited to the area of natural gas in comparison with the prior year, electricity with lower 2 Excluding Franke Industrie AG and subsequent data corrections experienced over the years can be explained by the as an energy source (see bar chart on p. 22). Relative CO2 intensity was procured at many production sites. 22 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY In relation to net sales (tons of CO2 per million Swiss sources to LED or improvements with respect to comof waste water in 2017, at 295 m3 per million CHF net area of kitchens and baths. This means that Franke can francs), greenhouse gas emissions declined in 2017 by pressed air. sales, was 19.9 percent higher than in 2016. A small distinguish itself from its competitors, satisfy cus­tomer 7.4 percent in comparison with 2016. In 2017, electricity quantity of waste water was disposed of by professional requirements at an early stage and still contri­bute to a consumption (around three quarters of the total greenSDG application third-party companies. No unplanned discharges of waste sustainable management of water and sanitation. Fur­house gas emissions) was by far the most significant Franke contributes to SDG 7 Affordable and clean water took place at Franke Group in 2017. In this report, thermore, Franke also observes efficient water utiliza­ CO2 source. energy and SDG 13 Climate action by using renewable we identify for the first time the water volume that was tion during production. energy for promoting clean energy sources. It is indeed directed to a treatment plant and that did not go directly Reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and true that the achievement of this target is connected into surface or ground waters. In comparison with the Franke strives for a more sustainable use of water as a energy consumption with the risk of high initial investments. For Franke, prior year, the water vol­ume increased by 15.8 percent. resource with respect to the entire water cycle. Although Our approach to curbing greenhouse gas emissions has however, this results in the opportunity of achieving an the overall water consumption at Franke Group has two objectives: independent, affordable and sustainable energy supply SDG application not declined, the Group is eager to reduce its water 1. Implement energy-saving measures and increase over the long term. The use of renewable energy fur­ With respect to SDG 6 Clean water and sanitation, consumption and to make a contribution to a more energy efficiency. thermore provides an important contribution to climate Franke can reduce the water consumption of users sustainable water management throughout the entire 2. Switch to renewable or low-carbon energy sources: protection. Moreover, the possibility exists for Franke through its resource-efficient product range in the water cycle. With new construction or building conversions, Franke of enhancing its robustness in the face of fluctuating Group always attempts to promote the use of renewenergy prices. able energies, heat pumps, recovered heat from prod­uction processes and district heat, depending on Franke has set itself the target of switching to renew­ availability. able energies. As a result of the purchasing of electri­city MATERIAL EFFICIENCY IN PRODUCTION from hydro power, the wood chip plant and the photo­ In order to reduce energy consumption further at voltaic plant, the production site in Aarburg is CO2-neu­ the most energy-intensive production sites, targets and tral. Franke thus contributes to the energy revolution Franke Group uses a wide range of materials of different beginning with systematic, Group-wide tracking in measures have been defined such as switching light and to the fight against climate change. quantity and quality. The most important materials that 2016. The most important material groups are summawe use in our production are metals (mainly stainless rized in the following table. In general, all parameters steel) and plastics. A large amount of recyclable waste have risen since 2016. A drop can be seen with respect results from the cutting and punching of material during to glass. This decline was likely caused by changes to the processing of stainless steel for sinks, kitchen counthe product range. WATER, WASTE WATER tertops and fixtures. This is returned to the manufacturer and reused for the manufacturing process of the raw Proportion of recycling raw materials in total ma­terial. This process is reflected in the reported figraw materials utilization Water consumption aims to use the resource of water sparingly. At Group ures. Franke Group has thus, as a result of the specifics Stainless steel, the main component of many of our Franke Group uses mainly fresh water from the public level, the water data is primarily dependent on the numof its resources and production, a large volume of waste products, is estimated to be made up of 70 to 75 per­ water system and some water from wells. We have been ber of production sites and at the corporate level on and a high proportion of recycled materials. In this cent of recycled material. Cardboard that we use for able to implement enclosed water circulation systems production output. For this reason, we do not apply year’s report (2017), we have for the first time compiled packaging mainly stems from recycled content (estimated at most of our worldwide production sites. In 2017, water quantitative targets with respect to water consumption. comparison values for materials consumption, after 90% of total cardboard use). Based on the data for the consumption increased by 21.9 percent compared with 2016. In comparison to net sales (m3 per million CHF), Sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 2017 witnessed an increase of 18.3 percent in compari­ The water consumption of our production plants does MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT son with prior year figures. The recording of reliable data not place a significant burden on water sources as deMATERIALS IN METRIC TONS (T) 2017 DIFR 2017/2016 20161 with respect to water consumption represents a chal­ fined in the GRI guidelines. lenge due to the absence of water meters in some places. Changes with respect to the prior year must be viewed Total water discharge Stainless steel 34,345 7.5 % 31,949 with caution. We have set ourselves the target of con­ In 2017, 612,863 m3 of waste water were discharged, that Carbon and galvanized steel 14,531 14.8 % 12,655 tinuously improving the quality of this data. Franke Group is 23.6 percent more than in 2016. The relative quantity MMA (methyl methacrylate), mostly used for acrylic 2,045 12.9 % 1,811 Quartz 6,169 1.0 % 6,105 SMC (sheet molded compound), mostly used for WATER AND WASTE WATER fiber-reinforced plastics 1,744 6.5 % 1,638 Plastic 2,400 9.1 % 2,200 UNIT 2017 DIFR 2017/2016 2016* Brass 2,665 1.3 % 2,630 Glass 1,675 –16.3 % 2,000 Water consumption m3 641,571 21.9 % 526,131 Subtotal non-renewable materials 65,574 7.5 % 60,988 Relative water consumption m3/m CHF 309 18.3 % 261 Renewable sources 3,927 9.4 % 3,590 Waste water channeled into treatment plants m3 258,185 15.8 % 222,997 Unclassified/other 19,927 9.7 % 18,158 Total waste water m3 612,863 23.6 % 495,740 Total weight of used materials 89,428 5.2 % 82,736 Relative waste water m3/m CHF 295 19.9 % 246 1 Excluding Franke Industrie AG 2 Subsequent data corrections 2016 * Excluding Franke Industrie AG and subsequent data corrections 24 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 25 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 reporting period, we estimate that the proportion Weight of packaging materials PACKAGING MATERIAL ACCORDING TO WEIGHT of recycling material represents a third of the total ma­te­This indicator was recorded for the first time in 2016 and rials used. In this respect, it should be taken into account it enables us to identify changes for this report. In the MATERIALS IN METRIC TONS (T) 2017 DIFR 2017/2016 2016* that a precise acquisition of the proportion at the Group case of packaging materials, we make a distinction be­level is difficult. tween renewable, non-renewable and unclassified mateRenewable packaging material 13,998 6.8 % 13,103 rials. As a general rule, the total weight of the packaging Non-renewable packaging material 6,227 11.0 % 5,610 Total weight of waste materials increased by 8 percent on the prior year. The Non-classified packaging material 895 7.0 % 836 23,963 tons of non-hazardous waste, including metal weight of renewable packaging has increased by 6.8 perTotal weight of packaging material 21,120 8.0 % 19,549 scrap, and 2,061 tons of hazardous waste were generatcent since 2016. * Excluding Franke Industrie AG ed in 2017. The increase in non-hazardous waste from 6.4 percent in 2017 on the prior year can be explained Furthermore, we record an increase among non-renew­ by, among other things, the move and the associated able packaging materials of 11 percent and among un­ble to generate less waste and contributes to a re­ under 70 percent of the packaging materials used closure of the Franke España S.A. production site. The classified packaging materials of 7 percent. The classiduction in environmental impacts via recycling. Even are renewable. Nonetheless, we want to continue to total waste in relation to net sales (tons of waste per milfication of packaging materials is new at Franke Group. though no major improvements were recorded for intensify our efforts toward a lower consumption lion Swiss francs) was 2.7 percent higher in 2017 than The recording of reliable data therefore still represents 2017, Franke endeavors to achieve production that is of resources and a more sustainable contribution to in 2016. a challenge for individual companies, and part of the as resourceand material-efficient as possible. Just the environment. packaging materials had to be identified as unclassified. Furthermore, for the first time a more detailed breakWe anticipate a more precise recording of this data at down of the hazardous waste was made for this re­port. the company level and consequently a greater informa­We now distinguish between hazardous waste which tive value at the Group level. On the basis of this, devel­ can be reused or recycled and hazardous waste which opment opportunities are to be identified and clear RESOURCE-EFFICIENT PRODUCTS is disposed to landfill or incineration plants. In 2016, measures defined. 1,450 tons of hazardous waste were reused or recycled. In 2017, this figure fell by 4.8 percent to 1,380 tons. By SDG application The responsibility of the company begins already at the with its impressive A energy efficiency class. In com­ contrast, the hazardous waste that is disposed to landfill The efficient utilization of resources and materials product development stage. The goal in this area is to parison with other extractor motors, the Nautilus motor or incinerated increased from 602 tons in 2016 to 681 leads to a smaller environmental impact, in particular develop energy-efficient products which conserve re­is not only thinner, it is also more efficient. tons in 2017. An indication of the disposal method of this with respect to SDG 15 Life on land. As a result of sources and are safe for the end user. The biggest environThe integration of the AQUA open water managetype with respect to non-hazardous waste is expected its resource-efficient production and the process opmental contribution of our products lies in the efficient ment system from Franke Aquarotter (Franke Water to be added by 2020. timizations associated with it, Franke makes it pos­si­use of energy and (hot) water, which indirectly saves both Systems) in the building technology at the blu sports energy and water. At the same time, our customers can and recreational water park in Potsdam that opened in save costs during the utilization of the products. We are 2017 enables consumption-efficient and hygienically WASTE therefore continuously looking for ways to design our impeccable drinking water preparation. products to be more resource-efficient, as can be seen UNIT 2017 DIFR 2017/2016 2016* from the following examples: While only a few of our products are required to include In 2016, we brought to market the world’s first oven specific information regarding sustainability effects Total non-hazardous waste Metric tons (t) 23,963 6.4 % 22,514 with an A++ energy efficiency category rating, the (e.g. taps, stovetops and ovens in the European Union), Hazardous waste that is reused or recycled Metric tons (t) 1,380 –4.8 % 1,450 Touch FS 913 M multifunctional oven. Italy’s interna­ Franke focuses on various labels to simplify informed Hazardous waste that is disposed to landfill tionally renowned AE Test Institute confirms the energy purchase decisions on behalf of our customers. or incineration plants Metric tons (t) 681 13.3 % 602 efficiency tests performed by Franke in its own laboEU Energy Label (energy efficiency for kitchen hoods ratories. and ovens) Total hazardous waste Metric tons (t) 2,061 0.5 % 2,052 At Franke Coffee Systems, we continued to work on PEFC Chain of Custody (specification of origin for wood) Total waste Metric tons (t) 26,024 5.9 % 24,566 an alternative heating system for heating milk and Well, WRAS and EnergieSchweiz (water efficiency of Relative waste Mt/m CHF 13 2.7 % 12 water as in the prior year. This heating system switches taps and shower heads) * Excluding Franke Industrie AG and subsequent data corrections off for as long as no product is being dispensed, there­by enabling a considerable reduction in energy conFranke Group strives to adapt proactively to rising sumption. customer expectations, regulatory changes, emerging WASTE ACCORDING TO HAZARDOUSNESS In March 2017, Franke Water Systems (WS) presented product labels or buildings standards. At the same time, the new F3 and F5 generation of taps with the first environmental risks and impacts of our products and IN METRIC TONS (T) 2017 self-closing ceramic cartridge at ISH, the world’s services – material, energy and water consumption and largest trade fair for innovative sanitation technology, the generation of waste – will be further reduced. Total non-hazardous waste 23,963 energy-efficient heating technology, climate technology and renewable energies. Thanks to the electronImpact of our measures in the area of environment Hazardous waste that is reused or recycled 1,380 ics developed by WS, drinking water hygiene can be By increased use of CO2-neutral energy (e.g. wood chip Hazardous waste that is disposed to landfill or incineration plants 681 ensured and water consumption reduced (see p. 54). heating plants) which goes hand-in-hand with a reduced Total hazardous waste 2,061 In November 2017, at Mebel, the biggest annual fur­ utilization of heating oil, we were able to lower greenniture exhibition in Russia and Eastern Europe, the new house gas emissions. This in turn improved the CO2 bal ­Total waste 26,024 Nautilus extractor hood from Faber was presented ance of Franke Group as a whole. A Reduction in green26 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 27 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY house gas emissions (t CO2) by 4.5 percent and relative the individual companies in the interests of being able greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2/m CHF sales) by 7.4 percent could be achieved in comparison with 2016. to improve the resource efficiency of our products systematically throughout the entire Group in the future. ENERGY SAVINGS THANKS TO ENERGY CHECK-UPS We consider this to be an indication of the effectiveness of our measures. SDG application As an answer to our global presence and to our activ­ Nonetheless, we aim to continuously reduce our environ­ities in energy-efficient areas of competition, we are mental impacts, in particular with respect to energy and making a significant contribution to SDG 13 Climate water consumption, as well as material efficiency in prodaction through our consumption-efficient products and uction. Our energy-saving measures and energy efficiency requirements-specific solution approaches. Thanks to are to be increased, and the replacement of CO2-richer our resource-efficient products and systems, we save energy sources with CO2-poorer ones is to be promoted our customers not only costs but also reduce their further. ecological footprint. Various measures have been underway for some time to reduce Especially, the water data recorded indicates potential We have set ourselves the target of continuing to de­ electricity and heat consumption as well as CO2 emissions within Franke for improvement. An increase in data quality is indisvelop our products so that they are increasingly more Group. A particular focus in this context are the most energy-intensive pensable for evaluating water consumption more accuresource-efficient and of providing our customers rately in order to reduce it. with specific information regarding the sustainability production sites. effects of the offerings. In 2017, we brought consump­ We have also managed to use our activities to design our tion-efficient products to market and signaled this fact products to be more resource-efficient. We are, however, with Efficiency Class A – as in the case of the Nautiaware that we still have a large number of develop­ment lus extractor hood. This allows us to mobilize and raise Together with an external energy provider, Corporate Real opportunities in this area. Here, too, we are there­fore awareness of our consumers for combating climate Estate Management, under the auspices of Dieter Deiss, currently gathering more precise data regarding product change and to set incentives to act in accordance with Corporate Real Estate Manager, is performing energy impacts and the numerous improvement measures at this awareness. check-ups at the most energy-intensive production sites in the Group. This results in action plans to reduce energy consumption for each production site. Between 2013 and 2017, the CO2 emissions of the 13 most energy-intensive production sites were reduced – from around 23,400 tons of CO2 to around 19,300 tons annually, which corresponds to a reduction of almost 18 percent. Nevertheless, this number alone says nothing about efficiency. After all, as says a representative of DM Energieberatung, which was commissioned with the analysis notes: “Energy consumption and thus the amount of CO2 emitted follows from production.” That means: The greater the productivity, the more energy is consumed. The number of units produced at the analyzed production sites dropped between 2013 and 2017, although only by 5.6 percent. Ultimately, however, there still remains an impressive CO2 reduction and thus a gain in efficiency per unit produced. Heat consumption was also reduced in the same time period, and by 14 percent at that. chip heating at the head office in Aarburg, the Swiss Electricity consumption again dropped by 1.8 percent. production site can nowadays even produce in a way that is CO2-neutral,” explains Deiss. The company is Franke has defined goals and measures to be implestill far from implementing all planned measures. All mented to further reduce electricity and heat consumpparticipants are continuing to work on reducing energy tion at selected production sites, such as optimizing consumptions even further. hydraulic presses, switching light sources to LED and improvements to compressed air. However, wood chip Energy consumption at the head office in Aarburg was plants – as already in operation in Aarburg and Unteralso reduced by around one third between 2010 and kulm – are also a focus, as they save massive amounts 2017 through systematic energy management. Dieter of CO2. “Thanks to the commissioning of the wood Deiss: “This shows that the measures are paying off.” 28 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 29 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL XXX RESPONSIBILITY social Responsibility 30 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Essential topics and our contribution to With around 9,000 employees in 67 subsidiaries on five continents, our sustainable development workforce is of special significance when it comes to sustainability. Healthy, motivated, and well-trained employees are the key to our success. DEVELOPMENT OF EXECUTIVES SDG 4: Quality education SDG 5: Gender equality OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Our employees are our most valuable asset. We thereHEADCOUNT BY REGION 2017 SDG 3: Good health and well-being fore support them in their efforts to remain healthy IN % and with the continuous further development of their competencies. It is not only that we thereby avoid workEurope 60 place accidents, we also make an overall contribution Americas 17 to the satisfaction of our employees. However, we also Asia/Oceania 17 understand the term “social responsibility” to mean our Africa/Middle East 6 duty to respect internationally applicable human rights at our locations and in our supply chain. By signing the UN Global Compact in 2011, we committed to “supHEADCOUNT BY DIVISION 2017 porting and respecting the protection of internationally IN % proclaimed human rights” (principle 1) and to “making sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses” Franke Kitchen Systems* 56 (principle 2). Franke Foodservice Systems 19 Franke Water Systems 14 Responsibility for labor practices at Franke Group lies Franke Coffee Systems 5 with the Chief Human Resources Officer who reports Group functions 6 directly to the CEO of Franke Group. Furthermore, the * Including Faber Hoods & Cooking Systems HR Committee of the Board of Directors supervises HRrelated activities. Total workforce We conduct business in line with high ethical and moral Franke Group maintained an average of 9,071 fullstandards. Our Code of Conduct (see chapter Economitime employees (FTEs) during 2017, thus 6.6 percent cal Responsibility, p. 45) and internal policies define our more than in 2016. Part of this increase can be exbusiness principles and serve as an authoritative source plained by the acquisition of Elikor LLC and Sertek LLC of guidance on various topics in the area of occupational in 2017. health and safety. We focus on non-discrimination, equal opportunities and diversity, amicability among employFemale employees ees and the observance of basic employment standards. The percentage (25 percent) of female employees in 2017 remained unchanged on the prior year. Whereas The Franke values of Enable People, Foster Teamwork, there has been a small decline in the number of female Act Entrepreneurial, Deliver Solutions and Be Accountfactory workers in comparison with the prior year, the able are lived through the actions of every employee. share of female employees in the Global Leadership We expect our leaders to create an environment where Team (85 individual leaders with major influence on our employees feel inspired to give their best and to contribcorporate success) increased slightly. Franke Group ute to developing new ideas. promotes gender equality, diversity and equal opportu­ 32 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SOCIAL XXX RESPONSIBILITY 33 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY nity and forbids discrimination on the basis of sex, age, gives preference to female candidates in the event of EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND REGION color, nationality, race, religion, disability or any other equal suitability. legally protected personal characteristic (see Code of IN FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS PERMANENT PERMANENT DIFFERENCE TEMPORARY TEMPORARY DIFFERENCE 2017 2016* 2017/2016 2017 2016* 2017/2016 Conduct of Franke Group, p. 14). In the context of the inEmployee turnover rate ternal talent promotion (One Franke Talent Program), the The average employee turnover rate (of permanent emshare of female talent in 2017 was 22.6 percent. When ­ployees) was 9 percent in 2017 as in the previous Europe 4,778 4,468 6.9 % 488 461 5.9 % leadership positions are occupied with the support of year. The following figures show the number of permaThereof Switzerland 916 905 1.2 % 28 25 12.0 % external partners (Executive Search), Franke requires a nent employees leaving in 2017 and the turnover rate Americas 1,391 1,199 16.0 % 113 113 0.0 % focus on the identification of female candidates and by region. Asia/Oceania 1,402 1,361 3.0 % 103 93 10.8 % Africa/Middle East 558 594 –6.1 % 33 25 32.0 % Total 8,129 7,622 6.7 % 737 692 6.5 % * Excluding Franke Industrie AG WORKFORCE IN FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS 2017 2016* % OF TOTAL 2017 DIFFERENCE Europe 5,410 5,071 60 % 6.7 % EXECUTIVE STAFF DEVELOPMENT Thereof Switzerland 1,022 1,016 11 % 0.6 % Americas 1,527 1,332 17 % 14.7 % Asia/Oceania 1,543 1,484 17 % 3.9 % The different Human Resources (HR) functions at Franke In 2015, a new competency appraisal process was rolled Africa/Middle East 591 622 6% –5.0 % support the entire employment cycle, from recruiting, out that is closely linked to the Franke values and fosters Total 9,071 8,509 100 % 6.6 % performing and developing to succession planning. Emopen communication. Personal commitment is honored ployees are trained and over 60 percent of our executive by rewarding performance and offering challenging Permanent employees 8,129 7,622 90 % 6.7 % staff positions were recruited internally in 2017. careers in an international environment. Temporary employees 737 692 8% 6.5 % Apprentices 205 195 2% 5.3 % Our training and development offerings provided under The One Franke Talent Program (OFTP) offers talentTotal 9,071 8,509 100 % 6.6 % the auspices of the Franke Academy focus on three ed, ambitious employees the opportunity to develop * Excluding Franke Industrie AG key areas: leadership development, functional develop­their skills under the auspices of a real project and to ­ment (e.g. Sales Excellence), and lean and compepromote exchanges with one another and with Senior tence development (e.g. Communication). It supports Management. DIVERSITY: FEMALE EMPLOYEES all employees and executives in obtaining the necessary tools and targeted knowledge. Franke employees’ perThe first global OFTP was successfully completed in IN % OF TOTAL 20171 20161 sonal and professional goals are supported through 2017 and furthermore the OFTP at the European level regular feedback, learning programs and development was initiated. Management Board Franke Group 0 0 opportunities. Global Leadership Team (GLT) 7 3 Employees receive performance and Additional office employees2 36 36 Programs for skills management and career development reviews Total office employees 35 35 lifelong learning Franke Group supports the personal and professional Franke is a company built on ideas. At Franke, ideas are development of individual employees. Open dialogs beFactory workers 8 13 nurtured right from the start, so that they grow into tween employees and managers are of key importance Total employees 25 25 innovative products and services that make the everyday and provide opportunities to give and receive regular 1 The percentages for 2016 and 2017 are based on the employee directory. Employees for whom no sex is specified were not taken into account something special, just as our slogan says – Make it Wonfeedback. Our global HR processes and tools support 2 Subsequent data corrections 2016 derful. Employees are developed at every level and career us in ensuring that our employees’ period of employstage allowing Franke to advance as a company. ment is structured in the best possible way. TURNOVER OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES IN FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS 2017 TURNOVER RATE 2016* TURNOVER RATE EMPLOYEES WITH TARGET AGREEMENT (WITH MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN) 2017 2016* IN % OF TOTAL FEMALE MALE TOTAL Europe 352 7% 394 9% Thereof Switzerland 73 8% 65 7% Management Board Franke Group 0.0 0.2 0.2 Americas 57 4% 48 4% Global Leadership Team (GLT) 0.1 0.8 0.9 Asia/Oceania 253 18 % 214 16 % Further employees with MIP 4.1 10.5 14.6 Africa/Middle East 59 11 % 57 10 % Further employees without MIP 21.3 63.0 84.3 Total 721 9% 713 9% Total 25.5 74.5 100 * Excluding Franke Industrie AG * The percentages are based on the employee directory. Employees for whom no sex is specified were not taken into account 34 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 35 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The processes of performance appraisal and develop­ Not only the Global Leadership Team (GLT) and HR at OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY ment planning are actively supported by a central the Group and division level, but also executives at all system – such as in the context of the personal target levels are res­ponsible for enhancing engagement. Im­ 2017 DIFFERENCE 20161 2017/2016 agreement (Management Incentive Plan, MIP) or comprovement measures with respect to employee commitpetency appraisal – and actions and results can also be ment have therefore been formulated throughout the recorded systematically. 1,130 MIPs and 1,800 compecompany down to the smallest team. 80 percent of all Lost days due to occupational accidents or sickness 3 484 1% 3 464 tency appraisals were recorded in 2017. teams have already drawn up their measurement plan. Lost day rate (LDR)2 40 –5 % 43 Franke communicated the measures defined at the Group Absenteeism rate 3.1 % 2.9 % Furthermore, an HR process was initiated in 2016 for and country levels throughout the company. In a subNumber of injuries 320 13 % 282 Talent Management and Succession Planning (TMSP) and sequent step, responsible individuals will concentrate Fatal accidents 0 0% 0 rolled out further in 2017. As part of this, employees are on the implementation of these plans – with the goal of Production sites certified in accordance with 28/40 27/38 systematically appraised, talents identified, and potential increasing our employee commitment. OHSAS 18001 development activities discussed. 830 employees were 1 Excluding Franke Industrie AG and subsequent data corrections discussed in the context of TMSP in 2017. Identifying our In 2015, Franke set itself the long-term goal of achieving internal talents and potential successors in key positions a 70 percent internal promotion rate. We achieved a enables us to inform our employees of career opportunirate of 67 percent for the Global Leadership Team (GLT) ties and to increase the rate of internal promotions. in 2017 and are thus approaching our long-term goal of centralize data collection and to facilitate a more preFurthermore, Franke engages itself together with its creating a development-driven corporate culture. cise tracking. employees for the support of their fellow human beings. Through multi-faceted development programs, our goal In 2017, for example, Franke Great Britain supported is to unfold the full potential of our professionals and exStarting in 2018, we are offering Leadership DevelopInternal and risk audits are performed as part of the the campaign for people suffering from cancer with the ecutives. The initiatives launched under the umbrella of ment programs worldwide to help managers implement measures for protecting health, safety and the well-beBlooming Great Tea Party, which is organized annually the Franke Academy are long-term development projects. their role even better and thereby enhance their contriing of employees. The internal audits performed address by the Marie Curie charity. Franke Philippines takes We monitor the success of our development and further bution to our success. Together with an external partner topics such as occupational health and safety. part in blood drives and contributes to the promotion of improvement measures with the aid of, among other and our own resources, these programs are being imgood health through running such as the Stripes Run things, the worldwide Employee Engagement Survey that plemented worldwide. Franke’s goal is to systematically Training classes in the workplace are the basis for safe for Reading or the Fun Run events. we carried out for the first time in 2016 and which is to develop and promote executive staff. working conditions, refresher courses for seasoned be repeated every other year. employees and sensitivity training course for new em­ Accidents, injuries, fatalities SDG application ployees, in addition to a culture of open communication. The minimization of occupational and health risks is In accordance with the results of this survey, Franke With respect to SDG 4 Quality education and SDG 5 These measures are leading to visible success. For achieved through safety training classes and occupaachieved a total assessment of 52 percent with respect Gender equality, Franke has positive effects on the ex­ample, our factory in the Philippines (Calamba City, tional safety certificates. Franke Faber India Pvt. Ltd. to employee commitment. This result puts us in midprofessional development of its employees through its Franke Foodservice Systems) celebrated one million has been accident-free for two years in a row. This suc­range, similar to 50 percent of all global companies. training and education programs. For Franke, this re­ safe personnel hours without an accident-related lost cess is to be credited primarily to the introduction of Our results show that 69 percent of all respondents are sults in the opportunity to retain and promote talented day during the 2017 reporting year. safety sensors in the production machines. It is with proud to be part of Franke. 80 percent of our employees employees as an attractive employer. Investments in these kinds of measures that Franke is eager to achieve are prepared to work hard in order to exceed customer our employees also support productivity and innovation An additional example is our Faber factory in Turkey a Group-wide reduction in the number of in­jur­ies in the expectations. potential. Franke employs around 9,000 individuals (Manisa, Franke Mutfak): Based on measures coming coming years and take action against the increase in worldwide and has thus many opportunities to promote out of the Employee Engagement Survey, a weekly tour Group-wide injuries of 13 percent recorded in 2017. We The engagement of our employees is key to our success. women along various leadership levels. of the factory has been introduced. Management and strive to continuously reduce the number of injuries and We have therefore, on the basis of the Employee Engageemployees take this opportunity to discuss suggeslost days and to keep them below the level of the prior ment Survey results, defined three drivers to intensify Franke aims to promote equal opportunities. In 2017, tions for improvement – including safety and efficiency year. The lost day rate (LDR, lost days per 100 employengagement at the Group, national and team level: leaderfemale employees accounted for 7 percent in the Global topics. ees) was 40 in 2017, down from 43 in 2016. The lost ship, learning and development as well as rewards and Leadership Team (top 85 managers), an increase day rate has been reduced despite the slightly increased recognition. Within these drivers, measures such as im­ on the 3 percent of the prior year. Furthermore, Franke What is more, we offer our employees at our head office number of injuries. The increase in injuries can be ex­ roving communication, the pursuit of learning opportu­ achieved a rate of internal promotion of 67 percent in in Aarburg the opportunity of contacting the occupationplained by a slightly larger number of minor accidents, nities, the training of executives and the introduction of 2017. This way, Franke contributes to the professional al social services office in the event of social or profeswhich did not lead to a rise of the lost day rate. Employee an acknowledgment program have been defined. advancement of its employees. sional difficulties. Health and occupational safety are safety is of the utmost priority for Franke. Franke’s goal furthermore ensured by adequate protective equipment is to avoid accidents of any type. The Group-wide ab­in the workplace. senteeism rate was 3.1 percent in 2017 and thus ap­proximately the same as in the prior year. The mental, social and physical well-being of the employ­OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY ees is promoted at Franke in Smyrna by the Wellness No fatal accidents were recorded in 2017 (as was also Committee. The program offers activities such as yoga, the case in prior years). CrossFit or fitness challenges and provides their employFranke places strong emphasis on health and safety. sites. By the end of 2017, 28 out of 40 prod­uction ees with information about a healthy nutrition. Franke Approximately half of the total workforce is currently The goal of the Franke Group Management Board is to sites were certified according to the OHSAS 18001 also offers its employees at the Aarburg site various opcovered by collective agreements (e.g. collective labor implement and certify an occupational health and safety standard. One additional certification is planned for portunities through the Fit4Franke campaign for keeping agreements, wage agreements). In Austria, France, Ger­ management system (OHSAS 18001)* in all production 2018. Furthermore, efforts have been undertaken to both physically and mentally fit. many, Italy and Switzerland, over 90 percent of employ36 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 37 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ees are governed by a collective labor or wage agreeavoided, health risks reduced and employee well-being ment. There are no collective agreements with employees in the US and China (19 percent of the total workforce). promoted. In addition, employee productivity has thus been increased and health costs have been reduced. A HEALTHY WORKING ATMOSPHERE SDG application Franke aims to introduce and certify (OHSAS 18001) a Franke undertakes continuous efforts with respect management system for occupational health and safe­ to SDG 3 Good health and well-being to structure the ty at all of its production sites. By the end of 2017, 28 working conditions of its employees so that they are out of 40 production sites were certified according to as pleasant and safe as possible. As a result of safetythe OHSAS 18001 standard. As was the case in 2016, and awareness-raising measures, accidents have been Franke again avoided any fatal accidents in 2017. Minor investment – significant effect. With newly installed air-scrubbing devices, Franke is showing how health hazards for employees – for instance, caused by particulate matter – can be reduced over the long term, at the production site of Franke Kitchen Systems Germany in Bad Säckingen. In addition to lower health costs, the installation may well also pay off in the form of productivity increases. Particulate matter is the term used to refer to a mixture of minuscule dust particles with diameters of less than one hundredth of a millimeter. It is created when burning fossil fuels, during abrasion or as a result of agricultural processes. “At Franke Kitchen Systems in Bad Säckingen, particulate matter is created when handling cardboard packaging, particularly in the packaging sector, and is also caused by floor and tire abrasion from conveyor vehicles,” says Thomas Eschbach, Head Warehouse and Distribution at the site. To improve the situation, the particulate matter concentration has now been reduced by around 80 percent (which is considerably below the recommended limit) in collaboration with Zehnder, a Swiss company. Eight air-scrubbing devices now ensure not only a healthy working atmosphere, but also reduce dust deposits on goods and installations. This leads to a reduction in cleaning costs, while ensuring a clean environment for inspections and customer visits at the same time. But it is, of course, the employees at the site who are most pleased by the improvement in air quality. Thomas Daniele Frerk also says: “I noticed that I have far Eschbach: “I have the feeling I am now breathing clean less need to sneeze than I did before the devices were air.” This is also confirmed by other employees at the installed.” site. The picker Andreas Willig, for example, finds the air to be cooler and more pleasant than it was before the As a result of the positive responses and the very promdevices were installed. The picker Andreas Hornauer, on ising measurement results, it is now planned to install the other hand, now feels fitter: “I find myself cough­the air-scrubbing systems in additional production halls ing noticeably less than I often used to.” And the packer in Bad Säckingen. * The change in international standards from OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001 was published in March 2018. 38 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 39 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SOCIAL XXX RESPONSIBILITY Econ mical Responsibility 40 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY Essential topics and our contribution to Healthy profitability and financial stability are the permanent mainstays sustainable development of our entrepreneurial actions. The Group Management Board and the owner are interested in Franke Group’s long-term performance. PROFITABILITY SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth BUSINESS INTEGRITY As part of a global value chain, our performance has impacts fall under the strategic supervision of the Board S  DG 16: Peace, justice and strong an impact not only on our own company but is also a of Directors and the operative management of Franke institutions central element for the success of our numerous longGroup – the Group Management Board. The Management term suppliers and partners. Furthermore, at Franke, Board of Franke Group supervises compliance activities. we focus on high ethical standards when exercising Franke performs permanent monitoring in the context HUMAN RIGHTS our business activities; integrity and compliance are of internal risk management in order to identify businessSDG 8: Decent work and economic growth therefore of key importance. At Franke Group, economic relevant risks at an early stage. performance, market presence, and indirect economic PROFITABILITY Taking into account economic performance, the market KEY FIGURES situation, and other factors, the strategies at Franke IN CHF M 2017 20161 DIFR Group and its divisions are reviewed regularly and modified as required. In the interest of ensuring profitability, we have implemented not only timely reviews but also Net sales 2,075.6 2,012.9 3.1 % long-term planning. Organic growth 2.0 % 10.6 % EBIT 126.1 138.3 –8.8 % For the timely reviews, we have implemented a monthly Investments 144.6 182.2 –20.6 % review cycle of the course(s) of action being pursued by Employees average2 8,866 8,314 6.7 % management. The monthly results at the division level 1 Excluding Franke Industrie AG 2 Excluding apprentices are consolidated and reviewed in these cycles in order to initiate control measures in a prompt manner should signs appear of a deviation from the annual targets. Franke Group achieved a pleasing annual result in the In the medium-to-long term, we have an annual interreporting year. It generated consolidated net sales of nal planning and a budgeting process, each of which CHF 2,075.6 million in 2017 compared to CHF 2,012.9 considers the next three years. In our business strategy million in 2016, thereby recording a sales rise of 3.1 perfor 2020, we have set ourselves a target profitability cent. In 2017, Franke’s adjusted operating result (EBIT) of 12 percent EBIT. We would like to achieve this with was CHF 126.1 million (–8.8 percent on the prior year). organic growth, acquisitions, and efficiency gains in all Organic growth was 2 percent. functions. 42 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY 43 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY SDG application tions and for strengthening the company’s own marWith respect to SDG 8 Decent work and economic ket position. Franke has set itself a target profitability of HUMAN RIGHTS growth, Franke has had positive effects on employment 12 percent EBIT for its business strategy for 2020. In and on economic growth through its long-term exis2017, the EBIT fell by 8.8 on the prior year. Franke had a tence. The inclusion of new markets and the acquisition workforce of 9,071 employees, a good 500 more than Code of Conduct pletion rate of 75.8%. Furthermore, in 2017 five on-site of new customers are tied to a variety of challenges, in 2016 (full-time positions). The protection of human rights is a high priority at Franke training classes (in comparison with six in the previous but also represent an opportunity for profitable operaand is prerequisite throughout the entire value chain year) were held on the topic of compliance (including when it comes to a license to operate being granted. In human rights) for employees. its Code of Conduct (see chapter Social Responsibility, p. 33), Franke Group commits to respecting and fully The Code of Conduct applies for compliance and complying with all applicable laws and regulations and to human rights topics. Franke employees worldwide have BUSINESS INTEGRITY supporting international human as well as fundamental access to the Code of Conduct that is available in labor regulations as defined in the International Labor Or13 languages. The Code of Conduct has been present­ed ganization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and to all employees. The globally valid Franke Code of Conduct was last up2016). These internal audits are based on a risk-oriented Rights at Work. Furthermore, the code implies the basic dated in 2013. All Franke employees commit to ob­servaudit approach and include, among others, consideration occupational law regulations which tolerate neither child Incidents of discrimination ing the highest ethical standards of professional and of compliance risks. labor nor forced labor. Franke Group’s Supplier Code reThe Franke Group Code of Conduct fundamentally forpersonal conduct in their interactions with customers, quires that all suppliers and their respective supply chain bids discrimination on the basis of sex, age, color, nacolleagues, business partners, competitors, regulators Anti-corruption policies training comply with requirements regarding employment practictionality, race, religion, disability or any other legally proand the communities in which Franke operates. Compli­ The rollout of a total of three e-learning modules on the es, environmental protection and business integrity. The tected personal characteristic. However, security rules ance with laws and regulations is indispensable for a sus­Code of Conduct started in February 2017; the modules Supplier Code of Conduct of Franke Group furthermore may restrict certain work tasks to specific individuals. tainable corporate success. Incorrect behavior results are obligatory and must be repeated periodically. The requires that all suppliers and their respective supply in reputational damage, fines, and decline of orders. We first module is directed at around 5,500 employees and chain reject forced, bonded, prison, military or compulGuarantee of freedom of association and are therefore strengthening our employees’ understandalso has to be completed by new hires. The two other sory labor or any form of human trafficking. Compliance collective bargaining ing of compliance of the laws governing particularly modules address bribery and anti-trust law topics and with the Supplier Code of Conduct is ensured by its in­In its Code of Conduct, Franke Group commits to re­ with regard to corruption, anti-trust law, product requirewere launched in November 2017. 311 out of 758 emclusion under the agreements with our suppliers. In addispecting the rights of its employees to freedom of assoments, commercial copyrights of third parties, data priployees have completed online training courses on the tion, audits are performed which also address these ciation and collective bargaining within the boundaries vacy, and trade restrictions. In 2016, Franke introduced topic of bribery and 284 employees have completed aspects in order to further check and minimize the risk of local law. The Supplier Code of Conduct of Franke a Compliance Management System based on the pillars the anti-trust law course (as of February 2018). of violations of human rights in our supply chain. Group furthermore requires that all suppliers and their of prevention, identification, and control. 2017 was the respective supply chain respect the rights of employees first year that all employees received online compliance Franke employees worldwide have access to the Code of The responsibility for raising awareness and controlling to freely associate and bargain collectively, free of any training. Compliance with laws and regulations is addi­ Conduct that is available in 13 languages. Furthermore, internal human rights issues (e.g. non-discrimination, restrictions or consequences. tionally promoted by the Group Compliance Officer, the SpeakUp@Franke integrity line for raising employee equal opportunities and diversity, freedom of association Marcel Enz, a member of the Group Legal & Compliance awareness was renewed in 2016. and the right to collective bargaining) rests with Cor­po­rate SDG application department, based in Switzerland. The Internal Audit de­Compliance and Human Resources for all Franke Group Franke contributes to SDG 8 Decent work and econopartment carries out the compliance processes at the SDG application locations. The purchasing functions integrate continuous mic growth by means of both the Code of Conduct and individual sites. In addition, the SpeakUp@Franke inte­With respect to SDG 16 Peace, justice and strong insti­requirements so that human rights and fundamental the Supplier Code of Conduct. The pro­tection of human grity line established in 2013 can be used by all employtutions, Franke actively supports the avoidance of incilabor standards must be respected in the supply chain. rights and the combat against discrimination are prereqees to report integrity concerns in a confidential and dents of non-compliance with transparency throughout uisites for Franke’s long-term success in the entire value anonymous manner. In the event of misconduct, correcthe entire value chain and training courses. Franke With auditing, certifications and training courses, we chain. Franke creates workplaces with well-designed tive measures are taken. Offered in 26 languages, the deems conduct in compliance with laws and regulations significantly contribute to the upholding of human rights, conditions for employees of sex, age, color, nationality Integrity Line serves as an important tool and contributes as a necessary prerequisite for sustainable success. not only at the production sites but also in the supply and qualification level and consequently supports the to the upholding of high compliance standards. chain. This ensures that employee rights are upheld and economic performance in the respective countries in In order to achieve the goal of keeping non-compliance that child labor is excluded. These verification mechawhich Franke operates. Analysis of business units for risks of corruption incidents low, the number of internal audits was expandnisms should continue to exist in the future. The number of audits was increased more than twofold ed (17 internal audits in 2017). Franke thereby makes a Franke strives to continuously align its strategy and in 2017. The Internal Audit department carried out 17 oncontribution to the promotion of a peaceful and inclusive Employee training courses its objectives with human rights and has made it its site audits in 2017 (as compared to eight such audits in society. All employees who have an email address completed the objective to ensure that employee rights can be upheld online training course on the Code of Conduct (including and child labor can be ruled out. In 2017, 4,161 employhuman rights) that was launched in February 2017. 4,161 ees out of 5,489 were trained in the Code of Conduct employees out of 5,489 have completed the training online (as of February 2018). This represents a total of course (as of February 2018). This represents a com75,8 percent. 44 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY 45 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY EXPANDING A SUSTAINABLE COMPLIANCE CULTURE In 2017, Franke used computers for the first time to train its employees on the subject of compliance. The subject was the Franke Code of Conduct and questions regarding anti-trust law and bribery matters. on­line Code of Conduct training courses took place in 2017, and every employee with an email address has completed these. By February 2018, 4,161 employees out of 5,489 had completed the module, which represents a rate of almost 76%. Participants had to answer 11 out of 15 questions correctly during the subsequent test. For the two major risks of corruption and violations of anti-trust law, Franke has introduced e-learning programs for employees in functions where these risks exist. These e-modules on anti-trust law and corruption have thus been completed by members of the Executive Board, business managers, heads of the Finance department, members of the Global Leadership Team, employees in Purchasing, Sales and Internal Audit, local compliance officers and the Legal department. 284 out of 758 em­ployees, that is 37 percent, have completed the antitrust law training course. The module on the topic of bribery has been completed by 311 out of 758 employees, which corresponds to 41 percent of the total. “All e-learning modules have been successfully implemented, and we’re very satisfied with the completion rate”, comFranke introduced a Compliance Management System in ments Marcel Enz, Group Compliance Officer. 2016 and also set up a Compliance Organization in 2017. For instance, the reporting process was simplified via In comparison to 2016, the number of cases of misconthe Integrity Line SpeakUp@Franke. Now, serious cases duct identified through the Integrity Line increased by of misconduct can be reported to the Group Compliance 9 percent. Furthermore, sanctions resulting from violaOfficer directly via SpeakUp@Franke and anonymously tions of internal compliance regulations were imposed if preferred, insofar as the report is made in good faith. for the first time in 2017. According to Enz, this is an Furthermore, awareness of compliance risks has been extremely positive development and reflects increasing raised among employees in training courses. The first confidence in the Compliance Organization. 46 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ECONOMICAL XXX RESPONSIBILITY 47 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY product Responsibility 48 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Essential topics and our contribution to sustainable development The customer pays us for our products and services. This is why we accept the ongoing challenge of ensuring that our products and services create added value for our customers. RELIABILITY AND LONGEVITY OF THE PRODUCTS SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production SAFETY IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS The reliability and longevity of our products offer opporQUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SDG 3: Good health and well-being tunities to save limited resources and support the per­2017 2016* ception of our company as a quality provider in the market. We can only maintain our leading market position PRODUCT INNOVATION through ongoing innovation and by upholding the highest Production sites with certified quality SDG 9: Industry, innovation and of standards with respect to quality and safety. The latter management systems (ISO 9001) 37/40 37/38 infrastructure are the basic prerequisites for the safe utilization of our * Excluding Franke Industrie AG products. The greatest impacts of product responsibility are to be seen in the utilization phase at the customer location. Not only technical modifications regarding prodOur quality management systems help to ensure comp­ uct safety, but also the topics of innovation, reliability, and liance with compulsory technical and other standards. longevity have an indirect effect on the upstream stages. Furthermore, they lead to a continuous improvement At Franke, product responsibility is assigned to a variety process. The divisions and companies in Franke Group of departments: Product Development, Quality, Marketmeasure customer satisfaction in different ways. Meaing, Risk Management, and Legal. At the end of 2017, suring and securing customer satisfaction are a part of 37 out of 40 production sites had implemented a quality the quality management and follow clearly defined promanagement system certified in accordance with ISO cedures. While some companies in the Group carry out 9001. Two companies (Elikor LLC and Sertek LLC) joined customer surveys on their own, others rely on standardFranke Group in 2017 which have not yet been certified ized surveys provided by third parties. Performance according to the ISO 9001 standard. The certification of improvement plans are developed for those topics with two additional production sites is planned for 2018. the weakest survey results. RELIABILITY AND LONGEVITY OF THE PRODUCTS We focus on the reliability and longevity of our products. Mode and Effect Analyses (FMEA) in order to avoid This means, on the one hand, that we ensure the high errors and to enhance the technical reliability of our re-quirements of our customers with respect to quality, products. Furthermore, since 2016, regular exchange while at the same time making a contribution to saving has been taking place between production and quality resources. Our products belong to the high-quality segmanagers at a global level in order to streamline the ments. We have therefore implemented a broad range of processes and for each to learn from the respective measures for quality assurance in Product Development experiences of the other. Products that do not pass our and Production. Among other things, we perform Failure internal tests are either forwarded to a revision process 50 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PRODUCT XXX RESPONSIBILITY 51 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY or disassembled in cases of major deficiencies in order warranty period) in relation to the total number of prodto recycle the raw materials wherever possible. Furtheructs sold by Franke Group. In 2017, the Service Call Rate PRODUCT INNOVATION more, we are able to investigate process quality via the was 0.6 percent. systematic surveying of percentages of rejects. SDG application For Franke, innovation is not only one of the most im­were launched in the market over the past three years. The reliability and, in particular, the longevity of our prod­With respect to SDG 12 Responsible consumption portant prerequisites for future success, it is also a In comparison with 2016, we achieved an increase by ucts are evidenced by the many years of use at the locaand production, Franke uses efficiency measures and decisive lever for sustainability. More environmentally 7 percent.* We were able to identify data regarding prodtions of our customers. Many of our products have been the development of new business models to exercise friendly products are thus being promoted which are, uct innovations for the first time. However, the informain use for decades. a positive influence on the sustainable consumption of among other things, energy-efficient and water-saving. tive value of this indicator should not be overestimated, its customers. Because we develop high-quality, reli­ The Innovation, Marketing and Design Board (IMD) is given that the activities of Franke Group do not correTo track the reliability and longevity even outside the able and, in particular, durable products, we are able to the driving force behind innovation and meets four times spond to any uniform picture and, among other things, factory gates, we collected data concerning the number meet the requirements of environmentally conscious a year. The IMD controls and makes decisions regarding some companies produce customer-specific manufacof faulty products. By measuring the number of cuscustomers. innovation projects and provides a network of individutures exclusively. This contributes to an increase in the tomer complaints within the warranty period, we can als both inside and outside Franke to implement these indicator value. The informative value of the indicator of provide a better insight into the reliability and longevity Franke has set itself the goal of lowering the energy projects. Thus, for example, we schedule so-called Innoproduct innovation is to be enhanced for the next report. of our products. Based on this information, we derive and water consumption of its end customers through vation Days under the auspices of the IMD and bring in further improvement measures for our products and smart technologies and products. In addition, Franke stakeholders from other areas such as technical universiAlthough positive developments were not observed production processes. has achieved a Service Call Rate of 0.6 percent ties or start-ups in order to promote the culture of innofor all indicators, Franke achieved improvements with through quality assurance measures. We promote sus­ vation. Our standardized innovation process helps us to res­pect to different topics across all four areas (environ­ The Service Call Rate indicates the percentage share of tainable consumption with our durable and high-quality foster and convert new ideas into innovation projects. mental responsibility, social responsibility, economical faulty products (number of customer complaints within products that excite our customers. responsibility and product res­ponsibility) and posted In addition to product innovation, however, process or pro­gress for 2017. The im­prove­ment of data quality is production innovation is an important cornerstone – particularly gratifying and is expected to continuously whether it be for our business success or for a sustainincrease in the future, so that the data can be used as able development. We promote efficiency enhancea reliable basis for trend-setting decisions. We want SAFETY IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS ment, particularly to save costs and minimize resource to pursue and intensify our efforts directed at promoting consumption. Robotization and LEAN man­agement are sustainability at Franke Group further in 2018. key topic areas for our innovation activities. Once again, Practically all of our products are associated with either We uphold high standards with respect to the health and our striving for innovation paid off last year, in the form SDG application the preparation of food or the utilization of water. They safety of our products. In the future, we will con­ti­­nue to of numerous awards that Franke Kitchen Systems and With respect to SDG 9 Industry, innovation and infra­ must therefore comply with a multitude of technical and review our new developments and product modifications Franke Water Systems won. These in­cluded such tributes structure, Franke is making a positive contribution to food safety-specific regulations. Franke follows the prefor impacts on health and safety against the precaution­ as the Red Dot Design Award, the iF Design Award, the innovation through the market launches of consump­ cautionary principle as part of quality management to ary principle. By centralizing quality manage­ment, we Kitchen Innovation of the Year, the ADEX-Awards/KBB tion-efficient products. Its investments in research and ensure that all products comply with health and safety have laid the foundations to ensure the transfer of knowlAwards, the KBB Review Award and an award from Cociinnovation afford Franke the opportunity to win new requirements. Consequently, we set high standards for edge throughout the Group and to collect and evaluate nas y Baños. At the Kitchen & Bath Industry Show (KBIS) customers and to drive the adaption of environmental­ the preparation of food or water. data for the Controlling department in this division even 2017 in Orlando, Florida, the largest B2B trade fair in ly friendly technologies. more systematically. North America, the Beautiful Kitchen & Baths Magazine In addition, we promote hygienic conduct through our listed the Chef Center from KS as one of the 30 most Franke has made it a goal to continuously support innovative products and hence the health of our consum­SDG application innovative products. product innovation. In 2017, approximately one third of ers, for example through our installation of touchless taps. Due to the high quality of our products and the high total sales was achieved with products that had been The team at Franke Kindred Canada (FKC) in Midland safety standards, we make an important contribution As a means of assessing product innovation, we have apbrought to market within the past three years. Franke has developed Medi-flo for fighting hospital infections, to the reduction and avoidance of accidents. This com­plied the change in net trading volume of products which thereby contributes to innovation in its markets. which is the industry’s first hygienic washbasin with builtmitment has a positive effect on the health of the end in laminary ozone chamber. customers pursuant to SDG 3 Good health and wellbeing. High safety standards are an essential element As is also the case with reliability and longevity, we rely of Franke’s reputation. on certified quality management systems at our produc­ tion sites. Comprehensive data regarding incidents having Franke relies on certified quality management systems health and safety impacts for the entire Franke Group at its production sites and pursues the goal of ensuring does not yet exist. In Franke Kitchen Systems, the larga high standard of health and safety for its products. est of our divisions, no safety or non-conformity related There were no reports of safety-related customer incicustomer incidents were recorded in 2017. This para­ dents at KS in 2017. Franke is thereby pro­moting healthy meter has improved markedly in comparison with prior living for its consumers. year figures (four customer incidents). * Estimate based on all Franke companies which have already provided complete data regarding innovation 52 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 53 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATIVE, DURABLE AND ROBUST Appendi The new F3 and F5 taps from Franke Water Systems are designed for public and semi-public spaces. They are noteworthy for their robustness, longevity and thrifty water consumption. And: The F5 line is equipped with the world’s first ceramic self-closing cartridge. hydraulic control of the water flow. “We are the first and x only company to have introduced this new technology,” asserts FRAMIC Project Head Rainer Urban. FRAMIC is used in the F5 self-closing taps, which were launched in 2017. The models with thermostat offer secure protection against scalding. The wall mixers of the series for surface installation are additionally equipped with a safe-touch housing to protect against scalds. The combination of the F5 tap with a hygiene unit permits automatic hygienic flushing and thermal disinfection of the taps, which significantly improves drinking water hygiene. In addition, Franke has introduced a new Systembox for the wall-mounted installation of the F5 taps and their F3 sister series with newly developed, steplessly adjustable disk adhesive flanges. These ensure the secure sealing of wall-mounted taps. The European Patent Office has granted patents not only for FRAMIC components but also for the disk adhesive flange. The F5 and F3 taps are designed for sanitation areas with high user frequency, for instance schools, indoor With its new FRAMIC cartridge, Franke Water Systems swimming pools or shopping centers. That means: They (WS) is placing the emphasis on sanitation technology. are particularly robust and easy to clean and maintain. The abbreviation stands for Franke Modular Innovation Furthermore, they ensure economical water utilization Cartridge – the world’s first self-closing ceramic carthrough a multitude of built-in technologies for triggering tridge. It is particularly reliable, durable, and therefore and stopping the water flow, that is the self-closing techsuitable for long-term use. It enables stagnation-free, nology and the touchless triggering of electronic taps. 54 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PARAMETERS REPORT PARAMETERS Reporting period Production: energy efficiency This report covers the 2017 fiscal year (January 1 to De­Water and waste water management, material GRI CONTENT INDEX cember 31, 2017). Information from previous years is efficiency, resource efficiency included where deemed necessary to give the reader a Employees: executive development, occupational CONTACT comprehensive picture of Franke’s approach to sustainhealth and safety, business integrity, human rights ability and performance. Information not from 2017 is Products: resource efficiency, profitability, reliability clearly marked as such. and longevity, health and safety of products, product innovation Date of the most recent previous report Franke Group’s 2016 Sustainability Report was published Additional topics which are regarded as important for in August 2017. For reports from previous years, see: Franke and for its stakeholders: customer service, sales ▸ www.franke.com ▸ About Us ▸ Sustainability excellence, risk management, personnel development, employee participation, supply chain management, and Reporting cycle the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, which are Franke Group publishes a sustainability report every also briefly touched upon in this report. year. Publication of the next report is planned for August 2019 at the latest. Limits of the report, joint ventures, subsidiaries, outsourced operations, etc. Process for defining report content This report covers the entire Franke Group. If only part The Core option of the GRI Guidance was followed for of the company is referred to (as mentioned in an determining report content and for defining the priorities example or due to the availability of data), this is clearly for Franke. The basis for our sustainability reporting is a indicated. This report does not cover outsourced operamateriality analysis to identify aspects that are of signiftions. Although legally still a part of Franke Group, Franke icance to Franke and our stakeholders and which have Beverage Systems was factored out of Franke Group the greatest impact on Franke. The relevant stakeholdand has a new reporting line to Artemis Group, effective ers and their most important interests are described on as of January 2016. Starting in 2017, Franke Industrie AG page 13. (manufacturer of hot gas parts for industrial gas turbines and for the aerospace industry) also reports directly to Franke performed a second materiality analysis in Artemis Group. For the purposes of comparability, Franke preparation for this Sustainability Report and in view of Industrie AG was also not taken into account for 2016. the adoption of the newly introduced GRI Standards. Based on these changes made, the figures from 2016 The previous topics were checked with respect to their had to be modified for this report. completeness and subsequently assessed qualitatively by a group of internal experts regarding their relevance In addition, the following changes were made in conto Franke’s stakeholders and with respect to their essennection with joint ventures, subsidiaries or outsourced tial economic, ecological, and social impacts. In order operations during the period under review: In January to take into account to a greater extent inclusion of the 2017, Franke sold theway2solutions GmbH, Germany, to stakeholders and the consideration of the sustainability Artemis Asset Management. In April, Franke acquired context, Franke plans to perform a validation of the Sertek LLC in full: Sertek equips fast-food restaurant material topics and their limits in view of the upcoming chains with workstations and devices in the kitchen area sustainability reports. and with furnishing elements in the dining area. And, finally, Franke acquired a majority stake in Elikor LLC in The sustainability topics listed below account for special June. Franke is thereby expanding its brand portfolio in points of focus in our Sustainability Report for 2017: the segment of range hoods for domestic kitchens. 56 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX XXX 57 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX Data measurement techniques and calculation bases eral Office for the Environment (2016). The greenhouse Franke has been measuring non-financial data for many years. Consolidation of non-financial data, according to gas emissions for electricity and district heat (Scope 2) were calculated with the emission factors provided by GRI CONTENT INDEX the GRI indicators at Group level, was first conducted for the Franke Group companies. the 2011 fiscal year. The relative environmental and occupational health For this report, financial, headcount and environmental and safety data at Group level was calculated by dividing data (energy, CO2 emissions, water, material and waste the absolute values by the net sales in Swiss francs. sources) was extracted from the COGNOS system. Many key figures under the headings of Environment and Oc­­cupational health and safety data was collected with Social Responsibility are strongly dependent on Franke’s a Group-wide reporting tool. Specific employee data, economic development. The key figures are therefore covering approximately 40 percent of the total worklisted relative to total net sales. force (mainly office workers), was extracted from the HR GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSION AND REMARK tool. With respect to materials, the central purchasing Effects of any restatements of information data was identified after it had been checked against the provided in earlier reports GENERAL DISCLOSURE COGNOS data that was collected. If no central purchasThe non-inclusion of Franke Industrie AG in this year’s ing data was available for a particular type of material, report led to subsequent modifications to the key figures the COGNOS data was identified (renewable materials presented in last year’s report. Furthermore, under the GRI 102: General Organizational profile and non-classified materials). auspices of a more comprehensive audit, subsequent Disclosures (2016) 102-1 Name of the organization 6 data corrections were also undertaken for 2016. As a 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6–7 Environmental and occupational health and safety data result, the key figures for 2016 in this report differ from 102-3 Location of headquarters 7 for the 2017 fiscal year was reported by all production, those in the prior year’s report. 102-4 Location of operations 7 services and sales companies. The data regarding water 102-5 Ownership and legal form 17 and waste water was collected on the basis of the inFor the first time we took district heating into consider­ 102-6 Markets served 6–7 voices of the communal water supply or other utilities. ation for the energy consumption data. The data for 2016 102-7 Scale of the organization 6–7 had to be adjusted accordingly. 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 33 – 38 1 The conversion factors for energy consumption are from 102-9 Supply chain 11 the fact sheet: CO2 emission factors of the greenhouse GRI reference 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 57 – 58 gas inventory of Switzerland from 2016 (Federal Office This report was created in compliance with the GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 15 for the Environment). The greenhouse gas emissions for standards: core option. 102-12 External initiatives 15 fossil energy (heating oil, natural gas, diesel and gaso­ 102-13 Membership of associations 15 line; Scope 1 as defined by the Greenhouse Gas ProtoExternal assurance for the report col) are based on emission factors from the Swiss FedNo external assurance was obtained for this report. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4–5 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 14, 33 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 13 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 15 – 16 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 38 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 15 – 16 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 15 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 15 – 16 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 57 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 57 – 58 102-47 List of material topics 17, 57 102-48 Restatements of information 57 – 58 102-49 Changes in reporting 17, 57 – 58 102-50 Reporting period 57 102-51 Date of most recent report 57 102-52 Reporting cycle 57 58 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX 59 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSION AND GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSION AND REMARK REMARK GRI 102: General 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 63 Profitability Disclosures (2016) 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 58 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 43 – 44 102-55 GRI content index 59 – 62 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 43 – 44 102-56 External assurance 58 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 43 – 44 Own Indicator Operating result (EBIT) 43 – 44 MATERIAL TOPICS Business integrity GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 43 – 44, 46 Energy efficiency in production approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 44, 46 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 21 – 22, 24 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44, 46 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 21 – 24, 29 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 44 6 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22 – 24, 28, 29 efforts (2016) 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 7 GRI 302: Energy (2016) 302-3 Energy intensity 22 – 23 and procedures 44, 46 GRI 305: Emissions (2016) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 23 – 24 Human rights Water, waste water GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 43, 45 – 46 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 21, 25 approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 45 – 46 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 21 – 22, 24 – 25 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45 – 46 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24 – 25, 28 GRI 412: Human Rights 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures GRI 303: Water (2016) 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 24 – 25 Assessment 45 – 46 8 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Waste (2016) 24 – 25 2 Reliability and longevity GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 51 – 52 Material efficiency in production Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 51 – 52 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 21, 25, 27 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 – 52 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 21 – 22, 25 – 27 Own Indicator Service Call Rate 52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25 – 27, 28 GRI 301: Materials (2016) 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 25 – 27 Safety impacts of products GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 51 – 52 Waste (2016) 26 3 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 51 – 52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 – 52 Resource-efficient products (energy) GRI 416: Customer Health 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 21, 27 – 28 and Safety (2016) safety impacts of products and services 52 9 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 21 – 22, 27 – 28 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 27 – 28 Product innovation GRI 302: Energy (2016) 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 51, 53 and services 27 – 28 4 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 51, 53 – 54 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 53 Executive staff development Own Indicator Change in net sales of products not older than three years 53 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 33 – 36 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 33 – 36 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 – 36 Omissions and remarks: See page 62 GRI 404: Training and 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Education (2016) career development reviews 35 – 36 Occupational safety GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 33, 36 – 39 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 33, 36 – 39 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 37 – 39 GRI 403: Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational sickness, Health and Safety (2016) lost days and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities according to region and gender 37 – 38 5 60 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX 61 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX Omissions and remarks 1.2As a result of the current system landscape, some itemizations could not yet be implemented. We are working to set up corre6.2The data for an itemization according to percentage of operations is not yet available. In addition, there is still some CONTACT sponding surveys with the objective of being able to report on information missing regarding potential significant risks related this in 2019. to corruption identified through the risk assessment. We are 2.2The data for an itemization according to place of discharge working to set up corresponding surveys with the objective of and water quality is not yet available. We are working to set up being able to report on this in 2019. corresponding surveys with the aim of being able to report on 7.2The data for an itemization according to salary employee this in 2019. category, type of business partner and region is not yet avail3.2Materials are contained within which were used for the manuable. We are working to set up corresponding surveys with facture and packaging of the most important products. It was the objective of being able to report on this in 2020. not possible to carry out an itemization of all materials used 8.2The data for an itemization according to total number of hours according to renewable and non-renewable materials. We are expended during the reporting period for training courses is working to set up corresponding surveys with the aim of being not yet available. We are working to set up corresponding surable to report on this in 2019. veys with the objective of being able to report on this in 2020. Should you have any questions concerning sustainability 4.2The data for an itemization according to disposal method for 9.2The cases reported all are in reference to the Franke Kitchen non-hazardous waste is not yet available. We are working to set Systems division. at Franke in general, please contact: up corresponding surveys with the objective of being able to report on this in 2020. Kirill Bourovoi 5.2The information regarding the type of injuries, the injury rate Manager Group Sustainability as well as the data for the calculation of occupational disease Group Head of Learning & Development rates and for the itemization according to gender and region are not yet available. We are working to set up corresponding surveys with the aim of being able to report on this in 2019. ▸ kirill.bourovoi@franke.com SDG-INDEX SDG CHAPTER PAGE 3 Social Responsibility Product Responsibility 8 – 9, 32, 38, 50, 52 4 Social Responsibility 8 – 9, 32, 36 5 Social Responsibility 8 – 9, 32, 36 6 Environmental Responsibility 8 – 9, 20, 25 7 Environmental Responsibility 8 – 9, 20, 24 8 Economical Responsibility 8 – 9, 42, 44 – 45 9 Product Responsibility 8 – 9, 50, 53 12 Product Responsibility 8 – 9, 50, 52 13 Environmental Responsibility 8 – 9, 20, 24, 28 Acknowledgments 15 Environmental Responsibility 8 – 9, 20, 27 We wish to thank the controllers and other participants 16 Economical Responsibility 8 – 9, 42, 44 who have supported us in the improvement of data quality for their commitment and cooperation. Publisher Franke Holding AG, Franke-Strasse 2, 4663 Aarburg, Switzerland Editor Nikolaj Fischer, Josephine Herzig (BSD Consulting, Zurich) Ingrid Diener, Gérard Moinat, Lara Surber (Swisscontent AG, Zurich) Matthias Meier, Danijela Micic (Franke) Translation neo communication ag, Kreuzlingen Conception/realization Dino Vacca (Swisscontent AG, Zurich) Image credits Balz Murer (page 3), Zehnder Group (page 35), Shutterstock (page 41), Franke Lithography Digicom Digitale Medien AG, Effretikon/Zurich 62 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 APPENDIX 63 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CONTACT Franke Holding AG Franke-Strasse 2 4663 Aarburg Switzerland www.franke.com
