REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 Table of Contents | 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’s message................................ 3 Climate change............................... 46 Innovation...................................... 109 CEO’S MESSAGE Our perspective and engagement........................... 47 Our approach to technology and innovation......... 110 About our report............................ 6 GHG performance and mitigating emissions.......... 51 In situ technologies................................................... 113 ABOUT OUR REPORT Strategy and governance.............. 10 Integrating our GHG performance goal.................. 55 Mining technologies................................................. 117 Suncor’s mission and vision....................................... 11 Low-carbon innovation............................................. 57 Upgrading and refining technologies..................... 119 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Sustainability Q and A: taking the long view.......... 13 Carbon risk and energy outlook.............................. 60 Reclamation technologies........................................ 120 Sustainability goals................................................... 17 Resilient strategy....................................................... 64 Digitization................................................................ 121 OUR BUSINESS Renewables................................................................ 18 Carbon policy and regulation................................... 69 Collaboration............................................................. 122 Corporate governance.............................................. 21 Environment................................... 71 Performance data........................... 125 CLIMATE CHANGE Risk management...................................................... 23 Water performance and stewardship...................... 72 Performance data...................................................... 126 Policy engagement.................................................... 25 Tailings management................................................ 76 ENVIRONMENT Lobbying and disclosure........................................... 29 Appendices..................................... 132 Air quality.................................................................. 78 Appendix A: Performance data notes...................... 133 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Our business................................... 31 Reclamation............................................................... 81 Appendix B: Independent assurance statement..... 143 Operations summary................................................. 32 Land, biodiversity and wetlands.............................. 85 Appendix C: Advisories............................................. 146 INNOVATION Economic impact....................................................... 34 Caribou conservation................................................ 88 Appendix D: GRI content index................................ 150 Market access............................................................ 36 Social responsibility....................... 89 PERFORMANCE DATA Personal and process safety...................................... 37 Stakeholder and Aboriginal relations...................... 90 Ethical business conduct........................................... 39 Community investment............................................. 94 APPENDICES Diversity and inclusion.............................................. 42 Social goal.................................................................. 100 Strengthening relationships............................... 101 Partnering with Aboriginal youth...................... 103 Partnering with Aboriginal businesses and communities........................................................ 105 Improving Aboriginal workforce development. 107 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 CEO's message | 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT Steve Williams, President and Chief Executive Officer SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CEO’S CEO’S MESSAGE MESSAGE INNOVATION In today’s world of instant messages and rapid response, it’s easy to get While much work remains to be done, I believe Suncor is making progress in responding to caught up in whatever is pressing at any given moment. But it’s also easy PERFORMANCE DATA these key challenges. That’s a result of the to lose sight of the bigger picture. sustainability journey we embarked on more than two decades ago, which commits us to Suncor recognizes and has embraced the be an energy provider of choice going forward, APPENDICES continually improve our environmental, social importance of taking the long view. Our companies like Suncor need to build pathways and economic performance. business model, strategies and growth plans are towards global competitiveness, on both cost driven by a clear vision of the role we aspire to and carbon. We’ve learned the key to making progress is play in creating energy for a better world over to bring together and engage with people of We also need to ensure the benefits of resource the next 50 years or more. diverse interests and perspectives – and listen development are shared more fully. It’s not just intently to their concerns, expectations and That kind of long-term thinking is more critical about corporate profits – it’s about something ideas about how we can work together on than ever in a world facing significant longbigger. That is why we focus so much effort solutions to shared challenges. term social, economic and environmental on ensuring communities we touch, including challenges – including the challenge to lower Aboriginal communities, participate with us to These conversations continue to shape, change global emissions to address climate change. To co-create our future. and guide us. I know they help make us a more SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 CEO's message | 4 sustainable and resilient energy company. And sustainability. We understand that the to meet this goal by targeting a reduction in TABLE OF CONTENTS they’re good reminders that when you take a economic, environmental and social dimensions the total GHG emissions intensity of our oil long-term view, you’re ensuring a better future of energy development are deeply integrated and petroleum products by 30% by 2030. We for those that follow. and success in one cannot be achieved without believe this target, together with our ongoing CEO’S MESSAGE success in all. commitment to technology and innovation, puts us on the path to ultimately bending the The energy future: By taking costs out of our business and curve on our absolute GHG emissions as well. ABOUT OUR REPORT challenges and opportunities pursuing operational excellence, Suncor can now generate sufficient funds from operations In addition to our internal strategies, Suncor Energy is the lifeblood of our economies and at a US$40 to $45 per barrel oil price to cover works closely with organizations like Canada’s quality of life. Whether it’s providing for food, STRATEGY AND our sustaining capital and our dividend. There Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) and Evok heat or transport, reliable and affordable GOVERNANCE aren’t many oil producers globally that can Innovations on clean technology solutions. oil and gas remains one of the primary make that claim. We also continue to partner with groups energy sources for modern society. And while like the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, OUR BUSINESS renewable energy continues to advance, oil At the same time, we are driving improvements Canada’s Ecofiscal Commission, Clean Resource and gas are expected to continue to be a in environmental performance. Suncor recently Innovation Network (CRIN) and the Energy significant part of the global energy mix for the achieved a significant milestone at our Fort Futures Lab to support collaboration and CLIMATE CHANGE foreseeable future. Hills project – achieving design capacity much innovation. earlier than planned. This project is poised to That doesn’t mean it’s business as usual. Climate provide energy for the next 50 years and the Suncor’s commitment to engaging in open ENVIRONMENT change is real – one of the most pressing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity of and honest conversations – listening to, and challenges of our time – and we all have a production at Fort Hills is currently on par with learning from, a broad range of viewpoints shared responsibility to find solutions. Failing to the average refined barrel in the United States. – has allowed us to play a positive role in SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY act is not an option. advancing progressive public policy on climate The next major challenge is at our in situ sites, Canada has the energy the world needs. change. where the bulk of Suncor’s future growth is INNOVATION Our challenge is to continually improve our expected. Next-generation in situ technologies Canadian leadership in this area has been performance, inspire others to do so and move hold the potential to not only reduce costs, noticed and is making a difference. our products to new customers in new markets but to also dramatically lower GHG emissions PERFORMANCE DATA in the years ahead. If you ask people outside our borders where – in some cases by 50 to 70%. We’re currently they would like their oil to come from, they For a company like Suncor, that means our allocating capital to advance some of these in prefer Canada to other places in the world. We APPENDICES oil must be globally competitive on cost and situ technologies at commercial scale. must continue to work together to meet that carbon. I’m encouraged by the progress we’re Throughout the recent oil-price downturn, demand in a way that helps to make progress making in both of these areas. Suncor continued to invest in technology on these significant challenges. Suncor has been on a multi-year journey development. In 2017, we invested almost $350 million on the development and deployment of to improve reliability, reduce costs across Social innovation: forging our business and prudently manage capital new technology. allocation. These strategies have served us well new partnerships The scale of Suncor’s ambition is reflected in in volatile times. Taking a long view in business means our sustainability goal to harness technology understanding and adapting to changing Through it all, we stayed true to another and innovation to contribute to a low-carbon expectations. For Suncor, that means key business strategy – being a leader in economy. We are measuring our progress recognizing that we can play a part in SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 CEO's message | 5 addressing some of society’s most complex know we will need to continue to listen and Many of the requirements of the TCFD are TABLE OF CONTENTS social challenges. learn. already met in our climate report, and we are taking steps to fully comply with the For example, there are wide socio-economic recommendations in coming years. We are gaps between Aboriginal Peoples and other Good governance and CEO’S MESSAGE confident in our resilience over the long term Canadians and there are many calls to action disclosure and support the transparent disclosure of how within Canada’s Truth and Reconciliation Report In uncertain times, ensuring the resilience we deal with long-term climate risk. ABOUT OUR REPORT that seek to bridge those gaps. We want to be of an energy company is increasingly about part of that change. good governance and transparent disclosure. Sustainability: embracing Suncor has committed to a long-term, socially Suncor’s Board of Directors continues to focus STRATEGY AND their efforts on forward-looking oversight change GOVERNANCE focused sustainability goal aimed at increasing the participation of Aboriginal Peoples of of strategic planning, risk management and Sustainability is a concept that is constantly Canada in resource development. It’s also business conduct. They ensure management’s evolving. However, in all that we do, we OUR BUSINESS about thinking and acting differently and decisions align with the long-term interests of will continue to place one value above the working together with Aboriginal Peoples to Suncor shareholders. rest – safety first. As part of our Journey to create opportunities for economic and social Zero safety program, Suncor is committed to CLIMATE CHANGE Supported by our Board, Suncor has committed reconciliation. eliminating all workplace incidents. And while to transparent disclosure. One example is we continued to reduce lost time injuries, The partnership we entered into with the our annual climate report, which provides a recordable injury frequencies and loss of ENVIRONMENT Fort McKay and Mikisew Cree First Nations clear-headed assessment of why we believe our containment incidents in 2017, we regrettably in 2017 is a good example. The First Nations strategy is resilient through a range of forwardsuffered the tragic loss of a contractor during acquired a combined 49% interest in Suncor’s looking scenarios, and how we can continue to the year. We won’t rest in our pursuit of a safe SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY East Tank Farm Development – the largest deliver value in a carbon-constrained world. and incident-free workplace. investment to date by First Nations in Canada. We work collaboratively with several other Also in 2017, Suncor purchased a 41% equity We all have a role to play in shaping our shared INNOVATION companies as members of the United Nations interest in PetroNor, a Quebec-based petroleum energy future. The challenges we face are Global Compact (UNGC) Local Network in products distributor owned and operated by complex and require creative collaboration. We Canada to promote action in support of the James Bay Cree. We also have other strong need to be bold, innovative and open-minded. PERFORMANCE DATA broader UN goals. Throughout this report, we partnerships formed through our Petro-Canada share our efforts to support and uphold the By taking the long view and continuing to listen business, where 26 First Nations own and UNGC’s Ten Principles, which also guide our and learn from others, we at Suncor hope to APPENDICES operate retail stations. approach to human rights, labour, environment play a constructive role in the transition to a Going forward, we will continue to explore and anti-corruption for all our operations. better energy future. Together, let’s keep the other opportunities, work to improve conversation going. We are also supportive of the voluntary Aboriginal Peoples’ participation in our recommendations outlined by the Task Force workforce, and continue efforts to increase on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), Suncor employees’ awareness of the history and an international initiative of the Financial experience of Aboriginal Peoples. Stability Board (FSB). The recommendations Steve Williams Like so many of Suncor’s collaborations, our provide companies with a voluntary, consistent President and Chief Executive Officer social goal grew directly from listening to disclosure framework that improves the quality Aboriginal Peoples. To achieve our goal, we of climate-related and financial disclosures. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 About our report | 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE ABOUTOUR ABOUT OUR REPORT REPORT Our sustainability reporting journey goes back two Facility or business segment performance, where applicable, is available OUR BUSINESS for download. Joint ventures not operated by Suncor are excluded, unless decades, and this 2018 Report on Sustainability otherwise stated. Information regarding events or performance in early continues our approach to transparency. It’s one of the 2018 may also be included, where possible. CLIMATE CHANGE ways we measure progress, and continually monitor In certain cases, economic and operational data is aligned in a consistent and assess the impacts and benefits of our business. manner with our annual financial reports (which may include nonENVIRONMENT operated assets). Our financial performance and description of our Framework business is also presented thoroughly in our 2017 Annual Report. We’ve prepared this report in accordance to the Global Reporting SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Initiative Standards: Core option, with additional use of their Oil and Gas Assuring accuracy Sector Disclosures. We also disclose our United Nations Global Compact We engaged Ernst & Young LLP to provide review-level assurance on (UNGC) Communication on Progress throughout this report. This is INNOVATION selected performance indicators for the year ended December 31, 2017 part of our support for their 10 Principles which guide our approach to using the GRI Standards and sector disclosures. sustainability. PERFORMANCE DATA Report format Materiality assessment for determining Available in English or French, this report was prepared to engage a report content APPENDICES wider audience interested in our sustainability priorities and performance An important step in preparing our Report on Sustainability is to through the use of multiple formats – a downloadable PDF, complemented review the most relevant sustainability priorities for our business and by an online version available at sustainability.suncor.com. stakeholders. We review priorities for our report annually and, in early 2018, we Scope conducted a more in-depth materiality assessment to ensure we accurately Consolidated company-wide economic, environmental, safety and social considered a broad range of perspectives. performance from January 1st to December 31 2017 is reported for assets st Materiality, in the sustainability context used for this report, refers to the we operate only (unless otherwise stated), including five-year data trends relative significance of environmental, social, governance and economic where possible. priorities and their impacts (both positive and negative) to both our business, and to our stakeholders. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 About our report | 7 Materiality assessment process Suncor materiality matrix TABLE OF CONTENTS In early 2018, we were supported by a third-party, with expertise in HIGH sustainability reporting and facilitating materiality assessments, to 4 evaluate our priority topics for our Report on Sustainability. The following CEO’S MESSAGE process was used: MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES ABOUT OUR REPORT Identify sustainability topics STAKEHOLDER INTEREST An initial list of topics was compiled using several frameworks and 18 methods to better understand areas of importance to our stakeholders STRATEGY AND and to our business, including: OTHER SIGNIFICANT PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE we manage, monitor and report on • Global Reporting Initiative Standards (Materiality Principle and Principles for Defining Report Content) OUR BUSINESS • Sustainability Accounting Standards Board CLIMATE CHANGE • recent Suncor materiality assessments and results MEDIUM HIGH IMPACT ON BUSINESS SUCCESS • industry benchmarking and research Stakeholder interest ENVIRONMENT • topics identified through our internal strategic issues management • Direct questions from stakeholders (customers, investors, process communities, etc.) SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • ongoing stakeholder engagement and dialogue • Social trends This resulted in more than 30 consolidated sustainability topics, which • Extent of media coverage INNOVATION were then ranked and prioritized by groups of stakeholders and internal subject matter experts. • Public policy discussions PERFORMANCE DATA Impact on business success Rank and prioritize issues • Financial implications Two in-person workshops were facilitated to capture diverse perspectives, APPENDICES including: • Legal and regulatory implications • external stakeholders (academia, community members, business • Reputation partner, investor and NGO perspectives represented) • Effect on operational performance • internal subject matter experts and cross-functional employee leaders • Opportunities to boost competitive advantage Criteria for both workshops were used to prioritize topics and ultimately Hands-on prioritization activities and discussion helped guide participants determine report content and direction. to consensus on which topics could have a significant impact on Suncor’s business success or that would substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders over the next 1-3 years. Results of these two workshops were consolidated and shared with workshop participants. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 About our report | 8 Priorities TABLE OF CONTENTS Our assessment process identified 4 material priority topics that consistently ranked high priority in both workshops and have informed the focus of our Report on Sustainability: CEO’S MESSAGE Aboriginal relations Operational safety and reliability ABOUT OUR REPORT Why is it important? Why is it important? STRATEGY AND The trust and support of stakeholders and Aboriginal communities Suncor is committed to incident prevention and learning and GOVERNANCE are very important to Suncor and foundational to successful energy continues to raise the bar to improve process safety and reliability development. performance. OUR BUSINESS What’s Suncor doing in this area? What’s Suncor doing in this area? • By the end of 2017, close to 5,000 employees had completed • We continued to reduce lost time injuries and recordable injury CLIMATE CHANGE Aboriginal awareness web-based training frequencies company-wide in 2017 • $521 million spent with Aboriginal suppliers across Canada in • We improved reliability in our Refining and Marketing business 2017 segment in 2017 ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Climate change Water stewardship INNOVATION Why is it important? Why is it important? In today’s polarized world, constructive and solutions-focused Water is a shared and precious resource. Suncor’s integrated water PERFORMANCE DATA conversations about climate change and our shared energy future are management approach balances optimizing our water use practices more essential than ever. with technological innovation to sustainably manage water. APPENDICES What’s Suncor doing in this area? What’s Suncor doing in this area? • We develop a carbon price outlook annually, and since 2016, • Continued investment in research and development of water carbon risk has been considered one of our principle risks and technologies, including academic research and piloting projects undergoes an annual Board review on our sites • We invested approximately $350 million in 2017 in development • We’re working towards setting a new long-term water goal to and deployment of new technologies extend our commitment to water conservation SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 About our report | 9 Aboriginal Peoples and communities and our stakeholders consider these divestment and project costs and delays. Managed well, these issues TABLE OF CONTENTS critically important and, in order for our business to be successful they contribute to a case for innovation, new technology and collaboration require innovative, strategic approaches and commitment to operational with our stakeholders and industry peers to create more value and excellence across all functions of our organization. improved environmental performance. These priorities include: CEO’S MESSAGE Other significant priorities were also identified and our performance or • water stewardship approach to these priorities are listed below and included throughout our • tailings management ABOUT OUR REPORT report. Topics that were evaluated, but not reported on are managed, tracked internally and monitored in the context of an ever changing • land use and biodiversity external landscape. Our approach to technology and innovation is a STRATEGY AND key theme of this report and is closely related to many of the priorities • reclamation GOVERNANCE identified in our materiality assessment. • air quality OUR BUSINESS Other significant priorities • cumulative impacts Our business • spills CLIMATE CHANGE We aim to deliver competitive and sustainable returns to our shareholders by focusing on capital discipline, operational excellence and long-term Social responsibility profitable growth. We are also committed to our value of safety above Continuously earning and maintaining trust with our nearby communities ENVIRONMENT all else. If managed poorly, these priorities could result in unplanned is crucial to our business. If not managed well, these priorities could legal, financial, operational or reputational impacts as well as process and potentially result in increased project delays and costs, legal proceedings, personal safety incidents. Managed well, they help to support business stakeholder opposition and an erosion of community resilience. Managed SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continuity, maximize shareholder value, improved productivity and a well, they present a vital shared value opportunity to build relationships strong and thriving work culture. These priorities include: and provide economic and social benefit. These priorities include: INNOVATION • governance and ethics • community investment and social innovation • health and wellness • stakeholder engagement PERFORMANCE DATA • compliance APPENDICES • economic impact • public policy • diversity and inclusion • market access Environment Our environmental performance represents a key strategic risk and opportunity. The management of these issues is subject to strict scrutiny from both government regulators and stakeholders. Poor management of these issues could result in regulatory fines, stakeholder concern, capital TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE STRATEGY AND To realize Suncor’s vision we’ve embraced long-term thinking and GOVERNANCE strategies. With sound governance and committed leadership, we have created a strong foundation for resilient and sustainable energy development. OUR BUSINESS Suncor’s mission and vision..................................... 11 CLIMATE CHANGE Sustainability Q and A: taking the long view......... 13 ENVIRONMENT Sustainability goals................................................... 17 Renewables............................................................... 18 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate governance.............................................. 21 INNOVATION Risk management..................................................... 23 Policy engagement................................................... 25 PERFORMANCE DATA Lobbying and disclosure........................................... 29 APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 SUNCOR’S MISSION AND VISION | 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE SUNCOR’S MISSION AND VISION ENVIRONMENT As Canada’s leading, integrated energy company, we know that, together This is where we see ourselves and our company in the future. In other with our stakeholders, we need to look beyond the energy needs of words, it’s our view of Suncor’s place in the world. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY today and understand what is required for the future. Sustainability is about seeing the big picture and working together towards better, more Our values sustainable solutions. INNOVATION Our values are our guiding principles – our constant set of beliefs. They At Suncor we have a mission that defines our core purpose and helps to define the way we do business each and every day. direct our actions and activities. We have a vision that describes our view PERFORMANCE DATA of the future and our place in it. Our values are a set of beliefs that guide Safety above all else our behaviour and help us to deliver our mission and realize our vision. Do it safely or don’t do it. Respect APPENDICES Our mission Being our best. Giving our best. Showing we care. We create energy for a better world. Do the right thing This is our core purpose, and what we aspire to every day. The right way – with integrity. Raise the bar Our vision Pursue with passion. Always add value. Suncor’s vision is to be trusted stewards of valuable natural resources. Commitments matter Guided by our values, we will lead the way to deliver economic We are all connected and part of something bigger. prosperity, improved social well-being and a healthy environment for today and tomorrow. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 SUNCOR’S MISSION AND VISION | 12 What makes Suncor different from other Financial strength TABLE OF CONTENTS energy companies? We aim to deliver competitive and sustainable returns to our shareholders by focusing on capital discipline, operational excellence and long-term Suncor’s long-life, low-decline asset base, strong balance sheet, integrated profitable growth. Our strong balance sheet provides the foundation to CEO’S MESSAGE model and cash flow diversification set us apart from our peers. We strive increase returns and value to shareholders through consistent dividend to be the low-cost and low-carbon competitor in our sector. Capitalizing growth, with 2017 marking the 15th consecutive year Suncor’s annual on key differentiators, including our expertise and focus on sustainable ABOUT OUR REPORT dividend has increased, and share repurchases recommencing. development and technology, has contributed to our industry-leading position and provided the foundation for delivering long-term value for shareholders. Suncor’s commitment to sustainable STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE development Long-life, low-decline reserve base Continuous sustainability improvement is critical to our business strategy, We are working to unlock maximum value from our extensive resources and it’s woven into the very fabric of the organization. Suncor’s chief OUR BUSINESS through a continued focus on responsible development and cost sustainability officer reports directly to our chief executive officer. discipline. Our focus on operational excellence helps to unlock the full value of these resources. As always, actions speak louder than words. Our Report on Sustainability CLIMATE CHANGE provides several examples of these actions. Sustainable development ENVIRONMENT We are focused on being a low-cost, low-carbon producer and demonstrating triple bottom line sustainability leadership in: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • environmental performance • social responsibility INNOVATION • creating a strong economy PERFORMANCE DATA A proven integrated model From the ground to the gas station, we optimize profits through each link in the value chain. Our highly efficient, integrated model limits Suncor’s APPENDICES exposure to heavy crude differentials, with approximately 80% of bitumen production being upgraded to higher priced light oil or refined products. In addition, our offshore business provides geographic and cash flow diversification. Midstream assets provide operational flexibility through the expansion of pipeline storage capacity and access to markets. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Q AND A: TAKING THE LONG VIEW | 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY Q AND A: TAKING THE LONG VIEW With the appointment of a Chief Sustainability Officer, accountabilities of other parts of the organization, this is a strategic, crosscutting role. I’m very excited by it. CEO’S MESSAGE Suncor signals a focused commitment to its proven business strategy. ARLENE: I think it’s huge and I’m already hearing from stakeholders and industry peers about how significant it is to see someone at the ABOUT OUR REPORT A conversation with Eric Axford, Chief Sustainability most senior executive level representing this vital component of our Officer, and Arlene Strom, Vice President, Sustainability business strategy. It’s a reflection of Suncor’s multi-decade journey and STRATEGY AND and Communications commitment when it comes to sustainability. GOVERNANCE Suncor’s sustainability journey gained increased emphasis in 2017 with the Does the appointment of a CSO mark an evolution in appointment of Eric Axford as the company’s first-ever Chief Sustainability Suncor’s view of what sustainability is all about? Officer. Eric, formerly executive vice president, Business Services, is charged OUR BUSINESS with providing further focus to Suncor’s multi-decade commitment to ERIC: If you look at the literature on best practices, you’ll see that sustainable energy development. As reinforced in this conversation with companies usually begin by dealing with sustainability on an issues CLIMATE CHANGE Eric and Suncor’s Arlene Strom, the new position is part of a constantly management basis. But as companies mature, sustainability becomes evolving vision of sustainability that is integral to Suncor’s aspiration to be more of an integrated capability. The role of a CSO is then to ensure the a trusted steward of valuable natural resources in a world transitioning to organization is living up to its commitments, values and beliefs. ENVIRONMENT a low-carbon future. I can see and feel that at Suncor. Of course, it’s time to have a CSO at the executive level – in part, because we’ve matured through a 20-year What is significant about Suncor appointing a Chief SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY journey to actually build this capability deeply into our culture. My role is Sustainability Officer (CSO)? different now than it would have been 10 or 15 years ago. This isn’t about ERIC: While I had accountability for sustainability in my previous role, this issues management; it’s about developing a strategy and capability right INNOVATION brings executive focus and clarity to the task at hand. The time of senior across the company. I’m a custodian of that strategy while the work is management is a scarce resource and this clears the deck to really focus distributed among more than 13,000 people. hard on these issues – on all our external-facing issues and opportunities. PERFORMANCE DATA What’s Suncor’s vision for sustainability going forward? The time is right. We’ve been using these four questions to assess the How is it changing? strength of our business strategy: APPENDICES ERIC: I think that’s part of our evolution. We are framing sustainability 1. Should we be in the oil business? to include things that are a natural fit, but perhaps haven’t had the same focus and profile until now. For example, we’ve always understood the 2. Can we compete on cost and carbon? importance of diversity and inclusion, but now we are recognizing these 3. Can we generate the returns we need? issues as an integral part of our sustainability strategy. That will help elevate the urgency of addressing these challenges. 4. Can we navigate today’s complex external environment? ARLENE: That’s at the heart of this appointment. This CSO role You can get to “yes” fairly easily on those first three questions. The demonstrates we are thinking more deeply about the path forward. For uncertainty is in navigating this complex external environment. Can we example, the fact that Eric is stressing the importance of diversity and get the market access and the right policies and conditions we need to inclusion highlights the evolution in our thinking as part of a broader be successful and contribute to solving complex challenges? This role vision of sustainability. relates directly to that challenge. Although some of those things are SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Q AND A: TAKING THE LONG VIEW | 14 The United Nations (UN) has set out 17 Sustainable goals by setting targets and reporting our progress against these targets. TABLE OF CONTENTS Development Goals (SDGs), many of which have some ERIC: I think aspiration is a wonderful thing. We’ve always set goals that application to a company like Suncor. Does that provide some have described as audacious. It’s often a little unclear, even to us, a useful guideline for broadening the concept of how we will achieve them. But it’s helped bring focus and clarity to what CEO’S MESSAGE sustainability? we are trying to do. Now, the fact is we’ve met most of the goals we’ve ARLENE: The UN goals are a reflection of the global conversation on set; our people continually find ways to innovate and meet even what ABOUT OUR REPORT sustainability. To me, they are exactly that – guidelines and a framework appear to be very audacious targets. that can help us map our own goals, objectives and strategies. They help us fit into the global conversation and, by doing that, we are addressing As a concrete example, Suncor is targeting a 30% STRATEGY AND stakeholder concerns. reduction by 2030 in the total greenhouse gas (GHG) GOVERNANCE emissions intensity of its oil and petroleum products. ERIC: It’s an interesting way to help translate what we’re doing when we How does that change day-to-day decision-making? are talking to global stakeholders, because so many of them are aware of OUR BUSINESS the UN goals. I think there is a good overlap. Now, the goals are framed ERIC: It has a very real impact. Once you’ve made a public commitment at a high level to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure peace and like that, there’s really no going back. When we first set that target, we prosperity. But, frankly, we all have the opportunity to address issues of did not really see how we were going to close that gap. But, we had CLIMATE CHANGE poverty, environmental protection and discrimination. The SDGs allow us committed to a goal to harness technology and innovation to help us to have a more integrated conversation. contribute to a low-carbon economy and we knew we needed a target to help us measure our progress. Since committing to the target, we’ve ENVIRONMENT Suncor CEO Steve Williams has talked a lot about been focused on strategies and technology investments to do just that. “taking the long view of being in the energy business.” As a result, we can now see a realistic path to achieving the GHG intensity reduction. One thing about this industry is that it’s filled with a lot of SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In that context, is sustainability even more important? very bright scientists and engineers who like problem solving and finding ERIC: At the crux of it, sustainability is all about the long game. If you tangible solutions. plan to be in this business for the next 50 to 100 years, you think quite INNOVATION differently. To be successful, you must consider the needs of stakeholders, Suncor has said that, to succeed over the long haul, investors and society as a whole. The nature of the oil sands business – it needs to be globally cost and carbon-competitive. including the very large capital investments that are required – means PERFORMANCE DATA Where are you on that spectrum? you have to take a long-term view. So it’s really quite conducive to a sustainability strategy. ARLENE: We are very excited about the lower emissions intensity of our APPENDICES most recent project. Fort Hills is actually equal in carbon intensity to the ARLENE: If you are looking at the long term, your compass is clear. As you average refined barrel in North America. That’s real progress. For future start to map out where you are going, there are signposts along the way. growth, we know we can and will get beyond today’s technologies. That As an organization committed to sustainability, we want to make sure we will be necessary to contribute to Canada’s commitments to reduce its have great headlights – that we can see what’s coming at us and we’re emissions, and ultimately, bend the curve on absolute emissions as well. reading those signposts correctly. Last year alone, we invested $350 million developing and deploying new technologies. How important is goal-setting and ambition to this vision of sustainability? ERIC: The oil sands is a surprisingly low-cost producer when you look at the full economics over the long term. Technology and innovation has ARLENE: It’s very important. We’ve been ahead of the curve on setting been critical, both in terms of reducing costs and improving environmental ambitious goals. And we are reframing our long-term goals to drive performance. It will be even more critical going forward. Some of the new changes in behaviour. We are also measuring our progress against these SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Q AND A: TAKING THE LONG VIEW | 15 in situ technologies we are developing hold the potential to reduce GHG to play a supportive role in the ongoing reconciliation process. We are TABLE OF CONTENTS emissions intensity by 50-70% over current methods. We are also working looking for ways to collaboratively support Aboriginal youth, the fastest collaboratively with industry partners and others to improve our collective growing segment of the Canadian population. We are working with our performance. We know we will need to drive not just continuous supply chain, trying to increase revenues to Aboriginal businesses and CEO’S MESSAGE improvement, but transformative improvement to remain competitive in a communities. We feel we have the opportunity to make a difference and, low-carbon future. We believe we are on the path to doing that. while I’m proud of what we’ve done so far, I’m always thinking we need to do more. ABOUT OUR REPORT While our own emissions will continue to go up in the short term as we grow production, Suncor is taking steps – including replacing coke-fired How important is good governance to realizing Suncor’s boilers and expanding cogeneration – that will help “green” the Alberta STRATEGY AND sustainability vision? electrical grid. GOVERNANCE ERIC: Governance is very important to us. Simply put, it’s about thinking The bottom line is we support a de-carbonizing world and we have a place through the way an organization is managed and governed, goals are in that world. And technology and innovation are vital to that. set, accountabilities are established, and performance is stewarded and OUR BUSINESS monitored. I think Suncor is widely recognized for having strong practices Suncor has also set a long-term social sustainability in this regard. We have certainly connected sustainability and governance goal focused on increasing the participation of Canada’s right up to our Board of Directors, with common lines of sight throughout CLIMATE CHANGE Aboriginal Peoples in resource development. How is the organization. that progressing? ARLENE: Both Eric and I represent sustainability issues at every meeting ENVIRONMENT ARLENE: We are really proud of the agreement that was completed of the Board’s Environment, Health & Safety and Sustainable Development this past year, in which the Fort McKay and Mikisew Cree First Nations Committee. Eric is also at the full Board meetings, representing these acquired a combined, 49% equity position in Suncor’s East Tank Farm issues on a regular basis. And discussions around sustainability – including SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Development – the largest investment to date by First Nation communities issues of climate and carbon risk – are a full and robust part of Suncor’s in Canada. By the First Nations’ own declaration, this is game-changer. annual strategy process. All of that helps set the right tone for oversight It demonstrates that mutually beneficial partnerships are possible, and from the Board. INNOVATION it inspires us in terms of future opportunities with other Aboriginal communities. Is good governance and transparency also about PERFORMANCE DATA We believe we have a role to play in ensuring the communities directly creating long-term resilience? affected by our operations share in the economic benefits of resource ERIC: Absolutely. It’s an uncertain, dynamic world out there and, if you development. But this social goal is also about a new way of thinking and are going to be a resilient energy company you have to transparently APPENDICES acting. This isn’t work we do “for” Aboriginal Peoples. It’s about listening assess, manage and report on the principal risks facing your business. A and learning and working together. Part of what we’re trying to do is great example of that is Suncor’s stand-alone annual climate report, which increase awareness of the history and experiences of Aboriginal Peoples, was the first of its kind in the Canadian oil and gas industry. The report starting within our own company. Close to 5,000 Suncor employees have discloses our best assessment of the business risk associated with climate gone through our web-based Aboriginal awareness program, which was change and the transition to a low-carbon economy. By evaluating our developed with guidance from partners like Reconciliation Canada as well resilience through a range of potential scenarios – we also evaluate the as our own Aboriginal employees. Suncor’s Aboriginal Employee Network strategies we are taking to mitigate that risk. The report provides a clearis growing rapidly and any Suncor employee can join the network. We all headed explanation of how we can continue to provide energy on a cost learn together through this network. and carbon-competitive basis through an energy transition. ERIC: Our social goal is a journey and we’ve still got a long way to go. That climate report is also helping inform Suncor’s response to the But we’re determined to make progress in multiple areas. We are trying Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which is an SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Q AND A: TAKING THE LONG VIEW | 16 international initiative to provide companies with a voluntary, framework for climate-related disclosures. Many of the requirements of the TCFD TABLE OF CONTENTS are met in our climate report and we are looking at how we can best align with all of the TCFD recommendations. We have publicly signalled CEO’S MESSAGE our support for these recommendations and will continue to work together with other affected stakeholders to work out the details of implementation of these recommendations. ABOUT OUR REPORT Suncor has often talked about the importance of collaboration and stakeholder engagement. Why is that STRATEGY AND such a critical part of sustainability? GOVERNANCE ARLENE: Suncor established a stakeholder relations policy 20 years ago and it has served us well. These principles are more important than ever. OUR BUSINESS We believe that, by bringing people with diverse perspectives together to address complex problems, we can accomplish so much more than we could on our own. You can see this in our collaboration with groups CLIMATE CHANGE like the Energy Futures Lab and the Ecofiscal Commission. Both are focused on finding practical solutions that bring people together who seek to contribute to addressing the challenge of lowering our emissions ENVIRONMENT in a resource based economy. Our work with industry partners through Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance to accelerate technology and innovation is another example of collaboration. Or the deliberations SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY with other companies, governments and environmental groups to advance progressive climate change policies. Or, through the Suncor Energy Foundation, we have brought diverse leaders, organizations and INNOVATION Indigenous community members together on a regular basis – through these gatherings, our community partners have changed collaborative PERFORMANCE DATA strategies and we have been inspired – our social goal was inspired through these gatherings. APPENDICES What’s common to all these collaborations is that we are changed by these discussions. We listen. We learn. It impacts our view of potential solutions and how we conduct our business. ERIC: That’s such an important point. The whole concept of sustainability starts with listening to stakeholders and working with them collaboratively. We won’t always agree, but we need to be ready to engage, with respect and an open mind. Without that commitment to dialogue, you end up trapped in old ways of thinking. You need to be agile, understand that you can always learn something new. You need to find ways to embrace change, not resist it. This is part of our core philosophy and I think it’s provided us with a significant competitive advantage. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS | 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY GOALS Suncor’s sustainability goals reflect our focused efforts greater participation of Aboriginal Peoples and communities in energy development: CEO’S MESSAGE on strengthening relationships with Aboriginal Peoples in Canada and reducing our greenhouse gas (GHG) • strengthening relationships between Aboriginal Peoples and all ABOUT OUR REPORT emissions intensity. Canadians • partnering with Aboriginal youth to develop leadership potential STRATEGY AND • partnering with Aboriginal businesses and communities GOVERNANCE • significantly improving our Aboriginal workforce development OUR BUSINESS GHG goal: reducing our GHG emissions intensity CLIMATE CHANGE We share in the global challenge to address climate change by reducing emissions while providing the energy the world needs. We aim to reduce total emissions intensity of the production of our oil and petroleum ENVIRONMENT products by 30% by 2030. Our focus on GHG emissions intensity reductions is in these key areas: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • energy efficiency and continuous improvements of our base assets • strategic technology implementation to reduce extraction and Continuous improvement of our long-term environmental, social and INNOVATION upgrading emissions economic performance requires an evolution of our business that’s beyond our current capabilities. This is necessary to align our vision, of creating • greening the electricity grid through investments in low-carbon PERFORMANCE DATA energy for a better world, with the realities of an energy system in power such as cogeneration and renewables transition. APPENDICES We established our social and GHG goals in 2016, with a baseline year Our commitment to water stewardship of 2014, as guide posts to drive performance improvement. More detail We are also focused on extending our commitment to water stewardship about these goals is provided in our Aboriginal relations and climate by working to develop a new long-term water goal. Our plan is to take change sections of this report. a watershed approach to this goal and to work with stakeholders and Aboriginal communities to determine where we can have the greatest Social goal: strengthening our relationships impact. with Aboriginal Peoples in Canada Our social goal reflects our commitment to change the way we think and act as an organization and build greater mutual trust and respect with the Aboriginal Peoples of Canada. The goal outlines four areas to focus on through 2025 and beyond where we can work together to advance SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 RENEWABLES | 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT RENEWABLES Why renewable power? Living the Suncor values SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Global demand for energy sources is dramatically increasing, and Developing wind and solar projects contributes to Suncor’s GHG emission renewable power development will be a key part of the transition towards reduction goals. We recognized the value of renewable energy back in INNOVATION a low-carbon future. We share in the global challenge to tackle climate 2002 when we commissioned our first wind power project in Gull Lake, change head-on by reducing emissions, while continuing to develop and Saskatchewan. Since then, our investments have been primarily focused supply energy options that meet future energy needs. on wind power across many jurisdictions in Canada, and we continue to PERFORMANCE DATA evaluate other renewable technologies, including solar. Suncor has an ambitious greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions goal to reduce carbon intensity by 30% by 2030, and investment in renewable energy Over the last 16 years, we have developed eight wind power projects with APPENDICES is part of the solution. As a large electricity generator and consumer in a gross-generating capacity totaling 395 megawatts (MW), of which we Alberta and an industry player keenly focused on reducing its carbon have retained 111 MW of gross generating capacity. The Alberta wind footprint, Suncor is eager to work with policymakers, industry partners projects alone have produced more than 800,000 carbon credits, that are and other stakeholders to increase investment in renewable power utilized to offset our carbon footprint in our oil sands business. development. Wind and solar power are safe, reliable and emissions-free Suncor’s continued investment in renewable energy contributes to energy sources and we want to continue to be providers of energy from our social goal and provides opportunities to increase participation of renewables. Aboriginal Peoples, communities and businesses within the renewable The development of renewable power projects also contributes to Suncor’s industry. long-term social goal to advance relationships and build mutual trust and The 40 MW Adelaide wind power facility, located in southern Ontario, was respect between Aboriginal Peoples and all Canadians. Suncor’s first significant equity partnership with a First Nations community. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 RENEWABLES | 19 Under the partnership agreement, the Aamjiwnaang First Nation has a As part of Alberta’s Renewable Energy Program in December 2017, the TABLE OF CONTENTS 25% interest in the project, and continues to be involved through regular first competitive auction process (known as REP I) successfully procured update meetings. 600 MW of additional renewable capacity. The REP II and REP III programs, announced in February 2018, seek / intend to secure an additional 300 CEO’S MESSAGE In 2017, the Suncor Adelaide Wind Limited Partnership also sponsored MW and 400 MW of renewable capacity, respectively. In addition, Alberta’s the Southern First Nations Secretariat’s Strong Leadership through Strong merchant market structure provides the opportunity for renewable and Governance program. The sponsored week-long course brought faculty non-renewable projects to be developed outside of the REP programs. ABOUT OUR REPORT from the Banff Centre for Indigenous Leadership to First Nations leaders in southern Ontario, to build capacity in community governance. By Suncor is excited about the renewable opportunities within the province supporting education and training for leaders in Aboriginal communities, and is well positioned to participate in the development of future STRATEGY AND Suncor and our partners contribute to strengthening community projects. Our renewable development portfolio includes seven wind and GOVERNANCE resilience. four solar sites in southern Alberta, totalling more than 1,000 MW of potential development opportunities. These sites are in various stages of Throughout the development of our renewable energy projects, Suncor development. OUR BUSINESS engages with local community members in proposed project areas to talk about Suncor, renewable energy, and community needs and concerns. We Saskatchewan endeavour to work in an open, respectful and transparent way, engaging Moving one step closer to meeting the province’s target of 50% CLIMATE CHANGE with communities early to alleviate and resolve issues. renewable power generation by 2030, SaskPower announced a competitive process in 2017 to add 200 MW of wind capacity. Currently, ENVIRONMENT Our renewable power portfolio only 3% of the province’s generation is attributed to wind power. For the province to meet its targets for generation from renewables, it needs to Suncor’s current renewable power portfolio consists of partnered procure approximately 1,600 MWs before 2030. These targets present operational projects as well as numerous development opportunities SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY independent power producers with significant opportunities within the across Canada. province of Saskatchewan. INNOVATION Development opportunities Suncor is actively evaluating opportunities in Saskatchewan. Our Ontario development portfolio in the province of Saskatchewan consists of two wind sites that have the potential to provide an additional 400 MW or In September 2016, the Ontario government announced a suspension of PERFORMANCE DATA more of wind capacity to the grid. the second round of the Independent Electricity System Operator’s (IESO) Large Renewable Procurement (LRP) II process. Since this announcement, APPENDICES Suncor has refocused its efforts to pursue strategic investments in western Suncor renewables in your community Canada, where new renewable power generation targets have been set. Delia Purple Martin Colony – Alberta Alberta In the spring of 2017, Suncor had the opportunity to re-engage with local The Government of Alberta’s Climate Leadership Plan, effective January community members who had some questions and concerns about our 1, 2017, committed to phasing out 6,300 MWs of coal-fired generation in proposed Hand Hills Wind Power Project. While attending a community the province by 2030, replacing two-thirds of coal-fired production with function, a Suncor representative heard about concerns that the project renewable energy. Associated changes in legislation and market structure might have a negative impact on a local colony of purple martins (a type have spurred significant investment in renewable energy projects in of swallow). The colony is located outside the area where consultation is Alberta. required for regulatory purposes but is still in the vicinity of the proposed wind project. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 RENEWABLES | 20 Suncor representatives met with the concerned stakeholders over the to our ongoing partnership in 2018 as YOU seeks to build up its social TABLE OF CONTENTS summer of 2017 and visited their purple martin colony to understand the enterprise, Market Quality Preserves (MQP). This program instructs youth community members’ questions and concerns. Suncor hired a swallow on the preparation, production, packaging and sales of various jams, migration expert to review the information about the project and the jellies, salsas and spreads. The youth gain confidence in the kitchen while CEO’S MESSAGE colony and share his views about potential impacts of the project with the learning life skills and employment skills to help prepare them for their community. future in the workplace. ABOUT OUR REPORT Through this process, we were able to listen to the community and provide expert evidence that there would be a minimal impact on the bird Biofuels colony. Since 2006, Suncor has been making a significant impact in Canada’s STRATEGY AND emerging biofuels industry. We invest in biofuels, particularly ethanol GOVERNANCE Gull Lake Winterfest – Saskatchewan produced from corn. Ethanol is a cleaner burning, renewable resource. Through our sponsorship activities, Suncor looks for ways to get to know The type of corn used as feedstock has traditionally been used to feed OUR BUSINESS community members. We believe in engaging stakeholders where they livestock. Once the starches are extracted from the corn to make ethanol, naturally gather, in order to share information and gather feedback about the remaining elements are used to make premium cattle feed. our proposed projects, instead of always making stakeholders come to us. CLIMATE CHANGE The ethanol production industry is expanding in Canada and the United One example of this is Suncor’s annual sponsorship of the Gull Lake States. New government regulations require that a percentage of ethanol Winterfest, which draws community members from both Suncor’s existing be blended into fuels to reduce the environmental impacts of vehicle ENVIRONMENT SunBridge Wind Power Project and our proposed Shaunavon Wind Power emissions. Project. At this annual day-long event in February, Suncor had a booth to share information and receive questions and concerns about our proposed The Pembina Institute conducted a Life Cycle Value Assessment for our St. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY project, volunteered to help serve dinner and sponsored the fireworks Clair Ethanol Plant, which estimated that overall CO2 emissions could be show. reduced by up to 300,000 tonnes per year by blending 10% ethanol from the St. Clair plant into gasoline. INNOVATION Through this opportunity, Suncor representatives met people who were interested in our proposed projects but would not necessarily come out to an open house. It also provided us the opportunity to contribute to the PERFORMANCE DATA community through volunteering and sponsorship activities. Youth Opportunities Unlimited in Strathroy – Ontario APPENDICES In 2017, the Suncor Adelaide Wind Limited Partnership began what we hope will be a long-term relationship with the Youth Opportunities Unlimited (YOU) Next Wave Youth Centre in Strathroy, Ontario. This youth centre, located in the heart of the Adelaide wind power facility’s operating area, is a creative and fun place where youth can get assistance with obtaining work, finishing school, finding housing or getting other support for whatever issues may arise. Suncor’s contribution in 2017 enabled the centre to address urgent infrastructure needs to keep the building open and fully operational to continue serving youth aged 12 to 30 in our project area. We look forward SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Suncor’s Board of Directors (Board) supervises the management of our To encourage board diversity across Canada, our president and chief business and affairs on behalf of our shareholders. Its responsibilities executive officer, Steve Williams, is a supporting CEO of the CBDC, while CEO’S MESSAGE include governance, strategic planning and stewardship of Suncor. Suncor is a founding sponsor. Our Board has processes in place to help ensure Suncor lives up to all Suncor is also a proud supporter of the 30% Club of Canada, a notABOUT OUR REPORT regulatory requirements and the standards of excellence we set for for-profit organization that is focused on the continued drive towards ourselves. achieving greater gender balance at all levels, including an aspirational STRATEGY AND The Board’s responsibilities also include the following: objective of 30% women on boards by 2020. Suncor's Board has 40% GOVERNANCE female representation. • identifying principal risks and ensuring systems are in place to effectively monitor, manage and mitigate those risks, ensuring Good corporate governance is a critical part of OUR BUSINESS Suncor has an effective strategic planning process our business culture and how our directors make • overseeing the establishment and enforcement of Suncor’s decisions in the best interest of our shareholders. Standards of Business Conduct CLIMATE CHANGE • ensuring systems are in place for communication with investors and Suncor’s governance structure other stakeholders ENVIRONMENT Effective corporate governance comes from leadership and good • selecting, monitoring and evaluating executive leadership and corporate structure. Economic, environmental and social issues aren’t aligning management’s decision-making with long-term shareholder considered separately but evaluated holistically as part of Suncor’s SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY interest strategic decision-making process. This continues to inform our corporate structure. Key features of this governance structure include: • ensuring processes are in place to monitor and maintain the INNOVATION integrity of Suncor’s internal controls and management information • our Board and its committees, who have clearly defined and distinct systems oversight roles to protect the interests of our shareholders set out in terms of reference PERFORMANCE DATA A diverse and experienced Board • the Board’s Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainable The Canadian Board Diversity Council (CBDC), notes that having a diverse, Development (EHS&SD) Committee monitors management’s APPENDICES experienced and well-credentialed Board of Directors improves Board performance in areas within its mandate discussions, contributes to greater diligence when decisions are being • our executive management team, which integrates key operational made, and leads to improved financial performance and shareholder and functional accountabilities for maximum efficiency and value. effectiveness, including a chief sustainability officer Suncor’s Board aims to be comprised of directors who have a range of • our vice president of sustainability and communications, who perspectives, insights and views in relation to the issues affecting Suncor. reports directly to our chief sustainability officer (CSO) It searches for members from diverse backgrounds, with regard to gender, ethnicity/Aboriginal status, age, business experience, professional expertise, personal skills, stakeholder perspectives and geographic background. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | 22 Sustainability governance Environment, social and governance (ESG) issues and TABLE OF CONTENTS Board practices Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) ESG factors also play a role in director recruitment, Board evaluation Eric Axford was appointed as and committee representation. To ensure Suncor’s Board has the right CEO’S MESSAGE Suncor’s first-ever Chief Sustainability expertise: Officer in 2017. In this role, Eric plays a key role navigating the many • the Board revised its skills matrix in 2017 to ensure skills and ABOUT OUR REPORT external relationships and strategic experience in environment, health, safety and social responsibility collaborations required for Suncor’s were desired competencies STRATEGY AND commitment to sustainability. This • the governance committee conducts the selection process for new GOVERNANCE appointment reflects a commitment Board nominees and seeks to have a representation of diverse to move beyond issues management, backgrounds, experience and skills to developing capability throughout OUR BUSINESS the company to meet strategic Suncor’s Board practices around performance evaluation and objectives. Eric presents on compensation consider ESG factors by: sustainability matters at every CLIMATE CHANGE meeting of the EHS&SD committee • considering Suncor’s performance against enterprise-wide of the Board, and represents them at sustainability goals related to safety, environmental (including periodic Board reviews. GHGs) and social performance in the amount of annual incentive ENVIRONMENT payments to the CEO EHS&SD Committee • evaluating senior executive performance annually against wellSOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The EHS&SD Committee of the Board oversees and manages matters defined goals that support and reinforce Suncor’s value drivers relating to environmental, health, safety and sustainable development. The Committee meets quarterly to review: INNOVATION • recommendations to the Board with respect to Suncor’s strategies and policies pertaining to environmental, health, safety and PERFORMANCE DATA sustainable development • polices, including Suncor’s Operational Excellence Management APPENDICES System (an overarching framework to manage operational risk) • management’s performance and emerging trends and issues in the environmental, health, safety and sustainable development space, to ensure we are anticipating future challenges and positioning ourselves to minimize risks • management stewardship reports as well as the findings of significant external and internal environmental, health and safety investigations, assessments, reviews and audits SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 RISK MANAGEMENT | 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS RISK MANAGEMENT We believe risk management is fundamental to and supported through tools such as Risk Management Standards and a Risk Matrix to effectively identify and assess risk across the enterprise. This CEO’S MESSAGE achieving our business goals, and requires a culture of policy and supporting tools drives a risk culture of being: operational discipline. • proactive: we do the right thing by identifying and managing risk in ABOUT OUR REPORT advance • transparent: we encourage openness and honesty about our risks. STRATEGY AND We actively provide and seek out information so we can make better GOVERNANCE decisions • consistent: we are disciplined in doing the right thing, the right way OUR BUSINESS to achieve excellence in risk management CLIMATE CHANGE Identifying principal risks Principal risks are generally considered those that have the potential to materially impact our ability to meet or support our business strategy. ENVIRONMENT In the constantly evolving energy business, new risks can emerge and established risks can take on new forms or orders of magnitude. We manage identification of new Principal risks through our Critical and SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Principal Risk processes. Suncor has an established Enterprise Risk Management Program and INNOVATION Operational Excellence Management System which support effective and Risk governance efficient risk management across the organization. All levels of our organization are engaged in our Enterprise Risk PERFORMANCE DATA Management (ERM) program – from the Board of Directors (BOD) and Risk management approach Audit Committee, which are responsible for oversight of our principal risks and ensuring there are systems in place to manage their impact – to We make risk-informed decisions that reflect our triple bottom line APPENDICES individual business units and functions, which regularly identify, mitigate responsibilities. This requires ongoing identification, assessment, and report on critical risks in their areas of business. treatment and monitoring of risks inherent to our assets, activities and operations. Some of these risks are common to oil and gas industry Risk responsibility, accountability and ownership are assigned to ensure operations broadly, while some are unique to Suncor. appropriate management of identified risks. Dedicated risk co-ordinators are embedded within each business area, and are instrumental in building Our risk management program is aligned with the International risk awareness and supporting the critical risk process across their area to Organization for Standardization guidelines (the ISO 31000 Risk ensure proper accountability and stewardship of risks. management – Guidelines), which were also adopted by the Standards Council of Canada. The guidelines provide principles, a framework and a process for managing risk. Our risk management practice is governed by our Risk Management Policy, SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 RISK MANAGEMENT | 24 All Principal risks must be reported annually to the Board of Directors • mitigate environmental and social impacts TABLE OF CONTENTS and Audit Committee. Each Principal risk has direct oversight by an • develop and share best practices Executive Leadership Team (ELT) member and is regularly reported to the appropriate committee. • support continuous improvement CEO’S MESSAGE Our 2017 Annual Information Form (dated March 1, 2018), provides a comprehensive overview of significant risks applicable to Suncor Sustainability considerations in project ABOUT OUR REPORT and its businesses. Since 2016, carbon risk has been included in these Principal risks and subsequently undergoes an annual Board review. The development Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainable Development Committee of To ensure holistic development and sustainment of physical assets, we STRATEGY AND the Board also oversees this risk and reviews it on a more regular basis. incorporate environmental and social aspects such as water use, air GOVERNANCE emissions, energy use, human rights, stakeholder and Aboriginal relations into new projects. Risk assessment and evaluation OUR BUSINESS Once identified, risks are assessed and evaluated in terms of magnitude The purpose of sustainability integration into our process for developing of impact and likelihood using an internal risk-matrix tool. A single riskphysical assets is to ensure: matrix tool allows employees to consistently assess risks and evaluate CLIMATE CHANGE • environmental and social risks are identified as part of the project the consequence and likelihood of risk events. It also helps to assign definition responsibility for different levels of residual risk. The consequence is based on the following five receptors on the risk matrix: • development options are evaluated against environmental and ENVIRONMENT social risks through the concept selection process 1. Health and safety • environmental and social risks are incorporated into the project’s SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2. Environmental risk register 3. Regulatory • Suncor’s project portfolio is in line with our strategic sustainability INNOVATION 4. Reputation goals and vision over the long term 5. Financial impact These screening assessments help translate relevant social or PERFORMANCE DATA environmental impacts as potential project risks. For example, climate Operational Excellence Management System change implications are considered early in the asset development process, APPENDICES prior to the commitment of significant resources, which ensures climate (OEMS) change risks and opportunities are well understood. From a decisionOperational excellence is a disciplined way of running our business making perspective, this process allows asset development options to be using consistent practices to continually improve our performance and analyzed from both a technical and sustainability perspective. operating in a way that is safe, reliable, cost-efficient and environmentally responsible. The OEMS is our framework of controls with consistent standards, processes and procedures that enable Suncor to consistently and effectively: • manage risk • operate safely and reliably SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 POLICY ENGAGEMENT | 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS POLICY ENGAGEMENT We participate in public policy discussions on energy Economic policy CEO’S MESSAGE and the environment, and regularly communicate with Royalties and taxes governments in jurisdictions where we operate. Royalties and taxes should deliver a fair return to government, while ABOUT OUR REPORT We ensure our participation is in compliance with all political providing industry with a competitive, stable and predictable fiscal contributions and lobbying regulations, and report government framework on which to base long-term investment decisions. interactions consistent with the law and company policies. STRATEGY AND Policies should recognize market factors, such as challenges faced by GOVERNANCE Increasingly in Canada, public policy is developed through open and corporations competing in a global economy. transparent processes, incorporating the expertise and perspective of a broad range of stakeholders. Suncor participates in these forums, bringing Levies added over and above current royalties and taxes need to be OUR BUSINESS holistically considered and understood in terms of costs, outcomes and our industry perspective and a solutions-based mindset to advance responsible development. competitiveness against other jurisdictions in which Canada’s natural resources compete. CLIMATE CHANGE We support governments taking a reasoned and outcomes-based approach to policy development. We believe policy should be built on Transparency evidence-based information and perspectives ENVIRONMENT We support policy and regulations that promote transparency and Constructive dialogue and transparent sharing of information are critical advocate for rules that are consistently applied and respect agreements in guiding our interaction with governments and stakeholders towards with First Nations. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY the development of practical policy solutions. These activities promote responsible development of existing and new energy sources. We aim to Cumulative impact of policy changes decrease the probability of reactive policy development by working to We continually study expected cost increases resulting from existing INNOVATION reduce polarized dialogue. and proposed policy changes. The study findings are used to inform our approach to the energy systems dialogue. They help us reflect on Our policy position with governments includes: PERFORMANCE DATA opportunities holistically and provide context for policy-makers and • applying a broad-based economy-wide carbon price regulators so that we can fully consider all aspects of potential policy and focus on how to incent constructive outcomes. APPENDICES • encouraging a healthy debate about energy solutions Market access • understanding the role of and supporting advancements in research, technology and innovation Our oil sands industry makes a strong contribution to meeting global energy demands, while creating jobs, contributing to the economy and • considering energy development and distribution costs and benefits generating revenues for government to fund social programs across Canada. Suncor supports the development of infrastructure that opens • encouraging Aboriginal economic collaboration and capacity access to new markets and ensures global competitiveness for Canadian building resources. • developing vibrant, sustainable communities Suncor has an interest in all the major pipelines that are currently • supporting Canada’s long-term prosperity proposed and/or approved (Keystone XL, Line 3 and Trans Mountain), but it’s important to note that no single pipeline will affect our ability SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 POLICY ENGAGEMENT | 26 to execute our growth plans. And, because pipeline projects take several Environment policy TABLE OF CONTENTS years to approve, develop and make operational, it also makes sense for us to tap into existing rail and marine networks to transport our products Federal Environmental Act Reviews to market. In May of 2016 the Government of Canada initiated a review of Canada’s CEO’S MESSAGE Pipelines continue to be the safest, most efficient means of transportation environmental assessment processes. These reviews included the Canadian for crude oil and other petroleum products, and we are working with Environmental Assessment Act (CEAA), the modernization of the National stakeholders to address many of these concerns from a producer’s Energy Board, the Fisheries Act, and the Navigable Waters Protection Act, ABOUT OUR REPORT perspective and are engaged with governments to the same extent. and have resulted in proposed legislation in Bill C-68 and Bill C-69 which were released in February 2018. This proposed legislation is expected to STRATEGY AND In addition to the existing comprehensive and robust regulatory put better rules in place to protect the environment, rebuild public trust GOVERNANCE framework in place that governs development and operation of pipelines through increased transparency and engagement, and grow the economy. and other large infrastructure projects, Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) has outlined a new Impact Assessment process through Bill Environmental assessment informs government decision-making and OUR BUSINESS C-69 that focuses its aim to achieve better rules for major project reviews supports sustainable development by identifying opportunities to to protect Canada’s environment and grow the economy. avoid, eliminate or reduce a project’s potential adverse impact on the environment and ensure mitigation measures are in place when a project CLIMATE CHANGE In addition, a new Canadian Energy Regulator (CER) has been identified is constructed, operated and decommissioned. as part of this new process. This new regulator will have the responsibility of ensuring access to safe, affordable and reliable energy and guiding The proposed legislation has a focus on expanding the types of impacts ENVIRONMENT Canada’s transition to a low-carbon economy. The new CER seeks to studied to understand how a proposed project could affect not just the achieve modern effective governance, more inclusive engagement, environment, but also health, social and economic impacts as well as greater Indigenous participation, stronger safety and environmental impacts on Indigenous Peoples over the long term. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY protections and timely decisions. Suncor’s response to the review processes to date has reinforced that We believe efficient, effective and transparent regulatory oversight is impact assessment is critical to project development and must be INNOVATION the responsible thing to do and will be valuable to accurately inform transparent, and effectively and efficiently managed to ensure public and Canadians, decision-makers and other stakeholders. investor confidence. PERFORMANCE DATA The process needs to appropriately balance the economy, the environment Social policy and social impact while at the same time incent innovation and future investment. APPENDICES Local community capacity In co-operation with industry partners and local business associations, Lower Athabasca Regional Plan (LARP) we have been working with the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo In 2008, the Alberta government introduced the Land Use Framework. The in northeast Alberta to better forecast future population growth and purpose of the Land Use Framework was to manage growth in Alberta infrastructure needs. by balancing economic, social and environmental goals. The first regional plan, the Lower Regional Athabasca Plan (LARP), was completed in 2012. Building non-profit capacity and supporting key community initiatives continue to be important components of our work in the region. The LARP includes management frameworks for: We also participate in the Athabasca Oil Sands Area Transportation Co• air (SO2 and NOx) ordinating Committee, where infrastructure needs, funding and financing options are discussed and prioritized. • surface water quality SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 POLICY ENGAGEMENT | 27 • surface water quantity We support regulatory design that: TABLE OF CONTENTS • tailings management • drives best achievable performance from existing facilities • regional groundwater management • provides clear support for innovation and technology development CEO’S MESSAGE that enables game-changing solutions Each of these frameworks includes interim triggers to allow early indications of change. In 2017, a five-year review of LARP was initiated. A • positions Canada as a leader in energy innovation ABOUT OUR REPORT Biodiversity Management Framework and Landscape Management Plan • sets challenging but achievable reduction goals with a process that continue to be under development. allows for an increase in ambition as technology develops STRATEGY AND On an ongoing basis, we also participate in technical discussions that GOVERNANCE • is flexible and provides for multi-jurisdictional compliance pathways lay a foundation for future policy and regulation on aspects of tailings management, water return, biodiversity and wetlands. • avoids duplication OUR BUSINESS Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Quebec/Ontario – cap-and-trade Both Quebec and Ontario are members of the Western Climate Initiative CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change regulation (WCI) cap and trade economy-wide emissions trading system. The WCI We are engaged with all levels of government to establish a credible partners (which also include Manitoba, British Columbia and California) carbon policy regulatory framework for the oil and gas sector in Canada. have agreed to cut GHG emissions by at least 15% below 2005 levels by ENVIRONMENT Our position is that Canada’s oil sands are a world-class responsibly 2020. developed resource that is needed to meet growing global energy demand. Our Montreal and Sarnia refineries are required to purchase carbon SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY allowances to cover their respective stationary emissions, as well as cover We are a strong voice in the call for effective policy to address the the tailpipe emissions associated with the fuel sold in those provinces. Canadian oil and gas industry’s GHG emissions. In our view, this includes INNOVATION a carbon price signal that incents the right behaviour and a practical The WCI cap and trade system imposes a limit on the emissions allowed regulatory architecture. in each sector of the economy. This provides certainty for industries and creates investment opportunities. PERFORMANCE DATA Since 2008, we have advocated publicly in support of a broad-based, economy-wide carbon price. In 2016, we joined the Carbon Pricing With the announcement of the termination of the cap and trade program Leadership Coalition (CPLC) – and contributed to the CPLC’s Canadian in Ontario, Suncor will work with the provincial government to explore APPENDICES industry report in 2017 –to support Canada’s Ecofiscal Commission – solutions that achieve the required outcomes while minimizing impacts to ultimately broadening the discussion of carbon pricing into the realm of people and business. practical policy application. Low-carbon fuel standards Our continued collaboration with Canada’s Ecofiscal Commission has generated numerous reports focused on two themes: We continue to monitor and consult on numerous policy initiatives such as the federal government’s proposed Clean Fuel Standards (CFS) to reduce • the importance of implementing carbon pricing Canada’s GHG emissions through the increased use of lower carbon fuels. • considerations needed for policy design Suncor’s position is that a well-designed carbon price is the most economically efficient and inclusive way to drive responsible emissions reductions right across the energy system, including fuel carbon intensity. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 POLICY ENGAGEMENT | 28 There are specific circumstances where carbon pricing is not enough and Biofuel policy advocacy TABLE OF CONTENTS the transportation sector is generally regarded as an example. In these Canada’s renewable biofuels industry is quickly maturing, and Suncor is cases, additional policies can play a role supporting carbon pricing and working to improve its long-term viability as current government support achieving emissions reductions at lowest cost. programs directed at first-generation biofuels decline. CEO’S MESSAGE The challenge is to design a system without adding duplicative layers of As opportunities arise, we invest in advanced renewable energy cost and administrative burden, while truly complementing GHG policies technologies to complement the existing biofuel industry. This involves ABOUT OUR REPORT that can support a carbon price and drive more emissions reductions at a funding outside companies whose technology ideas align with the lower economic cost. strategic needs of our operations or businesses. STRATEGY AND Where complementary policies are added to carbon pricing, the objectives Suncor supports a flexible performance standard for transportation fuel GOVERNANCE of the complementary policy should be clear and the interaction with intensity over more narrowly constructed mandates. other policies, and carbon pricing in particular, should be well understood. In Canada, there exists a “patchwork quilt” of carbon pricing policies OUR BUSINESS Renewable energy across the provinces, as well as differences in complementary policies across provinces. Over time, this will mean higher costs than necessary. Renewable and low-carbon power policy We advocate for both levels of government to ensure that policies work CLIMATE CHANGE together. In Alberta, the Climate Leadership Plan (CLP) will accelerate the transition from coal to renewable electricity and natural gas generation by 2030. Canada’s energy industry has a responsibility to navigate between ENVIRONMENT The government is committed to replacing two-thirds of coal-generated the aspirational and the realistic, which for the oil sector specifically electricity with renewables, primarily wind power, and with natural gas – means continuing to keep the Canadian economy moving, through such as power exported to the grid from Suncor’s cogeneration facilities. continued investment in existing energy supply and maintaining critical SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY infrastructure. Policies should provide the certainty required to make Renewable energy sources are proposed to comprise up to 5,000 MW necessary investment decisions and not lead to leakage of investment of renewable capacity, which is estimated to be approximately 30% of capital. There remains much work to be done to define a unified Canadian INNOVATION Alberta’s total electricity. energy vision for 2050. The need exists for collaborative policy solutions Suncor is an active proponent of increased cogeneration as a key part that can advance our nation’s economic ambitions while preserving PERFORMANCE DATA of the power mix in Alberta, particularly as the province transitions environmental integrity. away from coal. Cogeneration provides reliable, base-load power to intermittent renewable power at the lowest GHG intensity of any APPENDICES hydrocarbon fuel. Collaboration between government and industry is the only way to accelerate the step changes needed for Alberta to transition from an “energy only” market design to a “capacity” market design. As the sixth largest electricity generator in Alberta and an industry player keenly focused on reducing its carbon footprint, Suncor works with policy makers, industry partners and other stakeholders to increase investment in low-carbon power generation. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 LOBBYING AND DISCLOSURE | 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE LOBBYING AND DISCLOSURE Suncor participates in public policy discussions on Membership disclosures ENVIRONMENT a wide range of issues relevant to the company’s Suncor participates in industry groups representing the interests of both business and regularly communicates with the energy industry and the broader business community and, in doing SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY governments in jurisdictions where it operates. so, promotes the public policy objectives important to us, its shareholders and other stakeholders. However, our participation as a member of these Suncor believes that open dialogue between government, stakeholders organizations comes with the understanding that we may not always INNOVATION and industry leads to improved government decision-making, thereby support every position taken by these organizations or their members. benefiting shareholders as well as all other stakeholders. Through our engagement activities, we aim to decrease the probability of ad hoc or Suncor also complies with all laws regarding lobbying and lobbying PERFORMANCE DATA reactive policy development by working to achieve a balanced approach. disclosure. As a matter of general practice, we do not engage third-party (consultant) lobbyists. We are committed to transparency, and share our We also believe communication with government officials (otherwise approach on lobbying and political donations. We also provide a list of APPENDICES known as lobbying) improves government decision-making through organizations and trade associations that may lobby government to which open dialogue among government, stakeholders and industry and better Suncor pays membership dues of greater than $50,000. informs government officials about Suncor, the energy industry and the effects of government policies. We have a demonstrated track record of transparent reporting. We believe additional disclosure about the resilience of our business strategy in a transition to a low-carbon future benefits shareholders and Governance stakeholders. Suncor has a policy that applies to all employees. The policy sets out guiding principles for interacting with governments, including required Suncor’s enhanced disclosure is consistent with our strong focus on training and reporting, as well as roles and responsibilities. sustainability, reflects our openness to engage with shareholders and stakeholders, and reflects best practice within the energy industry in Canada. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 LOBBYING AND DISCLOSURE | 30 The following is a list of organizations and trade associations of which we Political contributions TABLE OF CONTENTS are a member and that may engage in lobbying of governments. As of June 1, 2016, Suncor no longer makes political contributions as a matter of policy, except in exceptional circumstances. Any such $50K $100K contributions will continue to be disclosed in this report. CEO’S MESSAGE • Business Council of Canada (formerly known as the Canadian Council of Chief Executives) ABOUT OUR REPORT • Ceres • Colorado Petroleum Association STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE • Industrial Gas Users Association • The Sulphur Institute OUR BUSINESS • Resource Works • Strathcona Industrial Association CLIMATE CHANGE >$100K ENVIRONMENT • American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers • Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers • Canadian Propane Association INNOVATION • Colorado Asphalt Pavement Association PERFORMANCE DATA • Mining Association of Canada • Sarnia & Lambton Environmental Association APPENDICES • Oil Spill Response Limited • World Economic Forum • Canadian Fuels Association • International Association of Oil and Gas Producers For a listing of the groups that receive funding from the Suncor Energy Foundation, please refer to the CRA website and search for Suncor. TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY AND Suncor is focused on being a low-cost, low-carbon producer and GOVERNANCE demonstrating leadership in environmental performance and social responsibility, while contributing to a strong economy. OUR BUSINESS Operations summary................................................ 32 CLIMATE CHANGE Economic impact....................................................... 34 Market access............................................................ 36 ENVIRONMENT Personal and process safety..................................... 37 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Ethical business conduct........................................... 39 Diversity and inclusion............................................. 42 INNOVATION PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 OPERATIONS SUMMARY | 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OPERATIONS SUMMARY INNOVATION Suncor is focused on being a low-cost, lowSuncor has classified its operations into the carbon producer and demonstrating leadership in following segments: environmental performance and social responsibility, PERFORMANCE DATA Oil Sands while contributing to a strong economy. Suncor’s Oil Sands segment, with assets located in the Athabasca oil sands Suncor Energy is Canada’s leading integrated energy company. Suncor’s of northeast Alberta, recovers bitumen from mining and in situ operations APPENDICES operations include oil sands development and upgrading, onshore and either upgrades this production into synthetic crude oil for refinery and offshore oil and gas production, petroleum refining and product feedstock and diesel fuel or blends the bitumen with diluent for direct marketing under the Petro-Canada brand. sale to market. A member of the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index, and Exploration and Production the FTSE4Good Index Series, Suncor is working to responsibly develop petroleum resources while also growing a renewable energy portfolio. Suncor’s Exploration and Production (E&P) segment consists of offshore Suncor is listed on the UN Global Compact 100 stock index and also operations off the east coast of Canada and in the North, Sea and onshore responds to CDP’s Climate Change and Water programs. assets in Libya and Syria. (Note: Operations in Syria have been suspended indefinitely due to political unrest in the country. Production in Libya has Suncor’s common shares (symbol: SU) are listed on the Toronto and New also been substantially shut in due to political unrest, with the timing of a York stock exchanges. return to normal operations remaining uncertain.) SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 OPERATIONS SUMMARY | 33 Corporate, Energy Trading and Eliminations Wind power projects TABLE OF CONTENTS The grouping Corporate, Energy Trading and Eliminations includes the Suncor is partnered in four operational wind power facilities in Canada. company’s investments in renewable energy projects, results related to These wind power facilities have a gross generating capacity of 111 MW, energy marketing, supply and trading activities, and other activities not enough to power about 52,000 Canadian homes and avoid approximately CEO’S MESSAGE directly attributable to any other operating segment. 179,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide each year. Our wind facilities are located in Alberta, Saskatchewan and Ontario. ABOUT OUR REPORT Refining and Marketing Our Refining and Marketing operations further unlock the value of the Suncor’s St. Clair ethanol plant upstream barrel through our strong refining and marketing network, Suncor operates Canada’s largest ethanol facility — the St. Clair Ethanol STRATEGY AND which includes more than 1,500 Petro-Canada retail stations. Plant in the Sarnia-Lambton region of Ontario. The plant opened in June GOVERNANCE 2006 and has a current production capacity of 400 million litres per year. Ethanol produced here is blended into Petro-Canada gasoline. OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT WHERE WE OPERATE Oil Sands SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Fenja Norway Fort Hills East Coast Canada Golden Eagle INNOVATION Hibernia Rosebank Stavanger St. John’s Buzzard Firebag White Oda Edmonton Aberdeen Montreal Rose MacKay Syncrude Calgary London PERFORMANCE DATA United River Kingdom Terra Sarnia Hebron Nova Base Plant Denver / APPENDICES Commerce City & Millennium Mississauga Houston Fort Tripoli McMurray Libya Head office Regional office Operated Non-operated Proposed Refining capacity Circles are scaled to relative net capacity Operations map map of our operations around the globe. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 ECONOMIC IMPACT | 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC IMPACT The economic benefits of our success extend well beyond the returns ENVIRONMENT we provide to shareholders. In 2017, we contributed over $2.1 billion in royalties and taxes for governments – revenues that were then available $2.1 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY to help fund public sector programs, including education, health care and billion vital infrastructure. contributed in royalties and taxes for governments in 2017 INNOVATION We are committed to a mission, vision and Development of our core assets also allows values that guide our business decisions. us to invest in our renewable energy business PERFORMANCE DATA Strong economic performance, along with social responsibility and environmental and in new technologies to improve companywide operational efficiency and environmental $5.8 performance. Our strong economic billion stewardship, is part of being a sustainable APPENDICES performance allows us to invest in profitable total capital spending in 2017 energy company. Our investment in energy growth and continuous improvements in our production, upgrading, refining and marketing existing operations, despite an uncertain oil benefits the economy by: $4.0 price environment. The ripple effects of that investment are felt across the North American • creating well-paying jobs economy and well beyond. billion • promoting economic growth In all of these ways, we continue to create value spent with Aboriginal businesses since 1999 • providing governments and suppliers for our shareholders and society at large. with revenues SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 ECONOMIC IMPACT | 35 Royalties and taxes • environment health and safety services or The typical split of materials versus services TABLE OF CONTENTS consulting depends on the type of worksite, such as the In 2017, royalties totalled $931 million, following: including $355 million directed to oil sands • electrical royalties. As well, income taxes totalled • operating facilities, where the spend is CEO’S MESSAGE $1.2 billion* to governments in Canada and • engineering and consulting services typically 60% services and 40% materials internationally. • facility services or materials • major greenfield construction sites, where ABOUT OUR REPORT the spend is typically 70% services and Capital spending • fleet and fleet parts 30% materials STRATEGY AND Capital and exploration expenditures totalled • freight and transportation We also have specific practices in place GOVERNANCE $5.8 billion in 2017, not including capitalized • ground transportation related to local supplier selection. Regional interest, compared to $6.0 billion in 2016. development clauses are in place with suppliers • health and wellness and in contracts across all businesses, and OUR BUSINESS Goods and services sourcing documents often have criteria that • instrumentation and controls A look at our supply chain spending shows we evaluate suppliers on Aboriginal or local CLIMATE CHANGE had close to 5,000 Canadian vendors spanning • information services (hardware, services, representation. all 10 provinces as well as the Northwest applications and infrastructure) In addition, our common practice is to post Territories and the Yukon. The United States ENVIRONMENT • lodging local contract and supplier opportunities was our next biggest supplier (more than 1,300 on regional organizations’ websites such as vendors), and we also purchased from nearly 40 • maintenance services Regional Economic Development (REDlink) other countries. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and Northeastern Alberta Aboriginal Business • marketing and sales We have seven major category groups that Association (NAABA). This is to ensure are further segmented into categories and • materials (consumables and structural local businesses and suppliers are aware of INNOVATION subcategories. The taxonomy used to define opportunities in their region. steel/PVF) and create these categories and subcategories • mining equipment PERFORMANCE DATA is the United Nations Standard Products and Aboriginal partners Services Code that is used globally to classify • offshore equipment and services In 2017, we spent $521 million on direct products and services. The range of goods and purchases from Aboriginal businesses. Since services is extensive and includes: • professional services APPENDICES 1999, Suncor has spent just over $4.0 billion • aviation services • software with Aboriginal businesses (as direct contractors and subcontractors), nearly half of which was • chemicals, gases and fluids • static equipment spent since 2013. • civil works • support services • construction services • tailings on-pond assets • drilling machinery and accessories • telecom • drilling and completion services * Does not include excise taxes collected and remitted by Suncor. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 MARKET ACCESS | 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS MARKET ACCESS Our oil sands industry makes a strong contribution to meeting global energy demands, while creating jobs, contributing to the economy and CEO’S MESSAGE generating revenues for governments to fund social programs across Canada. Suncor supports the development of infrastructure that opens ABOUT OUR REPORT access to new markets and ensures global competitiveness for Canadian resources. STRATEGY AND Suncor has an interest in all the major pipelines that are currently GOVERNANCE proposed and/or approved (Keystone XL, Line 3 and Trans Mountain), but, it’s important to note,no single pipeline will affect our ability to execute our growth plans. And, because pipeline projects take several years to OUR BUSINESS approve, develop and make operational, it also makes sense for us to tap into existing rail and marine networks to transport our products to market. CLIMATE CHANGE Market access highlights: ENVIRONMENT • In late 2016, the Government of Canada provided approvals for the Trans Mountain Expansion and Line 3 replacement, while denying the Northern Gateway project application. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • In March 2017, President Trump issued a presidential permit for the Keystone XL project. INNOVATION • In October 2017, TransCanada announces cancellation of its Energy East pipeline project. PERFORMANCE DATA • In January 2018, in response to continued delays in receiving municipal permits, the National Energy Board (NEB) ruled that APPENDICES Kinder Morgan could bypass such permits to start construction work on its Trans Mountain Expansion, at the Burnaby and Westridge Marine terminals. In March, Canada’s Federal Court of Appeal upheld this ruling after it was challenged by the British Columbia government. • In May 2018, the Government of Canada announced plans to purchase the Trans Mountain pipeline and related infrastructure from Kinder Morgan. • Suncor will continue to work with governments, regulators, industry associations and stakeholders in support of market access objectives. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 PERSONAL AND PROCESS SAFETY | 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS PERSONAL AND PROCESS SAFETY In October 2017, during excavation activities 2017 SAFETY PERFORMANCE • safety meetings to exchange information, in our Millennium Mine, we had a contractor concerns and increase safety awareness CEO’S MESSAGE Suncor’s 2017 combined employee and fatality. This tragic loss of a colleague reminds contractor Recordable Injury Frequency • toolbox talks at worksites focused on us that we can never stop thinking about performance was 0.40, close to the annual specific hazards ABOUT OUR REPORT safety. Suncor must remain focused on incident target of 0.39. Our Lost Time Injury Frequency prevention and learning, particularly in those from 2017 was 0.03. • regular safety stand-down sessions to areas of work where there is the potential for reflect on performance and reinforce our STRATEGY AND the greatest harm. commitment to safety GOVERNANCE Safety initiatives We’re working to continuously learn, share and • a dedicated management system improve personal safety efforts by embedding We promote workforce safety dialogues and outlining requirements for reporting, OUR BUSINESS safety leadership into our culture, fully participation through various activities and investigation and management of engaging all employees in safety and providing processes, including: incidents, hazards and near misses a safe work environment for all employees and • procedures to secure site access and CLIMATE CHANGE contractors. Another key initiative is Suncor’s Serious Injury ensure we know who’s working on our and Fatality (SIF) prevention strategy. SIF sites RECORDABLE INJURY FREQUENCY* incidents are tracked and reported, helping ENVIRONMENT injuries per 200,000 hours worked 1.00 identify our top hazardous situations, in which management controls are either ineffective or 0.75 not complied with, and which could reasonably SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 0.50 result in a serious injury or fatality if allowed to continue. Recognizing the situations, learning 0.25 from these incidents and taking corrective INNOVATION actions are key to preventing SIF incidents. 0.00 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 PERFORMANCE DATA Suncor employees Suncor contractors 0.32 0.72 0.37 0.50 0.27 0.56 0.24 0.38 0.30 0.45 Incident management and LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY* corrective actions (IM/CA) – APPENDICES injuries per 200,000 hours worked next steps 0.09 We continue to encourage everyone to report all incidents and hazards, and enter 0.06 accurate and quality information into our enterprise-wide incident and corrective-action 0.03 management tool. In addition to monitoring the tool to identify and close data gaps, we will 0.00 also focus on building competence in key IM/ 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Suncor employees CA processes. This includes how we conduct 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.04 0.03 Suncor contractors 0.06 0.04 0.04 0.05 0.04 * For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#12 notes on health and safety) in Appendix A SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 PERSONAL AND PROCESS SAFETY | 38 investigations, perform root-cause analyses TABLE OF CONTENTS and create strong corrective actions. Closing these gaps will enable us to track trends from a growing pool of data to better understand and CEO’S MESSAGE address our operational risks. Process safety ABOUT OUR REPORT Suncor is focused on reducing loss of primary containment incidents by assessing STRATEGY AND incidents and prioritizing gap closure and GOVERNANCE continuous improvement opportunities. Effective management has ensured alignment across Suncor to identify opportunities and OUR BUSINESS accelerate performance improvement. Recent improvements include a focus on the quality of process hazard analyses, and competency CLIMATE CHANGE in consistent identification, and assessment of consequences and likelihood of process safety risks. management. Through this team, Suncor We look at lessons from incident investigations ENVIRONMENT incorporates industry best practices into existing to improve process safety and reliability Reliability functional safety management programs, to performance. This ensures learnings are SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Through a robust governance structure, ensure consistency and effectiveness. embedded in our work practices and mitigating senior leadership sets enterprise priorities actions are implemented to prevent the and manages initiatives to ensure a focused Operational controls reoccurrence of similar incidents. Audits and INNOVATION effort on maintaining and improving management reviews are used to ensure Operating Procedures, Safe Work Practices reliability. Stewardship of key indicators and Suncor’s practices are effective and continuously and Operating Envelopes enable our frontbenchmarking is an important component to improve. line employees to manage operational risks. PERFORMANCE DATA ensure progress and sustainment of reliability Suncor continues to raise the bar through elements such as asset criticality assignments, the implementation of new standards across strategies, root-cause analysis, work execution, the company. Increasing the effectiveness of APPENDICES bad-actor elimination and Safety Instrumented operational controls helps us manage personal Systems (SIS) integrity. and process safety risks and supports reliability improvement initiatives. SIS improvement These systems are key controls to mitigate Suncor applies the OEMS to process safety and reliability risks. A team of manage process safety and Suncor Process Automation Systems experts continuously work towards improving SIS reliability. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT | 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT Suncor’s commitment to integrity and ethics is the foundation for our • accounting, reporting and business control Standards of Business Conduct Code and the company policy guidance and CEO’S MESSAGE • protection and proper use of corporate assets and opportunities standards that reinforce it. The code requires strict compliance with legal requirements and sets standards for the ethical conduct of our business, In 2017, we enhanced our code affirmation process and related resources ABOUT OUR REPORT allowing us to maintain the confidence of our customers, colleagues, for employees, independent contractors and suppliers. For example, we: shareholders, vendors and the governments and communities where we do business globally. • Moved our annual business conduct code affirmation and training STRATEGY AND for employees and independent contractors to our Learning GOVERNANCE Standards of Business Conduct Code Management System, an online hub where courses are centrally managed. Employees now see it listed alongside all of their assigned Our business conduct policy statement articulates our commitment to learning for the year. OUR BUSINESS sound legal and ethical business practices. We meet this commitment through our Standards of Business Conduct Code, which is comprised of • Re-designed our The Way We Do Business guide, a summary of a number of detailed policy guidance and standards (PG&S) and a code our code of conduct policies that employees and independent CLIMATE CHANGE compliance program. contractors review as part of the annual affirmation they’ve complied with our code. The guide is an interactive document Under the code, every Suncor director, officer, employee and independent that can be accessed year-round to support understanding of our ENVIRONMENT contractor is required annually to take an online training course and expectations on ethical conduct. review the code and certify that he or she: • Introduced a supplier code of conduct for suppliers engaged SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • has reviewed a summary of the code through Suncor’s supply chain. It highlights the values that are important to Suncor and is a guide to the standard of behaviour • understands the requirements of the code required of suppliers, contractors and consultants who do INNOVATION • has complied with the code; alternatively, has disclosed and resolved business with us. The supplier code addresses topics such as safety, any non-compliance with the code harassment, bribery and corruption, human rights and confidential information, among others. PERFORMANCE DATA Topics addressed in the code, and detailed further in various PG&S, include: • Continued to build our Acting with Integrity intranet website, a central employee resource for ethical conduct information. In APPENDICES • competition addition to brief presentations and case studies, the internal site hosts videos demonstrating unethical behaviour. The site is intended • conflict of interest and confidentiality to bring our code of conduct policies to life, and to keep them top • trading in shares and securities of mind for employees throughout the year. • improper payments “Through our training and resources, we help all • fair dealing in trade relations representatives of Suncor to understand our policies • harassment and their responsibility to conduct business in a safe, fair and ethical manner.” SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT | 40 “We know that employees may be faced with situations where they The integrity hotline is available 24/7. Any issues of a serious nature TABLE OF CONTENTS are unsure and want to do the right thing,” says Craig Tomalty, director are investigated by Corporate Security or Human Resources. The audit of compliance and ethics in Legal Affairs. “Through our training and committee receives regular updates on integrity hotline activities. As resources, we help all representatives of Suncor to understand our policies per the code, the vice president responsible for Internal Audit is charged CEO’S MESSAGE and their responsibility to conduct business in a safe, fair and ethical with maintaining the integrity hotline and ensuring that all alleged code manner.” violations are thoroughly investigated. ABOUT OUR REPORT Stewarding to business conduct code Prevention of improper payments • our Board of Directors exercises stewardship over the code Corruption constrains sustainable economic activity. It hinders the STRATEGY AND development of fair market structures and distorts competition. More GOVERNANCE • internal auditors audit the code affirmation process annually importantly, corrupt business practices undermine citizens’ trust in political and business systems, institutions and leadership. We strive to • the vice president of enterprise risk and audit, who has a direct act transparently and in the best interests of the communities where we OUR BUSINESS reporting relationship with the audit committee, reports on operate. compliance to that committee Our position on bribery and corruption is clear and detailed in our PG&S CLIMATE CHANGE The code is reviewed at least once annually, and if appropriate, updated. on the prevention of improper payments, which includes: Management reports to the governance committee annually on this review process. • funds and facilities aren’t to be used for any illegal or improper ENVIRONMENT purposes Any waivers of code requirements for executive officers or members of the Board must be approved by the Board or appropriate Board committee • bribery, kickbacks or any payment to a person to commit an SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and disclosed. No such waivers were granted in 2017. unlawful act, or to influence a person performing public duties, are prohibited, as is the diversion of assets for personal benefit Raising ethical concerns INNOVATION • personnel are required to comply with all applicable laws We encourage employees to raise concerns about suspected violations concerning improper payments to foreign officials or other third of our business conduct code without fear of reprisal from these teams/ parties PERFORMANCE DATA departments: Supervisors and managers are expected to promote a working • management environment consistent with this PG&S and assist all personnel within their APPENDICES supervision to understand and comply with it. • legal – compliance Suncor also provides additional specialized training for employees for • corporate security matters governed by the code where it is determined such training would • human resources be beneficial. For example, certain employees directly involved with Suncor’s international and offshore operations are required to periodically • internal audit attend focused workshops, which address, among other items, compliance with sanctions and anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation and In addition, we have established an integrity hotline for our employees best practices for operating in international jurisdictions where Suncor and contractors to report issues of concern anonymously to a third-party operates. service provider. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT | 41 Our Board of Directors reviews compliance with this PG&S as part of its Conflict of interest TABLE OF CONTENTS annual review of the Standards of Business Conduct Compliance Program. Our governance committee annually reviews a declaration of interest Our chief compliance officer oversees this PG&S and provides periodic from each Board member to determine if any conflicts of interest exist. In reports to the general counsel and the governance committee of our addition, directors are required to maintain with the corporate secretary CEO’S MESSAGE Board of Directors. a current list of all other entities in which they have a material interest or on which they serve as a director, trustee, or in a similar capacity. ABOUT OUR REPORT Privacy We collect, use and store personal information about employees, contractors, customers, suppliers, associates and others in the course STRATEGY AND of business activities. The collection, use and disclosure of personal GOVERNANCE information is subject to provincial or state, and federal and international laws. We respect privacy rights of all individuals and have policies, procedures and practices to protect those rights. OUR BUSINESS Competitive practices CLIMATE CHANGE We compete for business vigorously, honestly and in material compliance with all applicable antitrust and competition laws. These laws encourage fair competition in the marketplace for products and services. ENVIRONMENT Those negotiating or administering agreements, involved in advertising and promotion, or participating in industry associations or similar SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY groups, are required to be familiar with local laws regarding competition and trade practices. We identify, select and do business with suppliers who enhance our competitiveness and who have a consistent vision of INNOVATION sustainability and business ethics. Open, honest and transparent relationships support sound corporate PERFORMANCE DATA governance and high ethical standards. Within the bounds of commercial confidentiality, we commit to transparent relationships with employees, shareholders and stakeholders alike. We encourage transparent APPENDICES transactions and operating agreements with provisions, that respect the local laws of wherever we operate around the world. Many of our investments and projects are long term in nature, and we expect to be a corporate citizen for many years in communities where we’re located. We have a clear interest in social and economic development in regions and countries where we work. As such, we support public accountability by governments and transparency of revenues as a means to promote political and economic stability in regions where we operate. And we acknowledge work that the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative does in this regard. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION | 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION We are committed to a culture of inclusion at Suncor, diverse leadership, workforce and culture it needs to achieve its triple bottom line objectives CEO’S MESSAGE and we know this means we must change the way we think and act across the organization. • Suncor’s D&I Council, which was formed in 2017 with crossfunctional leaders who represent Suncor business and functional ABOUT OUR REPORT We believe diversity of thought, experience, skills and background areas across our workforce leads to better outcomes and is proven to improve innovation and performance. We also believe: • our Standards of Business Conduct Code STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE • a culture of inclusion allows us to attract and retain a broader range • Suncor’s social goal of talent • a harassment and violence-free working environment policy OUR BUSINESS • intentionally bringing people together who think differently adds value to the conversation and helps make better, more innovative How D&I is enabled decisions CLIMATE CHANGE Suncor’s D&I strategy and its five focus areas: • in creating an environment where all employees are treated 1. Leadership and ownership respectfully and feel valued ENVIRONMENT 2. People processes We proactively review our representation, retention, development and demographic data to understand our progress, guide our focus areas, help 3. Awareness and skill development SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY tell the story and ensure our workplace reflects the demographics of the 4. Employee networks communities in which we work. Suncor’s success in diversity and inclusion (D&I) is not solely about metrics, it’s about the power of inclusion and the 5. Community and industry INNOVATION impact this has on our business outcomes. Leadership and ownership “This is about more than equal opportunity • Our D&I Council members are senior leaders from across Suncor. PERFORMANCE DATA or demographics. We are moving forward on • Leadership development programs are built on developing core integrating diversity and inclusion into our people competencies and focused sessions on leveraging differences. APPENDICES processes and reducing the unconscious bias of Inclusion is a core competency for all people leaders at Suncor. employees and leaders across our company,” People processes – Pat White, vice president Talent, D&I Council chair. • With unconscious bias training, we reduce systemic bias by leaders and our Talent Acquisition recruitment team through our people Managing and enabling D&I processes (hiring, coaching, promotion, etc.). • Hiring Leader Training: In 2017, we held six sessions to strengthen How D&I is managed leaders’ abilities to hire and select employees with skills, abilities • Suncor’s Board diversity policy and backgrounds that will support our success. This included helping leaders be aware of how unconscious bias can affect a leader’s • our CEO’s goal to ensure Suncor has the competent, engaged and review of applicants and hiring decisions. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION | 43 Awareness and skill development • Catalyst – corporate member TABLE OF CONTENTS • Aboriginal Awareness web-based training (WBT) and classroom• Indigenous Works – corporate member based learning sessions: These programs are intended to increase knowledge and understanding of cultural differences and to build CEO’S MESSAGE a culture that’s aligned with Suncor’s Aboriginal Relations Policy. At Progress and strategy the request of our employees and several organizations, Suncor’s Our progress and strategy will be determined by the D&I Council to Aboriginal Awareness WBT is publicly available in English and support the CEO goal and appropriate measurements. We will also ABOUT OUR REPORT French. The training has been helpful in raising awareness about encourage and oversee D&I progress of senior leadership teams across the the history and experiences of Aboriginal Peoples in Canada and business who steward their own plans within their area. STRATEGY AND changing perceptions. In 2017, significant progress has been made to advance an inclusive GOVERNANCE • Aboriginal Culture Learning Experiences: There are a variety of culture at Suncor, including: experiences to choose from, each intended to support further understanding and awareness of Aboriginal Peoples and their • The D&I Council stand-up was a significant milestone, as we OUR BUSINESS unique history, rights and cultures. We partner with Elders and understand that this culture must be enabled by leaders across the communities to make content that is relevant and meaningful for business who understand the outcomes we are trying to drive and CLIMATE CHANGE participants. who will enable the steps we take towards making progress. Employee networks provide learning and connection • D&I enterprise and senior leadership team goals: ENVIRONMENT opportunities in the following areas: ›› Long-term goal – ensure Suncor has the competent, engaged • Aboriginal and diverse leadership, workforce and culture it needs to achieve its triple-bottom-line objectives SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • inclusion ›› 2018 goal – ensure diversity is improved, valued and optimized • women INNOVATION ›› 2018 metric – 2025 D&I metrics and plans • multi-disciplinary teams • We continue to see active participation across the D&I employee • community and industry PERFORMANCE DATA networks: Summer Aboriginal Student Program ›› Aboriginal Employee Network had a 40% increase from 2016 • As part of our Early Talent hiring program, Suncor provides membership APPENDICES Aboriginal post-secondary students an opportunity to gain valuable work experience in the oil and gas sector through summer terms. In ›› The Downstream Workplace Inclusion Network launched in 2017 2017, our program grew significantly to 17 students up from eight and now has more than 400 members students in 2016. Learning opportunities We are also members of the following external Participation in our formal learning opportunities for employees and organizations: leaders is one of the ways we will build understanding and awareness of why D&I matters, how it will drive better business outcomes, and how we • 30% Club of Canada – member, CEO Steve Williams need to change the way we think and act to accomplish our objective of • Canadian Centre on Diversity and Inclusion – corporate member an inclusive culture. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION | 44 • Unconscious Bias Foundations: the vast majority of Suncor’s midPartnerships and collaborations to further level leaders have completed classroom or virtual Unconscious Bias TABLE OF CONTENTS Foundations training, with plans to begin delivering this learning integrate D&I opportunity to frontline leaders in 2018. By the end of 2017, 98% WBF partnership for female heavy equipment operators of all leaders above director level have completed Unconscious Bias CEO’S MESSAGE and technicians Foundations, with training rolling out to frontline leaders in 2018. • Aboriginal Awareness WBT: close to 5,000 employees and ABOUT OUR REPORT contractors have completed the WBT since 2015 • Unconscious Bias classroom-based training: participation has focused STRATEGY AND on leaders above director level completing the program first, and GOVERNANCE has rolled to manager level for participation in 2018. • Introduction to Aboriginal Awareness classroom-based training is OUR BUSINESS open to all Suncor employees and leaders. Participation increased over 25% from 2016 registrations for both Introduction to Aboriginal Awareness and Unconscious Bias across the organization. CLIMATE CHANGE “I always thought I had an understanding of the history of Aboriginal Peoples in Canada. After today, I now know there is so much I do not know.” – feedback from Introduction to Aboriginal ENVIRONMENT Awareness participant Suncor is working hard to attract and recruit mid-career, motivated SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Women Building Futures (WBF) women with the physical and mental confidence to work at Suncor mine • Established in 1998, WBF is Canada’s first trades training facility for operations. Our partnership with WBF helps us find women with these women. WBF trains women in heavy industrial trades and places INNOVATION qualities. them into the Alberta workforce with an employment rate of 90%. In 2013, Suncor approached WBF to create and deliver a program that • A pillar in WBF’s vision is meaningful and impactful engagement would help engage women in the workplace and increase the number of PERFORMANCE DATA with Indigenous women, communities and organizations. They female heavy equipment operator candidates. are focused on addressing the barriers to economic participation, increasing the number of Indigenous women who are trained and The program was designed to provide participants with essential safety APPENDICES employed in construction and maintenance, and supporting capacity certification, productivity awareness and workplace culture training building in Indigenous communities. to prepare them to enter a three-month paid co-op to become heavy equipment operators at the Millennium Mine. During the three-month • Suncor, through the Suncor Energy Foundation, has been engaged co-op, participants receive ongoing training and coaching from WBF with WBF since 2004. To date, our total commitment to WBF has and Suncor to support learning and cultural integration. Upon successful been more than $2.5 million. completion of the program, employment assistance and job retention support are provided to ensure long-term success for the graduate. Early Talent hiring program In 2014, Suncor and WBF launched their first customized program for • In 2017, there was a substantial increase in female Early Talent hires. Millennium Mine. As of February 2018, four classes have graduated, Suncor improved from 21% female candidates from 226 Early Talent and the fifth program will conclude in May 2018. The program was also hires in 2016 to 29% female candidates from 418 Early Talent hires extended to Fort Hills, with one class completed and the second beginning in 2017. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION | 45 in November of 2017. So far, this partnership has resulted in 66 women Aboriginal Workforce Development Advisor TABLE OF CONTENTS hired at Suncor. Of those women who graduated, 15% were Indigenous. Meeting workforce development commitments to advance Aboriginal The average wage increase for graduates was 112%, which significantly participation in energy development requires ongoing connection impacted the lives of the women, their families (including 40 children) and and communication with Aboriginal communities where Suncor has CEO’S MESSAGE their communities. agreements and commitments in place. Through the WBF program in 2017, Suncor hired 30 female heavy Suncor’s Aboriginal workforce development advisor works primarily in ABOUT OUR REPORT equipment operators for our Oil Sands operations and eight for Fort Hills, the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo. The advisor works directly as well as four heavy equipment technicians. with communities and their community employment advisors and/ or committees, to understand community needs and initiatives, share STRATEGY AND “By empowering women to be successful in their information on Suncor’s workforce needs, understand who has similar GOVERNANCE careers, not only do we strengthen communities, but objectives, and collaboratively work with others to strengthen the employment readiness of potential Aboriginal candidates. we increase the size of the talent pool that Suncor OUR BUSINESS draws upon.” The advisor also provides insights and advice to internal stakeholders to drive Aboriginal inclusion in people processes and programs. – Shelley Powell, senior vice president, Oil Sands operations. CLIMATE CHANGE Summer Aboriginal Student Program Innovative approaches As part of our Early Talent hiring program, which includes summer ENVIRONMENT Aboriginal Awareness web-based training on students, co-op students and new graduates, Suncor provides Aboriginal Suncor.com post-secondary students an opportunity to gain valuable work experience and exposure to the oil and gas sector through summer terms. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At the request of our employees and several organizations, Suncor’s Aboriginal Awareness WBT is publicly available in English and French. The Thanks to leaders who opened positions in their area, we successfully training was developed by Suncor in 2015 and designed for our employees placed 17 Aboriginal students in Fort McMurray, Fort Hills and Calgary in INNOVATION by ICOM Productions, and has been helpful in raising awareness about the 2017 – our highest number of Aboriginal student placements to date. history and experiences of Aboriginal Peoples in Canada, and changing perceptions. PERFORMANCE DATA Employees told us they wanted to be able to share the training with family and friends, and community organizations asked us to share it to APPENDICES enrich their own training opportunities. We are offering this training to anyone, free of charge, to learn more about the history and experiences of Aboriginal Peoples. Several groups have found it beneficial to view the training together and have a discussion afterwards. By sharing experiences, we can all continue to learn from, and with, each other. TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT CLIMATE CHANGE STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Our energy future will be shaped by a growing population, the continued need to move people out of poverty, ongoing demand for food production, better education, transportation trends, access to health care OUR BUSINESS and an increasingly digital world. CLIMATE CHANGE Our perspective and engagement........................... 47 GHG performance and mitigating emissions.......... 51 ENVIRONMENT Integrating our GHG performance goal.................. 55 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Low-carbon innovation............................................ 57 Carbon risk and energy outlook.............................. 60 INNOVATION Resilient strategy...................................................... 64 PERFORMANCE DATA Carbon policy and regulation.................................. 69 APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 OUR PERSPECTIVE AND ENGAGEMENT | 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS GLOBE Forum is the largest and longest-running leadership summit for sustainable business in the world. It brings together over 2,000 decision makers from government, business and non-governmental organizations to share insights and discuss solutions to current environmental and social challenges so we can pursue a cleaner, more prosperous world. OUR PERSPECTIVE AND ENGAGEMENT CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT Our perspective on climate change in the Paris Agreement to help address the challenge of climate change. It is intended to motivate countries to demonstrate climate leadership The World Business Council for Sustainable Development has framed the through their national commitments and we will continue to support that SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2050 challenge as “nine billion people not just living on the planet, but leadership in the countries where we operate. To achieve this objective, living well and within the limits of the planet.” The goal of the energy there must be significant advances in technology, a shift in consumer system, in this context, is to deliver to 9 billion people safe, affordable choice and the development of new energy systems, all of which take INNOVATION energy that minimizes carbon emissions. time. Energy is the backbone of the economy and delivers As the energy system transitions away from carbon intensive sources PERFORMANCE DATA of energy, hydrocarbon fuels will continue to be needed to help meet much of our well-being and high quality of life, global energy demand, particularly in developing economies. All types of in addition to heating our homes and powering energy will be needed and no single solution or pathway will meet the APPENDICES manufacturing. challenge. The pathways to a diversified and robust energy system require embracing, and getting the best out of, both traditional and new sources The ability to move goods across the continent to markets and for people of energy. to be able to work and travel relies on robust, affordable transportation systems. Given what energy delivers each day, it is critical to maintain the integrity of the physical system and, understanding that energy is also part Leadership in climate policy of a bigger financial and social system, maintain user utility and investor Suncor operates in multiple jurisdictions across Canada and around the confidence. world which requires we work with all governments and political parties, environmental advocacy groups and Aboriginal communities to support There is general consensus that limiting the impact of climate change the development of policies that ensure cost and carbon competitiveness. requires the global average increase in temperature remain below 2oC, We seek to contribute to the development of smart government policy in relative to pre-industrial levels. Suncor supports the approach outlined support of moving towards a low-carbon economy. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 OUR PERSPECTIVE AND ENGAGEMENT | 48 Suncor believes a broad-based price on carbon, equitably applied to on the energy system and the linkages between the environment and the both energy producers and consumers, is a key mechanism to lower economy. We’re also working with our Foundation partners to promote TABLE OF CONTENTS emissions. As Canada’s leading integrated energy company with a an understanding of the changing energy realities of the 21st century and significant downstream business through our Petro-Canada brand, we also raise awareness among Canadians of the role their choices and lifestyles participate in discussions to inform the development of policy related to play in emissions reduction. CEO’S MESSAGE the low-carbon clean fuels standard in Canada. We demonstrate our commitment to support effective, practical and costStakeholder engagement ABOUT OUR REPORT efficient policy design through the following actions: Suncor has long held that developing responsible solutions requires engaging with shareholders, environmental organizations, local • Contributing to the development of low-carbon policies such as: communities, Aboriginal communities, governments, and industry STRATEGY AND partners. GOVERNANCE ›› Pan-Canadian Framework on Clean Growth and Climate Change For years, we have created spaces for collective dialogue where multiple ›› Cap-and-trade programs in Ontario and Quebec (With the perspectives, experiences and the best minds may inform Suncor’s announcement of the termination of the cap and trade program OUR BUSINESS approach to sustainable energy development. We do it because we in Ontario, Suncor will work with the provincial government recognize the value of relationships and diverse perspectives and think it’s to explore solutions that achieve the required outcomes while important to listen and understand other points of view. CLIMATE CHANGE minimizing impacts to people and business.) We find value in thinking about things differently, and this often leads ›› Clean Fuel Standard in Canada to new ideas, joint problem solving or new ways of working with our ENVIRONMENT ›› Alberta’s Climate Leadership Plan stakeholders. • Supporting Canada’s Ecofiscal Commission in broadening the SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY And while we might not always agree on everything, discussion of carbon pricing into the realm of practical policy application. The Commission brings together economists to inform we do have a common goal – produce energy to INNOVATION the critical discussion about the ecofiscal reform that Canada’s improve quality of life and do so in a sustainable future requires. way. • Suncor is a member of the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition PERFORMANCE DATA Over the past year, we have engaged with stakeholders directly, through (CPLC), a voluntary initiative that aspires to catalyze action towards consultations, meetings, workshops, and conferences. We will continue the successful implementation of global carbon pricing. We these activities as we develop improved climate disclosure and risk contributed to the Canadian industry report in 2017. APPENDICES management approaches. Expected activities include a Ceres-facilitated We believe that good policy will instill confidence in the industry, workshop with a set of key stakeholders to solicit feedback on climate enable continued prosperity and provide the certainty to help producers action and other sustainability topics, engagement with investors on responsibly develop resources while also contributing to solutions to climate-related financial disclosure, and engagement with the Climate address global concerns about climate change. Action 100+ initiative. The latter is an initiative led by investors to engage with the world’s Advancing the energy dialogue largest GHG emitters to improve governance, climate-related financial Transitioning an energy system is as much a social and cultural shift disclosure, and GHG performance. in how people think about and use energy as it is a technological and We look forward to these opportunities to build mutual understanding on infrastructure shift. Through the Suncor Energy Foundation, Suncor the best approach for Suncor to meet its business objectives and address supports organizations to engage Canadians in meaningful discussions stakeholder expectations. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 OUR PERSPECTIVE AND ENGAGEMENT | 49 Task Force on Climate-related Financial In our industry, not all crude oils are equal in their level of carbon risk, TABLE OF CONTENTS and production intensities will not remain static over the coming years. Disclosures (TCFD) Technology and innovation will lower carbon intensity and carbon Since mid-2017, the TCFD has shifted the discussion on the level of competitiveness will be as important as cost competitiveness in the future. CEO’S MESSAGE understanding and drive for carbon disclosure. Suncor values disclosure We have provided a table below showing the sections of this report as a foundational activity for investor engagement and believes that that are aligned, fully or in part, with the TCFD recommendations. Over the full context is required to provide a complete picture of operational ABOUT OUR REPORT the coming year, Suncor will continue to build our internal capacity to performance, strategic planning and risk management. understand potential gaps and identify the best approach to effectively Reporting standardization and implementing the TCFD recommendations improve our disclosure of climate-related financial information. We are on STRATEGY AND will be challenging. There are many factors to consider and we believe this journey with the TCFD and other corporate disclosers. Areas of focus GOVERNANCE transparent and decision-useful information will support long-term for us include: decision-making. • Enhancing the analysis and disclosure of the financial impact of risks OUR BUSINESS We support the desire for consistency and transparency embodied in the and opportunities TCFD recommendations and see them as a way to build on our two decades • Effectively disclosing our processes for climate risk identification and of sustainability reporting and environment, social and governance (ESG) CLIMATE CHANGE investor engagement. The recommendations provide a useful framework to management describe how businesses are managing climate risk and ensuring corporate • Building on our experience with scenario planning to consider strategies remain resilient in a low-carbon future. ENVIRONMENT business resilience against a credible 2°C scenario There are still many details to work out, particularly around the appropriate disclosure vehicles to ensure we can provide a transparent and fulsome SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY discussion on our climate strategy over the long term while recognizing the challenges of providing forward-looking information within regulatory financial disclosure requirements. INNOVATION We look forward to working with the task force on this journey to shape and evolve climate risk disclosure so it meets the needs of both companies PERFORMANCE DATA and investors and leads to better understanding of what’s required to transition to a low carbon future. APPENDICES Governance Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities. TCFD recommendation Report section Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. • Integration of carbon risk into decision-making process • The energy system of tomorrow Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and • Integration of carbon risk into decision-making process opportunities. • Business strategy for a changing energy future SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 OUR PERSPECTIVE AND ENGAGEMENT | 50 Strategy Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such TABLE OF CONTENTS information is material. TCFD recommendation Report section CEO’S MESSAGE Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the • Business strategy for a changing energy future short, medium, and long term. • Carbon policy and impacts on Suncor • Facility resilience to extreme weather events ABOUT OUR REPORT Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s • Business strategy for a changing energy future STRATEGY AND businesses, strategy, and financial planning. • Carbon policy and impacts on Suncor GOVERNANCE Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related Describe the • The energy system of tomorrow resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related • Scenario summaries OUR BUSINESS scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario. • Business strategy for a changing energy future • Carbon policy and impacts on Suncor • Facility resilience to extreme weather events CLIMATE CHANGE Risk management Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks. ENVIRONMENT TCFD recommendation Report section Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. • Leadership in climate policy SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • Stakeholder engagement • Integration of carbon risk into our decision-making processes INNOVATION Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. • GHG performance and mitigating emissions • Low-carbon innovation PERFORMANCE DATA Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are • Integration of carbon risk into our decision-making processes integrated into the organization’s overall risk management. APPENDICES Metrics and targets Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material. TCFD recommendation Report section Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities • GHG performance and mitigating emissions in line with its strategy and risk management process. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions, and the related risks. • GHG performance and mitigating emissions Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and • Integrating our GHG performance goal opportunities and performance against targets. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 GHG PERFORMANCE AND MITIGATING EMISSIONS | 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS GHG PERFORMANCE AND MITIGATING EMISSIONS Energy use is one of Suncor’s largest production inputs and, therefore, there is a natural business incentive to reduce overall energy use and emissions. Suncor’s focus on operational excellence and reliability, as well as the introduction of new technology, has reduced the greenhouse gas (GHG) intensity CEO’S MESSAGE of our Oil Sands Base plant by approximately 60% since 1990. 2017 GHG performance* ABOUT OUR REPORT Absolute full-year GHG emissions in 2017 totalled 19.9 million tonnes which is in line with the three-year average from 2014 to 2016. In 2017, upstream oil sands facilities recovered from the 2016 Fort McMurray wildfire and production volumes returned to 2015 levels. Oil sands performance contributed STRATEGY AND to a year-over-year improvement in our 2017 corporate GHG emission intensity of 0.410 tonnes of CO2e per m3 of oil equivalent production. This is GOVERNANCE approximately 2% lower than 2016 and 5% lower than the 2014-2016 average. SUNCOR-WIDE ABSOLUTE GHG EMISSIONS† actual (1990 2017) and estimates (2018 2022) OUR BUSINESS thousand tonnes CO2 equivalents (CO2e) 1990 2000 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 CLIMATE CHANGE 30000 20000 ENVIRONMENT 10000 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 0 Actual and estimated CO2e emissions 4,832 7,783 20,257 20,535 20,468 20,480 18,739 19,874 22,600 23,292 23,600 23,191 23,729 INNOVATION Oil Sands Base 3,631 5,564 9,204 8,417 8,542 8,685 7,138 8,454 9,079 9,433 9,608 9,193 9,452 Oil Sands Fort Hills N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 1,833 2,187 2,211 2,087 2,354 Oil Sands In Situ 4,079 5,390 5,610 5,620 5,443 5,420 6,060 5,914 6,267 6,119 6,132 PERFORMANCE DATA Firebag 3,471 4,703 4,903 4,991 4,810 4,710 5,212 5,053 5,434 5,255 5,267 MacKay River 608 687 707 628 633 710 849 862 833 864 864 Exploration & Production 233 531 1,387 1,152 685 569 581 650 616 622 319 607 599 APPENDICES Canada NAO 233 531 995 630 42 20 21 20 0 0 0 0 0 Canada Terra Nova 0 0 391 522 642 548 560 630 594 601 301 596 598 Refining and Supply 968 1,687 5,420 5,406 5,467 5,438 5,411 5,186 4,869 4,992 5,048 5,030 5,029 Commerce City 1,145 1,205 1,183 1,101 1,126 1,164 1,067 1,065 1,076 1,074 1,073 Edmonton 1,742 1,677 1,694 1,734 1,779 1,794 1,550 1,716 1,702 1,688 1,687 Lubes 417 399 426 386 420 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Montreal 1,137 1,172 1,160 1,204 1,143 1,219 1,240 1,182 1,234 1,234 1,234 Sarnia 919 889 918 918 862 932 934 951 958 957 956 Other (including Burrard terminal, 60 64 86 95 81 77 77 77 77 77 77 Montreal Sulphur Plant and Pipelines) Renewables (including biofuels) 167 170 165 169 166 164 165 165 166 165 165 * All GHG performance values reflect Suncor-operated facilities only and represent 100% of the direct and indirect emissions at these facilities. Data is not broken down by working interest and does not include nonoperated facilities † For additional information about this chart and its data please refer to the performance data notes 3,4 and 5 in Appendix A. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 GHG PERFORMANCE AND MITIGATING EMISSIONS | 52 SUNCOR-WIDE GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY* actual (1990 2017) and estimates (2018 2022) TABLE OF CONTENTS tonnes CO2e / cubic meters of oil equivalent (m3OE) CEO’S MESSAGE 1990 2000 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 0.60 ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND 0.40 GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS 0.20 CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT 0.00 Actual and estimated CO2e emissions 0.570 0.402 0.413 0.412 0.451 0.425 0.419 0.410 0.402 0.385 0.392 0.389 0.390 intensity SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Oil Sands Base 1.196 0.817 0.561 0.503 0.497 0.456 0.463 0.447 0.481 0.466 0.489 0.485 0.473 Oil Sands Fort Hills 0.229 0.208 0.208 0.208 0.219 INNOVATION Oil Sands In Situ 0.535 0.540 0.484 0.445 0.450 0.438 0.453 0.442 0.450 0.451 0.445 Exploration & Production Canada 0.157 0.154 0.238 0.251 0.278 0.344 0.323 0.286 0.239 0.234 0.277 Refining and Supply 0.225 0.193 0.199 0.200 0.203 0.199 0.201 0.187 0.179 0.178 0.178 0.178 0.178 PERFORMANCE DATA Renewables (including biofuels) 0.662 0.668 0.654 0.662 0.654 0.657 0.659 0.658 0.658 0.658 0.658 APPENDICES * For additional information about this chart and its data please refer to the performance data notes 3,4 and 5 in Appendix A. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 GHG PERFORMANCE AND MITIGATING EMISSIONS | 53 Suncor energy use and energy intensity TABLE OF CONTENTS GHG emissions are closely linked to energy use, with approximately 90% of direct GHG emissions and nearly all indirect emissions being related to the consumption of energy for operations. CEO’S MESSAGE Suncor is committed to energy management and continuously improving GHG emissions reductions as part of everyday operational excellence. Our energy use and energy intensity graphs show year-over-year trends similar to the GHG emissions graphs. ABOUT OUR REPORT ENERGY USE* millions of gigajoules 400 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE 300 200 OUR BUSINESS 100 CLIMATE CHANGE 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Oil Sands Base 112.72 117.30 119.47 99.21 117.56 ENVIRONMENT Oil Sands In Situ 85.93 89.46 93.27 90.23 92.50 E&P Canada NAO 7.59 0.50 0.30 0.32 0.25 E&P Canada Terra Nova 6.46 8.49 6.87 7.09 8.03 Refining and Supply 84.37 86.19 88.08 85.83 80.42 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Renewables (including biofuels) 2.27 2.30 2.42 3.15 3.49 Suncor total energy use 299.33 304.25 310.40 285.84 302.25 ENERGY INTENSITY* INNOVATION GJ / m3 of production 10 PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES 5 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Oil Sands Base 6.73 6.83 6.30 6.30 6.21 Oil Sands In Situ 8.60 7.73 7.39 7.45 7.48 E&P Canada NAO 1.44 2.35 1.63 1.88 2.11 E&P Canada Terra Nova 2.95 3.19 3.29 3.69 4.53 Refining and Supply 3.11 3.20 3.22 3.18 2.89 Renewables (including biofuels) 8.93 9.11 9.45 12.41 13.99 Suncor total energy intensity 6.01 6.70 6.43 6.39 6.22 * For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to the performance data notes (#6 notes on energy consumption) in Appendix A. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 GHG PERFORMANCE AND MITIGATING EMISSIONS | 54 Performance highlights Exploration and production TABLE OF CONTENTS On the East Coast of Canada, Terra Nova emissions increased from 0.56 Oil sands mining million tonnes CO2e in 2016 to 0.63 million tonnes CO2e in 2017. The Absolute emissions from our mining, extraction and upgrading operations intensity increased over the 2014-2016 average from 0.256 to 0.344 tonnes CEO’S MESSAGE returned to typical levels seen prior to the 2016 Fort McMurray wildfire. of CO2e per m3 of oil equivalent. These increases were due to reduced Despite increased total emissions, the emissions intensity in 2017 improved production and extended maintenance on the facility’s vapour recovery by approximately 5.5% from the 2014-2016 average intensity. This reflects unit. Terra Nova is the only East Coast Canada asset Suncor operates. ABOUT OUR REPORT reliable operations and continued energy and GHG emissions reduction Other international and offshore production interests are joint ventures efforts. and not within our direct operational control. STRATEGY AND Projects to optimize fuel gas distribution, heat integration, and heat GOVERNANCE Refining and marketing exchanger maintenance were implemented in 2017. Collectively, these improved reliability, increased production and reduced emissions intensity. In early 2017, Suncor closed the sale of its lubricants business, which reduced total GHG emissions at our downstream facilities to 5.186 million OUR BUSINESS Fort Hills mining tonnes CO2e. Accounting for the sale, emissions were incrementally higher at our other facilities due to higher plant utilization rates which resulted The Fort Hills mining project achieved first oil in early 2018 and is expected CLIMATE CHANGE in an emissions intensity improvement of 0.187 tonnes of CO2e per m3 of to reach 90% of nameplate capacity of 194,000 bbls/d of bitumen in oil equivalent. This represents an approximate 7% improvement from the Q4 2018. The less carbon intensive Paraffinic Froth Treatment process 2014-2016 average intensity. (PFT) used at Fort Hills removes heavy hydrocarbon molecules in the ENVIRONMENT extraction process. This produces bitumen that doesn’t require upgrading Renewables and biofuels prior to further refining and marketing. As a result, the GHG intensity of production is projected to be roughly half that of the existing Base Suncor closed the sale of our share of the Ripley wind farm in Ontario in SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY plant and on par with the average crude refined in the U.S.* The added mid-2017. Suncor is currently involved in four operational wind power production volumes are expected to add over 2.4 million tonnes of CO2e facilities with a generating capacity of 111 megawatts (MW), enough to INNOVATION to our operated GHG emissions profile once it reaches full nameplate power about 52,000 Canadian homes. Performance data is reported for capacity. operated wind farms only and is not adjusted to reflect ownership share. In 2017, our Adelaide wind farm in Ontario produced more than PERFORMANCE DATA In situ 76,000 MW. The absolute emissions at our steam assisted gravity drainage (SAGD) We’ve been blending ethanol in our retail fuels since 1992. We opened APPENDICES operations were relatively unchanged year-over-year at 5.4 million tonnes the St. Clair ethanol plant in Mooretown, Ontario in 2006. In 2011, we CO2e. Emissions intensity in 2017 improved to 0.436 tonnes of CO2e per doubled the plant’s production capacity to 400 million litres of cornm3 of oil equivalent production which is approximately 5% lower than based ethanol annually. It is the single largest ethanol production plant in the 2014-2016 three-year average of 0.46 tonnes of CO2e per m3 of Canada. Absolute emissions were 0.164 million tonnes CO2 and emissions oil equivalent. This improvement is due to improved facility reliability intensity was 0.657 tonnes CO2e per m3 oil equivalent. and sustained low steam-to-oil ratios (SORs), resulting from optimized reservoir management strategies and strong infill well performance. * IHS Energy Special Report: Comparing GHG Intensity of the Oil Sands and the Average US Crude Oil. May 2014 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 INTEGRATING OUR GHG PERFORMANCE GOAL | 55 TABLE OF CONTENTS INTEGRATING OUR GHG PERFORMANCE GOAL In 2016, we announced a greenhouse gas (GHG) goal that we will work • Sustainment of the Energy Management System (EMS) at our to harness technology and innovation to set us on a transformational refineries and oil sands facilities to continue to identify and CEO’S MESSAGE pathway to a low-carbon energy system. We will measure our progress implement cost-effective energy efficiency enhancements and by reducing the total emissions intensity of the production of our oil and potential energy savings in the range of 3% to 5%. ABOUT OUR REPORT petroleum products by 30% by 2030. • Building on our management structure to advance operational excellence by sharing knowledge and best practices across our This ambitious goal, based on a 2014 baseline STRATEGY AND organization, including embedding incentives for long-term GHG GOVERNANCE year, stretches us beyond our current technology emissions reductions within our performance management system. and know-how, and ultimately aims to alter the trajectory of our absolute emissions, with the intent Strategic technology implementation to OUR BUSINESS to make us a producer of low-carbon intensity crude. reduce extraction and upgrading emissions Our goal will require us to go beyond today’s capabilities, so we are CLIMATE CHANGE We know this will not be achieved without integrating carbon risk into aggressively working on new technology development aimed at all aspects of our business; from the extraction and production of oil to improving the cost and carbon competitiveness of our processes and refining and distributing fuels. products. Details about some of the technologies and innovations we are ENVIRONMENT The goal is expected to drive operational, energy and fuel efficiency advancing can be found in the low-carbon innovation section. improvements, accelerate the development and implementation of new SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY technology, apply these improvements to all potential business prospects Greening the electricity grid through as well as encourage the evaluation of potential low-carbon business opportunities. investments in low-carbon power such as INNOVATION cogeneration and renewables Operational metrics critical to meeting the goal are part of the corporate Our GHG goal is also driving us to seek and evaluate new business scorecard, and the initiatives required to meet the goal cascade into opportunities in the evolving future energy system. PERFORMANCE DATA annual performance goals. All of our oil sands facilities use cogeneration, and we are a net exporter We continue to examine data and processes from every part of our of power to Alberta’s electricity grid. Suncor currently has cogeneration APPENDICES business and identify high-opportunity areas. This work is complex and units installed at Oil Sands Base plant, Firebag, MacKay River and Fort requires long-term change to how we run our business to reduce GHG Hills, and exports low-carbon electricity to the Alberta provincial grid. emissions through operational improvements, technology innovation and new investments. We are focusing our GHG intensity reductions in the By producing both industrial steam and electricity through a natural gasfollowing key areas. fueled process, cogeneration is the most carbon-efficient form of base load power generation. The excess power from our cogeneration facility Energy efficiency and continuous combined with our wind energy, have reduced the overall GHG intensity of Alberta’s grid. improvement of our base assets We continue to drive energy efficiency at all our facilities. We are also In 2017, we took the first steps in the regulatory process for a proposed focused on reducing GHG intensity by switching to lower carbon fuels. Our project to replace coke-fired boilers with cogeneration units at Oil Sands ongoing work includes: Base plant. In addition to providing the facility with steam needed for our SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 INTEGRATING OUR GHG PERFORMANCE GOAL | 56 operations, the cogeneration units could export up to approximately 800 TABLE OF CONTENTS megawatts (MW) of electricity to the provincial grid in Alberta. Cogeneration provides an emissionsand cost-reduction opportunity CEO’S MESSAGE for Suncor’s operations and contributes low-carbon power for Alberta. Should the project proceed as planned, construction is targeted to begin in 2019, with commissioning of the cogeneration units expected to ABOUT OUR REPORT commence by 2022. The 800 MW of power from these cogeneration units are anticipated to come online at a time when the phase-out of coal-fired electricity is expected to decrease overall supply. STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Industrial cogeneration’s ability to supply significant volumes of reliable baseload electricity at a lower carbon intensity than combined cycle natural gas technology supports Alberta’s transition towards low-carbon OUR BUSINESS energy sources. Suncor continues to evaluate investment opportunities for renewables in CLIMATE CHANGE the areas where we operate including Canada and the US. Our evaluation of potential investments assesses the economic, environmental and social benefits, enabling us to consider future development of renewable energy ENVIRONMENT projects. Other focused efforts in support of our GHG goal over the last year SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY included: • Hosting a GHG goal workshop with external stakeholders to solicit INNOVATION feedback on Suncor’s goal and methodology • Participating in the Government of Alberta’s research and analysis of a potential partial upgrading bitumen program that would improve PERFORMANCE DATA the GHG profile of oil sands crudes • Amplifying our climate actions through: APPENDICES ›› technology collaboration efforts through Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) ›› focused technology investments in clean technology funds such as Evok Innovations ›› leading and participating in the Clean Resource Innovation Network (CRIN), an industry-led group created to leverage the oil and gas industry’s strengths in large-scale heavy industrial collaboration SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 LOW-CARBON INNOVATION | 57 TABLE OF CONTENTS LOW-CARBON INNOVATION Suncor pioneered oil sands development and our early investment in technology helped unlock the potential of the oil sands. Today, new technology and innovative thinking remain fundamental to how we do business. CEO’S MESSAGE In 2017, we invested approximately $350 million in technology development and deployment as part of a robust strategy to optimize current assets and develop next-generation facilities. In some cases, we led research and development of new technologies. Additional investments were made as part of ABOUT OUR REPORT collaborative efforts with consortiums and third-parties. We believe that next-generation innovation for energy technologies will continue to accelerate. STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE GHG: TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT & DEPLOYMENT OUR BUSINESS DISCOVER DESIGN DEVELOP DEPLOY IN SITU CLIMATE CHANGE DCSG (Direct Contact Steam SAGD LITE (Steam Assisted Generation) Gravity Drainage Less Intensive Technically Enhanced) Well-bore technologies Thermal-solvent technologies ENVIRONMENT Non-condensable gas coEASE & ESEIEH TM injection pilots (Firebag and Novel subsurface technologies High Temperature Nsolv TM MacKay River) Reverse Osmosis Produced Water SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Treatment Alternative gas co-injection Steam-solvent technologies Well-bore enhancements ES-SAGD (Expanding Solvent Multilateral well pilot (Firebag) Steam Assisted Gravity INNOVATION Drainage) Electric Submersible Pump pilots Optimized steam-solvent Flow control devices M-Tool pilot (Firebag) PERFORMANCE DATA MINING Non Aqueous Extraction Paraffinic Froth Treatment (PFT) APPENDICES UPGRADING & REFINING Mild thermal cracker technology LEGEND Technology name / grouping Time to implementation Operational 0-3 years 4-6 years 7-10 years SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 LOW-CARBON INNOVATION | 58 Low-carbon in situ production Currently, we are advancing in situ technologies in TABLE OF CONTENTS these key areas: Our current technology for in situ production, Steam Assisted Gravity Drainage (SAGD), employs vertical parallel pairs of horizontal wells to Thermal-solvent based processes recover the bitumen. The top well distributes steam to heat the reservoir, CEO’S MESSAGE Light solvents like propane or butane can be used in place of steam and in allowing the bitumen to flow to the lower well where it can be pumped conjunction with wellbore heating technologies. to the surface. One of the challenges of SAGD is that the reservoir is ABOUT OUR REPORT typically heated to 200°C or more to get the bitumen to flow, consuming • We have done specific work over the last five years to advance a significant amount of natural gas, and necessitating large amounts of electromagnetic assisted solvent extraction (EASE) technologies to water handling and treatment for steam production. heat and mobilize the bitumen as part of the Enhanced Solvent STRATEGY AND Extraction Incorporating Electromagnetic Heating (ESEIEHTM) GOVERNANCE We are advancing a portfolio of in situ technologies to lower the carbon consortium field pilot at our Dover site. The ESEIEHTM field pilot is a intensity of producing bitumen and improve cost competitiveness. We project supported by a consortium of Suncor, Devon Canada, Nexen believe the solution will be a hybrid of the technologies we’re progressing Energy ULC, Harris Corporation and Emissions Reduction Alberta. OUR BUSINESS with the aim to reduce energy and water use, lower capital and operating costs and improve production rates and resource recovery. Some of these • From 2013-2017, Suncor supported a pilot at our Dover lease to technologies could be applied to existing facilities or new growth facilities field test the solvent extraction technology called NsolvTM and we CLIMATE CHANGE and, if successful, would reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions continue to evaluate the results. intensity. • We continue to build on our experience of solvent-dominated ENVIRONMENT Suncor is progressing a number of technologies into the piloting phase processes, which date back to participation in experiments over 20 that offer the potential for significant reductions in environmental years, to develop an optimized steam-solvent hybrid technology impacts while simultaneously improving the economics of in situ bitumen to be considered for a demonstration. It potentially will be SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY production. predominantly solvent-based with a relatively small fraction of steam co-injection (less than 15%) to deliver heat to the reservoir. Our primary focus is on the use of solvents to reduce extraction INNOVATION temperatures and energy usage, increase productivity and improve Steam-solvent technologies product quality. If successful, these technologies could have a significant The combination of steam and solvent offers potential for achieving impact in the following areas: significant GHG emissions reductions, and Suncor continues to advance PERFORMANCE DATA these technologies through simulation, piloting and demonstration. • energy use and GHG emissions There is a wide variety of solvents, concentrations and other variables to APPENDICES • water use and treatment consider, and the optimal technology will depend on a combination of factors. • land impacts • One of the technologies we’re currently progressing is ES-SAGD. • production rates and resource recovery Expanding Solvent SAGD (ES-SAGD) co-injects up to 15% solvent with steam to reduce the steam requirements of SAGD production. • capital and operating costs The process is anticipated to reduce process water requirements and • product quality and value lower greenhouse gas emissions by 15% or greater. In 2018, we are advancing plans for an In Situ Demonstration Facility. The demonstration facility will be flexible in its design, enabling us to pilot and test multiple technologies at commercial scale. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 LOW-CARBON INNOVATION | 59 Collaborating for innovation TABLE OF CONTENTS Innovation is a process that is best served by inviting the smartest minds and brightest talent to collaborate. CEO’S MESSAGE Venture capital funding supports entrepreneurs to advance their ideas to commercialization and build businesses to market their technology worldwide. An example of this is Evok Innovations, a $100 million technology ABOUT OUR REPORT fund co-founded by the BC Cleantech CEO Alliance, Cenovus Energy Inc. and Suncor. Suncor and Cenovus have committed up to $50 million over the next 10 years to develop technologies to help address some of the most STRATEGY AND pressing environmental and economic challenges of our industry. GOVERNANCE Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) has brought 10 companies together to pool expertise and intellectual property to accelerate OUR BUSINESS technologies to improve the industry’s environmental performance. COSIA’s environmental focus areas attract the brightest minds from around the CLIMATE CHANGE world. The NRG COSIA Carbon XPRIZE is one example in which 10 teams, including four teams from Canada, have advanced to the next stage of the competition to prove their technologies can be economically scaled up to ENVIRONMENT transform CO2 into valuable, useful products. We are advancing the work of the recently formed Clean Resource SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Innovation Network, or CRIN, an industry-led network to leverage the oil and gas industry’s strengths in large-scale heavy industrial collaboration. CRIN’s vision is to position Canada as the global leader in producing clean INNOVATION hydrocarbon energy from source to end use. PERFORMANCE DATA Low-carbon extraction While our Oil Sands Base plant uses a first generation extraction process called Naphthenic Froth Treatment, our new Fort Hills mine uses a process APPENDICES called Paraffinic Froth Treatment (PFT). The bitumen product we obtain using this partial upgrading process has been upgraded to a better quality as it removes up to 10% of the asphaltenes – which is essentially composed of low-value heavy hydrocarbon molecules and undesirable particulates. Rejecting the portions of heavy hydrocarbon closer to source reduces both the diluent required for transportation and the energy and hydrogen needed to refine the bitumen into fuels. This higher quality oil sands product can be processed at a wider range of refineries. As a result of this technology, our GHG emissions for the average barrel extracted at Fort Hills are on par with the average crude refined in the U.S. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 CARBON RISK AND ENERGY OUTLOOK | 60 TABLE OF CONTENTS CARBON RISK AND ENERGY OUTLOOK Integration of carbon risk into our decisionEach business is required to demonstrate that it is expected to be able to continue to meet an acceptable rate of return, including funding its CEO’S MESSAGE making processes sustaining capital and enabling Suncor to maintain and grow its dividend. Breakthrough technology and shifting societal attitudes have led to If the business cannot meet these objectives, it is required to outline the ABOUT OUR REPORT governments in Canada and around the world adopting ambitious steps needed to achieve this target. emissions reductions targets and supporting legislation. This transition Our internal management model for project and asset development risk includes measures relating to carbon pricing, clean energy and fuels STRATEGY AND incorporates a review of climate change implications at the first two standards, and alternative energy incentives and mandates which could GOVERNANCE gate reviews, prior to a commitment of significant resources, and ensures impact profitability and/or Suncor’s reputation. that all climate change risks and opportunities are well understood. The Since 2016, carbon risk has been considered one of Suncor’s principal process allows for analysis of technical options, but also the regulatory OUR BUSINESS risks. A principal risk is generally considered to be an exposure that has and external stakeholder context to be recognized in decision-making. the potential to materially impact Suncor’s ability to meet or support its strategic objectives. CLIMATE CHANGE The energy system of tomorrow As a principal risk, carbon receives full Board and executive management We are starting to see credible global efforts to lower emissions through attention and systems are in place to mitigate potential impacts. As such, broader technology and policy pathways necessary to deliver energy to ENVIRONMENT it undergoes an annual Board of Directors review as a principal risk. a growing global population, while at the same time mitigating climate Carbon risk is also brought forward to the Environment, Health, Safety change. and Sustainable Development Committee of the Board for oversight. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Limiting emissions will be achieved at an energy system-wide level in Each year, as part of our normal business planning process, a base the most appropriate way for each region or jurisdiction. There are no case carbon price outlook is developed, taking into account existing single or simple solutions to this challenge. The phase out of coal will be a INNOVATION regulations and the expected trajectory of those regulations as they apply major part of this, as will gains in energy efficiency and the technologies to our assets. that reduce carbon intensity across the energy system, including in oil production and consumption. PERFORMANCE DATA The company business plan, investments and all capital decisions are tested against a range of variables, including our base and alternative In our base case energy outlook, we take the following broad trends into carbon price outlook, to ensure an expectation of a competitive rate of consideration: APPENDICES return over the asset life. In 2018, we also developed an alternative case that takes a much higher view of future carbon prices. This alternative • Forecasted population growth, the increasing need for energy in case serves as a “stress test” and adds confidence to capital decisions. developing economies and the aspiration for a better quality of life. As such, we see the global demand for energy increasing steadily. While the carbon price plays a role, the underlying crude oil price is Much of this increase is expected to come from developing countries the major driver of the investment return. A low crude oil price could in Asia, the Middle East, Latin America and Africa. be the result of a context where oil demand has been eroded through carbon policy or alternative transportation fuels and is believed to be an • We expect a continuation of the trend towards decoupling appropriate proxy for overall carbon risk to a project’s economics. economic growth and carbon emissions as new technologies and renewable energy starts to fundamentally change the energy mix. Our annual 10-year business planning process requires our businesses to run a planning case assuming a continuing low-price environment. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 CARBON RISK AND ENERGY OUTLOOK | 61 • National emissions reduction commitments made as part of the All three scenarios point to long-term resilience being a function of TABLE OF CONTENTS Paris Agreement will drive carbon pricing and complementary policy aggressively lowering both costs and the carbon intensity of the entire frameworks that are expected to accelerate energy efficiency and value chain. emissions reduction technology and incent broader scale adoption CEO’S MESSAGE The scenarios are reviewed annually by the Executive Leadership of alternative low-carbon energy. Committee and the Board of Directors to assess the robustness of the • We expect oil demand will continue to grow until approximately business and growth strategy and identify strategic directions. This process ABOUT OUR REPORT 2040 due to population growth, urbanization and increased living continues to be a useful tool for stress testing our business on a number of standards, but oil is expected to decline as a percentage of the key dimensions, including climate risk. global energy consumption mix. STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE • Given natural declines, staying at current production levels, much less meeting increased demand, will require investment in new production from global shale, deep-water and oil sands reserves – a OUR BUSINESS major challenge, given the reduction in capital investment due to depressed commodity prices in recent years. CLIMATE CHANGE • We expect that supply cost will continue to be moderated by industry efforts to optimize production and invest in technological advances. ENVIRONMENT We recognize that the global effort to mitigate climate change introduces uncertainty into the range of outcomes for energy. In addition to our SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY crude oil and refined products outlooks, we utilize three long-term energy futures scenarios*, all of which are plausible and could affect our operating environment and business strategy in markedly different ways. INNOVATION Signposts and milestones are monitored to identify critical shifts in the external context. Signposts include changes in global energy demand PERFORMANCE DATA and supply mix, political and economic indicators, climate data and policy trends and also include technology advances and consumer trends. APPENDICES Each scenario has an implied crude oil price range and climate change regulatory impact. Two of the three reflect the current global aspiration towards reducing carbon emissions; what differentiates the scenarios is the context, pace and scale at which that comes about. Of these scenarios, autonomy is the scenario that we consider best represents the technology and policy context that would be essential to meet the aspiration of limiting cumulative emissions to “450 ppm.” Suncor continues to build on our experience to consider business resilience against a range of scenarios, including a credible 2oC scenario. * We used three scenarios defined by IHS Markit as the basis for the development of the Suncor scenarios. The IHS Markit Autonomy, Rivalry and Vertigo scenarios have been modified to fit our unique circumstances/needs. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 CARBON RISK AND ENERGY OUTLOOK | 62 Scenario summaries* TABLE OF CONTENTS Autonomy • Rapid technological and societal change will transform the energy Energy markets impact CEO’S MESSAGE landscape. • Abundant and cost effective supply of energy coupled with moderation and eventual • Millennial shift – focus on sustainability and collaboration, decline in demand, particularly in transportation, drives oil prices to stay low in the long sustainable urbanization. term. ABOUT OUR REPORT • Falling costs and improved reliability of clean energy allow • Oil exploration and production slows as investment moves to other sectors, reducing but developing countries to bypass large scale hydrocarbon-based not choking supply. energy infrastructure. • High cost supply falls off fast. STRATEGY AND • Natural gas is a transitional fuel for power generation, but after • Oil is still required and continues to provide a significant share of the world’s energy GOVERNANCE 2030 increasingly renewable power generation fuels a largely need. electrified energy system. Expected impact on Suncor • Breakthrough battery technology development supports growth in OUR BUSINESS • No existing assets are stranded. electric vehicles. • Existing long-life assets continue to produce, funding their own sustaining capital or • Oil’s role in geo-politics is substantially diminished contributing to a modest growth capital requirements for incremental production expansion. CLIMATE CHANGE generally stable geo-political environment. • New oil sands growth projects are challenged and unlikely to proceed. • Stable, moderately strong economy. • Oil sands continues to provide a stable dividend base while growth options in other • Carbon intensive industries face high regulatory costs and resource basins are considered. ENVIRONMENT requirements. • Only the top tier refineries will remain profitable – Suncor’s Downstream maintains a • No new export pipelines are built out of the Athabasca Oil Sands focus on reliable, efficient and low-cost operations. region. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Rivalry INNOVATION • Improving standard of living and greater personal wealth, Energy markets impact particularly in China. • High global energy demand fed by diverse energy supply. • Expanding use of advanced technologies increases demand for • Refined products still dominate transportation fuels, but are losing market share to PERFORMANCE DATA energy. alternative fuels. • Population growth, urbanization and growing middle class drive • Fuel efficiency standards and technological innovation moderate growth in refined energy demand – diverse supply required to satisfy demand, with product demand. APPENDICES intense competition for market share between energy sources. • Oil and natural gas are increasingly costly to produce and the oil price continues to trend • Shift of economic power to millennials with the desire and means upwards with some cyclical downturns. to address pollution and climate change. Expected impact on Suncor • Geo-political landscape remains tense and strong global economic • No existing assets are stranded. growth shifts global influence. • High price and market access enable robust oil sands growth and further investment in • Technology advancements allow access to greater oil reserves, with improved extraction techniques. unconventional supply growing. • Continued focus on carbon footprint reduction through capital projects, technology • Natural gas and LNG play a larger role in transportation. development and efficient operations. • Strong growth in renewable energy. • Competitive downstream provides robust returns and enables physical integration of oil • Carbon intensive industries face high regulatory costs and strict sands crude. standards. * We used three scenarios defined by IHS Markit as the basis for the development of the Suncor scenarios. The IHS Markit Autonomy, Rivalry and Vertigo scenarios have been modified to fit our unique circumstances/needs. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 CARBON RISK AND ENERGY OUTLOOK | 63 TABLE OF CONTENTS Vertigo • Continued conflict and geo-political instability. Energy markets impact • International trend towards isolation and self-preservation with • Fossil fuels remain the primary source of affordable energy and dominate the global CEO’S MESSAGE energy security a key concern. energy mix. • Economic volatility, unbalanced wealth distribution, overall weaker • The price of oil recovers from current levels but fluctuates widely with rapid shifts in GDP growth. demand and supply. ABOUT OUR REPORT • Air quality, traffic congestion lead to smaller, higher efficiency • Slower economic growth and technological progress limit the proliferation of electric and vehicles and some electric vehicle adoption. other alternative fuel vehicles; energy mix does not change significantly. STRATEGY AND • Extreme weather events lead to social unrest. • Slower economic growth limits growth in energy, oil and refined product demand. GOVERNANCE • Investor risk aversion and tight capital markets constrain both Expected impact on Suncor technology advancement and high capital projects. • No existing assets are stranded. • Pipeline projects constrained by stakeholder protests and investor • Long life assets able to deliver free cash flow through commodity price volatility, OUR BUSINESS risk aversion. enabling Suncor to maintain competitive returns to shareholders. • Unstable, boom/bust energy market. • Integrated model helps smooth oil price cycles. • Environmental progress and climate change mitigation takes a back CLIMATE CHANGE • Growth projects rigorously tested to ensure ability to deliver returns in volatile oil price seat to economic concerns. environment. • Financial strength is leveraged to consolidate assets at the bottom of the cycle. ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 RESILIENT STRATEGY | 64 TABLE OF CONTENTS RESILIENT STRATEGY Business strategy for a changing energy By operating multiple, large oil sands facilities in CEO’S MESSAGE future this region, we are able to leverage location and Our industry is in the midst of a major structural adjustment due in large logistics synergies between the facilities, allowing ABOUT OUR REPORT part to technology that opened up new oil supply, such as shale oil, and us to drive efficiencies, reduce energy costs and reduced the supply cost curve. As the industry adjusts in an effort to emerge stronger and leaner, a focus on where the industry is headed and optimize the handling of water, waste, and tailings. STRATEGY AND the key influencers in both the short and longer term is essential. GOVERNANCE Over the past few years, we have become a top tier operator through increased facility reliability. Oil Sands operations cash operating costs have Stranding the resource – threat or opportunity? fallen from $39.05 CAD/bbl in 2011 to $23.80 CAD/bbl in 2017. OUR BUSINESS At Suncor, we talk about stranding oil resources as an opportunity, Recent market conditions have provided opportunities to assemble a referring to leaving low value hydrocarbons in the ground due to the high larger base of top tier reserves. Our acquisition in 2018 of an additional environmental impact or cost of producing them. This does not suggest CLIMATE CHANGE 5% equity position in the Syncrude joint operation has increased our that Canadian operators should walk away from leases or projects. It means ownership to almost 59%. This counter-cyclical investment increases our project planning process reviews information about the ore quality, the our production at a very attractive cost per flowing barrel relative to a ENVIRONMENT geology and the hydrogeology of the reservoir, the regulatory environment greenfield project of a similar scope and nature. and our reclamation and closure plans to assess whether there are areas of the reservoir we may choose not to produce. This acquisition indirectly increases our exposure to carbon pricing. Over SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY the last few years, Suncor has achieved a significant improvement in Also, extraction technologies under development today could literally allow energy intensity at our own Oil Sands Base plant mine and upgrader us to leave the heavy hydrocarbon chains in the ground, producing a lighter through debottlenecking and improving reliability. By increasing our INNOVATION product that requires less processing further down the value chain. position in Syncrude, we have the opportunity to leverage our relationship with an experienced operator with a strong technology program to Oil sands further advance energy efficiencies at both our Base plant and the PERFORMANCE DATA Syncrude facility. Suncor’s Oil Sands operations are a concentrated unconventional oil play. Our perspective of the future tells us that now, more than ever, is the We test our oil sands business and growth strategy against the three longAPPENDICES time to know where our competitive advantage lies and to play to that term energy scenarios. Under each of these scenarios, including the most advantage. aggressive decline in oil demand, we believe a substantial amount of oil will be required for decades. Meeting that demand at either low, or highly We have been an operator in the Athabasca oil sands for more than 50 volatile, oil prices will be a challenge. years and the majority of our production comes from the oil sands. There is strategic advantage in having a top-tier resource base of some of the While often characterized as being the oil basin most vulnerable to a low highest quality reservoirs in the Athabasca oil sands region and substantial oil demand scenario, the very long operating life and low decline rate of scale of physically integrated operations in the region. Furthermore, our assets are, paradoxically, a major advantage under a scenario of either our largely integrated value chain allows us to extract full value for our declining demand for crude oil and a correspondingly lower oil price, resource. or an extended period of uncertainty and volatility in investment and commodity markets. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 RESILIENT STRATEGY | 65 Our long-term reserves base presents minimal finding and exploration Transportation fuels in a carbon constrained TABLE OF CONTENTS costs or risk. The nature of the resource requires high upfront capital investment to develop a project, but once the initial infrastructure is in future place, the reservoir can be incrementally developed over a long period of While we expect our upstream crude oil production will continue to CEO’S MESSAGE time, without exploration risk, or the high capital requirements of a new supply global oil markets, our downstream and marketing business is more project. exposed to North American refined product supply and demand dynamics. ABOUT OUR REPORT Oil sands facilities are more comparable to manufacturing operations. Governments at all levels in Canada are seeking to diversify Once operating, they are built to last 40+ years with a steady output. transportation fleets to use lower carbon intensity fuels and, as a result, Production does not rapidly peak and decline, so each new incremental the transportation fueling landscape is expected to change over time. STRATEGY AND expansion results in production growth. Once high upfront capital costs Reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the transportation sector GOVERNANCE are depreciated, a facility can continue to operate with low operating is arguably one of the toughest challenges, in that transportation is costs and sustaining capital requirements only. fundamental to economic productivity and because liquid petroleum fuels are available at a relatively low cost and high energy density. OUR BUSINESS Market access for our bitumen We see demand for gasoline moderating over the next 10 years, as Market access to global refineries allows Canada to receive full value for light vehicle fuel efficiency standards take effect and alternative fuels CLIMATE CHANGE its product. adoption widens. We see no near-term demand destruction for distillates in North America. In the longer term, we believe diesel will remain the Suncor has an interest in all of the major pipelines that are currently predominant fuel for heavy haulage, aviation, marine and rail, and we see ENVIRONMENT proposed and/or approved (Keystone XL, Line 3 and Trans Mountain), but demand growth with increasing economic activity. Heavy-duty vehicle fuel it’s important to note no single pipeline will affect our ability to execute efficiency standards and biodiesel blending are expected to offset some of our growth plans for the future. While we firmly believe that pipelines the economically-driven demand growth. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY represent the safest and most environmentally sound way to transport product, even if further delays in pipeline projects occur, we have Enormous strides in fuel efficiency have been made to date through adequate logistical flexibility to move our production to market including ambitious regulation and by consumer uptake of more efficient light-duty INNOVATION Fort Hills. vehicles. Between 2000 and 2010, fleet emissions in Canada decreased from 193 grams per kilometre to 166 g/km, a drop of 14%. As the vehicle In May 2018, the Government of Canada announced an agreement to fleet continues to turn over in the next decade, fleet average emissions PERFORMANCE DATA buy the Trans Mountain pipeline and related infrastructure to ensure the are projected to reach 97 g/km by 2025*. pipeline is built. With the announcement, the government reinforced the importance of this infrastructure to all Canadians. While it is unclear what course the United States will take on vehicle APPENDICES efficiency standards going forward, there is technical potential to meet Market access is critical and in the national interest to ensure we even more ambitious fuel efficiency standards. The advances in technology receive full value for our production because this in turn means further to capture waste heat, computerized engine optimization, as well as the investment in jobs, education and healthcare. What’s key is that this development and use of lighter weight materials mean that, on the basis pipeline be built and operated safely and responsibly. We will do our part of fuel use per km travelled, the internal combustion engine of the future to support this happening. will, we believe, not only be cost competitive, but also be very carbon competitive with alternative fuels. In our view, hybrid, plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles will become costeffective additions to the passenger vehicle fleet and will, along with fuel * Pollution Probe: The Pathways Initiative SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 RESILIENT STRATEGY | 66 efficiency standards, contribute to moderating growth in long-term global As older and less efficient refineries close, the supply balance will support TABLE OF CONTENTS gasoline demand. refining margins. We believe the refineries that will survive will be those that have the flexibility to process cheaper crude feedstocks, are welllocated for domestic and export markets, have sound cost management, Fuel technology CEO’S MESSAGE and a strong focus on energy efficient and reliable operations. Suncor’s Suncor has invested in Lanzatech, a biofuels firm based in the United States, refineries are well-positioned to meet this potential trend. that is advancing a proprietary gas phase fermentation technology to ABOUT OUR REPORT recycle waste gas and greenhouse gas emissions into low-carbon fuels and Our approach to our marketing and distribution business entails a chemicals. cautious evaluation of options for the future. Suncor, through its PetroCanada brand, currently operates electric vehicle charging at select retail STRATEGY AND Suncor also is invested in Benefuel, a technology commercialization stations which is helping us learn more about this emerging market. We GOVERNANCE company focused on building biodiesel production capacity using cost continue to evaluate options and the viability of expanding our current advantaged low-carbon intensity feedstock. position and respond to the evolving needs of our customers. OUR BUSINESS We believe that cost, carbon competitiveness and consumer convenience In the quest to diversify fuelling options, several lower carbon options mean that liquid fuels will remain the primary fuel source of vehicle such as LNG, CNG, hydrogen and electric vehicles are being promoted. We mobility for many years. The most effective action we can take is to believe the market does not have the capacity for multiple choices, and it CLIMATE CHANGE continue to reduce the emissions intensity of our liquid fuels. is not clear yet which technology will see the greatest consumer adoption. One way to do this is through biofuel blending. Suncor owns and operates ENVIRONMENT the largest ethanol plant in Canada, which provides the ethanol we blend Natural gas into our gasoline. Heavy haul trucks, aviation and marine fuels of the In the early part of this decade, Suncor sold less strategic natural gas assets future will require advanced biofuel blending. that were not directly supplying our oil sands operations. This was largely SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY motivated by a strategy of cash generation and a view that natural gas Suncor also monitors technologies being developed by other parties to prices would stay in a down cycle for an extended period. determine if, and when, an investment in the technology could be applied INNOVATION to our business given our strategic objectives and operations. In 2018, Suncor sold its mineral land holdings in north-eastern British Columbia, Canada to Canbriam Energy Inc. in exchange for a 37% equity Strategically, advancing biodiesel technology for wider use in cold climates stake. The sale is consistent with Suncor’s strategy to focus on a core PERFORMANCE DATA allows us to leverage our view that diesel demand will remain strong. portfolio of high return, oil-producing assets while funding a strong and We have the flexibility to optimize our integrated model to switch or competitive natural gas company. Natural gas is expected to play a critical supplement existing refining capacity to process biofuels and introduce role in bridging to a low-carbon future, particularly in transitioning power APPENDICES biological crude components if it makes sense from a value creation generation away from coal. perspective. Over the longer term, if gasoline demand declines while distillate demand Offshore oil production grows or remains flat, refineries will need to shift the ratio of their Suncor has an interest in every major development offshore of Canada’s gasoline to distillate output. Reconfiguring a refinery to produce more east coast. Suncor operates Terra Nova and has interests in the Hibernia, distillate requires capital, and the economics of distillate production White Rose and Hebron projects. require large, complex refineries that run on heavy crude feedstock. Those refineries unable to make the investment, due to size, scale, age or We are a non-operating partner in the Buzzard and Golden Eagle fields crude diet, will need to reduce capacity, and we expect that would lead to in the United Kingdom North Sea and have expanded our options in this continued rationalization of refining capacity on the continent. area through the purchase of a participating interest in the Rosebank predevelopment opportunity. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 RESILIENT STRATEGY | 67 We have also recently acquired a participating interest in the Fenja of wind and solar power, cogeneration can economically replace coal TABLE OF CONTENTS development located in the Norwegian Sea. With diligent management generation with much lower carbon intensity power. Suncor currently has of produced methane, offshore crude oil is generally among the lowest cogeneration units installed at its Oil Sands Base plant, Firebag, MacKay carbon intensity sources of crude globally. River and Fort Hills facilities, and exports low-carbon excess electricity CEO’S MESSAGE generated from these units to the provincial grid. Low-carbon and renewable power With both renewable and cogeneration capacity, Suncor provides ABOUT OUR REPORT generation approximately 700 MW to its own sites and exports approximately 500 MW to the Alberta grid. Our energy scenarios tell us that a key pathway towards decarbonization of the energy system is to substantially increase low-carbon and As climate regulation is implemented across jurisdictions, renewable STRATEGY AND renewable power generation capacity and then electrify a greater power benefits from greater scale which can improve technology, GOVERNANCE percentage of the energy system. efficiency and improve economics. Equipping wind and solar sites with battery storage to optimize the facility’s integration to the power grid Suncor entered the renewable power generation business in 2002 to OUR BUSINESS could further improve effectiveness. An enabling factor will be market begin participating in this growing energy sector – building today's oil design that allows for dynamic interaction between a renewable, but sands resources while also bringing along new sources of energy for intermittent, power source and baseload sources like cogeneration. CLIMATE CHANGE tomorrow. Since 2002, we have developed eight wind projects totalling 395 megawatts (MW). Today, we are partners in four operational wind In 2017, we took the first steps in the regulatory process to replace power facilities with a generating capacity of 111 MW of wind generation. coke-fired boilers with cogeneration units at our Oil Sands Base plant. In ENVIRONMENT addition to providing the facility with steam needed for operations, the By developing new renewable projects and subsequently selling down cogeneration units are expected to export up to approximately 800 MW our working interest, Suncor is able to generate profitable returns on of electricity to the provincial grid, equivalent to roughly 7% of Alberta’s SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY investment and create cash flow to support further new renewables current electricity demand. Should the project proceed as planned, developments. Suncor has a strong portfolio of renewable power construction is targeted to begin in 2019, with commissioning of the development sites across Canada that will further reduce grid intensity in cogeneration units expected to commence by 2022. INNOVATION regions like Alberta and Saskatchewan that have a carbon-intensive grid. We are also exploring the opportunity to develop our first utility-scale Facility resilience to extreme weather events PERFORMANCE DATA solar photovoltaic facility in Alberta to complement our experience in Suncor assesses specific risks to its physical assets in light of various developing, constructing and operating wind power projects. potential operational hazards to which those assets may be subject, As part of our investment evaluation, we assess economic, environmental including the risk of extreme weather events, which are possible in the APPENDICES and social benefits including Indigenous partnerships in renewables. course of operations in the areas where we operate. Suncor manages This activity also considers emission credits that can be used to offset the these risks through facility design and operational procedures. We also emissions in our oil sands operations. maintain insurance for damage to, or loss of, assets as well as production interruption. The requirement for steam at crude oil extraction and processing facilities creates the opportunity for high efficiency cogeneration that provides Temperature extremes steam and power to our facilities and delivers surplus power to the grid Many of Suncor’s facilities routinely operate in an annual temperature at a carbon intensity that is lower than any other hydrocarbon based range of -40 to +40 degrees Celsius and facilities are built to withstand generation. extreme weather events. Prolonged periods of extreme cold could force For an energy system in transition, the value of cogeneration is high; in these facilities to shut down for periods of time to ensure worker safety addition to providing an effective baseload to manage the intermittency and prevent undue stress on equipment. Prolonged periods of extreme SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 RESILIENT STRATEGY | 68 heat may lead to production cuts if adequate supply of cooling water is Our Commerce City refinery is located in a water-stressed region and a TABLE OF CONTENTS not available. Suncor’s refineries in Montreal and Sarnia have access to potential curtailment of water supply would require bringing in water extremely large bodies of cooling water, so are far less exposed to this risk. by pipeline or truck. Water management is a priority at Suncor, driving industry-leading innovation at our facilities to reduce, recycle, reuse and CEO’S MESSAGE Hurricanes and icebergs return water. Suncor’s Terra Nova installation, off the coast of Newfoundland, operates There is also a risk of seasonal flooding in certain areas in which Suncor ABOUT OUR REPORT on the edge of the Named Atlantic Windstorm Zone, an area that operates, which is managed through contingency plans to protect facilities is subject to hurricanes and icebergs. The risk of hurricane season is that include backup generators and pumps to drain critical operating units managed through a continuous weather tracking service that monitors and equipment. STRATEGY AND storm systems in the North Atlantic. GOVERNANCE There is also a risk in the region of floating icebergs causing damage to our installations. This risk is managed through the design of facilities and OUR BUSINESS a continuous monitoring system tracking iceberg locations. Where the course of an iceberg cannot be altered, an emergency response system allows for the floating platform to be disengaged and moved to safer CLIMATE CHANGE water, protecting the asset but resulting in production disruption. ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES Precipitation and droughts Most of Suncor’s operated facilities are not in stressed watersheds where the availability of water, or severe restrictions on water withdrawals, could compromise our ability to operate. Limits to oil sands water withdrawal during winter low flow periods are managed through on-site water storage where facility design permits. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 CARBON POLICY AND REGULATION | 69 TABLE OF CONTENTS CARBON POLICY AND REGULATION Carbon policy and impacts on Suncor Alberta CEO’S MESSAGE Following ratification of the Paris Agreement, the focus of governments In Alberta, the current economy-wide price of $30/tonne on carbon is globally is on the technology pathways and policy frameworks required to intended to influence demand for carbon based energy. To protect the achieve a stable and responsible transition to a low-carbon energy system competitiveness of Alberta trade-exposed industries, output-based credits ABOUT OUR REPORT at the same time as meeting rising global demand for energy. Suncor is are allocated to each facility based on a performance benchmark, outlined preparing for that transition in multiple ways. in Alberta’s Carbon Competitiveness Incentive Regulation. STRATEGY AND The performance benchmarks penalize higher carbon intensity assets, Our business planning process includes carbon prices that incorporate GOVERNANCE whether a function of reservoir geology, fuel choice or efficiency, and will existing regulations and their expected trajectory, as they apply to our business. All investments are also sensitivity tested under a range of incent technology to reduce the carbon intensity across all facilities and carbon assumptions specific to that investment. particularly more challenging reservoirs. OUR BUSINESS In 2018, Suncor took a further step to embed a low-carbon scenario into The Oil Sands Emissions Limit Act includes a precedent-setting 100 our business and capital investment planning process to ensure all future Megatonnes (Mt) emissions limit by 2030 on oil sands development. CLIMATE CHANGE business plans and investments are resilient under an accelerated energy Emissions from the production of power through cogeneration are systems transition. excluded from this limit, as is an incremental 10 Mt of upgrading capacity. ENVIRONMENT As a limit on emissions, rather than production, it allows production to Canadian Federal Government grow as long as the total emissions of the basin remain under the limit. A proposed federal government Pan-Canadian carbon price framework The emissions limit is expected to accelerate the innovation required to SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY would require each province to implement a carbon price regulation with reduce both carbon and cost in the oil sands industry. an overall stringency equivalent to a minimum price of $10/tonne, rising to $50/tonne over the next five years. Provinces may use the revenue as Quebec and Ontario INNOVATION necessary for the unique circumstances of the region, including protecting Suncor’s refineries in Quebec and Ontario are regulated under a cap-andcarbon-intense, trade-exposed industries. trade program linked to the Western Climate Initiative (WCI). Regulated PERFORMANCE DATA refining facilities receive an allowance allocation that aligns with a Impact of Canadian climate change regulations benchmark performance and takes into account competitiveness in a Our carbon price outlook assumes the current carbon price will rise to $65/ trade-exposed context. Fuel suppliers are required to purchase allowances APPENDICES tonne, on an increasing percentage of our emissions, by 2035. As most of to cover the tailpipe emissions of all fuel sold, the cost of which is our facilities are currently regulated under various carbon pricing regimes, expected to be largely passed to the consumer, thus acting as a carbon the impact of our outlook is built into our planning assumptions. price on fuel consumption. Based on confirmation of new emissions regulations, we have updated our With the announcement of the termination of the cap and trade program estimates. The production weighted average after-tax cash cost per barrel in Ontario, Suncor will work with the provincial government to explore of global upstream production over the period 2018 to 2027 is estimated at solutions that achieve the required outcomes while minimizing impacts to up to $0.60 per barrel. people and business. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 CARBON POLICY AND REGULATION | 70 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS Transportation fuels policies in Canada Transportation emissions are approximately 25% of total emissions in CLIMATE CHANGE Canada. Jurisdictions across the country are considering policy mandates and incentives for alternative fuels, as well as major public transit and ENVIRONMENT urban planning initiatives intended to reduce the carbon intensity of transportation. British Columbia’s Low Carbon Fuel Requirement Regulation requires fuel SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY suppliers to meet a provincial fuel pool carbon intensity target through blending incremental renewable fuel or investing in alternative fuels INNOVATION infrastructure. Federal and provincial renewable fuel standards mandate blending of ethanol into gasoline, and biodiesel into diesel. In addition, the federal government has recently proposed implementing PERFORMANCE DATA a national Clean Fuels Standard, which remains under development. APPENDICES TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT ENVIRONMENT STRATEGY AND Our core mission is to be trusted stewards of valuable natural resources. GOVERNANCE Guided by our Environment, Health and Safety Policy and through operational excellence and bold innovation, we strive to manage and minimize impacts on the environment and improve performance. OUR BUSINESS Water performance and stewardship...................... 72 CLIMATE CHANGE Tailings management................................................ 76 ENVIRONMENT Air quality.................................................................. 78 Reclamation............................................................... 81 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Land, biodiversity and wetlands............................. 85 INNOVATION Caribou conservation................................................ 88 PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 WATER PERFORMANCE AND STEWARDSHIP | 72 TABLE OF CONTENTS WATER PERFORMANCE AND STEWARDSHIP Suncor fresh water use and FRESH WATER CONSUMPTION*†‡ CEO’S MESSAGE million m3 intensity 60 At Suncor, water is essential to our operations ABOUT OUR REPORT – and we know that it’s a valuable resource 40 we share with the communities where we operate. Our use of water is guided by water STRATEGY AND stewardship principles that focus on: GOVERNANCE 20 • water conservation 0 OUR BUSINESS • reuse and recycle 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Oil Sands Base 23.6 18.3 16.6 20.1 15.2 • return of clean water to the watershed Oil Sands In Situ 2.2 1.9 1.7 1.3 1.1 Refining and Supply 16.4 10.9 17.3 14.4 5.1 CLIMATE CHANGE Renewables (including biofuels) 1.0 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 And we remain focused on our commitment Suncor total fresh water consumption 41.2 30.8 35.9 36.8 22.3 to water stewardship. In 2017, our fresh water ENVIRONMENT consumption was 22.3 million m3 – our lowest water use in almost 20 years. The reduction in FRESH WATER CONSUMPTION INTENSITY*†§ m3 / m3 production water consumption was driven primarily by the SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY sale of our Lubricants business, a significant 2 consumer of fresh water, in early 2017 and optimization of wastewater recycle rates at our INNOVATION oil sands base plant. 1 Suncor’s fresh water use intensity for our oil PERFORMANCE DATA sands base plant is also the lowest on record at 0.8 m3 / m3. 0 APPENDICES 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Oil Sands Base 1.44 1.09 0.89 1.30 0.80 Oil Sands In Situ 0.22 0.15 0.12 0.11 0.09 Refining and Supply 0.58 0.40 0.63 0.53 0.18 Renewables (including biofuels) 3.77 3.66 3.68 3.68 3.78 Suncor total fresh water consumption intensity 0.83 0.68 0.74 0.82 0.46 * Fresh water consumption at Oil Sands Base Plant reduction in 2017 is due to a focus on optimizing our wastewater recycle. This included modifications and improvements to our industrial wastewater system that were implemented in 2017. The fresh water consumption in 2016 increased due to the forest fires impacting the industrial recycle rates and the unplanned Upgrader 2 turnaround 2016 was also extended by more than one month due to the forest fires. † Refining and supply fresh water consumption decreased in 2017 due to the sale of our Lubricants business. Suncor previously operated a lubricants business in Mississauga, Ontario, which was sold on February 1, 2017. 2017 performance data reflects this sale. ‡ The sum of the business segment fresh water consumption volumes does not equal the Suncor total due to transfer of treated wastewater from Oil Sands Base to the Firebag In Situ facility. This volume is netted out of the Suncor total to avoid double accounting. § For additional notes regarding this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#8 notes on water use and return).in Appendix A. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 WATER PERFORMANCE AND STEWARDSHIP | 73 We continue to invest in research and The reduction in fresh water use at our oil sands Recognizing our role as a steward of a development on water treatment, including base plant over the last few years is due to a valuable natural resource, we developed a TABLE OF CONTENTS participating in: focus on optimizing our wastewater recycle, water management strategy which focuses on and return to the environment. Approximately balancing three components: • industry collaboration 92% of the water used by our mining and CEO’S MESSAGE 1. Reducing fresh water intake by extraction operations in 2017 was recycled • academic research optimizing our water withdrawal tailings water. practices ABOUT OUR REPORT • piloting projects on our sites The primary source for make-up water is the 2. Recycling and re-using water in our Suncor is committed to the responsible Athabasca River. In 2017, we withdrew about operations STRATEGY AND development of the oil sands. How we 15.9* million m3 of water from the Athabasca GOVERNANCE manage water is critical to us as a company, to River, while returning 1.7 million m3 of treated 3. Safely and responsibly returning treated neighbouring Aboriginal communities and to water back into the river. water to the environment our stakeholders – it’s also crucial to achieve our Our oil sands base plant is licensed to withdraw OUR BUSINESS vision and commitments for faster reclamation up to 59.8 million m3 of water annually from Direct reuse of tailings water and mine closure. the Athabasca River – about 0.3% of the river’s The first major phase of our oil sands water CLIMATE CHANGE We plan on extending our commitment to annual average flow. We continue to operate strategy involves sending treated tailings water water stewardship by setting a new long-term well below our water license, withdrawing less from our oil sands Base plant to our in situ water goal. This builds on learnings from water than we’re licensed to do so, even as our water network. There, the tailings water is used ENVIRONMENT our previous water goal, the success of our production levels increase. as a make-up water supply. The result is a water-management strategy and input from Aboriginal communities. Our expectation OIL SANDS FRESH WATER WITHDRAWAL AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONSUMPTION†‡§ is that the new goal will reflect our water million m3 requirements and the need to maintain healthy, clean watersheds. 30.00 INNOVATION Water performance PERFORMANCE DATA highlights 15.00 Mining and extraction APPENDICES In oil sands mining, heated water is used to separate the bitumen from sand and clay. The cleaned sand and water are then sent to tailings storage ponds, where the sand settles out and 0.00 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 the water is recycled back to the extraction Water withdrawal 25.20 19.80 18.20 21.70 16.85 process. Water consumption 23.60 18.30 16.60 20.10 15.18 * Water withdrawal from the Athabasca River was reported incorrectly as 16.9 million m³ when this report was published on July 19, 2018. This typographic error has been corrected to 15.9 million m3. † Fresh water consumption at Oil Sands Base Plant reduction in 2017 is due to a focus on optimizing our wastewater recycle. This included modifications and improvements to our industrial wastewater system that were implemented in 2017. The fresh water consumption in 2016 increased due to the forest fires impacting the industrial recycle rates and the unplanned Upgrader 2 turnaround 2016 was also extended by more than one month due to the forest fires. ‡ The methodology for calculating the water withdrawal metric for Oil Sands does not include industrial runoff volumes, which are subject to annual variances, based on precipitation. Withdrawal and consumption, including the industrial runoff volumes are available in the performance data of our Report on Sustainability. § For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#8 notes on water use and return) in Appendix A. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 WATER PERFORMANCE AND STEWARDSHIP | 74 system designed to allow up to 10,000 m³ (or As part of our mine closure plan, we are Pit lakes are a necessary part of successful TABLE OF CONTENTS four Olympic-sized swimming pools) of tailings currently investigating ways to safely closure and reclamation plans, and are water per day, to be used as in situ make-up return clean, treated tailings water to the considered a best practice in mining industries water, instead of being stored in our tailings environment. We are piloting this through our around the world. There are a number of CEO’S MESSAGE ponds. Since 2010, we have reused 10.7 million Demonstration Pit Lake (DPL) using a closed pit lakes in Alberta that were created from m³ of tailings water in our in situ facility. loop system where we maintain control of the former coal mine pits, which are now used for water over a number of years and once it meets recreational fishing, swimming and continue ABOUT OUR REPORT Recycling/returning industrial regulatory criteria, and upon government to demonstrate naturally colonized fish wastewater approval, expect to allow water from the DPL and staging areas for migratory birds. The to be naturally released to the environment. additional research and understanding derived STRATEGY AND In 2014, we commissioned a new wastewater from this work is expected to help ensure the GOVERNANCE plant designed to take wastewater from our The DPL is part of our aquatic closure oil sands pit lakes are viable features in the upgrading ponds, and remove solids and oils, so technology development program, designed closure landscape. we can reuse that water in our operations, or to ensure we can successfully reclaim mine OUR BUSINESS return it to the environment. sites. The DPL project incorporated the Fort Hills Permanent Aquatic Storage Structure (PASS) This plant can recycle all of its fluid tailings treatment process as the first We have a separate water license allocation of CLIMATE CHANGE up to 39.3 million m³ of river water annually for step to accelerating the process, to establish wastewater – 15.8 million m3/year a lake capable of supporting a full ecosystem the Fort Hills project. Taken together, the base (or 17 Olympic-sized swimming of aquatic life. An aquatic cover will now plant and Fort Hills allocations represent about ENVIRONMENT 0.5% of the Athabasca River’s annual average pools per day) and ultimately, be established on the treated tailings and operated in the same way that is planned for flow. could reduce the need for river SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY the full scale closure drainage system. As we better understand our operational water water by an equivalent amount. use and efficiency at Fort Hills, we will continue to explore opportunities to further reduce INNOVATION water use. PERFORMANCE DATA In situ Our in situ operations use water to create the high-pressure steam that is injected through APPENDICES a well to heat the bitumen underground. This process makes the bitumen less viscous, allowing it to flow to the surface. Most of the steam condenses in the reservoir and returns to the surface with the oil. This water is then separated, treated and recycled. Approximately 96.5% of the water used at our Firebag in situ site is recycled. The make-up is drawn from recycled wastewater from our oil sands upgrading and utilities operations, surface run-off water collected within the SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 WATER PERFORMANCE AND STEWARDSHIP | 75 facility boundary and from groundwater wells. Downstream TABLE OF CONTENTS At our MacKay River in situ facility (where close Our refineries use fresh water for heating to 100% of the water is recycled), the majority and cooling. While water use has remained of make-up water comes from groundwater. relatively flat, there have been local initiatives CEO’S MESSAGE And it’s important to note most of this water is that have resulted in more efficient water too high in salt and mineral content to be used use. For example, at our Edmonton refinery, ABOUT OUR REPORT for potable water or agriculture. approximately one-third of the total water withdrawn in 2017 was recycled wastewater Over the last five years, our in situ fresh water supplied from the municipal Gold Bar STRATEGY AND use intensity has decreased by over 69%, Wastewater Treatment Plant – significantly GOVERNANCE primarily due to our continuous improvement reducing the amount of fresh water withdrawn efforts – such as wastewater recycling – to from the North Saskatchewan River. maintain the fresh water use while tripling our OUR BUSINESS production. Suncor’s in situ water consumption The Refining and Supply facilities’ water intensity is 0.09 m /m . 3 3 consumption and intensity was lower, primarily due to sale of our Lubricants facility in February CLIMATE CHANGE As Suncor continues to lead and innovate, we 2017. will share the lessons learned and technologies with our industry peers, through Canada’s Oil East Coast Canada ENVIRONMENT Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA). By doing so, The only fresh water consumed in our offshore we are confident we can reduce the regional, operations is for cooking, drinking, showers operational footprint and better protect SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and other domestic purposes. In our East Coast natural water resources. Canada operations, water is either produced An example of this is the Water Technology offshore through desalination, or is transferred INNOVATION Development Centre (WTDC). Scheduled to via vessel from St. John’s, Newfoundland. open later this year, the $165 million WTDC will be attached to our Firebag in situ operations, PERFORMANCE DATA which uses Steam-Assisted Gravity Drainage (SAGD). When complete, Suncor and our COSIA partners will test drive more technologies than APPENDICES we could on our own, while sharing the risks and costs. This is another example of COSIA collaboration, which will allow operators to speed the development and implementation of new water treatment technologies, ultimately shortening the current eight-year time frame required to field test technologies and move them to commercial application. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 TAILINGS MANAGEMENT | 76 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE TAILINGS MANAGEMENT Tailings are a mixture of water, sand, clay and residual bitumen, and are As our mining operations have expanded, the volume of fluid tailings ENVIRONMENT the byproduct of the hot water treatment process used to separate the have increased. However, with the implementation of TRO™ in 2010, fluid oil from the sand and clay. Tailings are stored in large engineered dam tailings volumes at site have remained steady and we’re now working to and dyke systems called tailings ponds, designed to settle out the solid decrease the inventory of fluid tailings on site. Suncor currently has about SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY particles from the water. 300 million cubic metres of fluid tailings. Water is continuously recycled from the tailings ponds back into the Fort Hills, operated by Suncor, ramped up earlier than anticipated and is INNOVATION extraction process, reducing new withdrawals of fresh water from the targeting 90% average production by the fourth quarter of 2018. Suncor Athabasca River and other sources. Although sand separates quickly from is treating fluid tailings from the start of operations with extraction the tailings, smaller particles of clay and silt remain in suspension and thickeners and tailings sand-placement activities to reduce the amount of PERFORMANCE DATA form fluid tailings which in the past could take up to 30 years to separate. fluid tailings and minimize further treatment requirements. New technologies are accelerating the separation process. Over the past Tailings operations feature an out-of-pit tailings area with plans to APPENDICES several years, Suncor’s holistic Tailings Reduction Operations (TRO™) transition to below-grade tailings treatment once space is made available approach has allowed us to: in the first mining area. The peak fluid tailings inventory at Fort Hills is expected to be below 130 million cubic metres. This represents a step • reclaim a tailings pond, Wapisiw Lookout change in fluid tailings management compared to industry demonstrated inventories. • make another one trafficable through the use of coke capping technology Tailings directive • convert a third tailings pond to a fluid tailings treatment area To ensure fluid tailings volumes are managed appropriately, the • start increasing our fluid tailings treatment capacity in 2018, Government of Alberta released the Tailings Management Framework in to begin draining another tailings pond to remove it from the 2015, which is intended to ensure fluid tailings are in a ready-to-reclaim landscape state within 10 years of the end-of-mine life. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 TAILINGS MANAGEMENT | 77 And last year, the Alberta Energy Regulator (AER) finalized a new oil Coke capping technology TABLE OF CONTENTS sands directive called the Fluid Tailings Management for Oil Sands Mining Thanks to breakthroughs that have come from research and development, Projects (Directive 085). This regulation includes tailings management plan Suncor continues to make progress in tailings management. Following the application and tailings performance reporting requirements aligned with surface reclamation of Pond 1 (now known as Wapisiw Lookout) in 2010, CEO’S MESSAGE the government’s Tailings Management Framework. we began creating a trafficable surface on Pond 5, with a reclamation In 2015 and 2016, Suncor was invited to work with Aboriginal technique called coke capping. Thanks to teamwork and dedication, Pond ABOUT OUR REPORT communities, the AER and other stakeholders to support the development 5 can now support heavy equipment – more than two years ahead of what of Directive 085. we had planned. STRATEGY AND To meet the new requirements, Suncor requested permission and received The coke capping technology we developed and commercially deployed GOVERNANCE approval in 2017 to add treatment capacity to our TRO™ operations at at Pond 5 involves placing a geofabric/geogrid on a tailings pond and our Base plant. Meanwhile, Fort Hills has applied for amendments to then placing petroleum coke (a byproduct of upgraded bitumen) to create update its tailings management plan, to align with new requirements a solid surface. Giant straws, called vertical strip drains, are added to OUR BUSINESS in Directive 085, under the Tailings Management Framework policy. dewater the fluid tailings. In the future, we will spread sand over the coke Both updated plans are based on what we’ve learned through our to allow placement of a soil cover and vegetation (trees and shrubs). implementation of TRO™ and from members of Canada’s Oil Sands CLIMATE CHANGE This is the first full-scale soft tailings cap of its kind in the industry. Innovation Alliance (COSIA). Originally, Suncor anticipated completing the cap on Pond 5 in 2019. ENVIRONMENT Raising the bar: tailings collaboration However, based on how well the dewatering had already progressed, an opportunity to mobilize a team to install the rest of the cap allowed for As a member of COSIA, Suncor is sharing details of our tailings the pond to be fully trafficable late last year. technologies with other member companies. In return, we are given access SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY to technologies that others are using to manage their tailings. Highlights Now that the cap is complete, settlement will continue and Suncor will in 2017 included: work to understand how to apply this technology to further improve our INNOVATION operations. In addition, we will share our lessons learned with other oil • 13 new projects started sands operators through COSIA. • 178 contributed technologies TM Trademark of Suncor Energy Inc. PERFORMANCE DATA • 78 active projects, with a cost of approximately $280 million APPENDICES Through shared research, experience, expertise and financial commitments, we are able to investigate new tailings technologies faster. We anticipate this resource-sharing through COSIA will improve tailings management now and at future oil sands mine operations. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 AIR QUALITY | 78 TABLE OF CONTENTS AIR QUALITY Suncor works to reduce air emissions from our operations, through AIR EMISSIONS*†‡ CEO’S MESSAGE operational excellence, project design and innovation and technology. Our thousand tonnes / year 90 focus for air quality management is centered on air emissions (pollutants and greenhouse gases) and odours. We are committed to maintaining and ABOUT OUR REPORT improving air quality near all of our operations. 60 In 2017, total Suncor-wide air emissions increased by 9% compared to 30 STRATEGY AND 2016, largely attributed to the overall increase in VOC and NOx emissions. GOVERNANCE VOCs increased as a result of a hydrocarbon blanket gas and recovery system outage at Terra Nova, and changing methods at our oil sands 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 mining facility. While absolute NOx emissions increased, due to production Oil Sands Base 39.7 47.2 47.2 43.6 48.4 OUR BUSINESS Oil Sands In Situ 3.3 3.5 3.3 3.2 3.2 increases at our upstream facilities, the overall intensity stabilized due the E&P Canada NAO 8.0 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.1 E&P Canada Terra Nova 3.2 2.6 2.7 2.4 4.8 implementation of low NOx emissions reduction technology in our mine Refining and Supply 15.4 14.2 13.6 15.7 14.6 fleet. Renewables (including biofuels) 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 CLIMATE CHANGE Suncor total air emissions 69.9 68.4 67.4 65.5 71.6 ENVIRONMENT AIR EMISSIONS INTENSITY*†‡ kg / m3 of production 2.25 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1.50 INNOVATION 0.75 PERFORMANCE DATA 0.00 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Oil Sands Base 2.37 2.75 2.49 2.83 2.56 APPENDICES Oil Sands In Situ 0.33 0.31 0.26 0.27 0.27 E&P Canada Terra Nova 1.46 0.99 1.30 1.22 2.73 Refining and Supply 0.57 0.53 0.50 0.58 0.56 Suncor total air emissions intensity 1.40 1.51 1.40 1.46 1.48 * Air emissions include SO2, NOx and VOC emissions. † The increase in Terra Nova’s VOC emissions and emissions intensity in 2017 was mainly due to the hydrocarbon blanket gas and recovery system being offline for a large part of 2017 when compared to ~ 100% operational in 2016. ‡ For additional notes regarding this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#7 notes on other air emissions) in Appendix A. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 AIR QUALITY | 79 Sulphur dioxide Volatile organic compounds TABLE OF CONTENTS The overall trend in sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions intensity over the Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions intensity is stable within our last five years is downward, due to more reliable operations, fewer in situ and refining and supply businesses. The oil sands trends have been plant upsets and flaring, and increased use of alternative fuels in place increasing, due to changing methodology of measuring emissions across CEO’S MESSAGE of petroleum coke. Preventative maintenance on SO2 scrubbers caused our oil sands operations. The considerable fluctuation within our Terra annual fluctuations. Nova operations, is due to a hydrocarbon blanket gas and recovery system ABOUT OUR REPORT being offline for preventative maintenance and unplanned outages. SO2 EMISSIONS INTENSITY‡ kg / m3 of production VOC EMISSIONS INTENSITY*†‡ 1.50 kg / m3 of production STRATEGY AND 1.50 GOVERNANCE 1.00 1.00 OUR BUSINESS 0.50 0.50 0.00 CLIMATE CHANGE 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0.00 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Oil Sands Base 0.84 0.97 0.67 0.84 0.67 Oil Sands In Situ 0.05 0.05 0.03 0.03 0.03 Oil Sands Base 0.40 0.71 0.82 0.94 0.91 Refining and Supply 0.23 0.22 0.20 0.28 0.27 Oil Sands In Situ 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 E&P Canada Terra Nova 0.54 0.09 0.31 0.05 1.49 ENVIRONMENT Refining and Supply 0.17 0.16 0.16 0.16 0.15 Nitrogen oxides SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The overall trend in nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions intensity over last five years is downward, due to the installation of low NOx emissions reduction technologies (i.e. haul truck engine replacement) in the mine fleet. The INNOVATION only exception is the Terra Nova facility, due to production decrease. NOX EMISSIONS INTENSITY‡ PERFORMANCE DATA kg / m3 of production 1.50 APPENDICES 1.00 0.50 0.00 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Oil Sands Base 1.13 1.06 1.00 1.05 0.97 Oil Sands In Situ 0.25 0.23 0.21 0.21 0.20 E&P Canada Terra Nova 0.93 0.90 0.99 1.16 1.23 Refining and Supply 0.17 0.15 0.14 0.14 0.12 * Oil Sands Base estimation accuracy is greater than /10% and limited by currently accepted methodology and measurement instruments. † The increase in Terra Nova’s VOC emissions and emissions intensity in 2017 was mainly due to the hydrocarbon blanket gas and recovery system being offline for a large part of 2017 when compared to ~ 100% operational in 2016. ‡ For additional notes regarding this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#7 notes on other air emissions) in Appendix A. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 AIR QUALITY | 80 Air quality monitoring TABLE OF CONTENTS Suncor is a member of the Wood Buffalo Environmental Association (WBEA). The WBEA operates environmental monitoring programs to monitor ambient air, land and human exposure in the Regional CEO’S MESSAGE Municipality of Wood Buffalo (RMWB) in northeast Alberta – providing ambient air quality data and a real-time air quality index (updated hourly) ABOUT OUR REPORT which is available to the public. We also support air monitoring via the following airsheds/organizations that monitor and report air quality – ensuring timely availability of results STRATEGY AND to the public and regulatory agencies: GOVERNANCE Alberta OUR BUSINESS • Parkland Airshed Management Zone • Alberta Capital Airshed, through involvement in the Strathcona CLIMATE CHANGE Industrial Association • Alberta Clean Air Strategic Alliance ENVIRONMENT • Environmental Monitoring and Science Division (EMSD) of Alberta Environment and Parks SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Ontario • Clarkson Airshed Study, through participation in the Clarkson INNOVATION Airshed Industrial Association • Sarnia Lambton Environmental Association PERFORMANCE DATA Montreal • We work with the Service de l’environnement de la ville de APPENDICES Montréal by providing ambient air quality monitoring data Odour monitoring in the RMWB Suncor consistently engages with community stakeholders, government and other external agencies on odours, to discuss best practices and odour management strategies – and regularly organizes meetings between industry and community members to discuss their concerns. We’re also engaged in researching and testing new methods and technologies to monitor fugitive emissions. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 RECLAMATION | 81 TABLE OF CONTENTS RECLAMATION Land quality and use is an important priority closure drainage features) that will Suncor’s multi-phase throughout the life cycle of a project, from direct precipitation run-off through CEO’S MESSAGE project planning through to project closure and the reclaimed lands. Adequate erosion reclamation process reclamation. control will provide for landform stability Developing a mine reclamation and and generally is achieved once vegetation ABOUT OUR REPORT Land reclamation takes place once the closure plan establishes and matures. disturbed land is no longer part of active Before developing a new mine, we develop a operations; including mine and tailings areas, • Reclamation soil placement and conservation, reclamation and closure plan that STRATEGY AND roads, plant facilities and buildings, wells revegetation – the establishment of a identifies how and when mine-disturbed areas GOVERNANCE and pipelines. Our challenge is to reduce the self-sustaining native plant community will be reclaimed. We engage key stakeholders size and duration of our footprint in order is a benchmark of reclamation success, and consider their input during plan OUR BUSINESS to maintain biodiversity and to support the including the control of invasive plant development. We also develop conservation, function of nearby natural ecosystems. species and noxious weeds reclamation and closure plans with respect to land disturbed by our in situ operations. Once an oil or natural gas site is no longer • Reclamation Monitoring – following CLIMATE CHANGE productive, regulations require the operator to reclamation, landform performance The Alberta government must authorize decommission the operation and reclaim the is monitored and assessed, including reclamation plans for all new projects. ENVIRONMENT site. soil quality and quantity, vegetation performance (i.e., plant density, height, Mining oil sands requires digging up to 80 Since Suncor began operations in 1967, we metres below the surface, creating a mine pit productivity, diversity, etc.) and wildlife SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY have disturbed 22,205 hectares of land in the that is usually filled in with overburden tailings activity. Mitigations (e.g., erosion repairs, Athabasca region (oil sands base operations). from the extraction process. Prior to mining, weed management, additional planting) As of the end of 2017, we had reclaimed* soils and suitable overburden that sit over are completed, as required. INNOVATION about 10% of the total land disturbance to the oil sands deposit are salvaged. The soil is date, including 2,179 hectares of terrestrial LAND USE AT OIL SANDS†‡ reclamation and 48 hectares of wetlands and cumulative hectares PERFORMANCE DATA aquatic reclamation. Reclamation includes: 24000 • Landform construction and contouring APPENDICES – all disturbed surface areas must be 16000 constructed and contoured to support the establishment of a self-sustaining 8000 boreal forest that integrates with other reclaimed landforms and adjacent natural areas. A key feature of the reclaimed 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 landscape will be the establishment Land disturbed 21,690 22,072 22,157 22,179 22,205 of new surface water pathways (i.e., Land reclaimed 1,708 1,905 2,134 2,123 2,227 % reclaimed 8% 9% 10% 10% 10% * Reclaimed lands have not been certified as such by government regulators. For further details on what we mean by reclaimed, see the legal advisories section of this report. † Land disturbed represents the total active footprint of our Base Plant operations which includes cumulative hectares (ha) for areas cleared of vegetation, soil disturbed, ready for reclamation, soils placed and permanently reclaimed. The area reported as land reclaimed is a subset of the total active footprint and the area of non-reclaimed land at Oil Sands was 19,977 ha for the 2017 reporting year. For further details on the definition of reclaimed, see advisories. ‡ For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#10 notes on land disturbance and reclamation) in Appendix A. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 RECLAMATION | 82 used immediately, when land is available for We expect this will result in improved tailings • moose TABLE OF CONTENTS reclamation, or is stockpiled for future use. and reclamation management at current and • amphibian species, such as the Canadian future oil sands mine sites. In the past, there was a lag time of many years toad CEO’S MESSAGE between when soil and overburden were Returning the land to a self• muskrat removed and land reclamation could begin. sustaining boreal ecosystem We are working to close that gap so that • otter ABOUT OUR REPORT disturbed areas become available soon after Once a landform is considered ‘ready for they are created, through a process known reclamation’, and can no longer be used for • beaver as progressive reclamation. For example, we active operations, final landform construction STRATEGY AND typically reclaim overburden storage areas and contouring can progress. Closure drainage • lynx GOVERNANCE immediately after they are created. features are constructed and reclamation soils are placed. Surface variability and wildlife In the case of tailings ponds, closure and habitat features are added to encourage OUR BUSINESS reclamation involves two distinct components: biodiversity in the final landscape. • transformation of the tailings ponds into Locally sourced tree, shrub and aquatic CLIMATE CHANGE a solid deposit that can be reclaimed as a seedlings are planted and the soil is fertilized stable closure landform directly at the seedling roots to help the young plants during early development years. ENVIRONMENT • a self-sustaining ecosystem is established Reclaimed areas are monitored to ensure the after soil is placed and local trees and new forest, lakes and wetlands mature into a shrubs are planted that support local healthy, self-sustaining ecosystem. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY wildlife Grey wolf recorded as part of the photographic monitoring program that collects year-round monitoring data on terrestrial wildlife species Areas planted in the 1980s are now seeing at Firebag. Collaborating on tailings young conifer seedlings take root under mature INNOVATION technologies trees – a positive sign of regeneration within a healthy forest. Another indicator of success is As a company committed to accelerating PERFORMANCE DATA environmental performance improvements, the increase in wildlife returning to reclaimed 2017 progress on land lands. The species spotted on our reclamation Suncor has shared details around our tailings areas include: reclamation management work with fellow members Suncor reclaimed tailings sand and overburden APPENDICES of Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance • avian species, including green-winged areas within the Millennium and Steepbank (COSIA). In return, we have gained access to teal, horned grebe, common yellow mines by completing landform construction technologies that other member companies are throat and least fly-catcher and, contouring and soil placement over these using to manage existing tailings ponds. areas. • coyote By sharing research, experience, In 2017, more than 400,000 trees and shrubs • grey wolf expertise and financial were planted, bringing the total number • red fox of trees and shrubs planted since 1976 to commitments, we are able approximately eight million. to investigate new tailings • mule deer and white-tailed deer technologies more rapidly. • snowshoe hare SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 RECLAMATION | 83 Suncor continues to progressively treat tailings In situ land disturbance Other land disturbance TABLE OF CONTENTS and reclaim land that is no longer required for operations. This includes the coke-capping As the oil sands industry grows, the ratio challenges of land being disturbed by development is of consolidated tailings completed at Pond 5, As a matter of course, we undertake expected to decline. That is due to reclamation CEO’S MESSAGE and implementation of the Permanent Aquatic remediation at our downstream retail sites. that is underway at current sites, and the Storage Structure (PASS) treatment process that Remediation is done in conjunction with reserves that underlie approximately 97% of will start operations in 2018. upgrades to facilities and tanks at existing ABOUT OUR REPORT Canada’s oil sands surface area are recoverable operations as well as at sites facing closure. using in situ technology, which is similar to Certification of reclaimed conventional oil production. Remediation is also conducted at our STRATEGY AND lands – a complex issue conventional oil and natural gas sites impacted GOVERNANCE In situ operations disturb only about 15% of the by historical activities. Where remediation has Some people question why so little land land required for traditional mining operations. been completed, the next phase is reclamation, disturbed by the oil sands industry has been including the establishment of vegetation. OUR BUSINESS certified as “reclaimed” by the regulator. However, in situ oil sands projects, along with There is an expectation by the regulator and oil and gas exploration, forestry and other stakeholders that reclaimed land must be industrial activities, do have an impact. The Reclamation research and CLIMATE CHANGE shown to be on a path to achieving the final associated roads, seismic lines, power corridors and pipelines leave linear paths that cause monitoring closure outcome, which is, for our operations in the Wood Buffalo regional, a locally common, forest fragmentation, and can negatively Suncor participates in several research and ENVIRONMENT self-sustaining boreal forest ecosystem. There impact wildlife habitat. monitoring projects that are helping us are a number of assessment points along that understand the impact of development on the path, specifically related to vegetation success. boreal forest, and the steps we can take to SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY improve our reclamation efforts. A reclamation certificate will be issued when land capability has been achieved. Land INNOVATION capability must consider the physical, chemical and biological characteristics of the land, including topography, drainage, hydrology, soils PERFORMANCE DATA and vegetation. Reclamation and closure plans developed by the operators and authorized by the regulator include these objectives. APPENDICES In 2009, the Government of Alberta implemented a reclamation reporting system that gives the public a clear understanding of the progress being made during the reclamation process. The Oil Sands Information Portal (OSIP) is a one-window source for information; the public portal has both an interactive map display and a data library. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 RECLAMATION | 84 Among these are projects that support reclaimed buffers adjacent to mines and TABLE OF CONTENTS native tree, shrub and aquatic species that the buffers’ effects on wildlife dispersion, are an ecologically and culturally important connectivity and predator/prey interactions. component of boreal forest ecosystems: CEO’S MESSAGE Human health and wildlife risk assessment • In the Wetland Plant program, we research and monitoring continued in 2017 to partnered with elders from five First ensure mining and in situ-disturbed lands are ABOUT OUR REPORT Nation communities to develop a list of reclaimed in a manner that prevents health risks 10 significant wetland plants, to grow to people and wildlife. Results are shared with and plant in reclamation. COSIA to ensure we are improving results across STRATEGY AND the entire oil sands region. GOVERNANCE • The Improving Seed Longevity of Native * Reclaimed lands have not been certified as such by government Shrubs program identifies optimal regulators. For further details on what we mean by reclaimed, see the storage conditions for native shrub seed legal advisories section of this report. OUR BUSINESS so a steady supply for reclamation will be possible. CLIMATE CHANGE • The Industrial Research Chair in Forest Land Reclamation is expanding its early success in better understanding forest ENVIRONMENT canopy development and working to improve tree growth during forest stand initiation and development. The program SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY is also developing recommendations for establishing more spatially diverse site conditions and forest communities. INNOVATION Part of a larger, continent-wide initiative, the Boreal Monitoring Avian Productivity PERFORMANCE DATA and Survivorship program is advancing our understanding of avian population dynamics and diversity in reclaimed and disturbed APPENDICES habitats in the Athabasca oil sands region. Through ongoing monitoring, the program is evaluating disturbance effects on avian habitat quality and assessing reclamation designs to help guide our reclamation work. The Wildlife Habitat Effectiveness and Connectivity program advanced our understanding of the effects of mine activities on wildlife population dynamics. Through research and monitoring, the program evaluated the function of undisturbed or SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 LAND, BIODIVERSITY AND WETLANDS | 85 TABLE OF CONTENTS LAND, BIODIVERSITY AND WETLANDS Suncor and other oil sands companies are working 3. Preserving biodiversity by working internally and with industry peers and multi-stakeholder organizations on initiatives to CEO’S MESSAGE to reduce the size of our environmental footprint, in conserve and reclaim habitat for birds, mammals, fish and other order to support the function of natural ecosystems in species ABOUT OUR REPORT the region and maintain the biodiversity. The following biodiversity elements were implemented recently during Oil and natural gas operations occur in very diverse landscapes and these reclamation planning and execution to improve landscape biodiversity STRATEGY AND landscapes are home to many ecosystems containing a variety of plants outcomes: GOVERNANCE and animals. Alberta’s oil sands lie under 142,000 km2 of land. Only about 3%, or 4,800 km2, of that land could ever be impacted by the mining • by working with Aboriginal communities, more culturally-significant method of extracting oil sands. The remaining reserves that underlie 97% wetland and riparian plants have been incorporated into existing OUR BUSINESS of the oil sands surface area are recoverable by using drilling (in situ) reclaimed areas and revegetation plans methods that require significantly less surface land disturbance relative to • diverse ecosystems were created, including lakes, streams, shallow mining. open water, riparian areas, marsh and fen wetlands CLIMATE CHANGE Reducing our footprint, reclaiming land, • approximately 40 species of native trees, shrubs and aquatic plants have been planted, including those important for local wildlife, ENVIRONMENT promoting biodiversity food and habitat, and Aboriginal cultural significance Suncor works on three primary fronts to minimize our impact in the boreal • coarse woody debris was recovered from disturbed forests and region: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY reused in reclamation areas to support small mammal habitat and 1. Reducing the impact of our operations on land resources through erosion control scientific research and best management practices, while also INNOVATION • logs recovered from disturbed forests were reused as snags or working with neighbouring companies to reduce the cumulative wildlife trees to create perches and nesting sites for birds and effects of development habitat for other wildlife PERFORMANCE DATA 2. Accelerating the pace of reclamation of disturbed lands, including • bird and bat boxes were constructed and installed in many areas the reclamation of tailings ponds APPENDICES • islands were constructed in the middle of wetlands to support safe bird nesting habitat • direct placement of soils in newly reclaimed areas Working with stakeholders Local stakeholders are consulted and involved in monitoring any risks and/ or potential impacts on biodiversity. The Government of Alberta requires us to provide plans and progress updates, for managing our impacts on many components of biodiversity within the areas where we operate. This includes: SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 LAND, BIODIVERSITY AND WETLANDS | 86 • revegetation plans Industry collaboration on biodiversity TABLE OF CONTENTS • soil salvage and placement plans As the oil sands industry grows, it becomes increasingly important to work together to address the cumulative impacts of development on wildlife • wildlife mitigation and monitoring plans and biodiversity. One way we do this is through our participation in CEO’S MESSAGE Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA). Environmental impact assessments and/or socio-economic impact assessments are required by law at all sites where we operate. COSIA’s land environmental priority area is focused on reducing the ABOUT OUR REPORT footprint intensity and impact of oil sands mining and in situ operations Suncor is also a signatory to the Boreal Forest Conservation Framework on the land and wildlife of northern Alberta. Through COSIA, we work – a groundbreaking national conservation vision developed by 20 First STRATEGY AND on a wide range of projects aimed at environmental footprint reduction, Nations, environmental groups and resource companies. The vision GOVERNANCE accelerating reclamation and preserving biodiversity. articulated in the Framework calls for the establishment of a network of large, interconnected protected areas, covering about half of the country’s Suncor worked collaboratively with other COSIA members to develop boreal forest, and the use of leading-edge sustainable development the COSIA Land Environmental Priority Area (EPA) Performance Goal, OUR BUSINESS practices in remaining areas. an intensity-based metric that measures the amount of in situ surface land disturbance per area of reservoir accessed. Collaboratively our CLIMATE CHANGE Our ongoing biodiversity initiatives organizations are working towards the goal of reducing our operational footprint intensity by 10% by 2022. Wildlife management program ENVIRONMENT In addition, Suncor led development of a COSIA Land Challenge that is The objective of Suncor’s wildlife management program in the Regional focused on finding new technologies that support approaching zero land Municipality of Wood Buffalo is to minimize human-wildlife conflicts disturbance exploration. The COSIA Land Challenge was released in Q1 and wildlife habituation and conditioning, while maintaining a healthy SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017. Several new technology ideas and proposals have been received to wildlife population and diversity. date. At least one proposal was advanced in Q4 2017 to the pilot stage. We regularly consult and collaborate with Alberta Environment and Parks’ INNOVATION More examples of COSIA projects related to boreal forest biodiversity: (AEP) wildlife biologists and local fish and wildlife officers. Reclamation efforts in the Algar region PERFORMANCE DATA Bird protection program The Landscape Ecological Assessment and Planning tool and database Suncor is committed to minimizing interactions between birds and developed by COSIA was used to plan caribou habitat restoration in the process-affected ponds required for its operations in the oil sands the Algar region, an area covering 570 km2 along the Athabasca River APPENDICES through: southeast of Fort McMurray. The Algar project was completed through an • adoption and refinement of deterrent methods integrated regional approach, with COSIA companies working together to repair fragmented habitat across an area of land outside of their actual • monitoring for bird contacts licence areas. • searching for bird mortalities The Faster Forests program We use a combination of radar linked deterrents, non-radar linked The Faster Forests program is designed to address forest fragmentation by deterrents and physical deterrents to discourage birds from landing on strategically planting trees in disturbed areas across the oil sands region. tailings and other process-affected ponds. And we closely monitor our In 2017 more than 950,000 trees and shrubs were planted, bringing the deterrents and attend to any affected birds in consultation with the AEP. total number of trees and shrubs planted since 2009 to approximately five million. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 LAND, BIODIVERSITY AND WETLANDS | 87 Planting shrubs native to the area is a major focus. These shrubs will In 2013, Suncor completed construction of a three-hectare fen, named TABLE OF CONTENTS help tree seedlings grow healthier, faster and with less competition the Nikanotee (pronounced Nee-ga-no-tee; Cree word for “future”) fen. for nutrients and water from fast-growing grasses. The result: greater The achievement established Suncor as one of the first companies in the ecological integrity and biodiversity. Berry-bearing shrubs such as world to complete reconstruction of this type of wetland. This work was CEO’S MESSAGE blueberry and saskatoon are important to Aboriginal communities and completed in co-operation with a number of university researchers and wildlife. consultants from across the continent. ABOUT OUR REPORT Suncor has adopted learnings from the Faster Forests program and A fen is the most common wetland type found in the mineable oil sands incorporated them into our operations. This practice has allowed us to region. Fens tend to: address historical disturbances that were not otherwise revegetating. STRATEGY AND • accumulate large deposits of organic matter (called peat) and are GOVERNANCE primarily fed by groundwater inputs Alberta Biodiversity Conservation Chairs COSIA is sponsoring the Alberta Biodiversity Research Chairs Program • be perpetually wet, storing water and releasing it slowly during dry OUR BUSINESS that’s intended to fast-track biodiversity science and support on-theperiods ground research on the environmental impact of development in the • act as filters for streams and rivers lower down, improving water boreal forest of northern Alberta. quality by capturing run-off and scrubbing out nutrients and CLIMATE CHANGE The current program includes two research chairs at the University of sediments Alberta, which cover four integrated research themes: • be home to diverse biota, such as amphibians, birds, moose and a ENVIRONMENT 1. Rare and endangered species monitoring and conservation wide range of plants, including the insect-eating pitcher plant 2. Cause and effect assessment of biodiversity change as the Located at our oil sands Base plant near Fort McMurray, Alberta, our SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY foundation for effective management three-hectare fen is fed by a man-made 32-hectare watershed. The project is the culmination of more than 10 years of collaborative research. 3. Improve monitoring, modelling and management of terrestrial INNOVATION biodiversity for regional land use planning The University of Waterloo led the fen hydrological feasibility modelling, in partnership with the Cumulative Environmental Management 4. Integrated restoration – from site to landscape levels Association (CEMA). Suncor funded the design and construction of the PERFORMANCE DATA fen. Along with Teck Resources and Imperial, we are funding ongoing Wetlands research and monitoring of the constructed site. APPENDICES The Nikanotee fen is now a joint industry project, contributed by Suncor Wetland reclamation: pioneering fen research to other members of COSIA. Wetlands are an important part of reclamation efforts. To date, close to 50 hectares of wetland and lake reclamation have been completed by Recently, Suncor initiated a bog reclamation feasibility study called Raised Suncor (Reclaimed lands have not been certified as such by government Bogs: Western and Traditional Knowledge Review. Gathering information regulators. For further details on what we mean by reclaimed, see on bog form and function from two knowledge systems, western and the legal advisories section of this report). A high research priority traditional or Aboriginal sciences – is the first step in understanding if is developing the ability to reconstruct wetlands, including swamps, and how we can design and build a bog reclamation pilot that resembles marshes, fens and bogs. Until recently, reclamation efforts had primarily natural bogs in the region – like the bogs that develop over large peat focused on marshes. plateaus, on smaller peat basins on mineral soil, or on frost mounds. This work is guided by western scientists and Aboriginal knowledge holders. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 CARIBOU CONSERVATION | 88 TABLE OF CONTENTS CARIBOU CONSERVATION While caribou conservation is a shared government, public and private CEO’S MESSAGE sector responsibility, it is led by government. As such, the Government of Alberta released its Draft Provincial Woodland Caribou Range Plan in 2017. The plan aims to recover and sustain woodland caribou populations ABOUT OUR REPORT using a broad range of tools. As an operator in the boreal forest, Suncor has a role to play in STRATEGY AND contributing towards caribou conservation, and we’ve developed a GOVERNANCE strategy aimed at mitigating our impact on woodland caribou. Suncor regularly considers caribou-focused objectives at both the local and OUR BUSINESS landscape levels. For example, Suncor incorporates under-pipe crossings along above-ground pipelines at in situ projects, and reclaims disturbed areas to accelerate recovery of the caribou’s habitat. CLIMATE CHANGE In collaboration with COSIA, Suncor also completed a multi-year caribou Woodland Caribou (Ranifer tarandus caribou) recorded as part of the photographic monitoring program that collects year-round monitoring data on terrestrial wildlife species at Firebag. Woodland caribou have habitat restoration program to repair fragmented habitat within the been recorded during the spring, summer and fall seasons and have been photographed in all buffer zones ENVIRONMENT established based on the distance from existing and proposed Firebag developments. Algar region of northeast Alberta. Suncor and Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (COSIA) member companies are initiating and applying leading-edge habitat restoration projects to INNOVATION repair fragmented habitat, and are testing restoration techniques in northeastern Alberta. PERFORMANCE DATA Woodland caribou are well adapted to life in the boreal forest. They are a non-migratory subspecies that require large expanses of habitat with low densities of predators, like wolves, and they’re usually found in small APPENDICES numbers. COSIA’s caribou projects Caribou are also listed as threatened under Canada’s Species at Risk Act, due to declining population, likely caused primarily by increased predation. Natural factors, like forest fires, within the boreal forest have altered and contributed to a fragmented landscape. This often leads to increased populations of deer, moose, elk and their predators. Given the low numbers of woodland caribou in the boreal forest, any increased predation pressure can have devastating effects. TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY AND We work hard to build and maintain relationships with local GOVERNANCE communities, Aboriginal Peoples and stakeholders, and meaningfully consider their issues and concerns about our operations and the effects of proposed development. Creating vibrant communities requires OUR BUSINESS developing trust, and collaborative and proactive relationships. CLIMATE CHANGE Stakeholder and Aboriginal relations..................... 90 Community investment............................................ 94 ENVIRONMENT Social goal................................................................. 100 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Strengthening relationships.................................................... 101 Partnering with Aboriginal youth........................................... 103 INNOVATION Partnering with Aboriginal businesses and communities...... 105 PERFORMANCE DATA Improving Aboriginal workforce development...................... 107 APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 STAKEHOLDER AND ABORIGINAL RELATIONS | 90 TABLE OF CONTENTS STAKEHOLDER AND ABORIGINAL RELATIONS organization that works with investors and The trust and support of stakeholders and Aboriginal communities companies to build leadership and drive are very important to Suncor and foundational to successful energy solutions. CEO’S MESSAGE development. We also engage on issues of national interest Stakeholders and Aboriginal communities ABOUT OUR REPORT with stakeholders, through multiple forums. are the individuals and groups who could Our president and CEO Steve Williams is a STRATEGY AND be affected by our operations or who could, through their actions, affect our business. 4,980 member of the advisory committee to Canada’s Ecofiscal Commission which aims to shape policy GOVERNANCE Examples include: employees to encourage economic activities that support have completed Aboriginal awareness web-based mutual benefits such as job creation, investment • landowners and community residents training since it launched in 2015 and innovation. OUR BUSINESS • Aboriginal governments and communities As part of Suncor’s operational excellence CLIMATE CHANGE • trappers • governments and regulators $521 management system, the Stakeholder Relations Framework ensures we have a consistent approach to relationships with stakeholders million and Aboriginal communities, whether it is local • non-government organizations and spent with Aboriginal suppliers in 2017 ENVIRONMENT engagement or involvement in national forums. environmental groups This framework outlines Suncor’s responsibilities • community investment partners SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • business groups 26 and commitments, and provides a mechanism to consider the needs, interests and concerns of Petro-Canada branded retail sites stakeholders and Aboriginal communities, and INNOVATION • customers and suppliers incorporate this into our business decisions on a owned or leased by First Nations across Canada day-to-day basis. It is implemented via standards • employees and guidelines, and is supported by procedures, PERFORMANCE DATA participate in a transparent engagement process We work hard to build and maintain practices and tools. and be involved in the issues and opportunities relationships with local communities, Aboriginal affecting them. We seek input and feedback APPENDICES Peoples and stakeholders, and meaningfully on our activities and decisions, and encourage Policies consider their issues and concerns about stakeholders and Aboriginal communities to Our Human Rights, Stakeholder Relations and our operations and the effects of proposed define how they wish to be consulted. Canadian Aboriginal Relations policies outline development. This includes working together our commitments and key beliefs with respect to mitigate potential environmental, economic Often, it’s simply an informal discussion. At other to stakeholders and the Aboriginal communities and social impacts, and ensuring that local times, it’s through more formal engagement near our operations. Related policies include: communities benefit from energy development. or consultation processes. For example, we regularly participate in community advisory • improper payments policy Our approach meetings with several Aboriginal communities. • international security policy We believe those affected by Suncor’s business We’re also a part of multi-stakeholder forums, have a right to be informed about our activities, including Ceres, a sustainability non-profit • harassment and violence-free working environment SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 STAKEHOLDER AND ABORIGINAL RELATIONS | 91 Suncor’s Stakeholder Relations and Canadian Aboriginal Peoples and communities in Canada, These groups meet regularly to ensure priorities TABLE OF CONTENTS Aboriginal Relations policies are reviewed every to build and maintain effective, long-term and are established and advancing. The governance three years. We continue work to ensure that mutually beneficial relationships. structure also aids in ensuring information, the policies reflect evolving societal expectations approaches and best practices are shared across CEO’S MESSAGE Beyond those commitments outlined in and external context, like the government’s levels and locations. the policies, we also have agreements with commitment to adopt the United Nations Aboriginal communities. These agreements Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples ABOUT OUR REPORT address how we work together on a range of Our approach in action (UNDRIP). matters from project consultation to realizing We believe relationships are best maintained Suncor supports the Truth and Reconciliation the benefits from our industry through through regular effort and engagement. STRATEGY AND Commission’s call to action for the corporate commercial and business opportunities, and This means being involved and part of the GOVERNANCE sector to adopt UNDRIP as a reconciliation skills/employment and training opportunities. community, so that we can listen and engage framework for its relationship with the with local stakeholders and Aboriginal Aboriginal Peoples of Canada. To implement this OUR BUSINESS Integrated Aboriginal community members. Examples of how we do framework, Suncor is committed to meaningfully this include: engage with communities, listen, have open relations governance dialogue about our historical relationships, To meet increasing expectations, we recognize Wetland Plant Study CLIMATE CHANGE and to continue to enhance relationships and the need to embed our approach to stakeholder In 2014, Suncor and Alberta Innovates developed achieve broad support for our projects. Suncor and Aboriginal relations across the organization. a wetland plant study. The study’s goal is to ENVIRONMENT also continues to engage with Aboriginal One of the ways we’re doing this is through find linkages between Traditional Knowledge thought leaders, to continue to build our an integrated Aboriginal relations governance and western science, while enhancing and knowledge and understanding on UNDRIP. structure. The structure helps connect work strengthening Suncor’s relationships with SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY across the organization. Aboriginal communities in the Athabasca oil Responsibilities and Suncor’s Aboriginal relations governance sands region. INNOVATION commitments structure is made up of three interconnected During the second year of the study, 12 culturally groups which each play a role in ensuring our All Suncor employees and contractors engaged significant wetland plants were selected at activities are co-ordinated and advancing strong, in activities under our operational control a gathering held with Elders, Suncor and an PERFORMANCE DATA co-operative relationships with Aboriginal are responsible for applying these policies. environmental consultant. These learnings of Peoples in Canada. They include: Managers are also responsible for promoting our traditional and culturally significant plants will beliefs and principles underlying these policies in assist us to develop future reclamation plans. APPENDICES • a VP forum: focused on strategy – and joint ventures not operated by Suncor. linked to a subcommittee of Suncor’s most In July 2017, the study researchers invited senior executive team Suncor’s chief executive officer is accountable to Elders from various communities to join them in the Board of Directors for ensuring that Suncor’s locating and sharing their traditional knowledge • a network: focused on planning and Stakeholder Relations and Canadian Aboriginal about the plants originally identified. The implementation – links to Suncor’s work Relations policies are implemented. five-day trip involved Elders from Athabasca with communities and the implementation Chipewyan First Nation, Mikisew Cree First of the social goal Our Stakeholder Relations and Canadian Nation, Fort McKay First Nation, Fort McMurray Aboriginal Relations policies outline our • multidisciplinary teams – environment and 468 First Nation and Chipewyan Prairie Dene commitment to developing and maintaining regulatory, workforce development and First Nation. positive, meaningful relationships with business development stakeholders and to working closely with SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 STAKEHOLDER AND ABORIGINAL RELATIONS | 92 A total of 45 Elders went out on talking about the seeds they were taking from effect in July 2016. The standard outlines TABLE OF CONTENTS our communities and harvesting for reclamation. specific maintenance and operating practices to the land to help Suncor identify I never believed it until I saw it with my own minimize benzene emissions. and pick seeds over the duration eyes. I was impressed.” The Sarnia refinery has already taken several CEO’S MESSAGE of the trip. steps to implement these practices, including Piloting a new way to monitor air implementing an increased leak detection and “We had many successful days of collecting seeds quality ABOUT OUR REPORT repair program and conducting maintenance and sharing knowledge of the traditional values Recently, the Sarnia refinery has been on a number of storage tanks as a way of of each of the plants studied for our reclamation participating in discussions with the Ontario reducing source benzene emissions. The data sites,” says Kim Rizzi, community relations and STRATEGY AND Ministry of the Environment and Climate Change we gather will help us understand what effect economic development specialist with Suncor. GOVERNANCE (MOECC) and local stakeholders to explore new our refinery’s emissions and other industrial sites “The most successful day of harvesting was ways to gain a better understanding of local air participating in the project may be having on at Bohn Lake, where the rare cloudberry was quality and to minimize benzene emissions. ambient air quality. found.” OUR BUSINESS In February 2017, the Sarnia refinery installed In September, a second excursion took place 12 monitoring stations around the perimeter of Supporting processes with the Elders visiting the Smoky Lake Forest CLIMATE CHANGE the site. These monitoring stations are part of Beyond direct consultation and engagement Nursery, where seeds were collected in the Wood a collaborative project being led by the MOECC activities, several internal processes ensure that Buffalo region to be grown and in turn, used by to measure airborne concentrations of benzene, we are aware of and understand the interests ENVIRONMENT Suncor for reclamation purposes. not only from the Sarnia refinery, but also from and concerns of stakeholders and Aboriginal “I grew up in a bush life and had never been specified sampling sites at five other industrial communities, and are considering those views to a greenhouse before. My parents had a sites in the area. in our operations and business planning. These SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY trapline, so when Suncor started talking about processes include: The monitoring locations were chosen based on this greenhouse, I had a hard time believing it,” specific criteria and considered feedback from • our Strategic Issues Management Process INNOVATION reflects Rita Roland, one of five Fort McKay First both the MOECC and Aamjiwnaang First Nation, (SIMP) works to proactively identify, Nation Elders who participated in the Wetland which has also installed several monitoring sites monitor and manage key environmental, Plant Study. “I was surprised when I finally had throughout its community. economic and social issues considered PERFORMANCE DATA a chance to see the greenhouse and the work most critical to Suncor, stakeholders and being done to reclaim the land. Suncor had been The air samples are collected by tubes that are Aboriginal communities switched out every two weeks. Once removed, APPENDICES the tubes are analyzed at an accredited lab. • through Suncor’s Asset Development and This is important to ensure the data collected is Execution Model (ADEM), consideration sound. for stakeholders and Aboriginal communities’ concerns, and potential “The goal of this collaborative air monitoring impacts, are integrated into early project project is to evaluate the air monitoring planning stages, before engagement technology being used to ensure it will meet occurs and/or final business decisions are the needs of the project,” says Scott Odolphy, made environmental advisor at the Sarnia refinery. • our annual materiality review identifies Perimeter monitoring is included in the MOECC’s key issues of concern for stakeholders Fort McKay First Nation Elder Rita Roland (right) and Suncor employee Benzene Technical Standard, which came into Kim Rizzi (left) and Aboriginal communities, and includes SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 STAKEHOLDER AND ABORIGINAL RELATIONS | 93 information learned from ongoing In 2016, we built on the learnings from the group at Suncor but the work of all of us. You TABLE OF CONTENTS engagement and feedback from Suncor’s strategic environmental performance goals can learn more about how we’re working across regular multi-stakeholder forum with established in 2009 and released our first social the entire business, and giving every employee Ceres goal. Now we’re focused on implementation the opportunity to take part, on our social goal CEO’S MESSAGE of this goal, which is aspirational, bold page. and designed to challenge and stretch our Evaluating the effectiveness organization. Expanding partnerships ABOUT OUR REPORT of our engagement In 2017, Suncor was certified at a gold level in In 2017, Suncor signed two significant business Monitoring the Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business agreements with First Nations communities. In STRATEGY AND (CCAB) Progressive Aboriginal Relations (PAR) Quebec, Suncor purchased a 41% equity interest As part of our Operational Excellence GOVERNANCE program. PAR is Canada’s only certification in PetroNor, a petroleum products distributor Management System, the Stakeholder Relations program focused on best practices in Aboriginal across the James Bay and Abitibi-Témiscamingue Framework includes: relations. regions that is owned and operated by the OUR BUSINESS • guidelines and processes to ensure that James Bay Cree. engagement planning and practice The certification process includes external assessment from community members of an In Alberta, Suncor, Fort McKay First Nation and is annually reviewed and measured CLIMATE CHANGE organization’s performance in four key areas: Mikisew Cree First Nation purchased a 49% against performance metrics, and that employment, business development, community interest in Suncor’s East Tank Farm Development, those learnings are applied to future investment and community engagement. This a strategic infrastructure asset in the Wood engagement ENVIRONMENT Buffalo region. demonstrates that our approach is having • a grievance mechanism that enables an impact and contributing to advancing Both of these agreements are examples of new us to receive, investigate and respond reconciliation in Canada. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ways for business and First Nations to work to complaints from stakeholders and “The PAR program encourages companies together as partners. Aboriginal communities that may arise from direct and/or indirect impacts, to evolve and participate in the Aboriginal INNOVATION Beyond Wood Buffalo associated with Suncor’s operations business economy across Canada,” says J.P. Gladu, president and CEO, CCAB. “Suncor has Suncor has been operating in the Wood Buffalo Beyond our policies and management system, demonstrated that they are willing to put in PERFORMANCE DATA region of Alberta since 1967. We’ve been part the ongoing effectiveness of our stakeholder the effort to continue learning and growing of the community and building relationships relations activities is monitored through several in this area. They are a role model for positive for a long time. While we’ll continue to do so, APPENDICES processes, including the Aboriginal Relations and progressive Aboriginal relations and we know that we need to broaden our focus to Governance structure and SIMP. more importantly, they have a continuous our other operating areas. As we continue to improvement philosophy and focus.” implement our social goal, we’ll look to increase Results opportunities with communities and our key The way the world views energy development What we are doing partners across our operations, including though has fundamentally changed. Expectations are the work of the Suncor Energy Foundation. differently increasing, the legal and regulatory context continues to evolve and become more complex. Social goal We believe our social performance is as We’ve learned that setting goals can incent us important as our environmental and economic to look differently at how we do business and performance. work with others. It is not the work of a small SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT | 94 TABLE OF CONTENTS COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Within Suncor’s vison to be trusted stewards of valuable natural resources, opportunities for long-term solutions that benefit communities, future we have the opportunity, and responsibility, to help build a better future. generations, and our company. It also ensures we continue to understand CEO’S MESSAGE each other’s interests, issues, needs and concerns,” says Lori Hewson Since Suncor began operations in the oil sands over 50 years ago, this director, community investment and social innovation. commitment has been embodied in our work with communities across our ABOUT OUR REPORT operations, including within the efforts of the Suncor Energy Foundation. SEF’s approach has evolved over time from being primarily responsive to short-term community requests, where we were often doing things to and for communities with a philanthropic and corporate responsibility STRATEGY AND Our community investment strategy GOVERNANCE approach, to one where we are also working with and of communities, Society is facing complex challenges that are impacting the overall wellby coming together in partnership and learning for the common good being of each of us – socially, economically and environmentally. This through corporate social innovation. It is an approach that is helping to OUR BUSINESS requires innovative, sustainable solutions and contributions from all of us. support lasting change, both in communities and within Suncor. Suncor and our private, non-profit, charitable organization, the Suncor In 2017, SEF management and the SEF Board continued to evolve the Energy Foundation (SEF), are guided by a strategy focused on targeted current SEF strategy introduced in 2010. CLIMATE CHANGE investments, intended to help communities near our operations grow, thrive and become sustainable and resilient. Our strategy seeks value for “Going forward, we’re being more deliberate about focusing on the ENVIRONMENT society, and for our business, by addressing complex issues of material systems connected to three areas: Indigenous Peoples, energy future interest to Suncor. and community resilience,” says Hewson. “When we have a clear understanding of all the elements of a system – including who’s involved, SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY “Collaboration and co-creation are at the heart of our community the roles they play, and how impacts are felt – we can be more strategic investment strategy. By leveraging our strengths as an integrated energy with our investments and better ensure they support transformative and company and coming together with others, we can find and realize lasting change.” INNOVATION PERFORMANCE DATA Evolution and continuum of our work 1998 2004 2010 and beyond APPENDICES Philanthropy Corporate social Corporate social Transactional partnerships responsibility innovation Key partnerships Transformational partnerships TO COMMUNITY FOR COMMUNITY WITH COMMUNITY OF COMMUNITY all and approach SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT | 95 Our strategy in action Through the Gatherings, participants have learned about and explored TABLE OF CONTENTS the connectedness of their work, and considered community needs from a Here are some examples of the community investment strategy and systems perspective. operational model in action in 2017, and what we’ve learned: CEO’S MESSAGE “Since we began hosting the Gatherings with our partners, we’ve learned Our reserve fund: beginning to rebuild there are no easy solutions when we’re working to address complex community needs that impact us all,” says Lori Hewson. “We have to take SEF’s operational model includes a reserve fund which allows us to ABOUT OUR REPORT the time to understand what we’re working on, open ourselves up to all continue to support communities and be resilient during times of perspectives, and stay in it long enough to see the opportunities.” economic uncertainty. In 2015 and 2016, when the price of oil was low and SEF could not consider a significant degree of new funding, this reserve As work is further brought together, distinct roles – whether as funder, STRATEGY AND fund helped maintain support for strategic initiatives and partners. community partner, or thought leader – begin to fall away. GOVERNANCE With the stabilization of oil prices, SEF through contributions from Suncor, “When you start weaving together, you create a basket of knowledge. began to rebuild the reserve fund. We will continue to contribute to the That’s what the people deserve – what you put into that basket. It feeds OUR BUSINESS reserve fund on a regular basis, so investments will be available to sustain the multitude with knowledge, it feeds them with hope. And I think that’s funding to communities during future economic downturns. what we all come together for, to create that community out there that’s CLIMATE CHANGE going to benefit all peoples,” reflects Casey Eagle Speaker, a Gathering The Gathering: power in togetherness participant, member of the Blood Tribe of southern Alberta and a In April, 2017, SEF hosted its third Gathering, a two-and-a-half-day event recognized Elder in the community. ENVIRONMENT that brings together diverse community partners and thought leaders One outcome of the Gathering for Suncor and participants has been a from the public, private and non-profit sectors. The event explores powerful new way to look at the spectrum and evolution of our shared complex community needs that require collaboration to make progress SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY community work, the to-for-with-of model. Funders and community and see lasting change, and provides a forum to: partners are often in the ‘to’ or ‘for’ space, wanting to provide support • connect existing work and initiatives ‘to’ communities or clients, or ‘for’ them to address specific needs. But to INNOVATION truly tackle complex community needs and bring about lasting change all • take a system-wide view players in a system – including funders and communities – need to work in the ‘with’ and ‘of’ space, the space of co-creation and going beyond PERFORMANCE DATA • explore a variety of perspectives themselves to something much larger. • strengthen partnerships “That’s what the Gathering is all about. We don’t know exactly what APPENDICES we’ll learn each time we get together, or what the impacts may be,” says Three areas – Indigenous youth leadership, community resilience and Hewson. “But the space – and the trust we create there – gives us the time the energy future we’ll all share – were the focus of the 2017 event. to imagine the possible, step into the future, and together bring forth the The participation and perspectives of young Indigenous leaders were an world we want to see.” important part of the conversation. “I just hope the Gathering initiative really does benefit all parties. I just Collaborating on our energy future hope the youth voice is not being taken for granted to one’s own benefit, Meeting society’s energy challenges today and tomorrow is all about and actually give credit and acknowledgement where needed,” reflects making informed choices. That’s why Suncor and the SEF are investing in Cory Beaver, a Gathering participant. an evolving set of initiatives to collaborate on the energy future we’ll all share. Our goal is to leverage our strengths as an energy company and be a catalyst for an inclusive national dialogue that will enable Canada to SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT | 96 use our energy resources wisely and pave the way for a sustainable energy Success of Indigenous Peoples TABLE OF CONTENTS future. Another example of our community investment strategy in action is our Launched in 2015 with 40 Fellows, the Energy Futures Lab (EFL) is an efforts to support the success of Indigenous Peoples. We have focused Alberta-based, multi-sector collaboration designed to help shape Alberta’s on four areas – reconciliation, culture, learning and leading – and have CEO’S MESSAGE energy future and strengthen its position and reputation as a global partnered with organizations that are building networks across these energy leader. Led by The Natural Step (TNS) Canada, it’s supported four streams. Find out more below, and within our social goal focus area ABOUT OUR REPORT by four other convening organizations: the SEF, the Banff Centre, the around partnering with Aboriginal youth. Pembina Institute, and the Government of Alberta. The Fellows are exploring the question: How can Alberta’s leadership position in today’s Reconciliation Canada STRATEGY AND energy system serve as a platform for transitioning to the energy system Through our partnership with Reconciliation Canada, Suncor is learning GOVERNANCE the future needs? what reconciliation means in Canada and for our organization. As outlined in our social goal, Suncor has committed to changing the way The Fellows have identified nine innovation pathways, including radical we think and act in regards to our relationship with Aboriginal Peoples OUR BUSINESS carbon efficiency in energy production, deployment of distributed in Canada. Reconciliation is the process of understanding and coming to renewables and smart energy communities, to focus their work in the terms with our shared history in order to have a vibrant community where coming years. Check out the Energy Futures Lab website to learn more CLIMATE CHANGE all peoples achieve their full potential and have an opportunity to share in about each of the pathways and the progress that’s being made. prosperity. Another SEF-supported initiative is Engineers Without Borders Canada’s ENVIRONMENT Engineering Change Lab. Launched in 2015, the lab is a platform for Indspire individuals from across the engineering profession to come together and Our longtime work with Indspire includes support of the yearly Indspired address some of the systemic challenges that have been holding back the Youth Experience, which brings Indigenous youth from communities near SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY profession’s full potential. This includes being a platform for ongoing our operations to the Indspire Awards gala. This event enables youth innovation in the profession. to see role models, celebrate culture and learn from recipients. In 2017, INNOVATION 22 youth from communities near our operations joined Suncor team In the fall of 2017, the Energy Futures Lab and Engineering Change members in Ottawa for the gala and Indspired Youth Experience. Lab, along with Innovate Calgary, came together to host Engineering Innovation for a New Energy Future; 250 leaders in engineering, SEF also supports Indspire’s yearly National Gathering for Indigenous PERFORMANCE DATA innovation and energy explored the emerging opportunities for Education, which brings together 700-800 educators to focus on ways engineering and innovation to drive energy transition. to support Indigenous education success, and services and supports for APPENDICES educators. “We know we are in a period of energy transition. At the same time, by 2040 the world’s population is projected to increase from seven to nine billion and energy demands are expected to increase by nearly 30%as a Actua result. This is the challenge of our time. How do we increase energy supply SEF has also been a longtime supporter of Actua and its national for the world while reducing carbon intensity?” asks Mike Krayacich, vice Indigenous outreach efforts. Actua is a Canadian charitable organization president enterprise technical, Suncor and a member of the Engineering focused on preparing youth to be innovators and leaders in science, Change Lab. “This will take all forms of energy, as well as collaborative technology, engineering and math (STEM) sectors. Through Actua’s technological and social innovation. Here in Canada – with our large community-focused, multi-sector approach, they are changing Aboriginal resource base, history of innovation and highly skilled workforce – we are community engagement in innovative ways across Canada. uniquely positioned to address these challenges. Working together, there is great potential to do this.” In 2017, SEF provided additional support to expand Actua’s National Indigenous Youth in STEM (InSTEM) programming. InSTEM is a SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT | 97 customized, community-based approach to engaging First Nations, operations in the oil sands. The investment will help the WBCF continue TABLE OF CONTENTS Métis, and Inuit youth in locally and culturally relevant STEM education its collaborative work with donors, grant committees and local charities programs. These programs engage 30,000 Indigenous youth annually in to strengthen the community and enhance quality of life in the Wood over 200 communities across Canada. Buffalo region. CEO’S MESSAGE “We’re thrilled the Suncor Energy Foundation is one of our first founding Investing in social innovation partners. This generous gift puts us well on the path to achieving our $10 ABOUT OUR REPORT To further support the new skills and thinking needed to make progress million dollar fundraising target,” says Maureen Cormier Jackson WBCF on complex community challenges, SEF, in partnership with The Banff founding Chair. “We will invest the donations we receive and provide Centre, continued to support the four-week Getting to Maybe social grants to eligible community organizations using the interest earned from STRATEGY AND innovation residency program in 2017. It brings together approximately those investments. Everyone in this region will benefit from this donation GOVERNANCE 30 leaders from diverse corporate, government and community roles to for generations to come.” explore ways to make communities better places to live by looking at issues through: Calgary OUR BUSINESS Beakerhead: Suncor is a founding supporter of this arts and engineering • systems thinking collaboration established in 2013 to advance understanding of science CLIMATE CHANGE • the environment and engineering through art and culture. Besides a variety of yearround programming, Beakerhead hosts a five-day community event that • Indigenous knowledge “erupts” on the streets of Calgary every September. ENVIRONMENT • the creative process and arts, as a foundation for social innovation theory SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The program is collaboratively designed by academic experts from the Waterloo Institute for Social Innovation and Resilience at the University of Waterloo and expert faculty and thought leaders from The Banff Centre INNOVATION and SEF. “The Getting to Maybe program helped me explore how I can further PERFORMANCE DATA understand and apply Indigenous environmental knowledge to current oil sands reclamation practices,” says Christine Daly, a senior advisor in sustainability and reclamation at Suncor who participated in 2017. “I’m APPENDICES now a PhD student learning from Indigenous knowledge holders and land users in the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo, and working on a co-creation reclamation pilot project to connect the two knowledge systems.” The Serpent Mother at Beakerhead, an annual five-day Calgary event which brings together science, Local communities engineering and art to spark new collaborations and ignite imaginations. During 2017, Suncor and SEF continued to support many local initiatives in communities near our operations. This included investing as a founding partner in the Wood Buffalo Community Foundation (WBCF) as part of Suncor marking 50 years of SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT | 98 Denver Memorial University – Centre for Social Enterprise: Funding to support the TABLE OF CONTENTS first MBA in Social Enterprise and amplification of other social innovation Boys and Girls Club: As a long-time supporter, we proudly partner with initiatives. the Suncor Boys & Girls Club facility in Commerce City. This space provides young people with a safe and accessible opportunity to learn, grow and CEO’S MESSAGE develop in education and career development, character and leadership SunCares: Inspiring employee community development, health and life skills, technology, the arts, and sports fitness engagement ABOUT OUR REPORT and recreation. Edmonton STRATEGY AND Women Building Futures: Takes unemployed and underemployed women GOVERNANCE and puts them through an intense pre-trades program to empower women to succeed in non-traditional careers, inspiring positive economic change for women and forever transforming the face of industry in OUR BUSINESS Canada. CLIMATE CHANGE Mississauga The Riverwood Conservancy: The Riverwood Conservancy Leaders in Environmental Achievement through Diversity and Skills (LEADS) program ENVIRONMENT is a skills based environmental education program for secondary students grounded in the Ontario secondary school curriculum. Volunteerism and community engagement have long been part of how SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY our employees contribute to the community. Through our SunCares Montreal employee program, we support the causes that are important to Youth Fusion: If we want our youth to understand that they can be the employees in the following ways: INNOVATION future innovators in energy fields, we must start supporting them at an early age. Youth Fusion exposes youth to different careers in science, • Volunteering – providing tools and resources to help our employees technology, engineering and math, but also provides the necessary tools find volunteer opportunities, either as an individual, or as part of PERFORMANCE DATA to experiment and learn directly through a variety of mentors. a Suncor team. Employees can also track their volunteer hours and receive SunCares rewards from Suncor for every hour volunteered APPENDICES Sarnia up to $1,000 per year. These rewards can then be donated to any charity of choice Centennial Park: Sarnia’s waterfront plays an important role in bringing the community together and supporting local organizations working • SunCares rewards and grants – SEF and Suncor provide a number hard to make the community a great place to work and live. Supporting of grants to support our employees’ engagement in their the Agora gathering space in Centennial Park was our way to help bring communities, including leadership rewards for those who serve in a people together. leadership role with a non-profit organization, and bereavement, humanitarian and post-secondary matching grants St. John’s • SunCares Together we Care community giving campaign with St. John’s Native Friendship Centre: Seed funding to help this community United Way – During the 2017 campaign, more than $5 million based non-profit and registered charity serve the urban Aboriginal was raised for community organizations and United Way chapters population of St. John’s. through employee donations, special events and the corporate SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT | 99 donation provided by Suncor and SEF. Employees also volunteered TABLE OF CONTENTS nearly 55,000 hours In 2017, SEF launched a refreshed SunCares program to further support CEO’S MESSAGE employee efforts in engaging with their communities and supporting causes that are important to them. This included a new online platform to make volunteering and contributing to communities easier than ever. ABOUT OUR REPORT To encourage community engagement and use of the SunCares program, Suncor and SEF also ran a Three Things for Canada initiative in 2017. Three STRATEGY AND Things for Canada challenged Canadians to commit to doing three things GOVERNANCE for their community in 2017 in recognition of the 150th anniversary of Canada’s Confederation. Suncor employees in all regions were invited to share their three things for community. For sharing, employees were OUR BUSINESS given $150 SunCares reward dollars they could donate to any charities of Event supporting our Canadian athletes achieve their dreams during the Olympic and Paralympic Games. their choice. Over 1,300 employees participated and helped distribute an additional $200,000 to communities in 2017. CLIMATE CHANGE Canadian Olympic and Paralympic Games ENVIRONMENT support Through our Petro-Canada brand, we are a long-time supporter of the SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Canadian Olympic and Paralympic movement. Our current sponsorship agreement extends our support for Canadian Olympic and Paralympic athletes, coaches and their families through to 2024. INNOVATION Our involvement in the Canadian Olympic movement is a journey that began in 1987, when Petro-Canada organized and sponsored the Torch PERFORMANCE DATA Relay for the 1988 Olympic Winter Games in Calgary. We are proud to continue our support of the Canadian Olympic and Paralympic Teams and the Coaching Association of Canada. APPENDICES Petro-Canada’s Fuelling Athlete and Coaching Excellence (FACETM) Program has supported more than 3,000 athletes on their way to the Olympic and Paralympic Games. Every year, 55 promising athletes from across Canada are awarded a $10,000 FACE grant, shared with their coaches, to help them along their journey. We believe one of the best ways to support Canadian athletes is to help their biggest fans – their families. We continue to support a Canadian ticketing program that will help ensure family members have the opportunity to see their athletes compete live at the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Tokyo in 2020. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 SOCIAL GOAL | 100 TABLE OF CONTENTS SOCIAL GOAL Our relationship with Aboriginal communities over Strengthening relationships CEO’S MESSAGE the past 40 years has been a journey. We know that We can do more to learn about the history and experiences of Aboriginal earning the trust and support of Aboriginal Peoples Peoples, so that we can better understand one another and change the way we think and act. ABOUT OUR REPORT and communities is foundational to our business. Partnering with Aboriginal youth STRATEGY AND Developing Aboriginal youth leadership potential through meaningful GOVERNANCE connections within and outside of Suncor. Partnering with Aboriginal businesses OUR BUSINESS Increasing revenues to Aboriginal businesses and communities through mutually beneficial marketing arrangements and procurement of CLIMATE CHANGE materials and services. Improving Aboriginal workforce development ENVIRONMENT Focused efforts on hiring, retention and advancement of Aboriginal employees across our business. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY There is much we can learn from Aboriginal Peoples and communities. By listening and being willing to learn from one another, we can uncover INNOVATION mutual interests and build authentic relationships. We know there is still work to be done, and we are making progress. PERFORMANCE DATA Many initiatives are underway to embed our approach to Aboriginal relations across all areas of our business. In 2016 we announced a social goal as part of our larger sustainability goals. APPENDICES The social goal is a declaration of our intent to do things differently – to choose a new path that focuses on strengthening relationships with Aboriginal Peoples and communities. For us, that path is about working together and creating more opportunities for greater involvement in the energy industry, so that the social and economic benefits from Canada’s resources are shared more fully. The goal outlines four areas to focus on through 2025 and beyond, where we can work together to advance greater participation of Aboriginal Peoples and communities in energy development. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 STRENGTHENING RELATIONSHIPS | 101 TABLE OF CONTENTS STRENGTHENING RELATIONSHIPS Strengthen relationships among Aboriginal Peoples By the end of 2017, close to 5,000 employees had completed Aboriginal awareness web-based training. CEO’S MESSAGE and all Canadians, starting within Suncor After requests from Suncor employees and a number of community We can do more to learn about the history and experiences of Aboriginal partners who wanted to be able to share the training within their ABOUT OUR REPORT Peoples, so that we can better understand one another and change the organizations, the web-based training module was made broadly available way we think and act. (free of charge) on suncor.com in the spring of 2017. STRATEGY AND We commit to providing our employees with more training and also more We also offer a more comprehensive classroom session for employees that GOVERNANCE opportunities to participate in cultural experiences. We aim to measure expands on the awareness created through the web-based training. It changes in understanding and behaviours – within Suncor and through builds understanding about the historic and current relationship between the work of the Suncor Energy Foundation’s key partners, like Indspire, OUR BUSINESS Aboriginal Peoples and all Canadians through storytelling and meaningful Bridges Social Development and Reconciliation Canada. discussion. In 2017, close to 200 employees completed classroom training. CLIMATE CHANGE Supporting initiatives Employees who’ve taken the training have given some great feedback. Here are just a few samples of what they said: Strengthening relationships is something that is a priority at Suncor, and we have designed many supporting initiatives to enable our employees • “From the bottom of my heart I thank you for today, and I would ENVIRONMENT along the way. We’re focusing on four key areas: ask where I can get more information…As I sat at supper tonight having the conversation with my grandkids, I was thankful for 1. Increasing awareness today, knowing I can make a difference.” – Bernd Wehmeyer, Fort SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2. Building understanding McMurray 3. Shifting attitudes • “I thought it was a powerful message about the past and a INNOVATION great reminder of how far we have come in society in respect to 4. Changing behaviours acceptance of ALL peoples…for someone who has no forehand knowledge of the past atrocities our country committed against PERFORMANCE DATA Aboriginal awareness training Indigenous people it’s a great educational piece…one of the best courses I have taken in my tenure here. Great work by all involved!” Aboriginal awareness training is a key way we’re enabling every employee APPENDICES – Ryan Miller, Fort McMurray at Suncor to learn more about the history and experience of Aboriginal Peoples in Canada. • ”Thank you for holding such a great learning opportunity for the people at the Sarnia Refinery. It was so interesting, meaningful and Since 2015, Suncor has offered a web-based training module to ensure sparked a lot of great conversation.” – Penny Mcachern, Sarnia every employee can have a basic level of awareness about the history and experiences of Aboriginal Peoples. We developed our training with input and guidance from partners such as Reconciliation Canada and our own Aboriginal employees. The training features their stories and perspectives, which has made the information and messages more relatable. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 STRENGTHENING RELATIONSHIPS | 102 profoundly. Thanks so much for putting this on for us.” Angela Butler, TABLE OF CONTENTS vice president and controller, Suncor; cultural experience participant. Learning together CEO’S MESSAGE Suncor recently had the opportunity to host a group of Aboriginal youth from the Siksika Nation at our office in Calgary. ABOUT OUR REPORT The students were each paired up with a Suncor employee from the Aboriginal Employee Network. They spent the day learning from each STRATEGY AND other. The Siksika youth shared details about living in a First Nation GOVERNANCE community, and Suncor team members reflected on what it takes to be part of the Suncor team. For some of the youth, it was the first time they’d ever been to the city centre or in a high-rise office building. OUR BUSINESS Aboriginal Employee Network Suncor’s Aboriginal Employee Network (AEN) is our employee resource “The day was perfect, the people were amazing and the vast options were group that supports advancing Aboriginal inclusion at Suncor. The spot on. Also, the guides answered everything perfectly,” reflects Dallas CLIMATE CHANGE network is structured around four focus areas, called circles. Dick, a member of the Siksika Nation who participated in the event. The Aboriginal Awareness Circle specifically supports cross-cultural sharing This initiative was organized by Suncor’s stakeholder and Aboriginal ENVIRONMENT by increasing awareness and understanding of Aboriginal experiences relations and human resources teams in partnership with Bridges Social within Suncor. For instance, the AEN distributes a regular e-newsletter Development and the Suncor Energy Foundation. Bridges is a non-profit and shares cultural insights, maintains a page on Suncor’s intranet that organization founded for the purpose of capacity building and training SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY highlights a wide variety of topical resources (books, movies, websites, for professional and youth leaders in various communities, including First music and podcasts), and hosts lunch and learn sessions. Nation communities like Siksika. The Suncor Energy Foundation has been a supporter of Bridges since 2011. INNOVATION “I learn something new about my culture every time I’m in an AEN session. I can’t express how good it makes me feel as an Aboriginal. Much “The experience was very rewarding for me personally. I really have better than when I was younger and tried to hide who I was. I’ve spoken a passion for talking to people who want to get into the industry. It’s PERFORMANCE DATA more about my heritage this year than I did in my previous 33 years great to have one-on-one discussions with Aboriginal youth and show at the company, including sharing my story with my fellow managers them things they have never seen before. The job of leaders is to create and leaders.” Darcy Venne, member of the Muskeg Lake Cree Nation; more leaders,” says Dwayne McLeod, a member of the Upstream team at APPENDICES manager of technical services, Suncor. Suncor. Experiential learning opportunities Measuring our progress We are creating opportunities for employees across Suncor to We’re measuring relationship building in a number of ways along the participate in cultural learning experiences. These experiences enable journey. Internally, we’re measuring awareness building and changing direct engagement and cultural exchange between Aboriginal and attitudes through the number of participants attending the online and non-Aboriginal people. Examples include participating in community classroom-based Aboriginal awareness training, as well as conducting pre events, such as Treaty Days and Powwows, hosting events internally or and post-surveys. We’re also starting to use developmental evaluation volunteering for specific initiatives. frameworks to assess the effectiveness of our work, to look for shifts in perception, attitudes and behaviours, as well as identify emerging “This was an exceptional program that changed my perspective opportunities. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 PARTNERING WITH ABORIGINAL YOUTH | 103 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT PARTNERING WITH ABORIGINAL YOUTH SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Partnering with Aboriginal youth to develop their • Bridges Social Development Works with Aboriginal youth in southern Alberta to find their leadership potential. purpose and voice while developing community leadership Our partners and youth have taught us that organizations and programs opportunities INNOVATION rooted in culture and reconciliation lead to pride in self, culture and • Actua create a path towards success. Today’s youth are tomorrow’s leaders – Inspires youth in Aboriginal communities across Canada to see PERFORMANCE DATA that’s why we’re focused on building stronger connections with Aboriginal science, technology and math as a potential career path by using youth. connection to culture and communities APPENDICES Through the Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF), we are supporting our • Indspire partner organizations working towards innovative solutions for Aboriginal Provides opportunity for Suncor to invite Aboriginal students from communities, such as youth engagement, cultural opportunities and our operating communities to the Indspire Awards and meet the leadership/education programs to provide pathways towards a successful inspiring award recipients for a life-changing experience future. • Learning Through the Arts Supporting initiatives Works with Aboriginal students in the Wood Buffalo region to use arts and culture as tools to understand curriculum and has It starts with partners who share our vision. Through the SEF funding significantly improved graduation rates in the region strategy, we believe we can be a catalyst, working with others, and connecting and supporting our communities. Some partners leading change in our community include: SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 PARTNERING WITH ABORIGINAL YOUTH | 104 “During our time together we have seen the youth shine as they TABLE OF CONTENTS influenced positive change in their communities and gained new competencies to supplement their leadership practices,” says Alexia McKinnon, associate director of Indigenous leadership at the Banff Centre. CEO’S MESSAGE “These youth are the strength of their community and are inspiring others to create a new collective story of empowerment.” ABOUT OUR REPORT Measuring our progress In 2017, we measured year-over-year increases in two areas: STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE 1. The number of opportunities for youth leadership training and experiences OUR BUSINESS 2. The number of opportunities for Suncor employee and youth interactions CLIMATE CHANGE Supporting development of future Aboriginal In 2018, we are re-evaluating our measurements to ensure we are driving leaders positive outcomes with respect to supporting Aboriginal youth leadership potential. Future years may include further use of story-telling, to Suncor has been supporting the Indigenous Leadership and Management ENVIRONMENT demonstrate how we are supporting the progress of Aboriginal youth. programs at the Banff Centre since 2002. The programs cover subject matter such as governance, negotiation and planning. We’ll continue to measure much of this work through our engagement SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY with our SEF transformative community partners. We also continue work In 2017, Suncor provided funding for several members of the Stoney/ with our own employees through the Aboriginal Employee Network Nakoda Youth Council to attend Indigenous Leadership and Management (AEN). programs. The Stoney/Nakoda First Nation is located in Morley, Alberta, 60 INNOVATION kilometres west of Calgary and includes members of the Bearspaw, Chiniki In 2017, the AEN’s Outreach Circle developed an AEN ambassador and Wesley Nations. The Stoney/Nakoda Youth Council was founded in program. The program is designed to create meaningful interactions PERFORMANCE DATA 2014, with a goal of revitalizing culture and bridging the gap between between ambassadors representing a broad cross-section of our youth and Elders. Aboriginal employees and youth in schools and communities. “Suncor Energy Foundation has supported me greatly in building my APPENDICES capacity as a Nakoda youth leader to be a recipient of the Banff Centre Certificate of Indigenous Leadership, Governance, and Management Excellence,” reflects participant and Stoney/Nakoda Youth Council member Daryl Kootenay. “With the knowledge, skills, and support received, I feel more confident now than ever in being a provider for my family, community, and Nations as my ancestors did.” The Banff Centre has also learned from the involvement of Stoney/Nakoda Youth Council members in the program. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 PARTNERING WITH ABORIGINAL BUSINESSES AND COMMUNITIES | 105 TABLE OF CONTENTS PARTNERING WITH ABORIGINAL BUSINESSES AND COMMUNITIES CEO’S MESSAGE Increase revenue to Aboriginal businesses and Working with Aboriginal businesses and communities is good business for Suncor, and it is one thing Suncor can do to contribute to economic communities. ABOUT OUR REPORT reconciliation with Aboriginal Canadians. This is aligned to the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP) and Increasing marketing arrangements the Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s Call to Action for corporate STRATEGY AND Canada. Over the last several years, we have successfully grown relationships GOVERNANCE and expanded business development opportunities with Aboriginal communities through Suncor’s downstream business. Community partnerships OUR BUSINESS Suncor signed two significant business partnerships with First Nation These mutually beneficial business relationships between Suncor and Aboriginal communities leverage our Petro-Canada brand and communities in 2017. The signing of these agreements is the result of communities’ goals for economic development. During 2017, three new many years of hard work and discussions to understand and identify CLIMATE CHANGE retail sites opened. There are now 26 Petro-Canada branded retail sites areas of mutual interest. Through this process, we’ve developed greater owned or leased by First Nations across Canada. understanding and trust – and we worked collaboratively to achieve this. This demonstrates a very positive evolution in our long-term relationships ENVIRONMENT In the next 10 years, we want to expand these efforts and increase our and new ways that we are working together with communities. business with Aboriginal communities because it makes good economic sense – for Suncor and for Aboriginal Peoples across Canada. PetroNor SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY On November 2, 2017 Suncor purchased a 41% equity interest in PetroNor, Increase Aboriginal supplier-spend a petroleum products distributor across the James Bay and AbitibiINNOVATION Suncor has a long history of working with Aboriginal suppliers and Témiscamingue regions of Quebec. Owned and operated by the James Bay communities, particularly in the Wood Buffalo region. Cree, PetroNor services commercial, industrial, aviation and mining and residential clients. PetroNor’s technical expertise and logistics capabilities PERFORMANCE DATA In 2017 Suncor spent $521 million with Aboriginal suppliers across Canada, have helped them support the unique and specialized needs of northern and we have spent approximately $4.0 billion with Aboriginal suppliers customers and communities for many years. since 1999. This includes both direct spend and indirect spend where nonAPPENDICES Aboriginal suppliers sub-contract to Aboriginal suppliers. “This announcement clearly shows that we are integral players in business and we have the ability and means to build strong relationships,” says Ted Suncor defines an Aboriginal business as a company owned and operated, Moses, president, PetroNor. “We believe Suncor’s continued willingness either wholly or in part (i.e., ≥ 51%) by an Aboriginal community or to forge a long-term business relationship with the James Bay Cree entrepreneur. This is in line with the Canadian Council of Aboriginal demonstrates a shared belief in the long-term growth opportunities for Business (CCAB) and Northeastern Alberta Aboriginal Business Association PetroNor and the northwestern regions of Quebec.” (NAABA) definitions. As part of the agreement, under our Petro-Canada brand, we will We want to apply what we’ve learned over the last 20 years more continue to exclusively supply PetroNor with fuel and distillate from our consistently across our businesses, so that more Aboriginal entrepreneurs Montreal refinery to the northwest Quebec region. We will also work and communities have the opportunity to participate in and benefit from collaboratively with PetroNor to pursue additional opportunities in our operations. northwestern Quebec to better serve customers in the region. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 PARTNERING WITH ABORIGINAL BUSINESSES AND COMMUNITIES | 106 East Tank Farm Development Read more about what the partnership has meant for MCFN in a letter TABLE OF CONTENTS from Chief Waquan. Planning for long-term relationships CEO’S MESSAGE Joint Business Development Plans (JBDPs) with key communities in the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo have been developed. The JBDPs ABOUT OUR REPORT provide structure on how we work together and collectively focus on key objectives. These plans include annual work plans that help Aboriginal communities to direct efforts where there is a possibility to increase STRATEGY AND business and help Suncor to track suppliers’ capabilities. GOVERNANCE Sustaining opportunities OUR BUSINESS Relationships are essential to advancing business opportunities. At a signing ceremony on November 22, 2017 Suncor, Fort McKay First Meaningful participation requires the ability to understand each other’s Nation (FMFN) and Mikisew Cree First Nation (MCFN) announced the motivations, strengths and limitations. It can also require the willingness CLIMATE CHANGE completion of the acquisition by FMFN and MCFN of a 49% interest in to have challenging conversations in an authentic and respectful way. Suncor’s East Tank Farm Development (ETF-D). Suncor believes this kind of dialogue is important to having long-term, mutually beneficial relationships. ENVIRONMENT The ETF-D, part of the larger East Tank Farm, provides a hub for receiving, storing, cooling, blending and shipping bitumen to market on behalf of Our approach focuses on listening, being transparent and honest about the Fort Hills partners. FMFN and MCFN financed the acquisition through the opportunities that exist, and being fair and firm when explaining SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY a bond offering. decisions – no matter the outcome. “The deal represents the largest business investment to date by a First Christina River Enterprises (CRE), the business entity of the Fort McMurray INNOVATION Nation entity in Canada, and not only demonstrates the great potential #468 First Nation, is one example of a long-term business partnership. for partnerships between First Nations and industry but serves as a model Chief executive officer Samantha Whalen reflects: “2017 was a year we for how First Nations can achieve greater self-determination through experienced significant growth with Suncor and we are optimistic with PERFORMANCE DATA financial independence,” says FMFN Chief Jim Boucher. “It is an example the future outlook for Fort McMurray #468 First Nation and CRE. We of how First Nations and natural resource development companies can value working with Suncor Energy, who we believe is a leader on building find ways to support each other for the mutual long-term benefits.” bridges for local Aboriginal communities.” APPENDICES This agreement is one of the largest in size and scale for the First Nations While we monitor our supply chain spending and want to continue to and Suncor, and is an important, historic new way for business and First grow our work with Aboriginal businesses, we are also mindful that Nations to work together as partners. The investment will provide a steady it must be done in the right way. We will continue to be commercially stream of revenue to both FMFN and MCFN for at least 25 years. responsible and ensure agreements are of benefit to all parties involved, and not simply focused on achieving a set dollar value or target. Suncor’s “The economic benefits generated from this deal will help our Nation engagement with Aboriginal suppliers is part of the way we do business to build capacity within our businesses, develop infrastructure in our for procurement opportunities across Canada. community, fund social economic programs, and provide us with the means to help pay for education and training for our youth, and will be felt in our community for generations to come,” says MCFN Chief Archie Waquan. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 IMPROVING ABORIGINAL WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT | 107 TABLE OF CONTENTS IMPROVING ABORIGINAL WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT CEO’S MESSAGE We’re improving Aboriginal workforce development through hiring, Indigenous Works) which focused on how to strengthen attraction activities and encourage retention and advancement of Aboriginal employees across our ABOUT OUR REPORT Aboriginal candidates. businesses. In addition, leaders at Fort Hills who were STRATEGY AND hiring candidates were given training to build GOVERNANCE their awareness of how unconscious bias can impact decisions around hiring. By taking a deliberate, focused approach on Aboriginal OUR BUSINESS recruitment and hiring, a total of 33 Aboriginal employees were hired in 2017 to work in Fort Hills. This is 6% of the total number of hires at CLIMATE CHANGE Fort Hills in 2017. ENVIRONMENT Summer Aboriginal Student Program The Summer Aboriginal Student Program (SASP) SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY supports our social goal of building greater mutual trust and respect with Aboriginal Peoples in Canada and aligns with our belief INNOVATION that today’s youth are tomorrow’s leaders. This program offers Aboriginal students an opportunity to gain valuable work experience PERFORMANCE DATA at one of our locations. It is open to Aboriginal students who are starting or returning to a APPENDICES post-secondary program on a full-time basis in Our focus on advancing Aboriginal workforce Supporting initiatives September. participation is strengthened by the numerous collaborative partnerships and relationships we Fort Hills workforce strategy The SASP experienced an increase in the continue to build with Aboriginal communities, Significant hiring took place in 2017 to recruit number of roles in 2017 – going from eight leaders and teams within Suncor, and external and prepare a workforce to safely, reliably summer positions in 2016 to 17 in 2017. stakeholder groups and agencies who share and in an environmentally responsible way, Through the fall of 2017, Suncor leaders and similar goals. We are pleased to share a number start up and operate Alberta’s newest oil sands teams continued to express increasing interest of successes experienced as a result of these asset – Fort Hills. One consideration in the Fort in the program and a significantly expanded relationships. Hills workforce strategy was recommendations program will unfold in future years. provided to Suncor in 2015 by the Aboriginal Human Resource Council (now called SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 IMPROVING ABORIGINAL WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT | 108 “My experience in the Summer Aboriginal recruitment standards and offering help focus areas being advanced by small work TABLE OF CONTENTS Student Program was extremely positive. It to strengthen resumes and cover letters, teams called Circles. Each Circle has five to really helped me confirm that engineering is as well as help people become more eight members from across Suncor’s businesses what I want to pursue as a career. It was really comfortable with video interviews. who meet regularly to develop programs and CEO’S MESSAGE helpful to be able to discuss the experience initiatives: • Works closely with Suncor’s talent with other students in the program. It was also acquisition team to ensure job postings • Aboriginal Community Circle really beneficial to network and meet new ABOUT OUR REPORT are sent to communities on a weekly Build a community of support for people.” Paul Fleet, engineering co-op student basis, and Suncor is aware of Aboriginal Aboriginal employees at Suncor community sponsored job/career-related Aboriginal workforce development • Aboriginal Outreach Circle STRATEGY AND events. GOVERNANCE advisor Develop a pool of Suncor ambassadors to In 2017, just over 3% of Suncor’s workforce self• Shares information with communities visit Aboriginal communities, with a focus identified as Aboriginal, a small increase over on Suncor-sponsored training and preon youth OUR BUSINESS 2016. We aim to do more to achieve our goal employment programs (e.g., Women • Aboriginal Advisory Circle of increasing the participation of Aboriginal Building Futures). Create a way for Aboriginal employees to Peoples in Suncor’s workforce. CLIMATE CHANGE • Engages with other Aboriginal workforce advise Suncor on how the company works To support this important work, Suncor stakeholders in the Wood Buffalo region with Aboriginal Peoples created the role of an Aboriginal workforce to identify where Aboriginal employment ENVIRONMENT • Aboriginal Awareness Circle development advisor. Based in Fort McMurray, opportunities exist and how to develop To increase awareness and understanding our advisor is focused on working with an Aboriginal labour force that aligns to within Suncor of Aboriginal experiences First Nation communities in the Regional labour market demand. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Municipality of Wood Buffalo (RMWB) and with This position also acts as an internal advisor to Aboriginal skills and employment training (SET) Suncor leaders and teams, providing advice, holders in the RMWB and Edmonton areas. INNOVATION support, information, analysis and wisdom Specifically, our advisor: to help Suncor drive increased Aboriginal • Engages with and supports communities workforce participation and Aboriginal PERFORMANCE DATA inclusion in our people processes and programs. to help Suncor understand the employability, needs, interests and barriers to employment of Aboriginal Aboriginal Employee Network APPENDICES Peoples in the areas where we operate. The Aboriginal Employee Network is an employee resource group developed by and • Shares information on Suncor’s current for Suncor employees wanting to play a part and future workforce needs, the in advancing Aboriginal inclusion and creating recruitment process and the skills and a safe and supportive workplace culture for training required for roles. In 2017, the Aboriginal employees. The network has grown advisor and Suncor recruiters spent a to over 600 Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal day in Fort McKay, providing a workshop members since its launch in the summer of on Suncor’s hiring requirements and 2015. The network is structured around four TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT INNOVATION STRATEGY AND Suncor pioneered oil sands development. Our early investments in GOVERNANCE technology helped unlock the potential of the oil sands by improving reliability and performance, expanding productivity and driving down costs while reducing our environmental footprint. Today, new OUR BUSINESS technologies and innovative thinking remain fundamental to how we do business. CLIMATE CHANGE Our approach to technology and innovation......... 110 ENVIRONMENT In situ technologies................................................... 113 Mining technologies................................................. 117 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Upgrading and refining technologies..................... 119 INNOVATION Reclamation technologies........................................ 120 Digitization................................................................ 121 PERFORMANCE DATA Collaboration............................................................. 122 APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 OUR APPROACH TO TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION | 110 TABLE OF CONTENTS OUR APPROACH TO TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION CEO’S MESSAGE Suncor pioneered oil sands development. Our early investments in • $1.4 billion spent to develop technologies ($188 million in 2017) technology helped unlock the potential of the oil sands by improving ABOUT OUR REPORT reliability and performance, expanding productivity and driving down • 308 current, active projects (99 obtained costs while reducing our environmental footprint. for 2017) STRATEGY AND • $545 million cost for current projects in GOVERNANCE Today, new technologies and innovative technology in areas such as improved data, progress ($188 million in 2017) thinking remain fundamental to how we advanced analytics and automation to help do business. We take a balanced approach improve the safety, productivity, reliability and • Suncor being the lead for several OUR BUSINESS to technology development, focusing on environmental performance of our operations. projects, including the Water Technology continuous improvement technology (stepDevelopment Centre change improvements in existing processes) CLIMATE CHANGE Collaboration in technology and strategic technology (game-changing, • Suncor participating as a COSIA member disruptive). In 2017, we invested approximately In some cases, we aggressively lead company in the NRG COSIA Carbon $350 million in technology development and development and deployment of new XPRIZE ENVIRONMENT deployment as part of a robust technology technologies on our own. In most areas, however, we collaborate through consortiums • In 2017, Suncor leading 61 COSIA studies strategy to optimize current assets and develop or with third parties. Collaboration is a key and Joint Industry Projects SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY next-generation facilities. enabler to the oil sands industry’s efforts to Our technology development efforts largely develop and deploy new technologies. Evok Innovations focus on four areas with specific outcome INNOVATION areas in environmental impacts and cost COSIA Suncor is a co-founder of Evok management: Suncor leads or participates in several Innovations, along with the BC PERFORMANCE DATA 1. In situ technology studies and projects through Cleantech CEO Alliance and Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA), 2. Mining and tailings Cenovus Energy to accelerate APPENDICES an alliance of companies representing 90% 3. Upgrading and refining of oil sands production. By focusing on four early-stage technologies. environmental priority areas – greenhouse Evok brings together British Columbia’s clean 4. Closure gases, land, tailings, and water – COSIA brings tech industry and Alberta’s oil and gas sector people together to face specific environmental to advance new technologies directed at Digitization challenges in an attempt to shorten innovation environmental and economic improvements for timelines across the oil sands industry. To date, We’re already extensively using information the oil and gas value chain. COSIA efforts have involved: technology in our business but the increasingly Launched in 2016, Evok is a fund that offers digital world brings new and exciting • 981 contributed technologies (45 innovators mentorship and access to capital opportunities. As part of our approach obtained in 2017) to progress development of pre-commercial to innovation, we are harnessing digital technologies. An important feature of Evok SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 OUR APPROACH TO TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION | 111 is the access provided to the end customers • Syzygy Plasmonics commercialization of technology and TABLE OF CONTENTS (Suncor and Cenovus) at an early stage in the Develops chemical reactors to provide innovation. life of the start-up companies. a low-cost, low-emission hydrogen production system for light and heavy-duty In 2016 and 2017, Evok funded 10 technology Strategic investments and CEO’S MESSAGE transportation companies: partnerships ABOUT OUR REPORT • DarkVision Clean Resource Innovation Suncor also monitors technologies being High resolution ultrasound-based imaging developed by external parties to determine Network if, and when, an investment by us could make technology that can be used within the wellbore Suncor is an active member of the Clean sense to advance a technology and adapt it STRATEGY AND Resource Innovation Network (CRIN), a group for our business. This involves funding outside GOVERNANCE • Expeto of forward-thinking oil and gas industry companies whose technology ideas align with Provides private, global and secure professionals, innovators, financiers, policy the needs of our operations or businesses. OUR BUSINESS networks for enterprise applications makers, incubators and accelerators, academics This type of technology development is and students committed to the success of the • HARBO Technologies carefully managed to ensure it provides hydrocarbon energy sector, the people and Developed the world’s smallest and lightest economic and environmental benefits to CLIMATE CHANGE communities that it touches, and a strong, containment system for marine oil spills Suncor. It is a key strategy in a world of fast carbon-competitive and diversified Canadian changing products and services. economy. • Kelvin ENVIRONMENT Industrial 3D motion intelligence and asset Examples include: CRIN accelerates the development of relationship management groundbreaking solutions by establishing • Emerald Technology Ventures SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY industry priorities and connecting innovators • Metabolik Technologies A global leader and investor in emerging within the ecosystem (researchers, investors, Bioremediation platform that enables industrial technology investments small and medium enterprises, governments, microbes to reduce the concentration of INNOVATION NGOs, other innovators) and resources • LanzaTech naphthenic acids and other components (funding, talent, labs, and facilities) to focus on A biofuels firm based in the United States found in oil sands tailings ponds world-leading environmental performance and that is advancing a proprietary gas phase PERFORMANCE DATA • Mosaic Materials cost competitiveness. This will ensure Canada’s fermentation technology to recycle waste Removing carbon dioxide and other continued prosperity with new high-skilled, gas and greenhouse gas emissions into low impurities from gases through highhigh-value jobs and produce economic diversity carbon fuels and chemicals APPENDICES efficiency metal-organic framework (MOF) through spinoffs and increased technology adsorbents exports. • Benefuel A technology commercialization company • Opus 12 As a network, CRIN is comprised of individuals that is able to process low-cost feedstocks Developing a device that recycles CO2 into and companies representing a diverse range to produce a high-quality and low-carbon cost-competitive chemicals and fuels of highly successful industrial and regional intensity biodiesel resources, capital and talent; our participants • Rotoliptic Technologies • Academic partnerships and impacts are global in nature. CRIN builds Downhole pump technology as a high Suncor is a long-time supporter of research on a long-standing Canadian innovation efficiency alternative to existing electric and program work at leading Canadian success story and positions the energy submersible pumps universities industry for further success in the 21 century st through a determined focus on accelerated SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 OUR APPROACH TO TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION | 112 TABLE OF CONTENTS TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT & DEPLOYMENT CEO’S MESSAGE DISCOVER DESIGN DEVELOP DEPLOY IN SITU DCSG (Direct Contact Steam SAGD LITE (Steam Assisted ABOUT OUR REPORT Generation) Gravity Drainage Less Intensive Technically Enhanced) Well-bore technologies Thermal-solvent technologies STRATEGY AND EASE & ESEIEH TM Non-condensable gas coinjection pilots (Firebag and GOVERNANCE Novel subsurface technologies Nsolv TM High Temperature MacKay River) Reverse Osmosis Produced Water Treatment Alternative gas co-injection Steam-solvent technologies Well-bore enhancements OUR BUSINESS Multilateral well pilot (Firebag) ES-SAGD (Expanding Solvent Steam Assisted Gravity Electric Submersible Pump Drainage) pilots CLIMATE CHANGE Optimized steam-solvent Flow control devices M-Tool pilot (Firebag) ENVIRONMENT MINING Paraf nic Froth Treatment Froth Treatment Tails (PFT) Non Aqueous Extraction Autonomous Haulage System SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (AHS) UPGRADING & REFINING Wastewater treatment Mild thermal cracker technology INNOVATION Membrane Ultra ltration RECLAMATION Demonstration Pit Lake PERFORMANCE DATA PASS (Permanent Aquatic Storage Structure) Nikanotee Fen APPENDICES LEGEND GHG (greenhouse gas) Water Land Safety Area of impact Technology name / grouping Time to implementation Operational 0-3 years 4-6 years 7-10 years 10+ years SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 IN SITU TECHNOLOGIES | 113 TABLE OF CONTENTS IN SITU TECHNOLOGIES We are using what we have learned implementing SAGD over the past 15 years to CEO’S MESSAGE progress a range of technologies that offer the potential to deliver significant improvements in ABOUT OUR REPORT the following areas: • energy usage and GHG emissions STRATEGY AND • water use and treatment GOVERNANCE • production rates and resource recovery OUR BUSINESS • land impacts • capital and operating costs CLIMATE CHANGE • product quality and value ENVIRONMENT Next generation in situ more to get the bitumen to flow, consuming Our initial piloting and simulation results of a significant amount of natural gas that these technologies indicate there is significant extraction generates greenhouse gas emissions and potential for GHG emissions reductions for Technology and innovative thinking have necessitating large amounts of water handling existing facilities (brownfield) and up to 50% SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY enabled profitable, sustainable oil sands and treatment for steam production. or more for new growth facilities (greenfield). development over the past five decades. Our In addition, we anticipate the downstream In 2016, we announced a greenhouse gas INNOVATION industry is now addressing different challenges emissions associated with refining the product goal that aims to reduce the total emissions – to decrease greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, will be reduced. These technologies may intensity of the production of our oil and water consumption and land impacts. Within deliver a lighter, lower carbon intensity petroleum products by 30% by 2030. To help PERFORMANCE DATA this context we believe the development and crude oil, resulting in less diluent required meet that goal we need to develop and deploy deployment of new technologies have key for transportation and further reducing the technologies that go beyond today’s SAGD. roles to play in the continued development and lifecycle GHG emissions for these technologies. APPENDICES growth of our oil sands production. “We are advancing a portfolio of “We believe these technologies, if successful, Suncor’s current technology for in situ would allow oil sands-derived oil to have GHG in situ technologies to lower the production, Steam Assisted Gravity Drainage intensities at or below the average North or SAGD, employs parallel pairs of horizontal carbon intensity of producing American barrel,” adds Gary. “In our view, a wells to recover the bitumen. The top well bitumen and improve the cost likely solution will be a hybrid of the many distributes steam to heat the reservoir, allowing innovative approaches and technologies we are the bitumen to flow to the lower well where it competitiveness,” says Gary currently evaluating.” can be pumped to the surface. Bunio, general manager, Oil Technology and innovation will help shape the One of the challenges of SAGD is that the Sands, strategic technology, future of energy production and consumption. reservoir is typically heated to 200°C or Upstream. We take a portfolio approach – advancing SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 IN SITU TECHNOLOGIES | 114 multiple technologies at any given time, with EASE We anticipate having results from the ESEIEHTM TABLE OF CONTENTS the understanding that not all of them will pilot in 2018 and 2019 that will allow us to Instead of using steam to heat the bitumen, be a success. The technologies profiled in this more fully evaluate the commercial potential of electromagnetic assisted solvent extraction Report on Sustainability reflect only a portion the technology. (EASE) uses electromagnetic energy in CEO’S MESSAGE of the many initiatives our teams are currently conjunction with a light solvent (like butane Concurrently with the pilot, Suncor is advancing working to understand and advance. or propane) to gently heat and mobilize the the commercial design of the EASE technology ABOUT OUR REPORT Suncor works extensively with research bitumen for production. The electromagnetic with Harris Corporation, and this work will be organizations, technology providers and heating works much like your microwave does; completed in 2018. Once the ESEIEHTM pilot universities, as well as with Suncor’s own the use of a light solvent significantly reduces is complete Suncor intends to implement the STRATEGY AND technical experts to identify, evaluate and the required operating temperatures, offering technology at a pad-scale In Situ Demonstration GOVERNANCE advance early stage technologies. Some the potential to eliminate the need for process Facility. examples of these technologies include: water and treatment, as well as reduce energy usage and GHG emissions. NSolvTM OUR BUSINESS • wellbore technologies, including flow control devices From 2013-2017, Suncor supported a pilot ESEIEHTM at our Dover lease to field test the solvent CLIMATE CHANGE • novel subsurface heating technologies While EASE is a general technology platform, extraction technology called NsolvTM. NsolvTM including electric circulating fluid and we have done specific work for over five years uses vapourized propane or butane to provide steam to advance this technology as part of the heat the same way steam does. Solvent also ENVIRONMENT Enhanced Solvent Extraction Incorporating dilutes and mobilizes the bitumen, significantly • alternative gas co-injection for SAGD Electromagnetic Heating (ESEIEHTM) field pilot reducing temperatures, and the amount of at our Dover site. heat required for the process, resulting in much • applying advanced data analytics to SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY lower GHG emissions. optimize our processes and operations The ESEIEHTM field pilot is a project supported by a consortium of Suncor, Devon Canada, If commercially successful, NsolvTM offers the INNOVATION Thermal-solvent based Nexen Energy ULC, Harris Corporation and potential for the following improvements: Emissions Reduction Alberta, and testing processes is currently underway. ESEIEHTM uses wells • 50-75% reduction in GHG emissions PERFORMANCE DATA Currently, Suncor is advancing a number of configured in horizontal pairs much like a SAGD • eliminates process water needs technologies into the piloting phase that offer operation. With the ESEIEHTM process, steam the potential for significant reductions in is replaced by electromagnetic heating and • reduces the size of surface facility APPENDICES environmental impacts while simultaneously solvent. improving the economics of in situ bitumen • ability to transport with less diluent production. Our primary focus is on the use of If commercially successful, this technology offers the potential for the following improvements: • reduction in bitumen carbon content solvents to reduce extraction temperatures and energy usage, increase productivity and the • 50-75% reduction in GHG emissions The field test with NsolvTM was completed in improvement of product quality. 2017, and Suncor and NSolvTM continue to • eliminates process water needs evaluate the results. Solvents can be used in conjunction with steam and wellbore heating technologies such as • reduces the size of surface facility EASE; determining the optimal configuration and application is a primary focus of Suncor’s • ability to transport with less diluent technology development. • reduction in bitumen carbon content SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 IN SITU TECHNOLOGIES | 115 Optimized solvent-steam hybrid is enhancing our understanding of solvent High temperature reverse TABLE OF CONTENTS containment and recovery. Suncor will be Suncor is building on its experience and demonstrating the technology at Firebag osmosis produced water background knowledge of solvent-dominated processes, which dates back to participation starting in 2018, and is currently evaluating the treatment CEO’S MESSAGE potential for commercial implementation. in experiments going back more than 20 Suncor has partnered with Devon Energy and years, to develop an optimized solvent-steam We aim to commence the commercialization Suez (formerly GE Water) to demonstrate hybrid technology to be considered for a strategy in 2018 with implementation High Temperature Reverse Osmosis (HTRO) ABOUT OUR REPORT demonstration. Unlike ES-SAGD, this process is scheduled for 2022. membranes for SAGD water treatment. predominantly solvent-based, with a relatively The project will validate the technology STRATEGY AND small fraction of steam co-injection (<15%) used for application in high-temperature SAGD GOVERNANCE to deliver additional heat to the reservoir. Direct Contact Steam conditions. If successful, the membranes could Generation (DCSG) eliminate the need to reduce the temperature Suncor is currently engaged in simulation and pressure of produced water prior to water In the Direct Contact Steam Generation (DCSG) OUR BUSINESS and optimization activities, and expects to treatment. process, wastewater comes in direct contact be able to make a decision on whether or with the products of oxy-fuel combustion. This A high temperature membrane plant could not to advance this technology to a piloting/ CLIMATE CHANGE creates a mixture of steam and carbon dioxide reduce the energy required and infrastructure demonstration phase in 2018. which replaces the need for steam generated for the SAGD water treatment process. The using the conventional boiler technology, technology could reduce greenhouse gas ENVIRONMENT Steam-solvent technologies called once-through steam generators. Suncor emissions by 5 to10%, compared to a typical The combination of steam and solvent offers has been progressing this technology with SAGD baseline facility. In addition, for new potential for achieving significant GHG CanmetENERGY on the design of the pilot. builds, the technology could reduce capital SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY reductions, and Suncor continues to advance costs compared to conventional SAGD water In 2017, Suncor undertook a pilot project at these technologies through simulation, piloting treatment facilities. MacKay River to co-inject CO2 with steam and demonstration. There is a wide variety of INNOVATION and continues to evaluate the results. This Suncor and the project partners aim to solvents, concentrations and other variables process has the potential to reduce greenhouse complete prototype testing in 2019, with to consider, and the optimal technology will gas emissions and water requirements as the potential to advance to a field pilot depend on a combination of factors. PERFORMANCE DATA well as reduce the required equipment and demonstration in 2020 with completion One of the technologies we are currently land requirement by removing the need anticipated in 2021. advancing is ES-SAGD. for an OTSG. Suncor continues to evaluate APPENDICES this technology in collaboration with CanmetENERGY and Alberta Innovates. In Situ Demonstration ES-SAGD Facility Expanding Solvent SAGD (ES-SAGD) co-injects Suncor continues to evaluate the results of the up to 15% solvent with steam to reduce the CO2 co-injection pilot, as well as advancing the The In Situ Demonstration Facility (ISDF) will steam requirements of SAGD production. commercial design of the DCSG. It is expected be a place where we can optimize, test and The process is anticipated to reduce process that a decision on a field pilot will be made in commercialize a suite of enhanced in situ water requirements and lower greenhouse 2018. technologies. This facility will be flexible in gas emissions by 15% or greater. A key its design enabling Suncor to pilot and test component of our evaluation of this technology multiple technologies that use a combination SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 IN SITU TECHNOLOGIES | 116 of injected light hydrocarbons (butane or Wellbore enhancements improve steam efficiency. In doing so, TABLE OF CONTENTS propane), wellbore heating and/or small we are able to avoid barriers and baffles Improving the reliability of SAGD assets creates quantities of injected steam with the aim to steam and coning of steam between opportunities to be more efficient with oil to improve conventional in situ extraction wells. recovery while using less energy and water. CEO’S MESSAGE methods and environmental and economic performance. • Enhancements to Flow Control Devices Suncor has a number of wellbore enhancement known as the M-Tool further improve projects at Firebag and MacKay River that aim ABOUT OUR REPORT The first recovery technology that is expected the efficiency and reliability of the to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and lower to be deployed at the ISDF is a process that devices, and reduce costs through costs. These technologies are readily adaptable uses a solvent (such as propane or butane) in design simplification. The M-Tool is STRATEGY AND to our greenfield assets. Meadow Creek and combination with wellbore heating and/or currently being piloted at Firebag, with GOVERNANCE Lewis, where we are integrating these into our steam. encouraging preliminary results. field development plans to increase the value of The project schedule has site preparation the projects. OUR BUSINESS beginning in 2019, and we anticipate Non-condensable gas coSuncor also has a large number of wellbore construction to be completed in late 2020. injection enhancement technologies that are able to be CLIMATE CHANGE commercially viable in a one-to-four-year time Later in life, mature SAGD reservoirs exhibit SAGD LITE span. Projects include: declining production and increasing Steamto-Oil Ratio (SOR). Suncor piloted NonDuring the producing life of an oil sands ENVIRONMENT • Drilling a multilateral well at Firebag Condensable Gas (NCG) co-injection to divert reservoir, different techniques can be applied in 2018. This technology reduces the steam from aging wells to newer wells with to optimize oil production and recovery. A number of required wellheads and lower SOR. Methane is co-injected with good example of an incremental technology SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY overall footprint and in doing so reduces steam to reduce the SOR while maintaining with the potential to make a big difference sustaining drilling and completion capital. production and pressure. This technique is the addition of slight amounts of soap-like The pilot will test the performance of two reduces environmental impact by optimizing additives – surfactants – in the steam for SAGD INNOVATION producing wells through one multilateral. steam demand at our facilities while reducing production. Potentially, a reduction of SOR will energy intensity and CO2 emissions. enable more oil production with less steam • Improving the reliability to Electric generation and fluid handling requirements PERFORMANCE DATA Submersible Pumps (ESPs) in connection The pilot projects at Firebag and MacKay River resulting in lowering costs and GHG intensity. with joint industry collaboration. have shown encouraging results, prompting Unlike other ideas that are more suited to Improving the lifespan of the pumps larger technology demonstrations at both APPENDICES installation at new facilities, SAGD LITE can be will greatly improve maintenance and fields. The expanded demonstration at MacKay deployed at existing operations to reduce our reliability costs, avoid lost production River is currently in progress with Firebag current environmental footprint more quickly. and reduce GHG emissions. Through our expected to start later in 2018. partnership we are on schedule to pilot Our surfactants program at MacKay River two wells in early 2019. Suncor is also examining the use of NCG cohas been extended to a larger technology injection to improve reservoir extraction. By demonstration in 2018. Contingent to positive • Successful deployment of Flow Control increasing the reservoir pressure, heat losses results at MacKay River, we would extend this Devices (FCDs) in more than 300 of may be reduced which may decrease SOR and project to a larger project at Firebag in 2018. Suncor and industry partners wells. CO2 emissions. Controlling where steam is allocated to the reservoir allows us to improve steam conformance along the well, and greatly SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 MINING TECHNOLOGIES | 117 TABLE OF CONTENTS MINING TECHNOLOGIES Decarbonization and potentially our greenhouse gas footprint by reducing operating temperatures and simplifying our overall process. CEO’S MESSAGE Suncor is committed to developing technologies that will allow us to produce crude oil from our oil sands projects at a supply cost and with an We are currently undertaking various lab pilots utilizing solvents to prove environmental footprint (production through refining and consumption) that we can extract bitumen effectively without water and produce a dry ABOUT OUR REPORT at or below that of conventional oil. This could be achieved in part mixture of sand and clays from this process that could be returned to the through the selective decarbonization of our oil sands products. mine for reclamation. STRATEGY AND This work includes evaluating many process options to develop an optimal GOVERNANCE What does this mean? design for a demonstration pilot tentatively planned for 2019. Bitumen is a complex mixture of compounds, including heavy hydrocarbon components that require significant upgrading and refining before OUR BUSINESS Froth Treatment Tailings they can be used as gasoline, diesel, or other fuels. Upgrading refers to processes that increase the ratio of hydrogen to carbon in these heavy Bitumen production from mineable oil sands deposits consists of a number components; one way to achieve this is by rejecting a portion of the of steps aimed at improving the quality of the bitumen produced. One of CLIMATE CHANGE carbon from the bitumen. This ‘decarbonization’ could result in: these steps – called ‘froth treatment’ – uses a light hydrocarbon to help remove most of the water and minerals from bitumen froth generated in • higher value bitumen-derived crude oil while simultaneously ENVIRONMENT the extraction circuit, making the resulting diluted bitumen suitable for permanently removing carbon, sulphur and impurities from the upgrading. The water and minerals are part of a tailings stream known global fuel system as Froth Treatment Tailings (FTT). The FTT consists of water, sand, various SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • less diluent required for transportation and lower the downstream minerals and residual hydrocarbons. processing hydrogen and energy requirements resulting in lower In order to manage FTT material efficiently (both short term and long greenhouse gas emissions INNOVATION term), some of the properties of the stream need to be considered. Constituents like Rare Earth Elements (REEs) or titanium and zirconium • increasing pipeline capacity compounds could be potential revenue streams in the future. At the same PERFORMANCE DATA Decarbonization is a strategic focus area for technology development in time, environmental considerations for other constituents require detailed Suncor – reliable, less energy intensive processes will be needed to realize plans for long-term placement. the benefits. The result could be a higher value crude oil delivered at a APPENDICES Environmental performance assessment of FTT provides a strong example lower cost and with a lower environmental impact from wells to wheels. of successful industrial collaboration. Through COSIA, Suncor is actively involved in various programs to measure the impact of FTT, and develop Non-aqueous extraction mitigation strategies. Suncor is further actively looking at ways to utilize Through partnerships with equipment suppliers and research the natural bio-activity observed in the tailings containment areas to organizations such as Innotech Alberta (formerly Alberta Innovates), we manage environmental impacts of the material. are pursuing new technologies in surface mining and bitumen extraction In addition, Suncor has recognized that the presence of REEs in FTT could that could reduce or eliminate the need for water in bitumen extraction. mean that these materials could be considered a strategic resource for Currently, warm water is used to separate bitumen from the sands. If we the 21st century rather than a ‘waste’ stream. Many daily-use items (from could reduce the need for water and replace it with an alternative solvent, rechargeable batteries and magnets to welding goggles) make use of we may be able to reduce water usage, the need for tailings ponds minerals like vanadium and titanium. Research is ongoing to determine SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 MINING TECHNOLOGIES | 118 if processes can be developed that would commercially unlock the value detection systems. They also reduce interaction between people and TABLE OF CONTENTS of these elements, while at the same time improving the long-term equipment which decreases incident rates and injury potential. Trucks environmental performance of the oil sands industry. used to support Suncor’s operations are designed to operate in either an autonomous or manual mode. CEO’S MESSAGE Paraffinic Froth Treatment While Suncor is the first company in Canada to deploy the equipment, this Our Fort Hills mine uses a Paraffinic Froth Treatment (PFT) to convert technology is used commercially in mining environments across Australia, ABOUT OUR REPORT bitumen froth generated in the extraction circuit into an upgrader the United States and Chile. feedstock. In PFT, we selectively remove part of the asphaltenes (the lowvalue, heavy fraction of the mined bitumen) to create a lighter, higher STRATEGY AND quality bitumen that requires less diluent to transport by pipeline and GOVERNANCE no upgrading requirements leaves us more flexibility for downstream processing. As a result of this partial decarbonization process, our greenhouse gas emissions for the average barrel extracted at Fort Hills are OUR BUSINESS on par with the average crude refined in the United States. CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION Our Fort Hills mine uses a process called Paraffinic Froth Treatment (PFT). The bitumen product we obtain using this partial upgrading process is higher quality as we cut the bottom 10% of the barrel – which is PERFORMANCE DATA essentially composed of low value heavy asphaltene molecules and mineral solid particles – and leave it in the ground – which helps avoid the production and release of CO2 emissions from this marginal part of the barrel. APPENDICES Autonomous haulage systems (AHS) In early 2018, we announced we are proceeding with the phased implementation of autonomous haulage systems (AHS) at companyoperated mines, starting with the North Steepbank mine. Over the next six years, we expect to deploy more than 150 autonomous haul trucks in the full program, which will be one of the largest investments in electric autonomous vehicles in the world. Autonomous haul trucks operate using GPS, wireless communication and perceptive technologies. The trucks operate predictably and employ a suite of safety features like prescribed route mapping and obstacle SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 UPGRADING AND REFINING TECHNOLOGIES | 119 TABLE OF CONTENTS UPGRADING AND REFINING TECHNOLOGIES Suncor’s upgrading and refining operations provide an Wastewater treatment facility at Commerce CEO’S MESSAGE important link between our Canadian resource base City and the energy market. Many industrial processes use water, from wood and metal manufacturing ABOUT OUR REPORT to paper and food production – petroleum refining is no different. Our We process crude into high-quality refined products consumers require. Commerce City refinery uses both city water and collected groundwater We continue to look for opportunities to minimize the environmental for steam production and cooling, as well as to wash out the natural impact that results from the extraction and production of oil, and STRATEGY AND contaminants in crude oil, like salts and minerals, to prevent corrosion in manufacturing and distributing of fuels. GOVERNANCE our processing units. Mild Thermal Cracker Technology Much of this water is recycled for reuse at our facility, and the remaining OUR BUSINESS portion is treated and discharged to a local waterway, Sand Creek, Suncor uses two upgrading processes: under a permit issued by the Colorado Department of Public Health and • coking/thermal cracking which heats bitumen to the point where it Environment. CLIMATE CHANGE cracks into a vapour stream and a byproduct called coke In 2017, the Commerce City refinery operationalized a $65 million upgrade • hydrotreating where hydrogen is added to remove sulphur and to our existing wastewater treatment facility leveraging a technology ENVIRONMENT blended for shipments to refineries called membrane ultrafiltration to treat and filter the water. The facility is one of the first in North America to use this technology in treating Both processes require significant energy. We are advancing research refinery wastewater streams. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY in low temperature thermal vis breaking to examine the potential for bitumen to be upgraded to a transportable and marketable product in “Membrane ultrafiltration removes particles from wastewater down to the field. This would avoid the need for a large centralized upgrader, approximately 0.08 microns in size,” explains April Maestas, director of INNOVATION decreasing the amount of diluent required to market the product. engineering, Downstream, at Suncor. “That’s about 1,000 times smaller than the diameter of a human hair.” Lower operating temperatures have the potential to PERFORMANCE DATA Ongoing and future construction phases of the wastewater treatment decrease emissions at production and refining. facility will enable us to strive to continuously improve our environmental performance related to wastewater treatment and discharge. APPENDICES We are also evaluating the integration of a de-asphalting step as a form of decarbonization to reject asphaltenes to make an even lighter and more valuable crude product for the market. This opportunity would be the refining version of our Paraffinic Froth Treatment process used at our Fort Hills mine. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 RECLAMATION TECHNOLOGIES | 120 TABLE OF CONTENTS RECLAMATION TECHNOLOGIES We’re aggressively working to accelerate the pace Permanent Aquatic Storage Structure (PASS) CEO’S MESSAGE of progressive reclamation of disturbed land at our Built upon the processes currently used in our Tailings Reduction mining and in situ locations. Operations (TROTM), Suncor has developed Permanent Aquatic Storage Structure (PASS), a fluid tailings treatment process to significantly increase ABOUT OUR REPORT the amount of fluid tailings we can treat in a more sustainable manner. Nikanotee fen In 2013, Suncor completed construction of a three-hectare fen, named PASS combines the TROTM process with the addition of a coagulant to STRATEGY AND improve the quality of the water expressed from the treated fluid tailings. the Nikanotee (pronounced Nee-ga-no-tee; Cree word for “future”) Fen. GOVERNANCE The treatment process allows us to rapidly dewater the fluid tailings as The achievement established Suncor as one of the first companies in the world to complete reconstruction of this type of wetland. This work was the clay particles adhere to the flocculant, safely expressing most of the completed in co-operation with a number of university researchers and trapped water and providing an effective means for creating a lake that OUR BUSINESS consultants from across the continent. not only achieves our closure plan, but in an accelerated timeline. To validate this closure concept, we have constructed a Demonstration CLIMATE CHANGE Pit Lake that contains PASS treated fluid tailings that will have an aquatic cover established in 2018. The project is planned to be monitored and adaptively managed for the next 15 years. ENVIRONMENT Demonstration Pit Lake SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Demonstration Pit Lake (DPL) is part of our aquatic closure technology development program designed to ensure we can successfully reclaim mine sites. The DPL project incorporated the PASS fluid tailings treatment INNOVATION process as the first step to accelerating the process to establish a lake capable of supporting a full ecosystem of aquatic life. An aquatic cover Located at our Oil Sands Base plant near Fort McMurray, Alberta, our PERFORMANCE DATA will now be established on the treated tailings and operated in the same three-hectare fen is fed by a man-made 32-hectare watershed. The project way that is planned for the full scale closure drainage system. is the culmination of over 10 years of collaborative research. Pit lakes are a necessary part of successful closure and reclamation plans APPENDICES The University of Waterloo led the fen hydrological feasibility modelling, and are considered a best practice in mining industries around the world. in partnership with the Cumulative Environmental Management There are a number of pit lakes in Alberta that were created from former Association (CEMA). Suncor funded the design and construction of the coal mine pits which are now used for recreational fishing, swimming and fen. Along with Teck Resources and Imperial, we are funding ongoing continue to demonstrate naturally colonized fish and staging areas for research and monitoring of the constructed site. migratory birds. Research is showing that the fen (a form of wetland area that is a Throughout the DPL project, engagement with Aboriginal communities highly productive and diverse ecosystem) is remaining wet through the is a major focus. We are working to collaborate with communities on the seasonal weather cycles, water quality is good and plants are growing and research and monitoring program so we can jointly learn from each other. spreading naturally. Before construction work began, we invited Elders from a neighbouring The Nikanotee Fen is now a joint industry project, contributed by Suncor community to perform a blessing on the land that will be used to develop to other members of COSIA. the demonstration lake. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 DIGITIZATION | 121 TABLE OF CONTENTS DIGITIZATION Innovation isn’t new to us; digital technology isn’t CEO’S MESSAGE either. Suncor entered the digital space years ago, with the introduction of enterprise-wide technologies. ABOUT OUR REPORT Today, we’re increasingly harnessing digital technology capabilities to help improve the safety, productivity, reliability and environmental performance of our operations. STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Since 2017, we have been piloting robotic process automation in our corporate functions to: OUR BUSINESS • reduce repetitive manual tasks • improve the quality of our data CLIMATE CHANGE • free up valuable human capital for higher-value, more meaningful work Digital solutions are also relevant at a personal level. Wireless employee ENVIRONMENT badges were tested during planned maintenance activities in one of The next evolution of this work is to look at where it might apply in other areas of the business, including in some of our more repetitive, manual Suncor’s operating facilities in 2015 and are now being introduced at environmental, health and safety processes. other Suncor sites as a component of personal safety gear. The badges SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY transmit the employee’s location and have a panic button that can be used in an emergency. Aggregated data from the badges helps us understand Opportunities to reduce safety risks are always workforce patterns and remediate possible areas of concern. INNOVATION a priority, and remote sensing technologies are Employee and contractor personal protective gear at select upgrading providing another solution that is quick, safe and sites have been tailored to include sophisticated gas detection monitors. PERFORMANCE DATA cost-efficient. The monitors can detect hazardous levels of certain gases or solvent vapours. They also include tracking devices to assist in providing faster Drones are in use in our operations to assist with equipment inspection emergency response. APPENDICES and conduct earthworks surveying; other uses are currently being evaluated. We’ve also started connecting frontline staff to information; for example, providing tablets to maintenance and operations workers so they can Suncor is also investigating the use of advanced analytics to improve create and access information in the field, eliminating the need to travel personal and process safety as well as environmental performance. back and forth to a central location and enabling better, and immediate, Representing a broad range of solutions, advanced analytics allow for a data-based decisions that improve our operations. sophisticated mining of data that produces deeper insights into patterns and trends across our assets and workforce. As a result, we can make A more digital environment means higher quality and faster decisions, faster, more proactive decisions and system changes that can prevent and increased transparency, collaboration and efficiency. Digital solutions accidents or incidents. This increased ability to make evidence-based can also reduce costs, and many can target safety, productivity, reliability predictions is also expected to improve reliability, reduce maintenance and environmental benefits that can now be expanded across the costs and optimize facility throughput. organization. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 COLLABORATION | 122 TABLE OF CONTENTS COLLABORATION We all have a role to play in creating our We have entered into several successful • Indigenous knowledge energy future. Moving forward requires deep partnerships with ENGOs in recent years. These CEO’S MESSAGE • identifying habitat conversations – with stakeholders, governments organizations include: and industry partners, among others. And while • monitoring populations ABOUT OUR REPORT we might not always agree on everything, the Ceres conversations help us understand what we have • other aspects of caribou conservation Ceres mobilizes a network of investors, in common – a desire for energy to improve companies and public interest groups to STRATEGY AND quality of life, a healthy environment and Suncor also participated in a working group accelerate and expand adoption of sustainable GOVERNANCE vibrant communities. looking at understanding and implementing business practices and solutions to build a Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) in healthy global economy. Suncor has been a Canada. We continue to work closely with the OUR BUSINESS Environmental nonCeres member company since 2007. We have BLC on this important issue. government organizations worked closely with a diverse stakeholder group assembled by Ceres to discuss our overall (ENGO) partnerships Energy Futures Lab CLIMATE CHANGE sustainability strategy, including reporting, risk analysis and issues management. This Ceres Meeting society’s energy challenges today and We engage with a wide variety of groups stakeholder panel encouraged us to develop tomorrow is about making informed choices. and individuals to seek input. Some of the ENVIRONMENT our first set of environmental performance That’s why Suncor and the Suncor Energy relationships we form are with those who goals. In 2015, Ceres reviewed our draft Foundation (SEF) are investing in an evolving are openly critical of oil sands development. sustainability goals and provided feedback. set of initiatives to collaborate on the energy We have these conversations because we SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Most recently, Ceres reviewed and provided future we’ll all share. Our goal is to leverage think it’s important to listen and understand feedback for Suncor’s Climate Report. our strengths as an energy company and be a other perspectives and share knowledge and catalyst for an inclusive, national dialogue that insights. We find value in thinking about things INNOVATION will enable Canada to use our energy resources differently and this often leads to new ideas, Boreal Leadership Council (BLC) wisely and pave the way for a sustainable joint problem solving or different ways of BLC is composed of leading conservation energy future. PERFORMANCE DATA working with our stakeholders. groups, First Nations, resource companies and financial institutions, all of which have a stake Environment of mutual respect in the future of Canada’s boreal forest. As a APPENDICES member of the BLC, we are a signatory to the We seek to engage with ENGOs in an atmosphere of mutual respect, although this Boreal Forest Conservation Framework. We are does not mean either side is co-opted by the committed to implementing this national vision other. Our ENGO partners are free to publicly through our own sphere of activity and have criticize our company or industry as they submitted an action plan to council members see fit except on specific initiatives in which outlining our priorities and focus areas. we’ve agreed to co-operate. We, in turn, are Suncor sponsored a BLC project to look at how free to counter statements and research by Aboriginal Peoples are working to protect the ENGO partners if we know it to be contrary to woodland caribou. The review looked at tools, established facts. Simply put, both sides can Launched in 2015 with 40 Fellows, the Energy data, practices and governance structures used agree to disagree, while continuing to work Futures Lab is an Alberta-based, multi-sector by Aboriginal Peoples, including: together for the greater good. collaboration designed to help shape Alberta’s SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 COLLABORATION | 123 energy future and strengthen its position and Through the Suncor Energy Foundation, we environmental organizations and Indigenous TABLE OF CONTENTS reputation as a global energy leader. Led by have been partners with Pollution Probe and non-Indigenous communities and helps The Natural Step (TNS) Canada, it’s supported since 1998, most recently supporting Energy ensure initiatives under the Climate Leadership by four convening organizations: Exchange – an entity aimed at advancing the Plan are effective and widely supported. CEO’S MESSAGE national dialogue on Canada’s energy future. • The Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF) Pollution Probe publishes the Energy Exchange Alberta Association of Conservation Magazine twice per year, which promotes a Offsets (AACO) • Banff Centre ABOUT OUR REPORT systems-based understanding of energy issues Suncor is on the Board of the Alberta • Pembina Institute among its readers. Association of Conservation Offsets (AACO), STRATEGY AND • Government of Alberta which is a non-governmental collaboration GOVERNANCE Environmental multiamong a number of diverse entities and The Fellows are exploring the question: stakeholder working groups interests sharing an interest or expertise in the field of conservation and biodiversity. This We believe working with stakeholders to OUR BUSINESS How can Alberta’s leadership group is working on a provincial offsetting understand their environmental concerns is policy. position in today’s energy the best way to develop programs to monitor CLIMATE CHANGE system serve as a platform for the environment and to develop a better Athabasca Watershed Council understanding of environmental limits. We are transitioning to the energy system (AWC) a member of: ENVIRONMENT the future needs? The Athabasca Watershed Council is a multiWood Buffalo Environmental stakeholder, not-for-profit Watershed Planning Student Energy Association (WBEA) and Advisory Council (WPAC) that was formed SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY in August 2009. To provide timely credible Another initiative supported in the energy The WBEA is a collaboration of communities, information about the Athabasca Watershed, space is Student Energy (SE) and its interactive environmental groups, industry, governments the council works with: INNOVATION energy literacy platform. SE is a global and Aboriginal representatives that has not-for-profit organization that is helping developed and implemented an integrated • academia post-secondary students to become the and intensive program on air and terrestrial PERFORMANCE DATA next generation of leaders committed to monitoring in the region. Through the • industry transitioning the world to a sustainable Environmental Science and Monitoring • environmental and stewardship groups energy future. Their approach of engaging Division of Alberta Environment and Parks, APPENDICES all perspectives for a balanced understanding the WBEA monitors air quality in the Regional • various levels of government aligns with how we want to have the Municipality of Wood Buffalo, 24 hours a day, conversation about our energy future. 365 days a year, and shares the information • communities and citizens collected with stakeholders and the public. The AWC-WPAC actively promotes, fosters Pollution Probe respect, and plans for an ecologically healthy Pollution Probe is a national, not-for-profit Oil Sands Advisory Group (OSAG) watershed by demonstrating leadership and organization that defines environmental As a member of the OSAG, a Suncor facilitating informed decision-making to problems through research, promotes representative provides input to the provincial ensure environmental, economic and social understanding through education and presses government on the oil sands aspects of the sustainability. for practical solutions through advocacy. Alberta Climate Leadership Plan. The OSAG is composed of members from industry, SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 COLLABORATION | 124 Industry collaborations success of the hydrocarbon energy sector, TABLE OF CONTENTS the people and communities it touches, and We also participate in industry organizations a strong, carbon-competitive and diversified that work to improve the industry’s Canadian economy. environmental, social and economic CEO’S MESSAGE performance. These organizations include: Oil Sands Community Alliance (OSCA) ABOUT OUR REPORT Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) Building on the work of the predecessor Oil Sands Developers Group, the Oil Sands COSIA is an alliance of oil sands producers STRATEGY AND Community Alliance (OSCA) aims to help focused on accelerating the pace of GOVERNANCE communities in the oil sands region thrive improvement in environmental performance economically and socially. OSCA’s collaborative in Canada’s oil sands through collaborative approach facilitates engagement, builds OUR BUSINESS action and innovation. Through COSIA, relationships and creates measurable socioparticipating companies capture, develop and economic benefits in focus areas of Aboriginal share innovative approaches and best thinking communities, community well-being, CLIMATE CHANGE to improve environmental performance in infrastructure and workforce planning. the oil sands. COSIA represents 90% of oil sands production in Canada, focusing on five ENVIRONMENT environmental priority areas: Industry associations We are a member of several industry • tailings associations. There is strength in having forums SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • water for creating alignment and discussing issues. For a list of certain industry associations, please • land refer to Lobbying and Disclosure. INNOVATION • greenhouse gases Advocacy coalitions PERFORMANCE DATA • monitoring We value and advocate reaching out to diverse COSIA is accelerating innovation and stakeholders to generate constructive dialogue APPENDICES environmental performance through a about energy development. In 2013, we joined continued focus on collaboration and the Resource Works multi-stakeholder coalition transparent exchange. to encourage broad dialogue on energy and resource development in Canada. Through this partnership, we hope to encourage Canadians Clean Resource Innovation Network to learn more about the value the resource (CRIN) sector brings to their daily lives and the The Clean Resource Innovation Network (CRIN) Canadian economy. is a group of forward-thinking oil and gas industry professionals, innovators, financiers, policy makers, incubators and accelerators, academics and students committed to the TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE DATA Our sustainability performance data provides annual (January 1 to December 31) operational, environmental, economic, health and safety, CLIMATE CHANGE and workforce data for 2017, with five-year performance trends where possible. ENVIRONMENT We’ve prepared our report in accordance to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core Option, with additional use of their Oil and Gas Sector Disclosures. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental performance indicators reflect assets operated by Suncor only, unless otherwise stated. Economic metrics are reported in a manner INNOVATION consistent with our 2017 Annual Report. Any data point that is accompanied by the (A) symbol has been PERFORMANCE DATA independently reviewed and assured by Ernst & Young LLP. APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 PERFORMANCE DATA | 126 TABLE OF CONTENTS PERFORMANCE DATA Company-wide performance is presented in the table below. More detailed business segment or facility level performance data, and explanatory notes CEO’S MESSAGE which detail methodology, boundary conditions, restatements, changes or definitions is also available: • Ernst & Young LLP Independent Assurance Statement in Appendix B ABOUT OUR REPORT • All performance data GRI STRATEGY AND Indicators Suncor (company totals)* 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Standards GOVERNANCE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE4 Total upstream and downstream production OG1 49.79 45.38 48.24 44.71 48.53 (A) million m3/yr OUR BUSINESS Upstream processed volumes and net production OG1 186.64 162.03 171.63 152.40 171.21 (A) million BOE/yr Upstream processed volumes and net production OG1 29.67 25.75 27.29 24.23 27.22 (A) CLIMATE CHANGE million m3 OE/yr Downstream net production OG1 27.35 27.16 27.62 27.23 27.98 (A) million m3 refined product/yr ENVIRONMENT Ethanol production OG1 414.98 412.45 417.91 414.39 407.80 million litres of ethanol product/yr Wind energy generated OG3 326,953 320,720 313,283 106,912 76,589 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MWh Ethanol blended into gasoline 828 1,000 1,027 1,135 1,117 thousand m3 INNOVATION Sulphur content of gasoline 22.70 18.70 15.70 15.30 16.20 ppm GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) AND ENERGY5, 6 PERFORMANCE DATA GHG emissions 305-1 20,535 20,468 20,480 18,739 19,874 (A) thousand tonnes CO2e 305-2 GHG emissions intensity 305-4 0.41 0.45 0.42 0.42 0.41 (A) APPENDICES tonnes CO2e/m3 OE production Indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 305-3 1,628 1,466 1,549 1,623 1,303 thousand tonnes CO2e Energy use 302-1 299.3 304.3 310.4 285.8 302.0 million GJ 302-2 Direct energy use 302-1 291.0 296.0 301.0 276.0 287.9 million GJ Indirect energy use 302-2 8.37 8.24 9.78 10.02 14.08 million GJ Energy intensity 302-3 6.01 6.70 6.44 6.39 6.22 GJ/m3 production * Please refer to the corresponding notes in Appendix A for additional notes about the performance data. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 PERFORMANCE DATA | 127 GRI Indicators Suncor (company totals)* 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 TABLE OF CONTENTS Standards AIR EMISSIONS7 SO2 emissions 305-7 23.20 23.10 18.40 21.10 20.51 CEO’S MESSAGE thousand tonnes SO2 emissions intensity 305-7 0.47 0.51 0.38 0.47 0.42 kilograms/m3 production ABOUT OUR REPORT NOx emissions 305-7 33.30 27.80 27.90 24.90 26.64 thousand tonnes NOx emissions intensity 305-7 0.67 0.61 0.58 0.56 0.55 STRATEGY AND kilograms/m3 production GOVERNANCE 305-7 13.40 17.50 21.10 19.50 VOC emissions 24.44 thousand tonnes VOC emissions intensity 305-7 0.27 0.38 0.44 0.44 0.50 OUR BUSINESS kilograms/m3 production WATER USE8 Water withdrawal 303-1 155.91 149.27 142.47 162.18 105.07 (A) CLIMATE CHANGE million m3 Surface water withdrawal 303-1 113.02 116.36 118.92 124.78 74.90 million m3 ENVIRONMENT Groundwater withdrawal 303-1 3.04 2.10 2.72 2.51 2.26 million m3 Municipality / city / district water withdrawal 303-1 4.00 3.49 4.27 4.22 4.20 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY million m3 Treated wastewater withdrawal 303-1 1.54 1.29 1.51 1.37 1.60 million m3 INNOVATION Industrial run-off water withdrawal 303-1 34.30 26.03 15.05 29.30 22.10 million m3 Water withdrawal intensity 303-1 3.13 3.29 2.95 3.63 2.16 (A) PERFORMANCE DATA m3/m3 production Water returned 306-1 97.14 101.22 97.46 105.12 65.99 million m3 APPENDICES 58.77 49.14 45.33 57.19 Water consumption 39.07 million m3 Water consumption intensity 1.18 1.08 0.94 1.28 0.81 m3/m3 production Fresh water consumption 41.20 30.80 35.90 36.80 22.35 million m3 Fresh water consumption intensity 0.83 0.68 0.74 0.82 0.46 m3/m3 production * Please refer to the corresponding notes in Appendix A for additional notes about the performance data. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 PERFORMANCE DATA | 128 GRI Indicators Suncor (company totals)* 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 TABLE OF CONTENTS Standards WASTE9 Hazardous waste generated 306-2 2,231 2,299 1,992 1,982 999 CEO’S MESSAGE thousand tonnes Hazardous waste incinerated 306-2 1.43 3.11 2.38 3.60 3.54 thousand tonnes ABOUT OUR REPORT Hazardous waste deep well injection 306-2 2,133 2,185 1,980 1,963 985 thousand tonnes Hazardous waste landfilled 306-2 12.26 1.80 5.70 12.01 7.25 STRATEGY AND thousand tonnes GOVERNANCE 306-2 84.62 109.28 4.09 3.15 Hazardous waste otherwise disposed or treated 3.27 thousand tonnes Non-hazardous waste generated 306-2 235 214 399 167 1,124 OUR BUSINESS thousand tonnes Non-hazardous waste incinerated 306-2 1.15 1.13 1.56 0.69 0.09 thousand tonnes CLIMATE CHANGE 306-2 3.01 1.21 0.80 0.87 Non-hazardous waste deep well injection 987 thousand tonnes Non-hazardous waste landfilled 306-2 173 197 383 161 135 ENVIRONMENT thousand tonnes Non-hazardous waste otherwise disposed or treated 306-2 58.87 14.22 13.92 4.27 1.62 thousand tonnes SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Waste recycled, reused or recovered 306-2 97 89 135 123 71 thousand tonnes ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE11 INNOVATION Environmental non-compliance 307-1 5 4 # Environmental regulatory fines 307-1 275 413 PERFORMANCE DATA thousand CND$ Significant spills 306-3 0 0 # APPENDICES ECONOMIC14 Revenues and other income 201-1 40,297 40,490 29,680 26,968 32,079 $ millions Operating, selling and general expense (OS&G) 201-1 9,462 9,541 8,607 9,150 9,245 $ millions Employee costs 201-1 3.30 3.40 3.30 3.40 3.20 $ billions Royalties and taxes paid 201-1 3,347 5,259 1,805 105 1,489 $ millions Community investments 201-1 30,534 27,246 26,346 33,800 26,557 $ thousands * Please refer to the corresponding notes in Appendix A for additional notes about the performance data. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 PERFORMANCE DATA | 129 GRI Indicators Suncor (company totals)* 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 TABLE OF CONTENTS Standards Distribution to shareholders 201-1 1,826 2,267 2,565 2,889 3,069 $ millions CEO’S MESSAGE Economic value retained 201-1 23,396 16,677 14,789 18,249 $ millions Market capitalization (debt plus equity) 102-7 66 66 67 89 89 ABOUT OUR REPORT $ thousands Capital and exploration expenditures 201-1 6,777 6,961 6,667 6,582 6,551 $ millions STRATEGY AND Political donations 201-1 73 96 15 3 0 GOVERNANCE $ thousands 415-1 Purchases of goods and services 11,487 11,951 12,797 11,905 11,636 $ millions OUR BUSINESS Canada 10,584 10,915 11,178 10,632 10,842 $ millions Local businesses and suppliers 204-1 3,498 4,920 4,504 3,732 3,615 CLIMATE CHANGE $ millions Aboriginal supplier-spend 204-1 431 463 599 445 521 $ millions ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS15 Total contributions to charitable, non-charitable and community groups 201-1 30,534 27,246 26,346 33,800 26,557 $ thousands SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Value of cash donations 201-1 23,367 23,745 24,425 22,843 25,466 $ thousands Value of time donations 201-1 747 798 408 83 800 INNOVATION $ thousands Value of in-kind donations 201-1 2,716 214 382 10,873 291 $ thousands PERFORMANCE DATA Value of management cost donations 201-1 1,685 1,384 988 953 994 $ thousands Value of external resources leveraged 201-1 2,079 1,105 143 744 232 APPENDICES $ thousands Suncor’s donation to the Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF) 201-1 19,740 19,530 4,500 10,164 16,600 $ thousands Suncor Energy Foundation / Suncor Energy Inc. disbursements (distribution by funding priority): Building Skills and Knowledge 201-1 4,777 5,381 5,321 3,978 4,529 $ thousands Collaborating for a Shared Energy Future 201-1 1,901 2,087 2,219 1,848 0 $ thousands Cultivating Community Leaders 201-1 3,554 3,719 3,051 2,442 4,109 $ thousands * Please refer to the corresponding notes in Appendix A for additional notes about the performance data. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 PERFORMANCE DATA | 130 GRI Indicators Suncor (company totals)* 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 TABLE OF CONTENTS Standards Engaging Citizens 201-1 8,581 4,538 4,146 4,663 3,638 $ thousands CEO’S MESSAGE Inspiring Innovation 201-1 2,487 3,890 3,443 3,183 4,271 $ thousands Local Relationships 201-1 5,530 4,342 6,627 8,603 9,041 ABOUT OUR REPORT $ thousands SunCares Employee Program Employee participation 201-1 27 STRATEGY AND % GOVERNANCE 201-1 Organizations supported 1,271 # Value of corporate donations 201-1 1,668 OUR BUSINESS $ thousands Value of employee personal donations 201-1 1,313 $ thousands CLIMATE CHANGE 201-1 Volunteer hours 80,706 # HEALTH AND SAFETY12 ENVIRONMENT Employee lost-time injury frequency 403-2 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.04 0.03 # per 200,000 hours worked Contractor lost-time injury frequency 403-2 0.06 0.04 0.04 0.05 0.04 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY # per 200,000 hours worked Employee recordable injury frequency 403-2 0.32 0.37 0.27 0.24 0.30 # per 200,000 hours worked INNOVATION Contractor recordable injury frequency 403-2 0.72 0.50 0.56 0.38 0.45 # per 200,000 hours worked Fatalities 403-2 0 3 0 0 1 (A) PERFORMANCE DATA # WORKFORCE13 Suncor employees 102-7 14,132 14,425 13,235 13,243 12,649 APPENDICES # Full-time employees 102-8 13,815 14,056 13,042 12,888 12,389 # Part-time employees 102-8 67 108 97 121 111 # Temporary/casual employees 102-8 250 261 96 252 149 # Long-term contractors 102-8 3,669 3,231 2,663 757 809 # Unionized workforce 102-41 32.3 32.4 34.5 34.6 32.8 % * Please refer to the corresponding notes in Appendix A for additional notes about the performance data. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 PERFORMANCE DATA | 131 GRI Indicators Suncor (company totals)* 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 TABLE OF CONTENTS Standards Women 405-1 23.5 25.1 23.4 24.5 23.8 % CEO’S MESSAGE Men 405-1 74.6 74.7 75.7 75.5 76.2 % Aboriginals/American Indians 405-1 2.6 1.5 1.6 1.9 3.0 ABOUT OUR REPORT % Visible minorities 405-1 12.1 10.4 10.3 12.6 14.7 % STRATEGY AND Persons with disabilities 405-1 0.8 0.5 0.5 0.8 0.7 GOVERNANCE % Women in management 405-1 21.3 21.7 22.4 20.1 19.0 % OUR BUSINESS New employee hires Male 401-1 73.9 72.8 70.7 77.0 76.9 % CLIMATE CHANGE 401-1 26.1 27.2 29.3 23.0 Female 23.1 % Employee turnover ENVIRONMENT 401-1 4.1 5.0 7.6 7.0 5.8 % Male 401-1 4.1 4.9 6.5 6.4 5.4 % SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Female 401-1 4.2 5.4 11.3 8.9 7.1 % Percentage of basic salary INNOVATION Management 405-2 96 96 96 96 % Professional 405-2 95 97 97 97 PERFORMANCE DATA % Business support 405-2 104 103 103 102 % APPENDICES Operations 405-2 98 100 100 100 % * Please refer to the corresponding notes in Appendix A for additional notes about the performance data. TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPENDICES Appendix A: Performance data notes..................... 133 INNOVATION Appendix B: Independent assurance statement..... 143 PERFORMANCE DATA Appendix C: Advisories............................................ 146 Appendix D: GRI content index............................... 150 APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX A: PERFORMANCE DATA NOTES | 133 TABLE OF CONTENTS APPENDIX A: PERFORMANCE DATA NOTES Notes on performance data for Suncor’s 2018 Report on Sustainability CEO’S MESSAGE 1. Overview Performance data provided throughout our Report on Sustainability in tables and graphs includes social, environmental and economic indicators from the ABOUT OUR REPORT 2017 reporting year with 5-year trends, where feasible. Economic data is reported in a consistent manner with our Annual Report. These notes provide additional details on boundary conditions, and changes in methodologies, definitions, business segment structure changes or changes to historical data. We also implement our own internal guidelines and definitions for data gathering and reporting. STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE 2. Reporting boundaries Environmental and social performance data is collected and reported for all facilities operated by Suncor (100%, not adjusted for Suncor’s ownership OUR BUSINESS share), and our joint venture interests operated by other organizations are not included. Facilities are subject to annual planned and unplanned maintenance activities, which may impact consistent year-over-year trends. Facilities that are purchased subsequently operated by Suncor in the middle of a reporting year are pro-rated based on the date of operatorship. CLIMATE CHANGE 3. Summary of business segments and operations included in performance data: ENVIRONMENT a. Suncor-totals reflect consolidation of data where relevant and applicable. b. Upstream (Oil Sands Base operations) include Millennium and North Steepbank mining, extraction and integrated upgrading facilities, integrated Poplar Creek cogeneration facility (owned and operated by Suncor as of 2015), and associated infrastructure for these assets, but does not include SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Syncrude. c. Upstream (Oil Sands In Situ operations) data includes oil sands bitumen production from Firebag and MacKay River operations and supporting INNOVATION infrastructure. d. Upstream Exploration & Production (E&P) includes: PERFORMANCE DATA ›› E&P Terra Nova FPSO vessel situated off the east coast of Canada. APPENDICES ›› E&P North America Onshore (NAO) natural gas assets operated by Suncor. Assets were significantly divested from 2013-2015, and data were reported until the date of sale. ›› Additional information about our E&P business can be found at www.suncor.com. e. Downstream (Refining and Supply) includes refining operations in Montreal, Sarnia, Edmonton, and Commerce City, Colorado. Suncor previously operated a lubricants business in Mississauga, Ontario, which was sold on February 1, 2017. 2017 performance data reflects this sale. Other assets include a petrochemical plant and sulphur recovery facility in Montreal, and product pipelines and terminals in Canada. Additional information about our downstream business is available at www.suncor.com f. Renewables includes the St. Clair ethanol plant in Ontario and wind power facilities operated by Suncor. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX A: PERFORMANCE DATA NOTES | 134 4. Notes on operational performance and production TABLE OF CONTENTS a. See “Advisories”, as barrels of oil equivalent and cubic metres of oil equivalent may be misleading indicators of value. b. Oil Sands Base production is gross sweet and sour synthetic crude oil associated with mining, extraction and upgrading and includes unprocessed CEO’S MESSAGE volumes. This may be different than production reported in our Annual Report. c. In Situ production is net bitumen sales associated with total plant saleable product. ABOUT OUR REPORT d. NAO: processed volume is the total amount of hydrocarbons processed at Suncor-operated facilities, including production owned by other companies and processed at Suncor-operated facilities. STRATEGY AND e. East Coast (Terra Nova) production is total amount of product sold, not flaring or internally produced fuel. GOVERNANCE f. Refining & Supply net production is reported on a business unit level, where transfers between our facilities have been removed from facility production totals. OUR BUSINESS g. St. Clair ethanol plant production is ethanol produced and converted to cubic metres of oil equivalent, on an energy basis. CLIMATE CHANGE h. Wind energy production is in megawatt hours, from Suncor operated wind facilities, (100% not adjusted for ownership) i. Our refineries that blend ethanol into gasoline are Sarnia, Montreal, Commerce City and Edmonton. ENVIRONMENT 5. Notes on greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.1 GHG emissions factors Emissions factors allow us to estimate GHG emissions from a unit of available activity data (e.g. quantity of fuel consumed or product produced). The metric we use in our Report on Sustainability for reporting GHG emissions is metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). This common unit for INNOVATION reporting GHGs represents volumes of gases that have been studied to have an impact on the global atmosphere. CO2e means that individual GHGs have been multiplied by their assessed global warming potential (GWP) compared to carbon dioxide (CO2). This report (and our 2014-2017 Report on Sustainability) uses the 100-year GWPs issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC’s) fourth assessment report (2007), which aligns PERFORMANCE DATA to several jurisdictions of GHG reporting, including Environment Canada and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The major impacts of using the GWPs issued by the IPCC’s fourth assessment report are that emissions from methane increase slightly due to an increase APPENDICES in the GWP factor from 21 to 25. Emissions from nitrous oxides (N2O) decrease slightly with that factor decreasing from 310 to 298. Other GHGs have also had their GWPs adjusted but have little to no material impact on our total GHG emissions. 5.2 Measuring potential GHG emission sources As an integrated energy company spanning multiple jurisdictions, sectors and operations, we use several different externally developed and publicly accepted emission factor protocols to develop facility-specific emission calculation methodologies. We select the appropriate protocol for the site-specific fuel type and composition, emission source, facility or jurisdiction being considered. As required by regulators and verified by external auditors, we use internationally accepted GHG protocols and methodologies in determining our overall emissions profile. In addition to using fuel-specific emission factors, some GHG emissions are calculated using processor equipment-specific consumption rates in units such as ‘run-hours’ and not fuel volumes. Many of our sites have complicated processes that require specific emission factors and methodologies to accurately SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX A: PERFORMANCE DATA NOTES | 135 calculate their emissions. TABLE OF CONTENTS Primarily, our sites use protocols and methodologies that are required by their operating jurisdiction. However, if no prescribed methodology is required, it may be necessary to use a combination of standardized methodologies at a single facility due to site and sector-specific details that may not be CEO’S MESSAGE completely covered by a single standard or regulation. On occasion, more accurate emission factors – measured, calculated from compositional data, or manufacturer-supplied – may be available for specific equipment. These are used whenever and wherever appropriate to ensure we gather the best quality data and use the most accurate measures. ABOUT OUR REPORT Specific emission factors are calculated from actual measured data rather than applying generic estimated default factors as frequently as possible. In other cases, such as when calculating indirect emissions from externally purchased electric power, we use factors primarily where prescribed by regulation, STRATEGY AND secondarily from site-specific factors if available and finally, from published emission factors for remaining emission sources. GOVERNANCE Due to the unique nature of each site, we have more than 1,400 standard emission factors in our Environmental Information Management System that are applied at different sites. This number does not include thousands of additional factors that are calculated daily for different fuels and sites based on OUR BUSINESS fuel composition analysis. These factors give us real-time gas composition and resulting carbon content. 5.3 The role of regulation in GHG reporting CLIMATE CHANGE Many jurisdictions have, or are in the process of developing, prescriptive regulations that specify which factors can be used. For example, the EPA and regulators in Western Climate Initiative jurisdictions such as Quebec, Ontario and British Columbia all required operators to use specified factors for the 2016 reporting year. ENVIRONMENT Alberta requires large emitting facilities to use the methodology and emission factors used in their site-specific and government-approved Specified Gas Emitters Regulation (SGER) baseline, and changes cannot be made without restating and re-verifying the baseline and previous year’s emissions. Each SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY of our sites that report through the SGER successfully generated positive (approved) verifications for the 2016 reporting year at a reasonable level of assurance. INNOVATION 5.4 GHG Standard practices and methodologies External agencies have developed industry-accepted standard methodologies that operators can choose to use in the absence of prescribed methods. The PERFORMANCE DATA standard practices and methodologies we follow are widely accepted, well researched and documented so that the numbers produced are verifiable by governments and third parties, and are consistently applied from year to year. APPENDICES A partial list of these standard methodologies and guidance documents includes: • IPCC fourth assessment report 2007 • American Petroleum Institute Compendium 2009 • World Business Council for Sustainable Development/World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 2004 • U.S. Environmental Protection Agency AP-42 Fifth Edition June 2007 • Environment Canada Greenhouse Gas Inventory 1990 – 2007 Report 2009 • Environment Canada Facility Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX A: PERFORMANCE DATA NOTES | 136 • Canadian Industrial Energy End-use Data and Analysis Centre 2009 TABLE OF CONTENTS • Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 2006 Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories • IPCC Guidelines Reference Manual (volume 2) CEO’S MESSAGE • Western Climate Initiative (WCI) Design for the WCI Regional Program, July 2010 ABOUT OUR REPORT • Technical Guidance For Completing Specified Gas Compliance Reports (Version 7.0) • U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Mandatory Reporting Rule: GHG Reporting Program STRATEGY AND • National Renewable Energy Laboratory Life Cycle Assessment of Hydrogen Production via Natural Gas Steam Reforming GOVERNANCE 5.5 Additional GHG notes OUR BUSINESS a. Forward looking GHG estimates are based on current production forecasts and methodologies and users of this information are cautioned that the actual GHG emissions and emission intensities may vary materially. Please see Advisories. CLIMATE CHANGE b. GHG emissions data from 1990 and 2000 do not include Suncor’s U.S. operations, or legacy Petro-Canada facilities, and only include business areas in operation during these years. These data points have been provided for historical comparability, consistent with previous sustainability reports. ENVIRONMENT c. GHG emissions are calculated using facility-specific and referenced methodologies accepted by the relevant jurisdictions each facility is required to report GHG emissions to. Methodology has been followed where a jurisdiction has a prescribed one and if none exist then the most applicable and accurate methods available are used to quantify each emission source. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY d. Suncor-wide emissions intensity uses net production, which is the sum of net facility production minus all internal product transfers. The resulting net production is our Suncor product sales to market. The sum of the business unit GHG intensities therefore will not equal the Suncor-wide INNOVATION intensity. e. In situ (MacKay River) indirect emissions methodology reported since 2014 include electricity purchased from the grid, purchased electricity PERFORMANCE DATA and steam from the third party MacKay River cogeneration. Firebag cogeneration units are owned and operated by Suncor and therefore all cogeneration emissions contribute to total direct emissions including emissions associated with generating electricity that is sold to the AB grid. APPENDICES f. Absolute (total) GHG emissions are the sum of direct and indirect emissions. g. Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions are from sources that are owned or controlled by the reporting company. Refining and Supply direct emissions do not include CO2 transfers to third parties, such as the food and beverage industries as they do not meet the definition for CO2 releases. h. Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions are energy-related emissions that are a consequence of our operations, but occur at sources owned or controlled by another company (e.g. purchases of electricity, steam, heat, and cooling). Emissions are calculated based on actual supplier data where possible and published literature where supplier data is unavailable. i. Indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions include hydrogen purchased from third-parties and CO2 volumes sold from our facilities to third-parties for further processing, and can fluctuate annually depending on supplier demand. This is consistent with provincial government reporting requirements in Ontario and Quebec. Additional scope 3 emissions include: SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX A: PERFORMANCE DATA NOTES | 137 ›› commercial air travel TABLE OF CONTENTS ›› leased buildings (Suncor Energy Centre, Sheridan Park and Suncor Business Centre) ›› ground transportation services for employees and contractors in Fort McMurray CEO’S MESSAGE licensed Canadian fleet vehicles j. Direct and indirect CO2e emissions are included for this report, whereas the Alberta SGER (replaced by the Carbon Competitiveness Incentive ABOUT OUR REPORT Regulation in 2018) and other regulatory reports are direct emissions only. No credit is taken for GHG reductions due to cogen export, internally generated performance credits, purchased offsets, ethanol lifcycle GHG reductions or wind generated offsets. STRATEGY AND 6. Notes on energy consumption GOVERNANCE a. Total energy is equal to the sum of direct and indirect energy. Electricity that is produced and sold to the provincial grids by oil sands and in situ cogeneration units and operated wind farms is converted to an equivalent amount in GJs and deducted from total energy use. OUR BUSINESS b. Direct energy is primary energy consumed on-site by Suncor operated facilities CLIMATE CHANGE c. Indirect energy includes imported electricity, steam, heating and cooling duty from third parties. The indirect energy calculation methodology credits operations for electricity exported to external users and/or other Suncor facilities. For wind energy facilities, electricity that is sold to provincial grids is converted to an equivalent amount in GJs and deducted from the total indirect energy. ENVIRONMENT d. The energy intensity of renewables business is based on energy input for ethanol production with wind energy production deducted from that total energy input. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 7. Notes on other air emissions a. Graphs associated with SO2 and NOx emissions intensity only include facilities that are material sources of these emissions for our business. Oil INNOVATION Sands estimation accuracy for VOC emissions intensity is greater than +/10% and limited by currently accepted methodology and measurement instruments. PERFORMANCE DATA b. Other air emissions include SO2, NOx and VOC emissions. c. The increase in Terra Nova’s VOC emissions and emissions intensity in 2017 was mainly due to the hydrocarbon blanket gas and recovery system APPENDICES being offline for a large part of 2017 when compared to ~100% operational in 2016. d. We report to the Canadian National Pollutant Release Inventory and the US Toxic Release Inventory annually and additional information on our performance can be found through these reporting mechanisms. 8. Notes on water use and return a. Freshwater consumption and intensity graph: water withdrawal and consumption only includes facilities that are material sources of freshwater consumption for our business. The sum of business area freshwater consumption volumes do not equal the Suncor total due to the transfer of treated wastewater from Oil Sands to the Firebag in situ facility. This volume is netted out of the Suncor total to avoid double counting. Oil Sands in this graph does not include industrial runoff water, which is subject to annual variances based on precipitation. Withdrawal and consumption including industrial runoff volumes are shown in the performance data tables of our Report on Sustainability. Water measurement and estimation methodology on select Refining & Marketing operations is greater than +/10% uncertainty. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX A: PERFORMANCE DATA NOTES | 138 b. Oil sands freshwater withdrawal and consumption graph: the methodology for this graph does not include industrial runoff volumes. Withdrawal TABLE OF CONTENTS and consumption including industrial runoff volumes are shown in the performance data tables of our Report on Sustainability. c. Water consumption is the total water withdrawn minus water returned and reflects quantity of water used and not returned to its proximate CEO’S MESSAGE source or no longer available in its original form. d. Freshwater consumption intensity is the volume of water consumed (m3) per volume of hydrocarbon produced (m3) ABOUT OUR REPORT e. Oil sands base mining water withdrawal includes surface water, groundwater and industrial run-off water as per regulatory withdrawal licences and are subject to annual variances based on precipitation. Water returned is comprised of treated industrial waste-water and runoff from nonprocess areas that gets collected, diverted and eventually discharged to the environment (destination is the Athabasca River). STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE f. In Situ water withdrawal includes licenced groundwater wells, treated wastewater and industrial run-off water. g. East Coast operations water withdrawal includes freshwater (transferred by vessel from St. John’s domestic water system) bunkered to the FPSO OUR BUSINESS potable water tanks for domestic use on the facility. It also includes topside seawater intake flow used for process cooling and water injection for production purposes. CLIMATE CHANGE h. Refining & Marketing surface water withdrawal sources and return destinations vary by refinery facility location. i. Water effluent quality parameters for Oil Sands Base plant and Refining & Supply is reported in mg/L (year) for both 2017, and prior years, ENVIRONMENT opposed to previous reports which were in tonnes per year. j. Fresh water consumption at Oil Sands Base Plant reduction in 2017 is due to a focus on optimizing our wastewater recycle. This included SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY modifications and improvements to our industrial wastewater system that were implemented in 2017. The fresh water consumption in 2016 increased due to the forest fires impacting the industrial recycle rates and the unplanned Upgrader 2 turnaround 2016 was also extended by more than one month due to the forest fires. INNOVATION k. Refining and supply fresh water consumption decreased in 2017 due to the sale of our Lubricants business. Suncor previously operated a lubricants business in Mississauga, Ontario, which was sold on February 1, 2017. 2017 performance data reflects this sale. PERFORMANCE DATA 9. Notes on waste management a. Waste volumes are dependent on site activities or periodic equipment maintenance and may fluctuate annually. APPENDICES b. In situ waste that is sent to deep well injection is primarily related to blowdown from our SAGD operations at Firebag consisting of concentrated water impurities that accumulate during the steam generation process. This boiler feed water is intentionally wasted from the boilers to avoid concentration of impurities during continuing evaporation of steam. Deepwell disposal methods of this nature are safe, viable and part of normal operating parameters and our operations are within the disposal limits for these waste streams (regulated by the Alberta Energy Regulator). Our operations also have exceptionally high water recycle rates, above regulated levels. 10. Notes on land disturbance and reclamation a. Total land holdings approved for development is consistent with the Government of Alberta’s Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act (EPEA) approved footprint for Suncor’s Base Plant operations and our Firebag and MacKay River in situ operations, as mapped by GIS internally. Fort Hills and Meadow Creek East are approved but not yet included. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX A: PERFORMANCE DATA NOTES | 139 b. Total land disturbed represents the total active footprint of our Base Plant mining operations and approved in situ projects, which including TABLE OF CONTENTS the cumulative hectares (ha) for areas cleared of vegetation, soil disturbed, ready for reclamation, soils placed and permanently reclaimed. The categories used are consistent with reporting to the Alberta Energy Regulator (AER) in the annual reports. CEO’S MESSAGE c. Land reclaimed is land that is no longer being used for mine or plant purposes or in situ production purposes and has been, or is in the process of being, reclaimed. This value is a subset of the total active footprint. In 2017 Suncor re-assessed the active footprint at our in situ operations and the revised numbers are presented, and reflect those used for in situ closure planning. The area of non-reclaimed land at our oil sands Base Plant ABOUT OUR REPORT mining operation was 19,977 ha and 1,743 at our in situ operations for the 2017 reporting year. Reclamation is presented as a cumulative number, therefore the total number of hectares reported from year to year may increase depending on whether reclamation has occurred or whether re-disturbance of previously reclaimed areas was required. Permanently reclaimed lands have met the authorized plans for soil placement and STRATEGY AND re-vegetation but have not been certified by the Alberta Energy Regulator. No permanent reclamation was conducted at Base Plant in 2016, due GOVERNANCE to the wildfires that occurred in proximity to our operations. Some permanent reclamation was lost due to the creation of firebreaks. For further details on the definition of reclaimed, see Advisories. OUR BUSINESS d. The tailings pond area calculation is based on fluids area only and does not include solid structures such as beaches and dykes. 11. Notes on environmental compliance CLIMATE CHANGE a. New in 2018, we have improved the environmental compliance metrics we report on a company-wide level, which better align with our internal tools, processes and metrics and also to Global Reporting Initiative Standards. Our focus is always in incident prevention, and all spill events are ENVIRONMENT recorded and investigated. Root cause is determined and remedial actions are implemented to minimize risk and chance of recurrence. Historical environmental compliance metrics using this improved methodology aren’t available; however, prior year environmental compliance information is accessible in past versions of our Report on Sustainability. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY b. Environmental non-compliance data aligns with our Risk Matrix (defined by Suncor) and guiding principles for managing risk and reflects at minimum an event triggering a regulatory exceedance or non-compliance, resulting in a regulatory investigation and administrative actions and/or INNOVATION more stringent penalties imposed on Suncor. c. Environmental regulatory fines also align to our Risk Matrix, and reflect financial penalties levied by the Regulator or the Courts and paid in the reporting year as a result of a regulatory non-compliance or exceedance. Includes administrative penalties, but not enforcement tickets. PERFORMANCE DATA d. Significant spills reflect unplanned or accidental release of material whose impact off property takes longer than 7 months to remediate, or on property one year or more to remediate or reclaim. These could be into the environment or into a location that does not usually contain the APPENDICES material, as specified by geographical regulation. 12. Notes on health and safety a. Since 2014, health and safety data reported for Upstream Terra Nova represents our E&P business segment, including North America Onshore. This reflects the significant divestments in our conventional natural gas business since 2013. b. Since 2014, Upstream Refining & Supply health and safety data includes our St. Clair ethanol plant. Our U.S. operations use the Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) definitions to classify their injuries, which differ slightly from Canadian standards. c. Lost time injury is a work related injury that results in lost days from work. Fatalities are included in lost time injuries. Frequency is calculated as the number of lost time injuries multiplied by 200,000 (based on 100 workers working full time for one year) divided by the actual exposure hours. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX A: PERFORMANCE DATA NOTES | 140 This tells us how many workers who are injured for every 100. Prime contractor incident data is excluded from this metric. TABLE OF CONTENTS d. Recordable injury frequency is the number of recordable injuries (including medical treatment, restricted work access and lost time) multiplied by 200,000 (based on 100 workers working full time divided by the actual exposure hours). This tells us how many people are injured for every 100 CEO’S MESSAGE workers in a calendar year. Prime contractor incident data is excluded from this metric. e. Contractors refer to any organization, company or individual who provides goods and/or services to Suncor. ABOUT OUR REPORT f. Fatalities are reported for employees and contractors (excluding prime contractors). The prime contractor for a work site is (a) the contractor, employer or other person who enters into an agreement with the owner of the work site to be the prime contractor, or (b) if no agreement has been made or if no agreement is in force, the owner of the work site. Prime contractors have full care, custody and control meaning they manage STRATEGY AND their own work and are responsible for maintaining safe working environments. Tragically 3 employees and two prime contractors were fatally GOVERNANCE injured in 2014. In 2017, a contract worker was fatally injured when inside an excavation. OUR BUSINESS 13. Notes on workforce a. All employees receive performance reviews, except those paid hourly (informal evaluations). CLIMATE CHANGE b. Training and development represents fees for professional development courses taken by Suncor employees in all business areas and corporate operations. ENVIRONMENT c. New employee hires are any externally hired regular full-time or part-time employee whose permanent start date falls within the reporting period. d. Employee turnover is the percentage of employees who leave Suncor under any circumstance in the reporting year. Only terminations are included SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY for full-time and part-time employees. e. All regular full-time and part-time employees may apply for maternity leave, parental leave and paternity leave. These are unpaid leaves. To qualify, you must have completed 13 continuous weeks of service before the anticipated date of placement of the child or prior to the INNOVATION commencement of your leave. f. Suncor employees include regular full-time, regular part-time, students, casuals or temporary employees. Leaves, other than long-term disability, PERFORMANCE DATA such as maternity, paternity, personal leave, as well as short-term disabilities, are considered active and are included. g. Beginning in January 2015, as part of an overall cost management program that began in 2014 accelerated by a low crude price environment, APPENDICES Suncor reduced the size of our workforce primarily through our contract workforce, not backfilling attrition for non-critical positions, and employee reductions. h. Long-term contractors are individual workers engaged as a Contractor to support short-term, variable work. i. Unionized workforce data is only applicable in areas where there is a unionized environment. j. Certain operating regions prohibit collecting information on gender, therefore diversity data may not be reflective of our entire workforce due to data availability. Workforce diversity is calculated based on information provided voluntarily by employees. Indicators referring to ethnicity and disability reflect only those employees who consented to release of this information. k. Salary between women and men for Suncor employees do not differ based on operating area. Position levels are administered corporately. Base pay is linked to how an employee’s job is classified within job families to ensure consistency of how work is assessed and valued across the SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX A: PERFORMANCE DATA NOTES | 141 company. Variation within a job’s salary band recognizes an individual’s position on the learning curve and demonstration of job capacity. TABLE OF CONTENTS l. Management is classified as front-line leaders, mid-level leaders, members of the management committee or members of the corporate committee. CEO’S MESSAGE 14. Notes on economic performance a. Select economic figures have been calculated according to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). For complete disclosure of our ABOUT OUR REPORT financial information, see our 2017 Annual Report. b. OS&G expenses are subject to historical restatements due to reclassifications within our income statement. Employee costs are reported in our STRATEGY AND Annual Report under Operating, Selling & General and include salaries, benefits and share-based compensation. Typically a portion of employee GOVERNANCE costs are capitalized as part of fixed assets. c. Royalties and taxes paid include monies remitted to government, including income, property, and other taxes, Crown royalties, and lease bonuses OUR BUSINESS and rentals. d. Under GRI Standard 201-1, economic value retained reflects the direct economic value generated (revenues) minus economic value distributed CLIMATE CHANGE (operating costs [including employee costs), taxes and royalties paid, distribution to shareholders and community investments). e. Capital and exploration expenditures includes capitalized interest. ENVIRONMENT f. As of June 1, 2016, Suncor no longer makes political contributions as a matter of policy, except in exceptional circumstances. Any such contributions will continue to be disclosed in this report. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY g. Local goods and services spend reflects goods or services purchased in the area of operations. Suncor-wide spend excludes Syria and Libya. h. Aboriginal businesses include those with a minimum of 51% ownership by Aboriginal individuals or organizations INNOVATION i. Values reported for Aboriginal supplier revenues earned for 2013 include GST. Beginning in 2014, values reported reflect amounts captured in our enterprise software data management system, minus 5% GST. PERFORMANCE DATA j. Inclusion of contracts in the reporting year is based on the payment date, not the date of services rendered. APPENDICES k. Aboriginal supplier spend includes Canadian-wide spend across Suncor’s operations. 15. Notes on community investments a. Since 2014, values for community investments have been calculated by Suncor and the Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF). The SEF is audited annually by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PWC). 2013 contributions was defined by the London Benchmarking Group Canada model. b. Value of Time Donations is reported by employees to Suncor voluntarily. The hours represent hours volunteered during working hours. c. Value of Management Cost Donations from 2014-2017 is for SEF only. d. External resources leveraged represents cash and in-kind value generated as a result of Suncor’s involvement, but which is not a cost to the company (e.g. employee contributions through our Suncares employee programs, food donations, and matching donations from other funders). SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX A: PERFORMANCE DATA NOTES | 142 e. The SEF is limited to providing donations to registered Canadian charitable organizations, and Suncor’s contribution to SEF represents donations, TABLE OF CONTENTS operating budget and appropriate allocations to a reserve fund which protects multi-year commitments going forward. Charitable contributions to the community made by the SEF are included in community investment values. CEO’S MESSAGE f. Suncor launched a new SunCares Employee Program in 2017, and prior year data is not available. Corporate donations include corporate rewards, grants and the value of volunteer time during work hours. Employee personal donations include employee and retiree donations and SunCares Impact Portal donations. ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX B: INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT | 143 TABLE OF CONTENTS APPENDIX B: INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT CEO’S MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Independent Assurance Statement OUR BUSINESS To the Board of Directors and Management of Suncor Energy Inc. (Suncor) Scope of our Engagement CLIMATE CHANGE Our responsibilities included providing limited assurance over a selection of performance indicators as presented in Suncor’s 2018 Report on Sustainability (the Report). ENVIRONMENT Subject Matter We have performed limited assurance procedures for the following quantitative performance indicators as presented in the respective sections of the SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Report and the overall performance data tables for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the Subject Matter). Unless otherwise noted, the indicators were assured on a corporate-wide basis. INNOVATION • Total upstream and downstream production (48.53 million m3/year) • Upstream processed volumes and net production (171.21 million BOE/year or 27.22 million m3 OE/year) PERFORMANCE DATA • Downstream net production (27.98 million m3 refined product/year) APPENDICES • Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions (19,874 thousand tonnes CO2e) • GHG emissions intensity (0.41 tonnes CO2e/m3 OE production) • Water withdrawal (105.07 million m3) • Water withdrawal intensity (2.16 m3/m3 production) • Fatalities (1 fatality) • Total land disturbed (Oil Sands Base only) (22,205 cumulative hectares) • Total land reclaimed (Oil Sands Base only) (2,227 cumulative hectares) SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX B: INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT | 144 Criteria TABLE OF CONTENTS Suncor has prepared its performance data in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) and internally developed criteria (the Criteria). CEO’S MESSAGE Suncor Management Responsibilities The Report was prepared by the management of Suncor, who is responsible for the assertions, statements, and claims made therein including the ABOUT OUR REPORT assertions we have been engaged to provide limited assurance over, collection, quantification and presentation of the performance indicators and the criteria used in determining that the information is appropriate for the purpose of disclosure in the Report. In addition, management is responsible for maintaining adequate records and internal controls that are designed to support the reporting process. STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Our Responsibilities Our limited assurance procedures have been planned and performed in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) OUR BUSINESS 3000 “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. Our procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of assurance on which to base our conclusion. The procedures conducted do not provide all the CLIMATE CHANGE evidence that would be required in a reasonable assurance engagement and, accordingly, we do not express a reasonable level of assurance. While we considered the effectiveness of management’s internal controls when determining the nature and extent of our procedures, our assurance engagement was not designed to provide assurance on internal controls and, accordingly, we express no conclusions thereon. ENVIRONMENT This assurance statement has been prepared for Suncor for the purpose of assisting management in determining whether the Subject Matter is in accordance with the Criteria and for no other purpose. Our assurance statement is made solely to Suncor in accordance with the terms of our SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY engagement. We do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Suncor for our work, or for the conclusions we have reached in this assurance statement. INNOVATION Assurance procedures We planned and performed our work to obtain all the evidence, information and explanations considered necessary in relation to the above scope. Our PERFORMANCE DATA assurance procedures included but were not limited to: • Interviewing relevant personnel at the head office and at various sites to understand data management processes related to the selected performance indicators. APPENDICES • Checking the accuracy of calculations performed – on a test basis – primarily through inquiry, variance analysis and performance of re-calculations. • Checking that data and statements have been correctly transcribed from the corporate system into the Report. • Assessing risk of material misstatement due to fraud or errors relating to the selected performance indicators. • Evaluating the overall presentation of the Report, including the consistency of the Subject Matter. Limitations of our Work Performed Our scope of work did not include expressing conclusions in relation to: SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX B: INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT | 145 • The materiality, completeness or accuracy of data sets or information relating to areas other than the Subject Matter, and any site-specific TABLE OF CONTENTS information. • Information reported outside of the Report. CEO’S MESSAGE • Management’s forward looking statements. • Any comparisons made by Suncor against historical data. ABOUT OUR REPORT • The appropriateness of definitions for internally developed criteria. STRATEGY AND Independence and competency statement GOVERNANCE In conducting our engagement, we have complied with the applicable requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA). OUR BUSINESS Our Conclusion Based on our procedures for this limited assurance engagement as outlined above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CLIMATE CHANGE Subject Matter is not, in all material respects, reported in accordance with the relevant criteria. ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Ernst & Young LLP INNOVATION Calgary, Canada 16 July 2018 PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX C: ADVISORIES | 146 TABLE OF CONTENTS APPENDIX C: ADVISORIES Forward-looking statements CEO’S MESSAGE Suncor’s 2018 Report on Sustainability contains certain forward-looking statements and forward-looking information (collectively, “forward-looking statements”) within the meaning of applicable Canadian and U.S. securities laws. Forward-looking statements in Suncor’s 2018 Report on Sustainability include references to: Suncor’s mission, vision and strategies, including to strive to be the low-cost and low-carbon producer and competitor in its sector ABOUT OUR REPORT and deliver long term value for shareholders, unlock maximum value from its extensive resources, demonstrate triple bottom line sustainability leadership in environmental performance, social responsibility and creating a strong economy, keep costs down, deliver economic prosperity, improved social well-being and a healthy environment, and increase reliability; the belief that Suncor has created a strong foundation for resilient and sustainable energy STRATEGY AND development; Suncor’s goal to decrease overall greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions intensity of its production of oil and petroleum products by 30% by GOVERNANCE 2030 and that Suncor can see a realistic path to achieving such goal and the areas of focus to achieve this goal, the social goal relating to increasing the participation of Canada’s Aboriginal Peoples in resource development and strengthening Suncor’s relationships with Aboriginal Peoples of Canada and OUR BUSINESS the areas of focus to achieve this goal, [and Suncor’s intention to create a long-term goal relating to water conservation]; the expected impact of achieving these goals; the expectation that Suncor will continue to explore other opportunities, work to improve Aboriginal Peoples’ participation in its workforce, the progress of Aboriginal youth and continue efforts to increase Suncor employees’ awareness of the history and experience of Aboriginal CLIMATE CHANGE Peoples; Suncor’s confidence in its resilience over the long term; that Suncor will exclusively supply PetroNor with fuel and distillate and work collaboratively to pursue additional opportunities in northwestern Quebec; the expectation that technology will keep Suncor competitive, allow Suncor to grow its business, allow for oil sands-derived oil to have GHG intensities at or below the average North American barrel and that Suncor can and will ENVIRONMENT get beyond today’s technologies; the belief that Suncor can generate sufficient cash flow provided by operating activities at a $US45 to $45 per barrel oil price to cover sustaining capital and its dividend; the belief that Suncor will need to drive not just continuous improvement, but transformative improvement, to remain competitive in a low carbon future; Suncor’s expectations (including potential outcomes and benefits) and plans around SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY technologies being developed, tested, introduced in Suncor’s operations or considered for use, including technologies related to decarbonization, in situ technologies, including the next generation SAGD platform, coke capping, remote monitoring, control and support, solvent and surfactant assisted SAGD recovery, radio frequency heating techniques, electromagnetic assisted solvent extraction, direct contact steam generation and produced water INNOVATION treatment, mild thermal cracker technology, non-condensable gas co-injection, solvent-only technologies (including NsolvTM ), steam-solvent technologies, expanding solvent SAGD, optimized solvent-steam hybrid, high temperature reverse osmosis, digitization, thermal-solvent based processes, demonstration pit lake, CO2 capture, SAGD LITE, surface mining technologies, including paraffinic froth treatment, non-aqueous extraction, well-bore enhancements, PERFORMANCE DATA froth treatment tails, permanent aquatic storage structure treatment process, land reclamation, wireless badges, wireless gas detection monitors, flaring and tailings management; timelines and plans relating to technology development and testing; the expectation that technology will result in oil sands APPENDICES crudes being both a low cost and low carbon source of crude and that the carbon intensity of bitumen can be lowered while improving the cost competitiveness; expectations around ESEIEHTM including the potential benefits and the timing of the results from the ESEIEHTM pilot; and further implementation of the technology at a pad-scale In Situ Demonstration Facility; Suncor’s aim to bend the curve on the company’s absolute GHG emissions; potential replacement of petroleum coke fired boilers and benefits thereof; potential benefits of investment in expanding cogeneration including its impact on Alberta’s electrical grid; statements about Suncor’s autonomous haulage systems, including the plan to deploy more than 150 autonomous haul trucks over the next six years and the expected performance and benefits thereof; that Suncor will continue to work together with other affected stakeholders to work out the details of implementation of the recommendations of the TCFD; Suncor’s expectations for the world’s population by 2040 and the energy demands associated with such growth; possible initiatives that could be undertaken to achieve Suncor’s sustainability goals; Suncor’s strategy to be an industry leader in sustainable development by continued performance improvements in air emissions, water withdrawals, land reclamation and energy efficiency; Suncor’s plan to remain resilient in a world transitioning to a lower carbon energy system; the expectation that oil and gas will continue to be a significant part of the global energy mix for the foreseeable future; Suncor’s goal to continue to reduce costs and carbon intensity; statements about the Fort Hills project, including that it will provide energy for the next 50 years, will reach 90% of nameplate bitumen SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX C: ADVISORIES | 147 production capacity by the end of 2018, and the expected increase to the total CO2e of Suncor’s operated GHG emission profile; potential future wind TABLE OF CONTENTS and solar power projects in Alberta and Saskatchewan; the expected peak fluid tailings inventory at Fort Hills and the expected benefits from treating fluid tailings from the start of operations; expectations for renewable power development, including its potential to contribute to Suncor’s social goal and the manner and areas in which Suncor will proceed with such projects; expectations regarding the REP II and REP III program and the opportunities CEO’S MESSAGE provided by the Alberta merchant market structure; the belief about the development and opportunities for renewable energy projects in Alberta and Saskatchewan and Suncor’s position to participate in such projects; [statements surrounding Suncor’s renewable development portfolio and potential development opportunities, including the potential additional of more than 1,000 MW in Alberta and 400 MW or more of wind capacity in ABOUT OUR REPORT Saskatchewan;] the expectation that the environmental benefit of the St. Clair Ethanol plant will double to up to 600,000 tonnes of greenhouse gas reductions annually; the impacts of Suncor’s safety initiatives and incident management and corrective actions; Suncor’s aim to decrease the probability of ad-hoc or reactive policy development through engagement activities and by working to reduce polarized dialogue; statements surrounding the new STRATEGY AND Canadian Energy Regulator and what it is seeking to achieve; Suncor’s belief that efficient, effective and transparent regulatory oversight will be valuable GOVERNANCE to accurately inform Canadians, decision-makers and other stakeholders; expectations about Bill C-68 and Bill C-69; the belief that a well-designed carbon price is the most economically efficient and inclusive way to drive responsible emission reductions, that additional policies can play a role supporting carbon pricing in specific circumstances and that a “patchwork quilt” or carbon pricing policies across the provinces can mean higher costs than necessary; OUR BUSINESS statements about the Climate Leadership Plan and the expected impact thereof; the strategies, goals and areas of focus by the Suncor Energy Foundation including the steps it will take to implement such strategies and achieve such goals and that it will continue to contribute to its reserve fund so that CLIMATE CHANGE investments will be available to sustain funding during future economic downturns; the anticipated benefits from communication with government officials; the goals of the diversity and inclusion council, including that diversity is improved, valued and optimized, and the steps being taken to achieve such goals; Suncor’s carbon price outlook and the estimated impact thereof; expected impacts of changing regulations; expectations for the Water ENVIRONMENT Technology Development Centre and the timeline for opening it; expectations for future water use; the expected impact and benefits from Suncor’s participation in COSIA, including the impact of its research on tailings management and ensuring that oil sands pit lakes are viable features in the closure landscape; expectations for, and potential benefits from, Suncor’s wastewater plant; land reclamation goals; tailings management plans; the belief that SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Suncor’s highly efficient, integrated model limits Suncor’s exposure to heavy crude differentials; that Suncor will continue to work with governments, regulators, industry associations and stakeholders in support of market access objectives; Suncor’s aim to deliver competitive and sustainable returns to shareholders by focusing on capital discipline, operational excellence, long-term profitable growth; the expectation that the East Tank Farm Development INNOVATION transaction will provide a steady stream of revenue to both FMFN and MCFN for at least 25 years and the anticipated uses of such revenue; and estimates of future absolute GHG emissions and emissions intensity. Some of the forward-looking statements and information may be identified by words like ‘‘expected’’, ‘‘anticipated’’, ‘‘will’’, ‘‘estimates’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘scheduled’’, ‘‘intended’’, ‘‘believes’’, ‘‘projected’’, ‘‘indicates’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘focus’’, ‘‘vision’’, “mission”, PERFORMANCE DATA strategy”, ‘‘goal’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘proposed’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘objective’’, ‘‘continue’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘aim’’, “strives”, “would”, “potential”, “committed”, “opportunity” and similar expressions. APPENDICES Forward-looking statements are based on Suncor’s current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions that were made by the company in light of information available at the time the statement was made and consider Suncor’s experience and its perception of historical trends, including expectations and assumptions concerning: the accuracy of reserves and resources estimates; commodity prices and interest and foreign exchange rates; the performance of assets and equipment; capital efficiencies and cost-savings; applicable laws and government policies, future production rates; the sufficiency of budgeted capital expenditures in carrying out planned activities; the availability and cost of labour, services and infrastructure; the satisfaction by third parties of their obligations to Suncor; the execution of projects; and the receipt, in a timely manner, of regulatory and third-party approvals. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, some that are similar to other oil and gas companies and some that are unique to Suncor. Suncor’s actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by its forward-looking statements, so readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on them. Risks, uncertainties and other factors that could influence the financial and operating performance of all of Suncor’s operating segments and activities include, but are not limited to, changes in general economic, market and business conditions, such as commodity prices, interest rates and currency SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX C: ADVISORIES | 148 exchange rates; fluctuations in supply and demand for Suncor’s products; the successful and timely implementation of capital projects, including growth TABLE OF CONTENTS projects and regulatory projects; risks associated with the execution of Suncor's major projects and the commissioning and integration of new facilities; competitive actions of other companies, including increased competition from other oil and gas companies or from companies that provide alternative sources of energy; labour and material shortages; actions by government authorities, including the imposition or reassessment of, or changes to, taxes, CEO’S MESSAGE fees, royalties, duties and other government-imposed compliance costs; changes to laws and government policies that could impact the company's business, including environmental (including climate change), royalty and tax laws and policies; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the unavailability of, or outages to, third party infrastructure that could cause disruptions ABOUT OUR REPORT to production or prevent the company from being able to transport its products; the occurrence of a protracted operational outage, a major safety or environmental incident, or unexpected events such as fires (including forest fires), equipment failures and other similar events affecting Suncor or other parties whose operations or assets directly or indirectly affect Suncor; the potential for security breaches of Suncor’s information technology and STRATEGY AND infrastructure by malicious persons or entities, and the unavailability or failure of such systems to perform as anticipated as a result of such breaches; the GOVERNANCE risk that competing business objectives may exceed Suncor's capacity to adopt and implement change; risks and uncertainties associated with obtaining regulatory and stakeholder approval for the company's operations and exploration and development activities; the potential for disruptions to operations and construction projects as a result of Suncor's relationships with labour unions that represent employees at the company's facilities; our ability to OUR BUSINESS find new oil and gas reserves that can be developed economically; the accuracy of Suncor’s reserves, resources and future production estimates; market instability affecting Suncor’s ability to borrow in the capital debt markets at acceptable rates or to issue other securities at acceptable prices; maintaining CLIMATE CHANGE an optimal debt to cash flow ratio; the success of the company’s risk management activities using derivatives and other financial instruments; the cost of compliance with current and future environmental laws, including climate change laws; risks relating to increased activism and public opposition to fossil fuels and oil sands; risks and uncertainties associated with closing a transaction for the purchase or sale of an oil and gas property, including estimates of ENVIRONMENT the final consideration to be paid or received, the ability of counterparties to comply with their obligations in a timely manner; risks associated with joint arrangements in which the company has an interest; the receipt of any required regulatory or other third party approvals outside of Suncor’s control and the satisfaction of any conditions to such approvals; risks associated with land claims and Aboriginal consultation requirements; risks relating to litigation; SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY the impact of technology and risks associated with developing and implementing new technologies; and the accuracy of cost estimates, some of which are provided at the conceptual or other preliminary stage of projects and prior to commencement or conception of the detailed engineering that is needed to reduce the margin of error and increase the level of accuracy. The foregoing important factors are not exhaustive. INNOVATION Suncor’s Management’s Discussion and Analysis for the first quarter of 2018 dated May 1, 2018 and its Annual Information Form, Form 40-F and Annual Report to Shareholders, each dated March 1, 2018, and other documents it files from time to time with securities regulatory authorities describe the PERFORMANCE DATA risks, uncertainties, material assumptions and other factors that could influence actual results and such factors are incorporated herein by reference. Copies of these documents are available without charge from Suncor at 150 6th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta T2P 3E3, by calling 1-800-558-9071, or by email request to info@suncor.com or by referring to the company’s profile on SEDAR at sedar.com or EDGAR at sec.gov. Except as required by applicable APPENDICES securities laws, Suncor disclaims any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Non-GAAP measures Certain financial measures in Suncor’s 2018 Report on Sustainability – namely funds from operations, operating earnings (loss) and Oil Sands operations cash operating costs per barrel – are not prescribed by Canadian generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). These non-GAAP measures are defined and reconciled in Suncor’s Management’s Discussion and Analysis for the year ended December 31, 2018. These non-GAAP financial measures do not have any standardized meaning and therefore are unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies. These non-GAAP financial measures are included because management uses the information to analyze business performance, leverage and liquidity, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX C: ADVISORIES | 149 Reclamation TABLE OF CONTENTS Land is considered permanently reclaimed when landform construction and contouring, clean material placement (as required), reclamation material placement and revegetation has taken place. Land cannot be listed under permanent reclamation until revegetation has occurred which is reflective of the approved Reclamation and Revegetation Plans. Suncor has reclaimed a cumulative total of 48.2 hectares of wetlands and lakes. CEO’S MESSAGE BOEs ABOUT OUR REPORT Certain natural gas volumes have been converted to barrels of oil equivalent (boe) on the basis of one barrel to six thousand cubic feet. Any figure presented in boe may be misleading, particularly if used in isolation. A conversion ratio of one barrel of crude oil or natural gas liquids to six thousand cubic feet of natural gas is based on an energy equivalency conversion method primarily applicable at the burner tip and does not necessarily represent a STRATEGY AND value equivalency at the wellhead. Given that the value ratio based on the current price of crude oil as compared to natural gas is significantly different GOVERNANCE from the energy equivalency of 6:1, utilizing a conversion on a 6:1 basis may be misleading as an indication of value. Cubic metres of oil equivalent and are calculated on the basis of one boe to 0.159 standard cubic metres. As cubic metres of oil equivalent are based on a OUR BUSINESS conversion involving boe, all values are subject to the same limitations as boe, noted above. CLIMATE CHANGE Suncor References to “Suncor”, “we”, “our” and “the company” in Suncor’s 2018 Report on Sustainability mean Suncor Energy Inc., its subsidiaries, partnerships and interests in associates and jointly controlled entities, unless the context otherwise requires. ENVIRONMENT Partnerships SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The use of “partnership” throughout Suncor’s 2018 Report on Sustainability does not necessarily mean a partnership in the legal context. Version control INNOVATION Revised August 10th, 2018: Water withdrawal from the Athabasca River was reported incorrectly as 16.9 million m³ when this report was published on July 19, 2018. This typographic error has been corrected to 15.9 million m3. PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX D: GRI CONTENT INDEX | 150 TABLE OF CONTENTS APPENDIX D: GRI CONTENT INDEX This Report on Sustainability has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting This index describes: Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option, with additional use of the Oil and Gas Sector CEO’S MESSAGE • which GRI Standards and material topics have been covered in this report Disclosures. We’ve also integrated our commitment and implementation of the United • where to find additional information in this report other public disclosures, or Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles throughout the report, and provided omissions corresponding linkages to principles addressed in the table below. • standards that have been externally assured ABOUT OUR REPORT UNGC GRI standards Description Response, link or additional information principle(s) STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 N/A Principles for defining report content and quality, Throughout this report, we have adhered to the following principles: and the process for sustainability reporting using • stakeholder inclusiveness OUR BUSINESS the GRI Standards. • sustainability context • materiality • completeness CLIMATE CHANGE • accuracy • balance • comparability ENVIRONMENT • reliability • timeliness GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Organization profile 102-1 Name of the organization Suncor Energy Inc. INNOVATION 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Operations summary (p. 32) 102-3 Location of headquarters Calgary, Alberta (Canada) PERFORMANCE DATA 102-4 Location of operations Operations summary (p. 32) 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2017 Annual Information Form (p. 5) APPENDICES 102-6 Markets served Operations summary (p. 32) 102-7 Scale of the organization Operations summary (p. 32) Performance data (p. 125) 2017 Annual Report 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Performance data workforce (p. 130) 6 102-9 Supply chain Economic impact (p. 34) 102-10 Significant changes during the reporting year to Performance data (p. 125) the organization and its supply chain 2017 Annual Report (p.27-29) 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our vision (p. 11) 7 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX D: GRI CONTENT INDEX | 151 UNGC GRI standards Description Response, link or additional information TABLE OF CONTENTS principle(s) 102-12 External initiatives Land and biodiversity (p. 85) Policy engagement (p. 25) CEO’S MESSAGE Collaboration (p. 122) 102-13 Membership of associations Lobbying and disclosure (p. 29) ABOUT OUR REPORT Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO message (p. 3) STRATEGY AND 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Corporate governance (p. 21) GOVERNANCE Economic impact (p. 34) Performance data (p. 125) OUR BUSINESS Risk management (p. 23) Climate change (p. 46) CLIMATE CHANGE Sustainability goals (p. 17) Suncor's Climate Report Ethics and integrity ENVIRONMENT 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Ethical business conduct (p. 39) 1, 2, 6, 10 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Ethical business conduct (p. 39) 1, 2, 10 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate governance (p. 21) INNOVATION Schedule C: Corporate Governance Summary of our 2018 Management Proxy Circular 102-19 Delegating authority Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2018; (Schedule C: Corporate PERFORMANCE DATA Governance Summary Risk Oversight, pp. C-8 to C-9) Additionally, a Strategic Issues Management Process is in place to effectively manage our strategic issues. The process identifies, monitors and manages APPENDICES key environmental, economic and social issues most critical to our business and our external stakeholders and sets up a governance system to oversee the management of the issues. 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, We have several senior leadership positions whose roles include sustainability environmental, and social topics oversight in the organization, including: • Chief Sustainability Officer (directly reports to the CEO) • Vice President, Sustainability & Communications • General Manager, Strategy & Integration 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, For additional information about stakeholder feedback with our Board of environmental, and social topics Directors, refer to our 2018 Management Proxy Circular Schedule C: Corporate Governance Summary – Communications/Disclosure Policy and Stakeholder Feedback, p. C-7 to C-8 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX D: GRI CONTENT INDEX | 152 UNGC GRI standards Description Response, link or additional information TABLE OF CONTENTS principle(s) 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and Suncor Energy Inc. Annual Information Form dated March 1, 2018; (Directors and its committees executive officers, pp. 69-74) CEO’S MESSAGE 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2018 (Schedule D: Position description for independent board chair) 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2018 (Schedule C: Corporate ABOUT OUR REPORT body Governance Summary, pp. C-11 to C-13) 102-25 Conflicts of interest Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2018 (Schedule C: Corporate 10 Governance Summary – Conflicts of Interest, p. C-15) STRATEGY AND 102-26 Role of the highest governance body in setting Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2018 (Schedule F: Board Terms of 1, 7, 8 GOVERNANCE purpose, values, and strategy Reference – Part IV: Mandate of the Board of Directors, pp. F-4 to F-6) 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2018 (Schedule C: Corporate Governance Summary – Orientation and Continuing Education, pp. C-13 to C-14) OUR BUSINESS Additionally, our Board of Directors receive periodic reports from our Chief Sustainability Officer. The Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability Committee of the Board also receives quarterly updates and stewardship on our CLIMATE CHANGE priority sustainability issues. 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s The Board completes an annual self-evaluation. For details, see the Suncor performance Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2018 (Schedule C: Corporate Governance ENVIRONMENT Summary – Annual Evaluation Process, pp. C-5 to C-6) Specific information about topics reviewed and action plans that are developed are confidential and not reported. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental The Board oversees Suncor’s Enterprise Risk Management Program. For details, 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 10 and social impacts see the Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2018 (Schedule C: Corporate Governance Summary – Risk Oversight, pp. C-8 to C-9) INNOVATION 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes The Board oversees Suncor’s Enterprise Risk Management Program. For details, 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 10 see the Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2018 (Schedule C: Corporate Governance Summary – Risk Oversight, pp. C-8 to C-9) PERFORMANCE DATA 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social The Board oversees Suncor’s Enterprise Risk Management Program. For details, 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 10 topics see the Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2018 (Schedule C: Corporate Governance Summary – Risk Oversight, pp. C-8 to C-9) APPENDICES 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability Our Executive Leadership Team, including the CEO, review and approve this report prior to publication. 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Issues of concern are elevated through the Strategic Issues Management Process 1, 10 to a senior leadership governance body. The Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainable Development committee of the Board also reviews the effectiveness to which we achieve objectives pertaining to the environment, health, safety and sustainable development. This committee also receives a quarterly update and stewardship on our priority sustainability issues 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Throughout 2017, key issues remained focused on climate change, water and First Nations issues. In depth discussions, goal setting and initiatives to address these issues have been ongoing and will continue to evolve. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX D: GRI CONTENT INDEX | 153 UNGC GRI standards Description Response, link or additional information TABLE OF CONTENTS principle(s) 102-35 Remuneration policies For more information, see the Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 10 2018 (Board of Directors Compensation and Executive Compensation, pp. 14-52) CEO’S MESSAGE 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2018 (Board of Directors 10 Compensation and Executive Compensation, pp. 14-52) 102-37 Stakeholders involved in remuneration Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2018 (Advisory Vote on Approach ABOUT OUR REPORT to Executive Compensation, p. 13) Stakeholder engagement STRATEGY AND 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder and Aboriginal relations (p. 90) GOVERNANCE 1, 3 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Performance data workforce (p. 130) 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder and Aboriginal relations (p. 90) OUR BUSINESS 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement About our report (p. 6) Stakeholder and Aboriginal relations (p. 90) CLIMATE CHANGE 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised About our report (p. 6) Stakeholder and Aboriginal relations (p. 90) Climate change (p. 46) ENVIRONMENT Personal and process safety (p. 37) Water performance and stewardship (p. 72) SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Suncor's Climate Report Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Suncor Energy Inc. Annual Report 2017, pp. 27-28 INNOVATION statements For more information about the entities not covered in this report, refer to the performance data page(s). PERFORMANCE DATA 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries About our report (p. 6) 102-47 List of material topics About our report (p. 6) APPENDICES 102-48 Restatements of information Any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports and reasons for re-statements can be found throughout the performance data pages and accompanying notes that have been restated. 102-49 Changes in reporting Significant changes from previous reporting periods in scope, boundary or measurement methods can be found on the performance data page and accompanying notes. 102-50 Reporting period January 1 – December 31, 2017 (unless otherwise stated) 102-51 Date of most recent report July, 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 1-866-SUNCOR-1 (1-866-786-2671) or email us at info@suncor.com SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX D: GRI CONTENT INDEX | 154 UNGC GRI standards Description Response, link or additional information TABLE OF CONTENTS principle(s) 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Standards CEO’S MESSAGE 102-55 GRI Content Index The GRI content index as available for download and as an appendix to Suncor’s Report on Sustainability. 102-56 External assurance An independent third-party has provided assurance on selected key performance ABOUT OUR REPORT indicators for our Report on Sustainability. The assurance report and indicators that were reviewed can be found on the performance data page. GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE 103-1 Management approach for material topics Our management approach to material sustainability priorities in this 2018 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 Report on Sustainability are presented in the following sections: 103-2 CEO's message (p. 3) OUR BUSINESS 103-3 Corporate governance (p. 21) Policy engagement (p. 25) CLIMATE CHANGE Economic impact (p. 34) Personal and process safety (p. 37) Ethical business conduct (p. 39) ENVIRONMENT Diversity and inclusion (p. 42) Climate change (p. 46) SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Water performance and stewardship (p. 72) Tailings management (p. 76) Air quality (p. 78) INNOVATION Reclamation (p. 81) Land use and biodiversity (p. 85) PERFORMANCE DATA Stakeholder and Aboriginal relations (p. 90) Suncor's Climate Report APPENDICES In 2017, 19 grievances mostly related to environmental impacts, were documented through our formal grievance mechanism. Most concerned environmental impacts related to our operations. All of the grievances have been addressed and many have been resolved. Although all have been addressed, some may still be in progress and on their way to being resolved. GRI 200: TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS ECONOMIC GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Performance data (p. 125) 10 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX D: GRI CONTENT INDEX | 155 UNGC GRI standards Description Response, link or additional information TABLE OF CONTENTS principle(s) 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and CEO's message (p. 3) 7 opportunities due to climate change Climate change (p. 46) CEO’S MESSAGE Suncor's Climate Report Suncor’s 2018 CDP Climate Change response (pp. C2) ABOUT OUR REPORT 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 2017 Annual Report (p. 111-115) retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Federal (Canada) and Provincial Government funding is publically reported and STRATEGY AND available through the Office of the Commissioner of Lobbying of Canada. For GOVERNANCE more information about our public policy participation, visit the following pages: Public policy participation (p. 25) Lobbying and disclosure (p. 29) OUR BUSINESS GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Economic impact (p. 34) CLIMATE CHANGE Community investment (p. 94) 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Economic impact (p. 34) ENVIRONMENT Partnering with Aboriginal businesses (p. 105) GRI 204: Procurement practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Economic impact (p. 34) 10 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Performance data (p. 125) GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 INNOVATION 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Ethical business conduct (p. 39) Risks related to bribery and corruption related to our foreign operations can be found in our Annual Information Form dated March 1, 2018 (p. 63) PERFORMANCE DATA 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Ethical business conduct (p. 39) policies and procedures Training specific to the prevention of improper payments is provided on a APPENDICES targeted basis to certain individuals in high-risk jobs and jurisdictions. Certain third party business associates are also provided with anti-corruption training, based on assessed risk. GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antiEthical business conduct (p. 39) trust, and monopoly practices No regulatory enforcement actions were initiated for anti-competitive conduct against Suncor in 2017. Suncor’s business code of conduct provides that Suncor shall in the conduct of its business (a) avoid all practices and activities that are a violation of any provision of competition law, and (b) support and encourage the maintenance of a competitive economy. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX D: GRI CONTENT INDEX | 156 UNGC GRI standards Description Response, link or additional information TABLE OF CONTENTS principle(s) GRI 300: TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS ENVIRONMENTAL CEO’S MESSAGE GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Performance data (p. 125) 7, 8 Suncor’s 2018 CDP Climate Change Response (pp. CC8) ABOUT OUR REPORT 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Performance data (p. 125) 8 Suncor’s 2018 CDP Climate Change Response (pp. CC8) STRATEGY AND 302-3 Energy intensity Performance data (p. 125) 8, 9 GOVERNANCE Suncor’s 2018 CDP Climate Change Response (pp. CC8) 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Performance data (p. 125) 8, 9 OUR BUSINESS GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Performance data (p. 125) 7, 8 CLIMATE CHANGE 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal Performance data (p. 125) 8, 9 of water Water performance and stewardship (p. 72) Suncor’s 2018 CDP Water Response (pp. W1.2) ENVIRONMENT 303-3 Water recycled and reused Performance data (p. 125) 8 Water performance and stewardship (p. 72) SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-1 Operational sites in proximity to protected areas Performance data (p. 125) 8 and areas of high biodiversity value outside Land and biodiversity (p. 85) INNOVATION protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and Performance data (p. 125) 8 services on biodiversity Land and biodiversity (p. 85) PERFORMANCE DATA 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Performance data (p. 125) 8 Reclamation (p. 81) APPENDICES GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Performance data (p. 125) 7, 8, 9 Suncor’s 2018 CDP Climate Change Response (pp. C6.1) 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Performance data (p. 125) 7, 8, 9 Suncor’s 2018 CDP Climate Change Response (pp. C6.2-C6.3) 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Performance data (p. 125) 7, 8 Suncor’s 2018 CDP Climate Change Response (pp. C6.5) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Performance data (p. 125) 7, 8, 9 Suncor’s 2018 CDP Climate Change Response (pp. C6.10-C6.12) SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX D: GRI CONTENT INDEX | 157 UNGC GRI standards Description Response, link or additional information TABLE OF CONTENTS principle(s) 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Performance data (p. 125) 7, 8, 9 CEO’S MESSAGE 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOX), and Performance data (p. 125) 7, 8 other significant air emissions Air quality (p. 78) GRI 306: Effluents and waste 2016 ABOUT OUR REPORT 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Performance data (p. 125) 8 Water effluent quality is monitored and reported on. STRATEGY AND Unplanned water discharges are rare. We currently report the number of GOVERNANCE unplanned water discharge events as well as exceedances in our discharge water quality. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Performance data (p. 125) 8 OUR BUSINESS 306-3 Significant spills Performance data (p. 125) 8 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/ Land and biodiversity (p. 85) CLIMATE CHANGE or runoff Tailings management (p. 76) Water performance and stewardship (p. 72) ENVIRONMENT GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and Performance data (p. 125) 8 regulations SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI 400: TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS SOCIAL GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 2016 INNOVATION 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint Suncor’s workforce at Oil Sands, In Situ, Exploration & Production and Refining & 1, 3 management-worker health and safety committees Marketing that include operations are represented in formal joint managementworker health and safety committees. These committees address health and PERFORMANCE DATA safety concerns and provide guidance on required next steps. 403-2 Types and rates of injury and number of workPersonal and process safety (p. 37) 1 related fatalities Performance data (p. 125) APPENDICES GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity and inclusion (p. 42) Performance data (p. 125) 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Performance data (p. 125) 1, 6 to men GRI 411: Rights of indigenous peoples 2016 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of In 2017, Suncor did not have any formal grievances reported in regard to 1, 2 indigenous peoples incidents of violations involving Indigenous Peoples. Suncor works with Indigenous communities to address issues and concerns related to the environmental and social impacts associated with our operations. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2018 APPENDIX D: GRI CONTENT INDEX | 158 UNGC GRI standards Description Response, link or additional information TABLE OF CONTENTS principle(s) GRI 413: Local communities 2016 CEO’S MESSAGE 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Stakeholder and Aboriginal engagement (p. 90) impact assessments and development programs Partnering with Aboriginal businesses (p. 105) GRI 415: Public policy 2016 ABOUT OUR REPORT 415-1 Political contributions Lobbying and disclosure (p. 29) 10 GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 2016 STRATEGY AND 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the No material fines or non-monetary sanctions were levied on Suncor in 2017 for GOVERNANCE social and economic area non-compliance with laws and regulations. GRI SECTOR SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS Oil and gas sector specific disclosures OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and Performance data (p. 125) production CLIMATE CHANGE OG2 Renewable energy investment Renewables (p. 18) 8, 9 OG3 Renewable energy generation Performance data (p. 125) 8, 9 ENVIRONMENT OG4 Biodiversity assessment and monitoring Land and biodiversity (p. 85) OG5 Formation or produced water Performance data (p. 125) SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OG6 Flaring and venting Air quality (p. 78) CDP Climate Change (C4.8) INNOVATION We do not report vented gas. Our operational practices help to limit venting, such as vapour recovery units that are used on some of our storage tanks. OG7 Drilling waste Performance data (p. 125) PERFORMANCE DATA OG8 Fuel content Performance data (p. 125) OG13 Process safety events Personal and process safety (p. 37) APPENDICES
