Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Empower humans. Enhance brands. Sitel Group Global Code of Conduct and Ethics Table of Contents Message from our CEO 03 About Sitel Group 04 About this Report 08 Our Company Quality Throughout 09 Global Operating Standard 10 Awards 11 Our CSR Program, Structure and Policies 14 Our Associates A message from our CEO Feedback 16 Employment 17 Training & Development 18 Talent Management & Career Opportunities 20 Dear Stakeholders, involved with the local communities in which we operate has Professionalism & Harassment 22 always been a part of Sitel Group’s culture and many of our Inclusion, Diversity & Equal Opportunity 22 It is my pleasure to present you with Sitel Group’s 2017 Corporate community engagement projects depend on our associates’ Child, Forced & Compulsory Labor 25 Social Responsibility (CSR) and United Nations Global Compact passion, time and energy. Freedom of Association 25 Communication on Progress (COP) report. Work & Personal Life Balance 25 The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Health Safety & Well-being 26 We are excited to confirm that this is the first time we are continue to be at the core of Sitel Group’s approach to business. The Sitel Group Workforce 27 reporting as Sitel Group. Since the acquisition of Sitel by Groupe In the past year, we have continued to bring these principles to Ethics Acticall in 2015, both companies have reported independently. life. The most significant component of how we implement the This year, we consolidated our CSR programs and this report Global Compact is our associates’ development. We launched documents the successful work of the entire Sitel Group. GOS 2.0, an operational framework providing associates at Human Rights 28 every level with an opportunity to learn, contribute, develop Reinforcing Our Company Ethics 28 Sitel Group is comprised of several operating businesses and and improve their performance. We have also launched our Reporting 29 ventures, including Sitel, TSC, Learning Tribes, Novagile and new corporate learning tool, My Academy, a dynamic and Privacy & Data Protection 29 Extens Consulting. We aim to be a global, innovative and socially fresh learning platform serving as a hub for training and Anti-Corruption 30 engaged operator, delivering the best Customer Experiences development initiatives within Sitel Group, helping us to build a Sitel Group Anti-Corruption Program 30 possible. Everything we do to execute our strategy comes to strong foundation to allow our associates to grow their skillsets Environment life through our thousands of associates who are the driving and evolve as people. force behind everything we do at Sitel Group. We are focused on attracting, retaining and providing a healthy and nurturing CSR continues to be at the heart of Sitel Group, whether by Carbon Footprint & Use of Resources 32 environment for talented people to build a truly global company providing exceptional customer experiences for our clients and Environmental Activities 34 that represents and understands all the uniqueness around the their customers, by being mindful of how our operations impact Supply Chain world. the surrounding environment, by developing our associates and 36 treating them fairly and by creating new jobs or by giving back As a company, we have a responsibility to improve the way to the communities in which we operate. As we move forward Community the world works and lives. We make use of our vast global in 2018, we look to a bright future and are proud of all we footprint and solid capabilities to have a positive impact on accomplished in 2017. our associates, our clients and our local communities. Being Health Campaigns 37 French Sites Mobilized for Cystic Fibrosis 38 Global: Pink October 39 Blood Drives 40 Laurent Uberti Education 41 President & CEO, Sitel group Sitel Group Celebrates Literacy Day 42 Drives 43 Relief Support 44 Active Participation in the Comunity 45 Sitel Charitable Giving Fund 46 Telethon 47 Job Creation & Skills Development 48 Holiday-giving 49 2 3 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report About Sitel Group Sitel Group is one of the largest customer experience companies in the world. The Group Located in Serving Founded in 75 000 25 70 1985 400+ 150+ 48 $1.7B is comprised of industry-leading firms providing business process outsourcing, digital marketing, training and talent management, technology and Associates Countries Countries Clients Offices Languages Revenue innovation, consulting and analytics solutions. With subsidiaries such as Sitel, TSC, Learning Tribes, Extens Consulting, Sitel Insights and Novagile, the Group’s services are leveraged across geographies, verticals and all stages of the end-to-end customer journey, helping clients effectively harness the industry’s explosive digital transformation and consistently deliver outstanding customer experiences. With over 30 years of industry-leading experience, Sitel Group’s 75,000 service over 400 clients – Fortune Global 500 companies as well as local businesses – through its network of more than 150 offices in 25 countries. AMERICAS EUROPE AFRICA Brazil Bulgaria Ivory Coast Canada Denmark Morocco Colombia France Mexico Germany APAC Nicaragua Ireland Panama Netherlands Australia United States Poland China Portugal India Serbia New Zealand Spain Philippines United Kingdom 4 5 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Sitel Group Global Code of Conduct and Ethics Global platform of Customer Experience Services Global platform of Customer Experience services Sitel TSC Learning Novagile Extens Tribes Consulting A leading global As an agile and Learning Tribes is Novagile specializes Extens Consulting outsourcing provider innovative agency, a global learning in creating is the customer of customer TSC offers startand development technological experience experience to-finish solutions organization with solutions to help consulting firm management. for all digital the mission of clients efficiently and of Sitel Group. Sitel offers tailored customer experience empowering teams effectively manage Specializing in customer care management to deliver the best their customer care, analysis, consulting solutions to a needs including possible customer including consulting, and transforming diversified client base brand community experience through IT services, customer journeys, across all stages development, social customized and e-commerce, Extens also of the customer media research and innovative learning customer service and provides delegation journey. insights, strategic solutions for greater self-care. Novagile of support and social media engagement and assists clients in management business plans development. both their digital functions. Extens and omnichannel and mobile CRM IT assists brands in the UX design and projects. creation of value development. and enriching the global offerings of integrated services for improved customer experiences. 6 7 About this report Our Company An extension of our client United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress To our clients, we are not just another service provider, but also an integral part of their organization an extension of their operations. This reflects our This annual CSR report serves as Sitel Group’s Communication on Progress to commitment and efforts towards creating long-term relationships with our the United Nations Global Compact. clients. Since Sitel’s acquisition by Groupe Acticall, both companies have been We focus on making our clients successful by clearly understanding their reporting separately. This year, we have taken a decision to report jointly, needs and documenting an account plan for continued improvement that is as a Group. Acticall France S. A. S. was the first affiliate company to join the actively supported by all parties on a daily basis. United Nations Global Compact in 2011, followed by Sitel Ibérica Teleservices S.A. in 2012. Sitel Worldwide Corporation, as a global organization, joined the Our Account Management structure ensures clients have a senior-level initiative in 2015. professional dedicated to driving the Account plan, ensuring it advances the clients’ strategy while meeting its day-to-day business priorities. As part of The Global Compact principles are primarily addressed on the following this approach, we collect client feedback at minimum once a year, and discuss pages, but also in other parts throughout this CSR Annual Report. the account plan and how it is supporting the client’s strategy at minimum 4 times a year in our Quarterly Strategic business reviews. • HUMAN RIGHTS Principles 1 and 2: pages 16-26, 28, 29 • LABOR Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 pages 22-25 Our expertise in listening and responding to the Voice of the Customer means • ENVIRONMENT Principles 7,8 and 9: pages 32-34 we know the right way to apply tools and process to do the same for our • ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: pages 30, 31 clients. Our processes drive a high level of customer focus throughout our organization – inclusive of our operations management, coaches and agents – Several other issues of importance are also described in our corporate policies. thereby creating a culture of care that translates into every single interaction we have with our client’s customers. Scope of this report This report relates to our global operations including locations where we Quality Throughout operate our own sites, where we operate from client locations and the 70+ countries to which we provide services. Continuous improvement is a part of our delivery model. Sitel Group follows a Lean Sigma continuous improvement approach and core staffs green belt and black belt trained professionals within our site and regional support Stakeholders Engagement structure. Additionally, all of our defined processes are closed-loop – ensuring a continual feedback process to drive improvement across all processes – from Fostering a dialogue with key stakeholders is an important part of our recruiting and selection to ongoing performance management. reporting process. It helps us understand and communicate which topics are most important to our stakeholders and to manage our business. A quality assurance program built on processes that drive continuous improvement is vital to our goal of providing world-class customer support. We regularly engage with our core stakeholders in discussions regarding We incorporate a closed-loop quality approach, comprised of multiple our objectives, our progress and our performance. Sitel Group identifies its processes and tools, to meet and exceed quality expectations. Our philosophy stakeholders as clients, associates, investors, suppliers and the communities is predicated upon a teaching and counseling approach rather than one in which we operate. of enforcement. This approach is critical to maintaining high morale and realizing continued quality improvement. STAKEHOLDER GROUP EXAMPLE OF ENGAGEMENT We provide Quality Assurance Representative roles in our operating structure Clients Satisfaction surveys, client account leads, quality assurance, conferences and events whose primary role is to ensure process compliance and support the coach roles in providing continuous feedback to the agents to aid improvement. This is supported by HR policies and fed into a skills and knowledge enhancement Associates Surveys, internal communication channels, website, social media and incidents and ethics reporting process planning process. Investors Regular meetings In 2017, nine sites in Portugal, Spain and the UK maintained ISO 9001:2008 certification. Suppliers Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics, incidents and ethics reporting process and procurement management program Communities Website, social media, incidents and ethics reporting process 8 9 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Sitel GOS Global Operating Standards Global Operating System (GOS) Awards Customer GOS 2.0 is a set of 10 empowering principles that help us speak a common language and bring together best practices. These new quality guidelines provide our associates and managers at every level with an opportunity to share what they think, to contribute and Leader in the Gartner Magic Leader in the Everest Peak MatrixTM IAOP Global Outsourcing 100 for to enjoy working together on a daily basis. The 10 GOS 2.0 principles are driven by a collective dynamic where everyone has a role to QuadrantTM for 7 consecutive years: for 5 consecutive years: 13 consecutive years: play, and by a strong desire to be as simple and as coherent as possible. Gartner’s Magic Quadrant for customer Everest Group PEAK Matrix evaluations The Global Outsourcing 100 is an annual management business process are a valuable resource for BPO & ranking by IAOP of the world’s best outsourcing services evaluates key Contact Center services buyers to outsourcing service providers, which service providers in an evolving growth evaluate, compare, and contrast key demonstrated their global excellence The 10 principles are: market. service providers in the global services judged on five aspects: size and growth, space. customer references, awards and certifications, programs for innovation and Corporate Social Responsibility. Client engagement: We foster real proximity with our clients to understand what they need so that we can adapt and respond to them in the most effective way possible. Hiring: Getting the right person for the right job is key. Training: CCW Excellence Awards: European Contact Centre and Sitel Spain awarded with two CRC for Training is evolving to focus more closely on our associates’ learning experience as well as to mirror the spirit of our brand, with a much less The CCW Excellence Awards honor, Customer Service Awards 2017: Inbound Sales Service & Help Desk vertical configuration. recognize and promote the most The European Contact Centre and Service: innovative call center solutions and Customer Service Awards (ECCCSAs) are This award recognizes the excellence of Onboarding: individuals over the past year. the largest and longest-running awards companies through a comprehensive The challenge involves encouraging exchanges and practical exercises to in the customer contact industry. Sitel audit which includes strategy and vision make team integration easier. Group was honored with three accolades of each company, people management at the ceremony in November 2017. and management of each operation Operational review: and the technology implemented. Reporting accuracy is crucial and the reports need to be detailed and frequently updated and analyzed. People performance: This involves breaking down overall performance by individual performance. Sitel Group Portugal awarded by Customer Care Palmes 2017 Award: What If Artificial Intelligence Could APCC for IT and Consumer Electronics The French Customer Relations Make Us More Human? Coaching: We seek to build a team spirit that is founded upon proximity Campaigns: Association (AFRC) presented The Arnaud de Lacoste, Chief Marketing & and ongoing support. Sitel Group Portugal was recognized with Social Client with the Customer Care Innovations Officer, Sitel Group, was the Silver and Bronze Awards for two Palmes 2017 award. awarded the ‘Digital Essay of 2017 client campaigns in the category of IT Award’ at the annual Hub Awards’ Walking management: We want to be close to our operations so as to include the reality of on-site and Electronics of the APCC (Portuguese ceremony. experiences into our processes. Contact Center Association) Best Contact Center Awards 2017. Fun management This aims to make the overall work environment pleasant and fun. Retain: This comprises all people-first initiatives that we seek to deploy in order to foster employee loyalty. 10 11 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Awards Associate Asia’s Best Employer Brand Awards Training Top 125: PMAP People Manager of the Year: 2017: Training magazine’s Training Top 125 The People Management Association of The World HRD Congress presented Sitel Award winners are the organizations the Philippines (PMAP) awarded Haidee Group India with Asia’s Best Employer with the most successful learning and Enriquez, VP, Operations, Sitel Group Brand Awards 2017. development programs in the world. It Philippines, the People Manager of the is the only report that ranks companies Year award for 2017. unsurpassed in harnessing human capital. CEO of the Year Award: Best Organizational Development People First HR Excellence Award: conferred to Ravi Iyengar (CEO, Sitel Programme: Sitel Group India was second runnerGroup India) by World HRD Congress in Sitel Group India awarded with up at People First HR Excellence Asia Best Employer Brand Awards 2017. “Best Organizational Development Award for Leading Practices in Talent Programme” award by World HRD Management. Congress. CHRO of the Year Award: Best Team Leaders 2016 Award: Kalpak Huddar (HR Leader India, Benedita Miranda (Country Manager, Philippines, ANZ) awarded at People Sitel Group Portugal) was awarded first First HR Excellence Awards. place at Team Leaders Award, in the 10-19 team category. Awards Community IDF Award for Partnership in CSR Contact Center World Best Talent Match North East’s (TMNE) Activities: Community Spirit 2016 Award: Star Employer: Sitel Group Mumbai and Hyderabad Sitel Group US was awarded Bronze Sitel Newcastle, in particular John awarded by IDF (Indian Development Medal for the best community spirit. McLauchlin, Sitel Recruiter, was awarded Foundation) for their partnership and by TMNE for the way they support contribution towards CSR activities. young people into employment. 12 13 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Our CSR Progam development, wellbeing, diversity and inclusion. • Business Ethics: Cultivating an ethical corporate In 2014, the organization launched a global Corporate Social culture by defining proper business policies and Responsibility Program to facilitate improvement of its business practices on potentially controversial issues that practices in the social and environmental arena. might arise in a business environment, such as anticorruption and governance policies; While we acknowledge the standards underlying CSR should • Environment: Managing our impact on the be part of normal business practice, by formalizing this in a environment through sound environmental practices global program, we have made CSR an important element of and decisions, such as reducing the pollution and the our corporate identity. use of non-renewable resources; and • Community: Supporting social transformation by Sitel Group’s CSR program is based on four main Pillars: developing strategic partnerships in local communities • Associates: Ensuring the human rights of our to make a positive impact on society while engaging associates by providing a fair, safe and healthy work employees in causes they find meaningful. environment and promoting a people-first culture, which supports, among other things, professional Our CSR program covers the following provisions: Human Rights and Labor: Ethics: Health & Safety: Environment: • Working hours • Business integrity • Occupational risk • Environmental risk • Wages and benefits • No Improper advantage management management • Humane treatment • Disclosure of • Emergency • Pollution prevention and • Non-discrimination information preparedness resource reduction • Freely chosen • Intellectual property • Occupational injury and • Waste disposal and employment • Fair business, illness recycling • Child labor avoidance advertising and • Freedom of association competition • Protection of identity Our CSR Structure Sitel Group’s global ethics and anti-corruption policies include Each country has implemented a CSR program based on an the Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Anti-Money Laundering, Risk adaptation of our global framework considering the local Management, Fraud Management and Security and Ethics context. Each location runs the CSR program with the support of Incident Management. a champion, the CSR Lead. The global CSR team is responsible for supervision and oversight of the overall CSR program. Sitel Group’s Global Environmental Policy outlines the Group’s Management and execution of our CSR activities are also taken responsibilities in support of its commitment to environmental care of locally through this structure. Local best practices are protection and stewardship. shared on regular calls with all the CSR Leads. Our CSR program engages employees across the organization, including our Sitel Group has also published a Corporate Social Responsibility senior leadership, which is key to the success of our CSR efforts. Statement, endorsed by the Group’s CEO, to stress our commitment with social responsibility by providing safe working CSR Policies conditions and treating our associates and others with respect and according to the standards of the UN Global Compact. Sitel Group invests significant effort to promote policies that Copies of the CSR Statement are available in all Sitel Group are consistent with our goals. Sitel Group has adopted a Global premises around the globe and electronic copies are available Code of Conduct and Ethics, which defines the ethical standards both internally in the Sitel Group intranet, and externally in the by which Sitel Group conducts its business and a Supplier Code Sitel Group corporate website. of Conduct, which sets out the standards we expect of our suppliers. As a complement to the Global Code of Conduct, Sitel UN Sustainable Development Agenda Group has adopted a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy to document Sitel Group’s commitment to best practices in the With our global capabilities and experience, we focus on area of CSR. creating economic growth, tackling social challenges and promoting development of our communities together with our Our commitments to human rights are embedded within associates, clients and partners. Further, by providing decent the company’s policies, including the Sitel Group Global work and economic growth, reducing skill gaps, inequality and Code of Conduct and Ethics, the Sitel Group Supplier Code of climate change, we are addressing the United Nations’ Global Conduct and Ethics, the Sitel Group Global Corporate Social Goals and contributing to the new Sustainable Development Responsibility Policy, the Sitel Group Anti-Modern Slavery and agenda. Child Labor Policy. All Sitel Group policies are accessible to the associates and available in the company’s intranet. 14 15 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Associates Local practices Some countries adopt practices to bring local leadership closer to the associates. Sitel Group Poland has implemented an open door Building value through our associates initiative, in which every Friday, associates can visit the Site Director in his office and discuss any topic they find relevant. At Sitel Group, the open-door approach may be used whenever job-related concerns or questions cannot be resolved directly between an associate and his or her immediate supervisor, or if the associate is simply not comfortable bringing the concerns to the supervisor. Sitel Group associates are the core of our business and we conduct Sitel Group Brazil and India have regular Coffee with the Leader sessions in which associates have an opportunity to meet the leaders, such as Site Directors or Country Managers, and provide feedback on any aspect of the company in a more casual our business with respect for and adherence to principles of diversity environment. Sitel Group India also made an online tool available for associates in which they can share suggestions, appreciation and equal employment opportunity. Sitel Group is further committed and complaints about any operational aspect. to providing a safe and healthy work environment that minimizes Sitel Group France has implemented Share, an internal feedback system in which managers can post their team members’ the incidence of work related injury and is free from harassment, comments, satisfaction and suggestions about working conditions, which are discussed in monthly meeting. Feedback to associates discrimination, harsh treatment and acts or threats of violence. is provided directly in the system. Share enables site leadership to identify the main associate concerns on a regular basis and help them develop appropriate action plans. In 2017, more than a thousand items have been recorded on Share: 35% were questions requiring site leadership feedback, 30% were improvement suggestions and 35% were satisfactions. Half of the items are addressed in less than 15 days. It is our goal to promote an environment that At Sitel Group, we administer a global annual France has also assigned Social Coordinators, Correspondants Mission Sociale, in every site, who have the mission to listen and guide encourages open communication, promotes employee survey called Sit&Tell, for measuring the associates with personal issues, such as family, health, finance and other difficulties. In 2017, more than 100 associates sought the mutual respect and teamwork, and stimulates progress on our People strategy against employee Social Coordinators. Accommodation issues remains the main associate concern with 30% of the requests, followed by family (20%) individuals to develop and learn. engagement, and employee Net Promoter Score and health (18%) issues. for all associates. We use the results to create During 2016 and 2017, we successfully targeted action plans that are led by Human merged Acticall Group and Sitel Group, which Resources in partnership with leaders across facilitated greater growth in our business, but the globe for every region and function utilizing also necessitated change and adjustment for standard process and tools. our associates. Throughout this process, our associates have demonstrated their significant By keeping our finger on the pulse of associate professionalism in making this a smooth sentiment toward the company, listening to their Employment transition, from both a people and business ideas for improvement and demonstrating to perspective, ensuring moments of uncertainty them that their feedback is valued, Sitel Group is At the end of 2017, 99.8% of Sitel Group were supported with care. working to ensure that each and every member associates were employed in the BPO business of our team has a role in creating value for our and the remaining 0.2% in the other ventures. Everything we do to execute our strategy and clients and other stakeholders. deliver our vision comes to life through our thousands of associates who are the driving Our leaders are accessible and are encouraged force behind everything we do at Sitel Group. Our to walk the floor so that agents may easily ask SITEL GROUP (EMPLOYEES PER BUSINESS AT YEAR-END) 2017 associates are one of our unique strengths and questions or provide feedback. We take our are instrumental in Sitel Group’s success. Walking Management principle seriously we want our leaders to be close to the associates Acticall 7.01% Our ability to grow depends on our associates so as to listen to what they have to say and their alignment with our vision, a sense of include the reality of on-site experiences into our Sitel 92.80% common purpose, and the belief that their role at processes. The associates are directly impacted Sitel Group is making a positive contribution. by the decisions we make every day. Walking TSC 0.07% Management maintains, develops and enhances this connection between management and Learning Tribes 0.09% Associate feedback associates. We encourage all associates to share ideas and If any associate wishes to discuss any matter Novagile 0.01% work together to make Sitel Group a good place to directly with someone at a level higher than their work as we strive to achieve our common goals of manager, they can do so. Extens 0.02% personal and professional success. It is important we receive feedback on the employee experience Sitel Group Total 100.00% and ensure our associates are heard. 16 17 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Training and development Local practices At Sitel Group, we believe that everyone has talent and that our people are critical to our sustained growth and long-term success. Language skills are very important in a global organization. Many of our locations, such as Serbia, Philippines, Portugal and Poland, serve foreign languages markets Whether it is for advancing in a current role or exploring new avenues, in different countries. These hub-locations generally offer free language lessons Global practices Sitel Group offers training and development opportunities to extend our for the associates, which not only helps them on the job, but also supports their associates’ knowledge and skills. professional development. Sitel Group Portugal and Poland offers their native language lessons for the many associates who are still learning the local language We provide learning and development opportunities to train all associates and culture. in undertaking their jobs effectively and efficiently. We also promote the continued growth and development of their careers by identifying learning Sitel Group Nicaragua offers free language improvement training to community needs, developing training programs and performing ongoing evaluation and members who already have some previous language knowledge. The training takes monitoring of trained staff. 3 months and, at the end of the third month, the students have the option to apply for a job at Sitel Group. Since 2014, almost 900 candidates have enrolled in our We offer unique opportunities for our associates to develop in their roles. FLIP program (Foreign Language Improvement Program). My Academy There is a clearly defined career progression, either as a line manager or in a specialist role. All Sitel Group leaders are required to undergo a specific Sitel Group Serbia offers free 6-week language courses, which provide suitable At the heart of our commitment to leadership training plan. candidates with sufficient language skills for an agent positions at Sitel Group. our associates are the steps we take to Applicants who pass final exam are offered jobs at our company. In 2017, Serbia help them progress professionally in With a combination of mixed training, classroom, distance and online, Sitel successfully organized trainings for German, French and Italian. order to grow our business. Group ensures its associates the opportunity to participate in a uniform, consistent and effective learning environment and training. Ten years ago, Sitel Group Philippines launched Sitel Academy to provide call In 2017, we improved our e-Learning center training to applicants who fail the assessments initially. It provides platform, My Academy, Sitel Group’s In 2016, Sitel Group delivered 4,507,309 hours of online training to its them an opportunity to increase their chances of successfully landing a job by global learning management system, associates. In 2017, at least 6,230,079 hours were delivered. Examples of receiving remedial training. After the initial implementation of Sitel Academy, which provides all associates with a training courses organized during 2017 include soft skill trainings, conflict the Sitel Group saw the benefit of providing skills training to younger potential wide variety of online, self-paced, and management, communication skills, sales training, leadership training, and BPO professionals. In line with this, Sitel Group Philippines partnered with select instructor-led trainings, in multiple privacy and security awareness training. universities to institute a Service Management Program course to help meet the languages. This learning environment demands of the industry. The program primarily included Sitel Group professionals allows Sitel Group associates all On top of the Group’s trainings offered to all associates, additional trainings acting as resources in training college professors and instructors to better prepare over the world to participate in a are offered in the form of workshops covering different topics specifically and equip their students with the necessary skills and knowledge to be successful centralized and uniform training selected to support the development of the associates. in the contact center industry. Sitel Group’s Learning and Development teams environment that has proven to be maintain close collaboration with partner universities on training and upskilling to convenient and effective, and gives continuously improve the Service Management Programs and to ensure that they Sitel Group the opportunity to report are up-to-date with the changing trends and demands in the industry. on training participation globally. It supports learning anytime, anywhere. With more than 50 online courses on topics ranging from client-specific content to Sitel Group-specific to compliance, management, leadership, team building and professional development. My Academy encourages associates to continue to learn and grow through the benefits of e-learning. Above all, My Academy is a symbol of the dedication Sitel Group has to its associates, with a purpose of bringing out the true potential of each individual. 18 19 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Talent management and career opportunities Local practices Skilled and motivated people are the key ingredient in providing excellent customer experience and it is therefore critical that we have a process to Sitel Group India’s Career Compass program identifies the top 10% of the agent population support high performance as well as the ability to attract new associates and and put them through planned sessions to help them develop their skills and give them an retain our talent. opportunity to grow within the organization. Middle management participates in workshops that enable coaches to improve their skills to achieve efficiency, effectiveness and sense of Local practices Sitel Group is committed to focusing on recruiting and retaining our associates belonging in their day-to-day work. Senior management are offered a specific training, with the by creating an environment that is positive, nurturing and filled with opportunity for a certification course from a top educational institution. In many markets, Sitel Group provides opportunities. Career advancement based on individual strengths is strongly a platform for career development encouraged at Sitel Group. The ability to move up within the organization for young people and new graduates. makes Sitel Group more than just a stopping point in an associates’ career. Sitel Group is the first employment of at least 50% of all Sitel Group fills open positions by promoting associates from within the Group Global practices Local practices Sitel Group Poland associates. whenever possible, enabling our clients to benefit from trained, experienced Our associates learn valuable skills for personnel. Internal job openings are posted on our corporate intranet and Performance and talent Sitel Group Nicaragua has a special program to develop hightheir future careers. Besides offering within each site where associates can submit an application for any posted management performing associates and prepare them for internal job openings. a stimulating working experience, position. Sitel Group Philippines has launched the Agent Accelerate competitive compensation and robust Providing meaningful and regular Leadership Courses, which are open courses for all associates, and training, the opportunity for career A formal talent management and succession-planning program helps to feedback to associates is at the heart the Voyagers Training for senior manager level and up. Sitel Group development is one of the key factors identify future leaders based on knowledge, skills, abilities, work ethic, of our people-First commitments. Sitel Bulgaria has the Trainer for a Day and the Recruiter for a Day that attract new talents performance, leadership abilities, key competencies and behavioral Group relies on value-driven, highprograms, which allow associates to experience a day working in an to Sitel Group. characteristics. performing people with the right skills aspired position. Programs for continuously upgrading to provide value to our clients. Our our associates’ skills are an important We invest in internal training programs to prepare associates for advancement. Performance Management program part of people development Examples include our Track Training programs, designed to prepare associates is very important in this context. This Local practices at Sitel Group. to become managers. Individual e-training courses are available through our global annual process enables an At Sitel Group France, an attractive learning management system, My Academy. open, transparent and integrated All countries have associate recognition programs to recognize apprenticeship program recruited system for managing people. top performers, such as Bulgaria Best Employee of the Year more than 200 apprentices for the The number of internal promotions are consistently increasing over the years. The Performance Management and India Star Awards. To recognize its associates, Sitel Group French sites. In 2017, more than 2,000 associates were promoted internally to higher program is an important part of Colombia created the Excellence Club, a group consisting of the top positions. In 2016, there were 1,891 internal promotions. our succession planning because performers. Every month, the group participates in a VIP lunch with it supports the identification of the country and regional board of directors and receives prizes. Top potential future leaders at all performing associates are always proud to be part of the group levels. The program enables Sitel and the fact that they are able to have a closer contact and speak Global practices Group to attract and retain the openly with the board of directors is a great incentive to drive their most talented people, while quickly careers forward. Sitel Group Track Training identifying available talent when Sitel Group believes in preparing its job opportunities arise, and also Sitel Group European operations have launched a Reward & associates for taking up challenges to define objectives and goals for Recognition Program with three award categories: Peer on the Spot that will allow them to successfully each associate, creating a resultsAward to recognize associates demonstrating driving behaviors launch a career. orientated culture in our company. for success, Outstanding Partnership Award to recognize success Sitel Group has developed Coach as a team or in a specific partnership situation and the People First Track Training and the Operations Award, which is about achieving shared excellence. Manager Track Training programs that aim to improve the continuity of our leadership by building a pool Global practices of trained coaches and senior-level coaches ready to be promoted as opportunities occur. The apprentice Customer Service Week program includes a multi-step process Customer Service Week is an annual international event The five core goals of Customer Service Week are to: that rewards participants as they devoted to recognizing the importance of customer service • Boost morale, motivation and teamwork achieve designated milestones. The and honoring the people who serve and support customers • Reward frontline associates for the important work timeline for each candidate is flexible each and every day – around the globe. they do all year long and the program tailored to the • Raise company-wide awareness of the importance of candidate’s needs, competencies and This year’s global theme was Building Trust. Sitel Group customer service ambitions. encouraged the leaders to take time celebrate our • Thank other team members/departments for their associates by showing our appreciation for their unwavering support commitment to providing exceptional customer service to • Remind customers of our commitment to customer our clients – and our clients’ customers – on a daily basis. satisfaction 20 21 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Local practices Professionalism and harassment Gender equality Sitel Group France has made a commitment to prevent harassment Sitel Group associates are expected to be respectful of others’ customs and It has always been our endeavor to promote gender diversity across the and raise awareness among traditions. We treat each other, our clients and their customers with respect, organization. In 2016, more than half (52.3%) of Sitel Group’s total workforce 54,7% associates on how to prevent internal courtesy and dignity. was composed of female associates. In 2017, we were able to increase the OF FEMALE ASSOCIATES IN THE GROUP harassment and incivility, about proportion of female associates to 54.7%. Female associates in leadership measures taken by the company Each Sitel Group associate throughout the world is entitled to work in a position managers and above represented 41.5% in the same period. regarding the subject, the person to professional atmosphere, free from all forms of harassment. Sitel Group contact in this kind of situation and seeks to provide a work environment without harsh and inhumane treatment, Local practices general tips about the good behavior. including any sexual harassment, sexual abuse, corporal punishment, mental In addition to internal harassment, or physical coercion or verbal abuse of associates or threat of any such Since 2013, Sitel Group Spain has maintained an Equality Plan, 41,5% customer harassment has also been treatment. by which it commits to ensure effective equality of opportunities OF FEMALE ASSOCIATES IN LEADERSHIP POSITION addressed. A pilot procedure has to both male and female associates, to implement practices to been established to directly inform Sitel Group supports associates in reporting any inhumane treatment without avoid gender discrimination, to provide better conditions to the client in case an agent is victim fear of reprisal or intimidation. Sitel Group makes available an Ethics hotline, reduce inequality and to promote awareness of the cause. of harassment or incivilities by EthicsPoint, which enables associates to report any concerns anonymously, Sitel Group India truly believes that empowering women is key to improve gender equality. Empowered women contribute to the customers. The client is in charge where permitted by law. Sitel Group strongly encourages its associates health and productivity of whole families and communities, and to remind the customer to behave to report any harassment to appropriate company officials and prohibits they improve prospects for the next generation. India regularly correctly. Managers and agents are retaliation against anyone who reports issues or who participates in an offers empowerment sessions to female associates, which helps also receiving trainings to learn how investigation of such reports. them realize their potential and to offers key information for their to manage such situations. In 2017, personal development. more than 450 agents were trained to Refreshers are regularly conducted for our coach and above population on the manage difficult calls. Group’s anti-harassment policies and practices. Sitel Group France has committed to promote equality men and women. Women represent more than two thirds of our French associates. Local practices Global practices Discrimination In 2017, Sitel Group Germany has Inclusion, Diversity and Equal Opportunities signed the Charta der Vielfalt, or In the period covered by this report, Diversity Charter, which outlines We employ a diverse workforce and do not tolerate unlawful discrimination. Sitel Group associates represent a wide variety of cultures, ethnicities, religious the following number of issues were the measures the company will We seek to provide a work environment free of unlawful discrimination based beliefs and languages. This rich diversity makes our company smarter and raised in Sitel Group’s ethics procedure undertake to promote diversity and on race, color, age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, disability, pregnancy, more competitive, which helps us better serve our clients and our communities. with respect to discrimination equal opportunities in the workplace religion, political affiliation, or marital status. Furthermore, we recognize that the best solutions are generated through and harassment, which were all and recognize, understand and value collaboration between people who think differently from one another and investigated appropriately: people’s similarities and differences. Sitel Group endeavors to address non-discrimination by fostering an welcome a variety of ideas and viewpoints. We strive to hire associates with Sitel Group France has offered environment in which everyone is treated equally and given the same backgrounds and perspectives that can reflect the diversity of our markets opportunities. We are committed to ensuring we eliminate discrimination in NA 102 training specifically to recruiters and and customers, fueling innovation and insight across our business. manager in order to raise awareness all forms in our employment. We do so by: about diversity. We believe that being an employer that provides opportunities to all is Nearshore 00 • Evaluating and compensating associates based on their an important key to our success. It is our associates’ skills, knowledge and qualifications, demonstrated skills, and achievements, striving to attitudes that matter. We have zero tolerance for discrimination. All individuals Brazil 08 avoid any unconscious bias. All employment decisions such as should be treated fairly and respectfully and enjoy an inclusive culture where Global practices hiring, discipline, terminations, promotions, and job assignments every individual has an equal opportunity to contribute, develop and grow. EMEA 03 are based on Sitel Group’s needs and on associate performance and On the World Day for Cultural Diversity potential. These decisions are made without regard to a person’s for Dialogue and Development, our cultural background, ethnicity, personal beliefs, or any other Philippines 22 sites around the world celebrated characteristic protected by applicable law; diversity. It was an occasion to ANZ 00 promote culture and highlight the • Facilitating the ability of associates to raise issues regarding significance of diversity as an agent discrimination (or other matters such as bullying and harassment) India 00 of inclusion and positive change. through accessible reporting channels (e.g. ethics hotline); All the 22 countries participated by celebrating the different cultural • Encouraging participation in the annual survey in which associates expressions. are asked to express their views on workplace issues anonymously; • Providing annual conduct and ethics trainings to key positions in the company which focus, among other things, on issues around diversity and respect; and a robust whistleblower procedure. 22 23 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Inclusion Child, forced and compulsory labor We welcome people with different abilities, perspectives and experiences Sitel Group does not support child labor in any manner or form. Only the use because we believe that this diversity invites new ideas and approaches to of legitimate workplace apprenticeship programs, which comply with all laws business challenges. We also look for ways to remove barriers to employment and regulations, is supported. Sitel Group does not expose children to any for persons with disabilities outside Sitel Group by working with organizations situations in or outside of the workplace that are hazardous or unsafe to that empower persons with disabilities with job and skills training and by their development. promoting initiatives to recruit persons with disabilities at many of our offices around the world. We also condemn all forms of compulsory labor and do not condone the use of forced, bonded or indentured labor, involuntary prison labor or the trafficking Local practices of persons. We uphold an environment where work is voluntary and associates are free to terminate their employment. In 2017, our UK operations published the first statement pursuant to the Sitel Group’s Anti-Modern Slavery and Child Labor policy contains guidelines, requirements of the UK Modern standards, and procedures intended to ensure that Sitel Group and those Slavery Act 2015. This includes how we acting on its behalf understand and abide by the applicable anti-child address the risk of child or slave labor labor, anti-human trafficking and anti-modern-day slavery laws, rules, and being used in our business. View our regulations. statement at: https://www.sitel.com/en-uk/ As a matter of fact, forced and child labor are not an issue in our operations. Freedom of association Sitel Group upholds its associates’ rights to join or refrain from joining worker associations in accordance with the law. Where worker organizations are legally recognized, Sitel Group recognizes those rights provided by law. Sitel Group seeks to ensure that representatives of associates and any personnel engaged thereby, are not subjected to discrimination, harassment, intimidation, or retaliation for reason of their being members of a union or participating in trade union activities, and that such representatives are afforded their rights under the law. In many countries where we operate, our associates are represented by an independent trade union or are covered by collective agreements that entitle them to healthcare and retirement benefits. Local practices Work and personal life balance Site Group Brazil has launched in 2017 the Programa Mais Sitel Group France has assigned Disability Coordinators, At Sitel Group, as part of our people-oriented culture, we believe that Inclusão, or More Inclusion Program, aimed at providing Correspondants Mission Handicap, in every site. The maintaining a professional/personal life balance and creating a family job opportunities to individuals with disabilities and Disability Coordinators support the almost 350 French culture within our facilities is critical to associate satisfaction and success. All developing their full potential. Since 2013, Brazil sites hire associates with disabilities by ensuring their working sites promote regular activities to create a light and fun atmosphere for the disabled massage therapists to offer free massage for the conditions, such as workstation and facility adaptation associates, such as sports competitions, holiday celebrations, fun Fridays and Local practices associates at their desks. It started with a small team of and by providing specific equipment for the disability. The many other activities. therapists aimed at providing job opportunity for persons French sites organized a Disability Week, which included with disabilities and as a way to improve the associates’ job dating, workshops for sign languages and braille, and We seek to promote local ways of working so that associates can have more Some of our countries, such as wellbeing. It proved so successful, that at the end of 2015, several activities to raise awareness on how it’s like to walk flexibility and are able to balance their personal lives with their career. In Bulgaria, France, Nicaragua, Panama, Sitel Group Brazil had already 26 massage therapists as in someone else’s shoes. fact, one of our businesses is Work@Home, where our agents are able to work Poland, Serbia and US are able to part of their workforce. Now, two years later, there are directly from their homes. To make it happen, we invested in technology so provide flexible work schedules to their almost 50 disabled therapists working in Brazil. In December, Sitel Group celebrated the United Nations that we can connect with each other no matter where we are located. associates to accommodate personal International Day of Persons with Disabilities, which aims needs and allowing them to balance Our US sites participate in the Department of Defense to promote the rights and well-being of persons with Our 2017 associate engagement survey showed a 2.5 percentage point their everyday commitments with Military Spouse Employment Partnership. This is part of an disabilities in all spheres of society and development, and increase, when compared to the previous year, in the question regarding work. Pregnancy arrangements for employment and career partnership between Sitel Group to increase awareness of on the situation of persons with work-life balance for all participating associates. In addition, an increase of the new mothers are also a common and military spouses as the company works to recruit, hire, disabilities in every aspect of political, social, economic 7.4 percentage points was observed in the question regarding the associates’ practice in France, Nicaragua, promote and retain these valuable associates. and cultural life. All the countries were invited to share satisfaction with their work schedule. Morocco, Serbia and Bulgaria among experiences with the inclusion of persons with disabilities other locations. and to organize activities to celebrate the day. We believe we can continue to make progress as we support flexible working opportunities for our associates. 24 25 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Associate Health, Safety and Wellbeing The charts below show Sitel Group workforce by several key metrics1. Local practices Sitel Group is committed to providing a safe and healthy environment for our Sitel Group India counts on gym associates, clients, and visitors. facilities in the office building premises to encourage associates to Sitel Group makes every reasonable effort to promote, create, and maintain a Employees by Gender New Employee Hires by Gender Emplyee Turnover by exercise and stay healthy. Bulgaria, safe and healthy workplace by providing safeguards against injury or hazards (worldwide) (worldwide) Gender (worldwide) Nicaragua, Panama, Poland and UK through maintaining proper equipment, materials, facilities and associate offer a sport pass or discounts to training. Our sites comply with applicable health, safety and environmental local gyms to the associates. Poland laws and all related policies. 47.7% 45.3% 44.0% 43.4% 44.0% 46.3% associates are encouraged to be healthier by switching from cars to Sitel Group recognizes that, in addition to minimizing the incidence of workbicycles, or by promoting calorierelated injury and illness, a safe and healthy work environment enhances burning competitions. France offers a associate retention and morale. We are aware that to successfully create a 54.7% 56.0% 56.6% 56.0% 53.7% 52.3% EUR 150 incentive for associates who safe and healthy environment we must ensure our associates understand the come to work by bicycle. risks to their health & safety and work together with us to avoid them. 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Female Male Female Male Female Male Our sites in Bulgaria and Serbia In line with our people-first culture, safety of our people is the first priority regularly offer fruits to ensure healthy and is addressed prior to any consideration regarding Sitel Group’s or clients’ Full-time and Part-time Employees New Employee Hires by Age Group Emplyee Turnover by Age snacks are available to all associates. business requirements. Therefore, it is essential that our associates know how by Gender (worldwide) (worldwide) Group (worldwide) Sitel Group Brazil, Bulgaria, Colombia to react during an emergency situation. and Portugal associates are offered 4.1% 4.3% 5.3% 4.3% massage to relieve the stress of the Sitel Group has implemented a Global Business Continuity Management 34.1% 27.8% 29.4% 33.2% 31.2% 46.7% day-to-day work. policy to set, deploy, test, monitor and report on the required standards for emergency preparedness in all sites and has assigned a dedicated resource, Sites all over the world hold regular the Director of Business Continuity Management, to manage the program and 68.1% 66.3% 63.4% 62.4% health related events and health ensure its ongoing effectiveness and continuous improvement. 53.3% 65.9% weeks, offering on-site health checkups and inviting specialists During 2017, we have undertaken a review and upgrade of our BCM 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 to provide information to prevent methodology, tools and procedures to reflect the recent changes in our Female Male <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 lifestyle-related diseases. Sitel Group business and the increased focus on business continuity planning due to world Bulgaria, Germany, Mexico, Morocco, events. Employees by Gender and Region New Employee Hires by Region Emplyee Turnover by Region Nicaragua, Panama and Poland offers (worldwide, 2017) (worldwide) (worldwide) flu vaccinations to associates who We have also introduced an annual self-attestation exercise to ensure that our want to protect themselves against plans are up-to-date and meeting the needs of our business and those of our 24.3% 31.2% 28.6% seasonal diseases. clients, and that senior management is aware of any risks facing the business. 35.4% 36.3% 49.0% 44.1% 55.1% 13.7% Sitel Group is committed to an open communication with all associates on 13.2% Sitel Group Brazil, Bulgaria, Nicaragua, workplace health and safety, encouraging associate input and continual 16.5% 15.5% 24.9% 31.5% Poland and Spain have established a education to identify and solve health and safety issues, or other concerns 68.8% 23.1% 21.0% 37.1% committee to develop preventative relating to working conditions without fear of reprisal or intimidation. 51.0% 55.9% 27.3% 44.9% 26.7% solutions and corrective measures for 25.1% any occupational health and safety All Sitel Group associates take a training in which they learn about Sitel Group APAC EMEA LATAM NA 2016 2017 2016 2017 issues. The committee members meet security and safety policies among other relevant topics. They also learn to Female Male APAC EMEA LATAM NA APAC EMEA LATAM NA regularly and develop risk assessments identify situations that pose a risk to the company’s and their own security. and plans to reduce accidents, provide This training requires annual recertification to ensure all associates are aware Employees by Job Category and Employees by Job Category and Age Employees by Age and training, and other programs related of the main elements and any changes that may have been made to our Gender (worldwide, 2017) (worldwide, 2017) Region (worldwide, 2017) to health and safety in the workplace. policies and standards. 6.3% 6.6% 6.0% 23.3% 44.2% 35.6% 35.3% 41.4% Sitel Group Nicaragua’s committee In some locations, Sitel Group also engages newly hired associates with a basic 46.7% 65.9% 56.2% 55.5% holds semi-annual trainings to all New Hire Security Training program, which introduces them to basic security 38.3% 84.7% 57.5% 3.1% associates covering points such as policies and standards both related to health and safety and data protection 0.9% 8.5% 15.7% 75.1% first aid, evacuation procedures, issues. In addition, Sitel Group constantly reviews emerging physical security 55.8% 63.4% 61.6% among other critical point, as well as threats that may affect their employees and develops programs to mitigate 55.4% 36.5% 44.8% 42.9% 34.1% 43.8% 44.5% bi-monthly seminars in order to bring the same. As an example, Sitel Group has developed an Active Shooter Training 1.6% 8.7% awareness to associates about having Program for sites that may feel susceptible to those types of incidents within Coaches & Director+ Manager Other Coaches & Director+ Manager Other APAC EMEA LATAM NA a safe and healthy work environment. their geographic area. Agents Agents Female Male <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 Sitel Group Spanish facilities are Sitel Group is positive that associate wellbeing is an important factor for OHSAS 18001:2007 certified. a healthy environment. Our associates count on leisure areas, anti-stress 1 Estimated based on existing database platform. Report was extracted on 31-Dec 2017 and reflects workforce on that specific moment. Charts do not include data programs and regular activities to minimize the stress and cultivate the feeling from Sitel Group ventures, which represent only 0.2% of employees. of belonging among our associates. 26 27 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Ethics a core element of our commitments to uphold human rights among them, the right to data privacy. Therefore, we work closely with our Upholding the highest ethical standards clients and associates to ensure that we manage personal information in a manner that respects the rights of individuals and have invested in organizational and technical measures to ensure At Sitel Group, we do everything we can to safeguard our values and the information entrusted to us is suitably the reputation of the clients that trust us and choose to work with us. protected at all times. Sitel Group’s strong ethical foundation has been at the core of our With security and data privacy deeply embedded operations. Our leaders set the tone, but every person plays a role in in our operations, we seek to maintain robust keeping our ethical beliefs firmly in place. protection and comply with globally recognized privacy principles. Some of the privacy and security requirements Sitel Group complies with include: • European Union General Data Human rights Reinforcing our company ethics Reporting Protection Regulation (GDPR) • Country and EU Member State Privacy We support and respect internationally One of our most important written standards Concerns about human rights or other issues can Laws; recognized human rights within our organization is our Global Code of Conduct and Ethics. It be brought to our attention via EthicsPoint, which • PCI DSS (Payment Card Industry Data and wherever we do business. Internationally builds on our core values by providing details is a confidential, integrated toll-free telephone Security Standard); recognized human rights are those expressed in about expected behaviors and outlining the and web-based hotline. • ISO/IEC 27001:2013; the International Bill of Human Rights and the high standards of honesty, integrity and ethical • SSAE 16/18 SOC1 and SOC2 (Service International Labor Organization’s Declaration on conduct. Our Code reaffirms that we have zero Any conduct that may be unethical, illegal, in Organization Controls 1 and Service Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. tolerance for unethical behavior and corruption violation of professional standards, or otherwise Organization Controls 2); in any form and it applies to all Sitel Group inconsistent with Sitel Group’s policies, as well • HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Sitel Group knows that a fundamental component associates directors, officers and employees in as and anything that may affect the moral Accountability Act); and of ethical business conduct is supporting and every country in every venture. or physical integrity of its associates, may be • Client Specific Privacy Requirements and respecting human rights within our company, reported. many others. our supply chain and the communities where we An introduction to the Code of Conduct and live and work. Our commitment is anchored in Ethics is part of the each associate’s induction. All EthicsPoint is staffed by an independent third Our Global Code of Conduct and Ethics, Global our global policies, including those that address associates are required to review and certify their party that is available 24 hours a day, seven days Security Policy, Privacy Policy, Risk Management, associate conduct, privacy and anticorruption. understanding of and compliance with the Sitel a week, with interpreters available for language Fraud Management, Security and Ethics Incident Group Global Code of Conduct and Ethics upon assistance. Management, Information Classification, User As a global customer experience company, the joining Sitel Group. Translations of the text are Access & Approval, along with other security topic of human rights focuses on areas that are available in 10 languages, allowing almost every Country-specific guidance is also available awareness and usage policies provide a robust most relevant to our business and operations. employee to read the Code of Conduct in their through Sitel Group intranet. Reporting procedure framework for the protection of confidential, These include, among other things, ensuring a native language. and contact information for EthicsPoint is also sensitive and personally identifiable information. fair and respectful work-environment for our available on posters on notice boards in all sites, We have implemented various measures to associates, eliminating discrimination, ensuring Relevant Sitel Group associates undergo code in the Sitel Group Code of Conduct and Ethics and handle and safeguard data appropriately, their health, safety and security, protecting of conduct and ethics training and annual in other relevant policies. including information security controls (e.g. virus privacy and security of personal data and working refreshers. The code of conduct training takes and malware protection, access and password against corruption. associates through the major components of the Reports may be submitted anonymously where controls etc.) and physical controls (e.g. restricting Sitel Group Global Code of Conduct & Ethics and permitted by law and Sitel Group’s Global Code physical access, clean desk policy and paperless educates on how it can be used to guide decisions of Conduct and Ethics strictly prohibits retaliation environment, etc.). and actions in potentially controversial situations, against any person for making a report in good and what actions are appropriate to take when faith or cooperating in an investigation. We also provide periodic Privacy and Information a violation of the Code of Conduct is suspected. Security Awareness training sessions to all our This online training also serves to increase associates that reinforce, among other things: our associates’ awareness of how to deal with Privacy and Data Protection • Creating security awareness; everyday situations that challenge their ability to • Protecting and ensuring the security of demonstrate respect and inclusion. In an environment with new and continually an individual’s personal information; changing security threats, technologies and • Security incidents that may arise; legislation, protecting privacy and the security • Preventive controls, i.e. identifying and of data is essential to maintain the trust of our preventing incidents from happening; associates and our clients. and • Reporting incidents and risks. Our clients trust us with access to information about their key asset, their customers. We also store and process personal data related to our associates in the normal course of business. It is 28 29 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Anti-Corruption effectiveness with a view to continual processes that are potentially subject to to their potential impact. Examples of Additionally, due diligence procedures are dynamic and require Sitel Group improvement. Relevant management ethical deviations, such as bribery and activities that support these controls in in the recruitment process enables Sitel to perform ongoing monitoring of its At Sitel Group, we value integrity and information and reporting are shared frauds. Generally speaking, all sites are Sitel Group include: Group to hire the best candidates. Poor compliance programs and adapting to ethical behavior in the conduct of our with clients as part of established audited on a 4 to 7 year cycle, depending hiring decisions can hurt Sitel Group in changing business environment in order business. Sitel Group is committed to escalation management and periodic on the risk profile of that particular site. • EthicsPoint, where associates a variety of ways increased turnover, to remain effective. complying with anti-corruption and business review processes. Sitel Group policies require antimay report any concerns to the increased burdens on co-workers, anti-bribery laws in the countries in corruption training for all managers Sitel Group compliance, ethics compliance problems, and even business Sitel Group has established internal which it does business. Sitel Group Global Privacy and Security and above. In 2017, Sitel Group trained and whistleblowing hotline; ethics issues. checks needed to monitor and review training is mandatory for all of Sitel more than 1,132 applicable associates • Background checks in anti-bribery policies that include Sitel Group does business in many Group associates to ensure they are worldwide, or 78% of the applicable accordance with policy and financial monitoring, bribery reporting, countries and regions around the world. aware of and understand Sitel Group’s associates, and more associates will be where permitted by country Communication and trainings incident investigations, reporting from At each location, associates at every Privacy and Security standards and trained until the end of the training year. specific law; Sitel Group seeks to ensure that its bribery the Risk and the Audit Committee: level have the responsibility to know and to ensure that actual and potential Our Code of Conduct requires that all • Associate handbooks defining prevention policies and procedures are follow laws and regulations that apply incidents of fraud and corruption are associates comply with all laws and fraud and action to be taken; embedded and understood throughout • Compliance Working Group: to our business. Sitel Group associates identified and managed appropriately. regulations governing our company’s • Anti-corruption Policy; and the organization through internal and annual review of Sitel Group are expected to conduct business All Sitel Group associates and, where behavior. When this is not the case, • Code of Conduct Policy external communication, including anti-corruption policies; ethically and Sitel Group does not allow appropriate, third party contractors information is reported internally within published on the Sitel Group training that is proportionate to the risks • Audit Committee: report on any associate or anyone acting on or vendors, are required to report all the organization to senior management intranet to associates and it faces. enterprise level risks; and Sitel Group’s behalf to give, pay, offer, fraud, security and ethically related and, as appropriate, also shared with incorporated as part of Sitel • Compliance Working Group: promise to pay, or authorize the giving incidents. The mandatory reporting the Executive Board and the internal Group’s vendor registration A key element in the Anti-Corruption review of current EthicsPoint or payment of money or any other thing of suspected or actual fraud or ethical auditors. procedure. Program is capacity-building and regular hotline cases. of value to any foreign government conduct matters is managed through training of associates. Our training official or Sitel Group client, vendor or Sitel Group’s existing global incident Risk assessment: ranges from online courses, dilemmaother business partner for any improper reporting procedures, with training Sitel Group Anti-Corruption Program Sitel Group assesses the nature and training modules and other Sitel Group purpose or in violation of applicable law, developed to maintain awareness of the extent of its exposure to potential awareness activities. Sitel Group strives including the local laws of any relevant incident reporting obligations. Sitel Group’s anti-corruption program external and internal risks of bribery on to constantly improve and tailor the country. is largely based on the U.S. Foreign its behalf by persons associated with it. training program in order to ensure that For greater awareness of the Sitel Group’ Corrupt Practices Act FCPA and sets a our commitment against corruption is Sitel Group has a Compliance and ethics hotline, EthicsPoint, among clear global standard for its approach Sitel Group performs comprehensive risk known throughout the organization. Ethics organization reporting directly associates, the company distributed to honest and fair dealing, which meets assessment activities that identify and to the company’s Chief Legal Officer. EthicsPoint posters to all locations the legislation in all its countries of weigh risks that help define priorities All associates are required to review Designated compliance contact persons for prominent display promoting the operation such as UK Anti Bribery Act including: and certify their understanding of and assist with the implementation of Sitel reporting of concerns via a 24-hour and the Brazilian Anti-Corruption Act. compliance with the Sitel Group Global Group’s ethics and compliance program. hotline. In addition to the posters, a The program has 6 key principles: • Risk Management Code of Conduct and Ethics. Additionally, The Legal Department and Sitel Group’s brief tutorial reminded all associates Questionnaire reviewed Sitel Group requires key associates to Ethics and Compliance Team are about the EthicsPoint. Tone at the top: annually by Sitel Group’s undergo annual code of conduct and responsible for setting enterprise-wide Management’s “tone at the top” is Finance team and results ethics training, in which they learn about standards with respect to anti-corruption Sitel Group’s Finance and Accounting vital for establishing a transparent discussed with Audit the major components of the Sitel Group laws and interactions with clients and organization is responsible for and company-wide culture against Committee; Global Code of Conduct and Ethics. The government officials. We have achieved maintaining adequate accounting corruption. • Internal Audit reports; certification process is completed via a compliance with key industry standards books and records and appropriate • Internal Audit annual web-based training and certification which provide all associates with a controls at all levels of the organization The top-level management of Sitel Enterprise Risk Assessment to program. This web-based training consistent management framework to that ensure accuracy of our financial Group is committed to preventing identify potential risk areas covers anti-corruption and anti-bribery, apply to ethical behavior. reporting, including the investigation of bribery by persons associated with Sitel and collating conclusions; and among other subjects. This online potential fraudulent financial activity or Group. They foster an anti-corruption • Site Compliance Questionnaire training is provided in the associate’s Sitel Group’s global policies include the results. Such controls provide reasonable culture within the organization and send to identify key risk areas. local language, is available around the Code of Conduct and Ethics, Supplier assurances that, among other things, clear messages to all associates and clock, and provides participants with Code of Conduct and Ethics, Antitransactions have been executed in business partners that corruption and Due diligence: a comprehensive understanding of Bribery and Corruption, Anti-Money accordance with applicable accounting bribery is unacceptable. Sitel Group applies due diligence what is, and is not, permissible as they Laundering, Risk Management, Fraud principles. procedures, taking a proportionate undertake their responsibilities each Management, Security and Ethics Proportionate procedures: and risk-based approach, in respect of day as Sitel Group associate. In addition Incident Management and other Sitel Group’s Internal Audit team is Our procedures to prevent bribery persons who perform or will perform to the online curriculum, Sitel Group’s policies. responsible for evaluating and testing proportionate to the bribery risks services for or on behalf of Sitel Group, Legal Department provides support for accounting control systems on an we face and to the nature, scale and in order to mitigate identified bribery associates should they have questions. Operational adherence is managed ongoing basis to ensure, as reasonably complexity of our activities. risks. through a management system that is possible, that the controls in place Monitoring and review aligned to the ISO 27001:2013 standard continue to be appropriate and function Management directives define and Sitel Group has implemented Sitel Group monitors and reviews to ensure that controls for the secure properly. As of January 1, 2017, Sitel clarify the desired behavior of our mandatory requirements for screening procedures designed to prevent bribery management of all data required to Group’s Internal Audit department associates. The outputs of these and conducting integrity due diligence by persons associated with it, and deliver the services are in place and conducted and reported 40 financial control procedures provide the basis assessments of our business partners. makes improvements where necessary. are assessed on an ongoing basis for control and compliance audits covering for mitigating business risks according Anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies 30 31 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Environment GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS1 SUMMARY BY WBCSD/WRI SCOPE (LOCATION-BASED, TCO2E) SCOPE TCO2E/YEAR % Scope 1 (combustion of fuels) 160 0.98 We strive to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations in the operation of our business and are committed to Scope 2 (purchased electricity) 7,908 48.48 reducing pollutants associated with our business, which may have adverse effect on the environment. We expect our associates to be Scope 3 (Electricity t&d losses, landfilled waste) 8,244 50.54 respectful of the environment within which we operate. Total 16,312 100 1 The GHG assessment has been carried out in accordance with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and World Resources Institute’s (WBCSD/ WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol; a Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, including the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. The organizational scope of this assessment includes 22 sites in 13 countries: Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Mexico, Netherlands, Panama, Philippines, Portugal, Spain, Poland and US. These sites were selected to conform to CDP supplier requests that Sitel Group received. The operational scope of this assessment included as mandatory all Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission sources. Where available, Scope 3 data such as waste and water supply has been included. Data quality: 96.9% of the data are based on actual While Sitel Group’s operations have a limited Smart travel saves money and reduces greenhouse data. The remaining 3.14% were estimated. environmental impact, we believe in being a gas emissions. Where and whenever possible, we responsible, environmentally aware company, promote the use of virtual collaboration tools We are constantly looking for new opportunities to reduce demand and to be more minimizing, wherever possible, negative effects and videoconferencing. This avoids unnecessary efficient. This includes energy retrofit projects such as LED lighting upgrades and on the community, environment and natural travel, is more efficient for us, and is better building management system improvements. resources. for the environment. Our efforts to encourage the adoption of available communication Additionally, waste prevention and recycling are powerful ways to use less energy, Our environmental efforts are towards increasing technologies continue to help us manage business reduce greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to a healthy climate. Our sites have associate environmental awareness, reducing travel. recycling programs in place to minimize landfill impact and the release of harmful e-waste, limiting business travel and decreasing gases due to its production and disposal process. energy consumption in our facilities. We support When looking for new locations, we prioritize local initiatives with our associates in order to areas with good public transportation, since Whenever possible, we also promote environmentally friendly technologies and encourage greater environmental responsibility employee commuting is also a large contributor equipment. Sitel Group manages and disposes of electronic and electrical equipment in our workplaces. Our associates are committed to our footprint. In fact, one of our in an environmentally friendly manner. We also try to minimize the generation of to minimizing the impact and to working together businesses is Work@Home, in which our e-waste by extending the useful life of computers. Most of our country organizations to contribute to a better environment. associates are able to work directly from their already dispose of e-waste via specialized e-waste management companies. home, dramatically reducing the need for travel Our environmental policy outlines Sitel Group’s and, consequently, these associates’ carbon Local practices responsibilities in support of its commitment emissions. to environmental protection and stewardship At our Chennai site, India, site electricity consumption was reduced by and guides us in complying with environmental Local initiatives to reduce emissions have controlled and scheduled use of LED lights and of the air conditioning regulations, advancing environmental awareness, been implemented by some of our countries. system. This has resulted in a reduction of 6% in the electricity use. In minimizing environmental risks, reducing For example, Sitel Group Poland encourages fact, our Chennai site operates from a Green Building certified facility (SEZ emissions and waste and conserving energy associates to move from cars to bicycles, facility). and water consumption. Sitel Group supports promoting a healthier alternative for both the a precautionary approach to environmental environment and the associates. Sitel Group sites in Nicaragua and the Philippines are replacing all challenges and manages risks of negative social fluorescent tubes with low energy LED lighting which, in addition to being and environmental impact in accordance with In 2017, Sitel Group performed a greenhouse more efficient, also reduces the need of constant replacing of the lighting, international guidelines. gas (GHG) emissions assessment that quantified thus reducing hazardous waste disposal and the environmental impact. the total greenhouse gases produced directly and indirectly from a business or organization’s Our Belgrade site in Serbia and Almelo site in the Netherlands operate Carbon footprint and use of resources activities. Also known as a carbon footprint, it is from certified green buildings. These buildings have received the BREEAM an essential tool, providing your business with a certification that sets the standard for best practice in sustainable building As a leading customer experience services basis for understanding and managing its climate design, construction and operation and is one of the most comprehensive company, Sitel Group’s environmental footprint change impacts. and widely recognized measures of a building’s environmental consists primarily of carbon emissions generated performance. BREEAM includes aspects related to energy and water use, from employee travel and the use of electricity. The assessment included 2016 data from select the internal environment (health and well-being), pollution, transport, We are committed to encouraging, educating locations in North America, Latin America, Europe materials, waste, ecology and management processes. and promoting a business model that keeps and Asia. The total emissions were 16,312 tCO2e, environmental impact at a minimum and reduces or 1.43 tCO2e/FTE. In celebration of World Environment Day, we encouraged Sitel Group the carbon emissions. We constantly explore new associates to embrace environmental stewardship and adopt smart work ways to make our operations even more efficient, practices. We shared practical tips that our associates could be used both in particular with the use digital tools. in the workplace and at home. 32 33 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Environmental Activities Most of the Sitel Group sites promote regular environmental activities involving associates, such as beach and park clean-up drives and tree planting events. Highlights of country environmental activities: COLOMBIA: A group of Sitel Colombia associates volunteered to help clean up the Neusa Park, a dam forest park that has been neglected through the years by thousands of visitors who have left a big garbage footprint. After cleaning up, the associates planted trees to help with the reforestation. BULGARIA: Sitel Group associates took part in one of the largest volunteer initiatives in Bulgaria, Let’s Clean Bulgaria Together. Our volunteer associates and their families cleaned the area around the river in Loven Park. PANAMA: Associates participated in a local beach cleanup to celebrate the Month of the Oceans. According to the authority of cleaning in Panama, only on the beach of Costa del Este, where our volunteers did the cleanup, is estimated a collection of 30 tons of waste. PANAMA: Associates participated in the National Reforestations Day on the National Park Of Camino de Cruces. The associates supported the “Alliance for One Million”, a national project involving Panama’s reforestation associations and companies plant trees and achieve their goal of one million trees planted within the next 20 years. PHILIPPINES: Associates planted indigenous trees for the Pista Y Ang Cagueban (Feast of the Forest), a festive reforestation activity of Puerto Princesa city’s watershed area, which is the source of potable water for the whole city. INDIA: As a part of the World Environment Week, Site Group Chennai site partnered with the Indian Development Foundation to hold a beach cleanup drive. 65 associates and 25 scouts from a local school worked together to clean Elliot’s Beach. Approximately about 500 kg of waste were collected from the beach. MOROCCO: Casablanca sites held a beach cleanup drive that aimed not only at having our volunteer associates cleaning up the beaches, but also donating money to an environmental organization and promoting the interaction of our associates, their families and children from disadvantages areas of Casablanca. A brunch was offered to all participants to celebrate the month of Ramadan. More than 300 people participated in the activity. UK: Stratford site associates participate in the Rubbish Friends, a local community group, which keeps the city clean by going out and litter picking. US: Knoxville celebrated Earth Day by encouraging recycling and shared planting flowers with a local school. 34 35 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Supply chain Community A sustainable supply chain Our commitment to the society As an extension of our operations, our supply chain is a reflection of At Sitel Group, we believe it is our responsibility to build a truly our company, giving due consideration to our ethical, environmental human environment where our associates are enabled to be their and social obligations as we pursue business excellence. best, professionally and personally. We continually strive to create a culture that cares about all aspects of our people, including their own communities We expect the same commitment from our Sitel Group’s supply chain consists of suppliers As a company of more than 75,000 people, associate contributions are the foundation of our community suppliers as we do for ourselves. This is why we in three main categories: facilities-related programs. Many of our community engagement activities depend on our associates’ passion to contribute have established a Sitel Group Supplier Code of suppliers, IT & Telecom and temporary staff their time and energy. In 2017, our associates engaged in their local communities through philanthropic Conduct and Ethics. Our Supplier Code reflects our and recruitment agencies. We have assessed the projects and contributed to numerous charitable causes organized and facilitated by Sitel Group in all of ethical principles and our commitment to doing inherent overall CSR risks at a low level from a our 23 countries. responsible business. In particular, it specifies the supply chain perspective. ethical and labor standards to which our external Sitel Group associates get involved in activities such as teaching and mentoring children, planting trees, suppliers must adhere. Sitel Group suppliers must comply with all volunteering in orphanages and old age homes, beach and park cleanup drives, etc. requirements passed through by Sitel Group The Supplier Code has been published in 8 clients and with any CSR requirements or policies main languages, requires compliance with all from time to time adopted and communicated. Health campaigns applicable laws and regulations, supplements our We expect our suppliers to comply with our Code, Global Code of Conduct and Ethics and reflects and apply those principles to their own suppliers Highlights of health-related campaigns from around the world: our commitment to CSR and the 10 Principles of in the delivery of goods and services for Sitel the UN Global Compact. In order to do business Group. These practices align us with our clients’ with Sitel Group, suppliers are required to review expectations in terms of social responsibility, and acknowledge their conformance with Sitel reflect our operating philosophies and core values Group policy. and establish steady support of integrity in all procurement activities. As with all aspects of our business, Sitel Group conducts its procurement using the highest ethical standards and considerations. Our procurement decisions take into account not only price, quality and reliability of service, but also how potential suppliers treat the people, communities, and CANADA: USA: UK: environment in their sphere of influence. Associates participated in the big In November 2017, the US sites January 2017 several fundraising bike ride, an annual fundraising event celebrated men’s health by organizing activities £4928 for Daft as a Brush, a in support of the Heart and Stroke awareness and fundraising activities. cancer patient care organization Foundation. offers staffed custom-made vehicles to transport outpatients, free of NICARAGUA: charge, to and from Hospital who are Sitel Nicaragua associates volunteered undergoing cancer treatment. to help Operacion Sonrisa, which supports children with cleft lip by DENMARK: offering free surgery. Volunteers helped Associates voluntarily worked as superviwith the communication between sors of the donations made by phone patients and doctors, by translating during a live fundraising television show, what the doctors said to the families, PHILIPPINES: Knæk Cancer (Beat Cancer), to and completing paperwork for the A group of volunteers organized visits support the Danish Cancer Society. patient, whose family come from poor to orphanages around Metro Manila Associates also donated money to regions and may not know how to read and sponsored meals and fun support the cause. or write. entertainment. Additionally, they donated basic supplies, such as food, clothing and bedding and interacted with the kids during meals and playtime. At least 50 children were beneficiated. 36 37 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report French sites mobilized for cystic fibrosis Global: Pink October Grégory Lemarchal Association supports cystic fibrosis research and helps patients who suffer from this In October 2017, countries around the globe celebrated Pink October in support of breast cancer awareness. disease. Grégory Lemarchal was a French singer who died of cystic fibrosis and 2017 was his 10th death Sitel Group went pink to bring awareness to associates and highlight the importance of education and anniversary. For this occasion, a tribute was broadcasted live on TV to collect money to build a house for early detection. Many of the Group’s sites took the pink initiative a step further and organized events to patients. raise funds for the cause. 800 13 28,123 €2.3 French associates sites mobilized calls received million volunteered to answer calls in France from donors collected 38 39 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Blood Drives Education Sitel associates worldwide participate in local blood drives contributing for a healthy and reliable blood Highlights of education-related campaigns from around the world: supply. In 2017, more than 20 blood drives were organized in Colombia, Germany, India, Nicaragua, Philippines, Portugal, Spain and US. Each donation has the potential to help 3 people. Highlights of blood drives from around the world: INDIA: INDIA: PHILIPPINES: With donations from associates, Sitel A group of associates volunteered to Sitel Group Philippines supplied the Group India recently donated help deliver the more than 230 computschool needs of 100 children of Aeta’s backpacks with school supplies for ers (used but in good conditions) to the Children Home (ACH) through Project more than 500 unprivileged children Indian Development Foundation (IDF), Tenfold Circle, a non-profit organization of Mumbai and Hyderabad. In India, which distributed the computers to be founded by Sitel Group associates back many children in low economic used in their projects, such as Bal in 2009. ACH houses and provides situations do not have easy access to Gurukuls (schools set up for poor kids education for 150 kids from the Aeta education. Often, their families are not who cannot afford tuition) and rehabilitribes, indigenous people who live in COLOMBIA: USA: able to afford basic school supplies for tation centers. isolated mountain-ous parts of the In the most recent blood drive, 135 Sites across US regularly holds blood their kids – making back to school a real island of Luzon, in the Philippines. ACH’s associates donated blood, which means drives to help ensure supply for patients struggle. funds prioritize food and health, so 405 people can be saved. in local communities. education needs are not always their COLOMBIA: top priority. This is where Sitel Group Associates donated over 500 school associates’ donations make a huge supply items for back-to-school. The difference. items were donated to the kids of a children’s hospital. SERBIA: Associates donated learning and USA: drawing materials for 200 youngsters Every year, many of Sitel Group’s U.S. at the age 3-6 with special needs from sites also mobilize to give back to the MOROCCO: Belgrade kindergartens. More than 600 community through back-to-school Funds were raised by associates which items were donated. programs. This year, our sites in Amarillo, were matched by Sitel Group to NICARAGUA: INDIA: PHILIPPINES: Bartlesville, Norman and Knoxville purchase backpacks filled with books PANAMA: 290 Nicaragua associates donated 459 India associates donated blood in In December 2017, Philippines was helped more than 500 kids with school and school supplies. These were donatAssociates donated school supplies blood in 2017, saving 870 lives. 2017, potentially helping 1,377 people. awarded the Dugong Bayani Award supplies. One of the organizations ed to 200 children of a local school in a that were provide to lower incomes given by the Department of Health for supported is Maverick Boys and Girls partnership with Enfance Magreb Avenir children in remote areas of the country. Sitel Group’s significant participation in Club, which provides child care to low-in(EMA). EMA intervenes in public the Blood Donation Drive. come families in the community. Sitel institutions to improve the conditions of NICARAGUA: Group Amarillo has a long-standing schools and provide children with a Sitel Nicaragua regularly supports relationship with the Maverick – for healthy, clean and beautiful school Padre Fabretto, an organization that the last three years, they have environment which encourages them to empowers underserved children and volunteered every other Friday during complete their studies. their families in Nicaragua through the summer. For this year’s school supply education. Associates donated money giveaway, more than 300 children and time to ensure these children reach received a substantial amount of school their full potential. supplies. 40 41 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Global: Sitel Group celebrates Literacy Day Drives Sitel Group Celebrates International Literacy Day Around the Globe and Expands Access to Technologies Most of the countries held food, clothing, toy and other drives to support local charitable organizations. In 1966, September 8 was declared International Literacy Day to actively mobilize the international community and promote literacy as an instrument to empower individuals, communities and societies. • Books: Brazil, Colombia, Panama, France and UK held book drives. According to UNESCO, at least 750 million youth and adults globally still cannot read and write and 250 • Clothing: Canada, Colombia, Mexico, Portugal and US collected gently used clothes. million children are failing to acquire basic literacy skills. This results in exclusion of low-literate youth and • Food: Brazil, Canada, Netherlands, Spain and US associates brought in food items. adults from fully participating in their communities. • Relief supplies: Canada, Colombia, India, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Poland, Portugal, Serbia and US held drives to collect supplies such as toiletries, first aid kits, cleaning products and This year’s International Literacy Day theme is Literacy in a Digital World. Digital technologies continue bedding to support charitable organizations and natural disaster relief efforts. to change the way people live, work, learn and socialize. New technologies also open new opportunities to • School supplies: Colombia, India, Panama, Serbia and US collected school supplies for the backimprove our lives and connect globally; however, they can marginalize those who lack the essential skills, to-school period. such as literacy, needed to navigate them. • Pet food: Colombia, India and Warsaw associates donated pet food. At Sitel Group, we are setting new standards for customer experience management. As we navigate this Highlights of different drives from around the world: new, digital world, we leverage digital transformation through next-generation technologies (chatbots, artificial intelligence, digital learning, etc.) that are innovative, accessible and inclusive. Expanding access to such technologies is paramount and through our unparalleled digital expertise, we can help bolster access to learning and improve its quality. Innovation and digital vision is in our DNA. We have the opportunity to be at the forefront of our industry by helping people navigate in this new digital world and improve their lives. BOOK DRIVE & SPELLING BEE To celebrate this day, many of our regions held book drives which were donated to charitable organizations that help improve literacy among people who otherwise have no access to books or proper education. More than 5,000 books were collected and donated as part of the activity. We aim for others to acquire BRAZIL: SERBIA: COLOMBIA: the skills to fully participate in this new digital world! Every year, Sitel Group Brazil holds a Associates donated cleaning supplies Associates donated over 215 pieces of coat drive for the winter months. and toiletries to an organization that gently used clothes to low-income Additionally, many countries participated in a digital spelling bee. An outstanding mobilization was seen supports and gives temporary housing people. The associates shared bread in the French and African sites (Ivory Coast and Morocco), where at least 190 associates participated in a POLAND: to children with cancer and their parents and chocolate with the whole commuAround 150 kg of food, clothes, during treatment. nity and, at the end, they cleaned their digital dictation challenge. toiletries, towels and bed sheets were main park, fixed their swings and donated to the residents of the House planted new trees. of Mother and Child, which supports and houses victims of domestic MEXICO: violence. A fun party was prepared for Associates donated over 600 pieces of the children to deliver the donation. gently used clothes for low-income people, which were delivered to the SPAIN: most vulnerable hospitals in the commuAssociates from 3 Spanish sites donated nity. more than 1 ton of food items to food banks which help families at risk of social exclusion. 42 43 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Relief support Active participation in the community Highlights of relief support campaigns from around the world: Highlights of community-related campaigns from around the globe: COLOMBIA: UK: NICARAGUA: BULGARIA: COLOMBIA: PHILIPPINES: Associates were deeply touched by the Kingston site associates donated made Sitel Nicaragua started a campaign Varna associates participated in the I Associates raised funds for a bicycle Sitel Group Philippines holds contest tragedy and rushed to support the donations to all those affected by called Juntos por Nicaragua, or Together Believe and Help With Plastic Caps parking lot for the Girls Without Fear among teams of associates. The victims of this disaster by collecting Grenfell Tower Fire in London. for Nicaragua, after tropical Storm campaign by collecting plastic bottle foundation, which uses bicycle and winning team’s points are converted to relief supplies for the people of Mocoa, Nate passed the country, leaving caps, giving them for recycling and education as a tool with the aim of money and the team donates their who lost all their belongings. In only 3 communities in the countryside homedonating the money obtained from the strengthening skills, building knowledge winnings to a charity organization of days almost half a ton of supplies were less and without the essential things like caps. and transforming attitudes that make their choice. In 2017, approximately collected (296 kilograms of food, 85 cloth, and other goods to go to their girls eradicate violence and poverty. US$1,200 were donated to four kilograms of personal care supplies and normal activities. Nicaragua Work at PORTUGAL: children’s charities. 28 kilograms of brand new clothing Home team made a point of contributSitel Group Portugal organized a items). ing with in-kind and cash donations that football tournament called Golos Contra SERBIA: were used for buying more food items to a Fome, or Goals Against Hunger. For Associates donated toys and needed MEXICO: the affected communities. each Goal that all the teams scored, supplies for an organization that hosts Associates donated food items, the Portuguese Food Bank received families with kids who have cancer, toiletries and cleaning products for the USA: 1 kilogram of food. during their treatment. Associates also victims of the recent earthquake in Associates donated relief suppliers for helped the Čepom do Osmeha or Bottle Mexico. the victims of hurricane Harvey that Lisbon and Porto associates Caps that Bring Smiles organization in affected Houston, Texas and surroundvolunteered to help the Portugal Food collecting plastic bottle caps. Funds PHILIPPINES: ing areas. Oak Ridge site associates Bank collect and organize and box all made by selling the caps were used for Associates contributed and helped to adopted a family in Texas that needed the food items donated by local purchase of medical equipment for the donation of the people of Barangay help. supermarkets. children with special needs. San Juan, Aborlan, Palawan who were affected by the heavy rains and PORTUGAL: flooding. Associates rushed to donate items, such NICARAGUA: COLOMBIA: INDIA: as first aid kits, clothing, towels, blankets Sitel Group Nicaragua support many Sitel Group Colombia volunteers Sitel Group India has partnered with INDIA: and bedsheets to help the victims of organizations on a regular basis. taught orphaned children how to the Indian Development Foundation The Sitel employees donated and Pedrogão Grande Fire, one of the Associates volunteer to visit these plant seeds, use the tolls and take care (IDF), a leading NGO working for collected house hold goods, school kits biggest forest fires of the last decades in organizations and support them in of what they grow in the orchard. health, education and development of and emergency items for families affectPortugal. activities such as helping pack lunches underprivileged communities. IDF has ed by the flood in Chennai. for kids, delivering clothing and basic 33 years of humanitarian service and hygiene products, spend some time networks with 100 health projects, 200 with the elder community, planting Bal Gurukuls and 12 Women Empowertrees, etc. These organizations also have ment Projects spread across India. To the opportunity to visit the sites and sell date, associates have spent 2,286 their art crafts to raise funds. hours on various CSR activities with IDF supporting their charitable causes. POLAND: In 2017, Mumbai site was recognized Associates donated goods to House of by IDF for the outstanding partnership Mother and Child for victims of domestic in CSR activities. violence. Volunteers deliver the donations and organized parties for the BRAZIL: children living in the facility. Sitel Group Sitel Group Brazil supported the Projeto Poland also regularly helps animals by UK: Mini Gentilezas, or Tiny Kindness Project, collecting all the paper waste in the UK sites held several fundraising that collects unused hotel and airplane office and converting it into a cash activities to support a number of toiletries and donates to homeless donation to animal shelters. In addition charitable organizations. At least people. Associates donated a total of to that, twice a year, associates bring in £25,000 were raised for charity in 2017. 1,500 items. pet food to be donated to an organization that rescues pets. 44 45 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report USA and Canada: Sitel Charitable Giving Fund Telethon In March 2016, Sitel North America spearheaded an expansion of Sitel Footprints initiatives by creating a Telethon is a televised fundraising event which purpose is to raise money for a charitable cause. Charitable Giving Fund pilot. The Charitable Giving Fund is aimed at allowing North American sites to apply for a share of grant. This funds purpose is for Sitel to give back at a local level from a corporate In 2017, at least 75% of Nicaragua associates donated one day of their accrued vacation to Telethon, standpoint, ensuring positive impact and showing our communities that Sitel is committed to investing in raising almost US$ 54,000. For the past few years, Sitel Group associates’ donation has been one of well-being and growth. the most generous donations, so our associates were invited to deliver the check and management were challenged to dance Batchata live on TV. In 2017, the Charitable Giving Fund has granted $59,984. Some of the 69 recipients have included Veterans organizations, schools, and other nonprofits organizations. France held fundraisers to support Telethon. More than €3,800 were raised. 46 47 Sitel Group 2017 Corporate Social Responsability Report Job creation and skills development Holiday giving Highlights of campaigns to create jobs and develop skills for the community: Highlights of campaigns to create jobs and develop skills for the community: PHILIPPINES: Sitel Academy aims to develop ready-to-hire talents through professional training that is aligned with global BPO trends and demands. Initially developed 10 years ago to provide second opportunities to failed job applicants, the Sitel Academy was further expanded to better prepare existing college students and out-of-school youths for potential careers in the BPO industry. The intensive Sitel Academy program is intended to be implemented for three to twelve weeks as needed, and goes beyond basic English proficiency training by providing courses on all necessary BPO skills. Other modules include technical concepts, communication skills and customer service, as well as specialized classes with specifics for different industries. INDIA: Sitel Group India has also launched Sitel Academy and identifies resources and put them through free communication and call center training to build their skills and improve chances of being hired by Sitel. NICARAGUA: Sitel Nicaragua offers free language improvement (FLIP) training to community members BRAZIL: GERMANY: NICARAGUA who already have some previous language knowledge. The training takes 3 months and at the end of In a partnership with the national Post Dessau Wishing Tree initiative supportEvery year, during Christmas, approxithe third month, the students have the option to apply for a job at Sitel. Since 2014, more than 1,900 Office, Sitel Group Brazil got some of the ed the Helping Hands Association, which mately 60% of the associates kindly candidates have enrolled in our FLIP program. letters written by underprivileged kids to assists children from socially disadvancontribute with the equivalent of an Santa Claus. Associates read and taged families by allowing them to join accrued vacation day. The money is UK: Newcastle site Recruiter received the Talent Match North East’s (TMNE) Star Employer Award for the “adopt” letters and help them fulfill the cultural, creative events or sports donated to these charitable organizakids’ dreams, whether be it a toy, a pair activities as a way of including them in tions. In 2016, US$ 54,500 were donatsupport of young people into employment. Sitel Group Newcastle was recognized for the outstanding of shoes or even food for their families. the society. A Christmas tree was ed. In 2017, the amount collected support, enthusiasm and professionalism towards young people on the Talent Match program. TMNE In 2016, approximately 700 letters have decorated with ornaments which increased to US$ 57,842. takes an innovative approach to tackling long-term youth unemployment, helping hundreds of 18-24 yearbeen “adopted” by the associates. In represented one specific event (e.g. visit olds each year to transform their lives for the better. 2017, 800 kids had their wish granted by of theatre, sport event as bowling, kind hearts. swimming, visit of an indoor playground, PORTUGAL: cinema) and the associates could Sitel Group Portugal donated Christchoose one event and make a cash mas gifts to an organization that CANADA: donation. More than a €1,000 were supports children and families in need in Saint Catharines site’ associates donated and converted into tickets to Porto. supported Community Care’s Angel lots of events in the region of Dessau. Tree program as way of giving back to the community. At least 50 children, PHILIPPINES: teens and elderly received Christmas My Dream in a Shoebox is an initiative gifts. that invites associates to create DIY shoeboxes and fill them with school supplies for the children of Marawi, COLOMBIA: Philippines, enabling them to pursue Associates donated approximately 160 their education and inspiring them to toys to a charitable organization that strive for bigger dreams. Associates have supports survivors of the Armero donated approximately 1,000 boxes, tragedy, a volcano eruption that which were matched by Sitel Group. A happened more than 30 years ago. total of 2,000 children will receive the The tragedy deeply affected the local shoeboxes. economy and the community still suffers from its effects. US: Knoxville made donations for the NETHERLANDS: PANAMA: Smoky Mountain Children’s Home, Associates donated second-hand toys Associates donated toys and clothes which provides residential care for that were donated to the poor children for children from Cañazas a very poor dependent, neglected and other at-risk who would otherwise go without them non-indigenous district in Panama. children and youth. this Christmas. 48 49 Sitel Group Global Code of Conduct and Ethics Sitel Group is one of the largest customer experience companies in the world. The group is comprised of industry-leading ﬁrms providing: • Business Process Outsourcing • Digital CX • Training and Talent Management • Consulting and Analytics Solutions With over 30 years of industry-leading experience, Sitel Group’s 75,000 associates service over 400 clients – Fortune Global 500 companies as well as local businesses – through its network of more than 150 ofﬁces in 25 countries. For more information, visit www.sitel.com Empower humans. Enhance brands. 50
