MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 ANNUAL CORPORATE SOCIAL 2017 RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 PREFACE MediaMonks is one of the biggest and fastest growing OUR WAY FORWARD creative production companies in the world. In the past couple of years we not only opened new offices around In the upcoming years we want to continue deploying the globe, all our international offices experience a our expertise and services to support projects and continuous growth. Today, our relatively new offices in processes that help better the world by offering Buenos Aires, São Paulo, Mexico City and Stockholm modern solutions for modern problems. This includes combined already count 150+ employees. We are highly encouraging (gender) diversity in the digital sector, aware of the fact that our leading position comes with boosting energy-efficiency, stimulating e-learning as great responsibility and the opportunity to contribute to well as advancing other important social, environmental a better world. and educational undertakings that strive to improve the establishments that mark modern society. The We strongly believe in the power of combining strengths digitalization of the economy is an ongoing development and creating shared value in efforts to contribute to and as a leading party within the industry, it’s our job to society. As a creative production company, we dedicate make sure this development happens as responsible as ourselves to produce digital innovations. Therefore, we possible. are most valuable when we allow other parties to benefit from our digital expertise. In the following report you will find the results of our 2017 operational daily practices as well as the choices Being part of the global digital advertising industry, we’ve made in our efforts to become a more responsible we realize that our business and growth put great global company. pressure on the environment. The emissions expelled by the industry as a whole shouldn’t be underestimated. Therefore, we continuously strive to optimize our own organizational processes and make them more energy efficient. In the coming year, we will decrease the amount of physical servers we use by optimizing the employment of virtual ones, which will result in an immense improvement in energy-efficiency. This next to our successful endeavor to continuously increase the amount of solar energy we generate. Although our practices will have a certain positive effect, we know that in order to make a real impact we have to get others on board as well. That’s why we involve our stakeholders and employees every step of the way and actively encourage them to, together with us, keep reducing the energy footprint. VICTOR KNAAP Main Monk MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 This report reviews MediaMonks’ Corporate Social Responsibility performance of 2017. Complying with United Nations Global Compact, the report follows the GRI guidelines. MediaMonks is a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2012. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) The Global Reporting Initiative is a non-profit organization that promotes economic, environmental and social sustainability. GRI provides all companies and organizations with a comprehensive sustainability reporting framework that is widely used around the world. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Corporate Social Responsibility is a form of corporate selfregulation integrated into a business model. CSR is titled to aid an organization’s mission as well as a guide to what the company stands for and will uphold to its consumers. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 CONTENT 01 MANAGEMENT SUMMARY 03 2017 IN NUMBERS 06 GIVING TALENT THE OPPORTUNITY TO GROW I PEOPLE II EDUCATION & INNOVATION 10 OFFERING OUR TALENTS AND EXPERTISE I CHARITY 12 A FAIR, SUSTAINABLE AND EFFECTIVE WAY OF WORKING I ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT II SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT 17 APPENDIX MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 1 MANAGEMENT SUMMARY MEDIAMONKS 2017 MediaMonks is a creative production company that works Many of our employees start their working life at our for and with advertising agencies to craft amazing digital company and consider MediaMonks to be a home base. work for global brands. You can find us anywhere online As these employees enter MediaMonks at a young age, as well as in Amsterdam, London, Stockholm, Dubai, New it’s also the place where they develop themselves. We York, LA, Mexico City, Buenos Aires, São Paulo, Singapore take our responsibility in this matter utterly serious and Shanghai. As of 31.12.2017, MediaMonks consists of and provide our employees with a work environment an in-house team of 600+ Monks that are versed and company culture that allows them to grow on both in a wide range of digital disciplines, jointly able to a personal and professional level. Quite a few of our produce digital projects from A to Z. We’re very proud employees can be considered to belong to Generation Y, that MediaMonks is being awarded the most FWA’s the demographic cohort that’s also known as Millennials. worldwide and that, also in 2017, we’ve received This generation is ascribed to show an increased use and numerous Webbies and Cannes Lions. understanding of media, communications and digital technologies. We do not only want to learn from their CREATING SHARED VALUE notions and know-how, we’re very keen to provide them with the time and resources to further explore and MediaMonks strives to be the best creative production advance these fields of interests. company in the world. This requires taking initiative, responsibility and adding long-term value with regard As the growth of people and the evolvement of our to our stakeholders and the world around us. In 2017, we industry are very important to us, we don’t just concern have actively addressed the exercise of creating shared ourselves with developments inside our own company value, aiming to go beyond a regular Corporate Social but also focus on external causes we can help forwards. Responsibility (CSR) program. To give a few examples: we are involved in educating new talent by means of the internationally recognized We can be most effective in creating shared value when Digital Design Master. We’re also furthering our “Women we tap into and apply our core business and expertise. in Tech” initiative to actively diversify the workforce and Our evaluation of our sources, abilities and expertise has make coding more accessible and appealing among the led to formulating the following three pillars which we’ve different groups that make up our society. MediaMonks incorporated in our business strategy: is also part of the “Get it Done” initiative that stimulates cross-learning between young professionals and 1. Giving talents the opportunity to grow foundations, offering great advantages to both parties. At the heart of our business are the people who work In the future, we want to expand the above-named here, their talents form the engine that keeps our initiatives with even more projects. business going. MediaMonks aims to be the best employer possible by taking care of its people on a both a personal and professional level. Since the physical health and mental well-being of our employees are a top priority to us, we have a company doctor available at all our offices. Also, as an international company, we attract people that have to emigrate in order to kick-start or advance their career at MediaMonks. To help new hires experience an easy and pleasant move, we provide housing at the start of their employment. At MediaMonks, we are keen to offer students a great learning environment and therefore we also offer housing to local interns facing an infeasible commute. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 2 2. Offering our talents and expertise PERFORMANCE 2017 We believe that digital design and production can contribute to a better world as they offer modern MediaMonks has started with measuring its performance solutions to contemporary challenges and problems. on CSR indicators with the evaluation of the year 2012. In 2017, we made our talents and expertise available to We have and will continue this type of assessment yearly various projects and social initiatives.To give a couple of as it forms the foundation of our improvement policy. examples: This report contains the performance overviews of 2017 Together with the SpaceFoundation and Dutch astronaut of our Amsterdam, London, New York, LA, Stockholm, André Kuipers, we have worked to globally launch the São Paulo and Buenos Aires offices. The overviews of the ongoing Spacebuzz project which is created to offer smaller offices in Shanghai, Singapore, Mexico City and an educational VR space experience to school children Dubai are not included as they operate according to their around the world. By showing children Earth from orbit own and separate conduct of business. in virtual reality and allowing them to see the beauty and vulnerability of our tiny little planet, Spacebuzz aims to inspire them to take action as the ambassadors of our future. In 2017 we also produced a SnapGuide video tour for the Rijksmuseum of Amsterdam. By using modern day technology and one of the most popular social media platforms around, we were able to help the Rijksmuseum introduce art in a new and personal way to high school students. Furthermore, we tapped into our augmented reality prowess to produce an environmental education project in collaboration with WWF and created a tool used at the British Library’s Harry Potter exhibition that aims to broaden people’s historical knowledge. You can read more about these projects on page 9. 3. A fair, sustainable and effective way of working MediaMonks puts a strong effort in working fair, sustainable and effective as this benefits the world as well as the company. Being the best can only be achieved when this way of working is applied and maintained throughout the entire company. We deliberately have chosen not to dedicate a separate department to this end, but we make sure it’s integrated in our general procurement and facility management. As a result of our efforts, we have successfully optimized energy efficiency at our headquarters. We already doubled the amount of renewable energy we generate via solar panels and coming year, we will significantly reduce the number of physical servers we run by replacing them with virtual servers. In addition to this, we have replaced the plastic water coolers at our headquarters with (tap)water installations, effectively reducing our plastic waste. With these collective efforts we aim to achieve our energy efficiency goals and environmental objectives. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 3 2017 IN NUMBERS 11 OFFICES (AMSTERDAM, LONDON, STOCKHOLM, DUBAI, NEW YORK, LA, MEXICO CITY, BUENOS AIRES, SÃO PAULO, SINGAPORE AND SHANGHAI) 600+ EMPLOYEES 2200 PRODUCTIONS DELIVERED 75,6m TURNOVER IN EUROS 1635 tonnes CO2 EMISSIONS 8 CHARITIES SUPPORTED *Figures at 31.12.2017 MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 4 MOST IMPORTANT FIGURES *The MediaMonks CSR performance figures are based on the yearly average number of 507 employees in 6 countries. PEOPLE PEOPLE Employee / Employer ratio 0.10 lowest gross income / highest gross income [ratio] Health & Safety Absenteeism 2.40% absent hours / yearly worked hours [%] Accidents 0 number / year [#] Training & Education 751 € / FTE [€] Nationalities 45 number [#] Diversity 0.21 female / male [ratio] Diversity without tech 0.26 female / male [ratio] ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY CO2 emission [tonne] CO2 emission [kg] / FTE Mobility Car 167 280 Public Transport 34 66 Flights 1051 1721 Energy 366 529 Water 1685 2.57 MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 5 BUSINESS BUSINESS Innovation 27,242 hours / yearly worked hours [#] Suppliers CSR policy 50% number of top 20 suppliers [%] Publically disclosing CSR policy 40% number of top 20 suppliers [%] COMMUNITY Donations Projects for Public good 8 causes per year [#] Unpaid / voluntary hours 964 hours per year [#] MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 6 GIVING TALENT THE OPPORTUNITY TO GROW MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 7 I PEOPLE PERFORMANCE PEOPLE 2017 Employee / Employer ratio 0.10 lowest gross income / highest gross income [ratio] Health & Safety Absenteeism 2.40% absent hours / yearly worked hours [%] Accidents 0 number / year [#] Training & Education 751 € / FTE [€] Nationalities 45 number [#] Diversity 0.21 female / male [ratio] Diversity without tech 0.26 female / male [ratio] TAKING CARE OF OUR MONKS The health and well-being of our employees is an In 2017, the combination of an outstanding working important and serious matter to us. Our Monks work environment and our health and safety measures hard and we want to ensure that they are provided have led to the successful prevention of any accidents with a safe and healthy work environment. Besides and, again, a decrease in absenteeism among employees. having a company doctor, we have all important safety According to the CBS (Centraal Bureau voor de procedures and standards in place, such as having Statistiek), there was an average of 4% absenteeism emergency response qualified staff (in Dutch: BHV) and in the Netherlands in 2017. At MediaMonks, we had an applying all health and safety regulations (in Dutch: absenteeism of only 2,4% in the same year. We are proud ARBO). to see we score better than average and value our low rate of absenteeism as it reflects the well-being of We also make sure to provide healthy catering. We our employees. concern ourselves with both offering nutritious meals as well as contributing to sustainability. To accomplish the Offering a great place to work also includes having a latter issue, we’ve introduced ‘vegetarian Tuesday’ and transparent and fair management policy. The CBS states work with local food suppliers as much as possible. that the “income gap” in the Netherlands is growing and their numbers show that for the information and Moreover, to promote a healthy lifestyle we encourage communication sector the employer/employee income our people to take part in sport events such as the ratio increased from 10,7 in 2016 to 12,7 in 2017. With an annual skiing trip and outdoor activities like the Kika employer/employee income ratio of 10, we have a better Run and bootcamp sessions. score than the average for our sector, a performance we are quite proud of as it, in our opinion, contributes to a Next to installing health and safety measures that healthy and pleasant work environment. concern employees’ working life, MediaMonks also offers support to its employees when it comes to their personal lives. If needed, we will provide loans and assistance with debts as well as offer general advice and administrational support. As many of our employees come from all over the world, we concern ourselves with the issue of housing and accommodation. We not only offer assistance in finding a house, each MediaMonks office has one or more MediaMonks houses. Employees are offered a room at low cost and interns at no cost at all. This doesn’t only contribute to the potential for people from abroad to work at MediaMonks, it makes their move and relocation a far less stressful experience. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 8 A DIVERSE FAMILY WITH EQUAL FAMILY VALUES Diversity in cultures, nationalities and backgrounds is Moreover, as part of our hiring policy, for many functions both unique and valuable to MediaMonks. Currently, we ask applicants to fill out an online test as a first round we have people from 45 different nationalities from all of assessment. By implementing this procedure, we feel over the world working at MediaMonks. MediaMonks’ confident that we invite the people most qualified for the management encourages this diversity as it really job based on their professional abilities and background. benefits our organization and stimulates cross-cultural learning. In our effort to attract and attach the most talented people in our field to our company and create a positive work environment, we pay a lot of attention to maintaining values and work ethics that create a pleasant, safe and fair atmosphere for all Monks. We are careful to preserve MediaMonks cultural values among the entire family across the globe. Diversity in tech We recognize that many companies specialized in digital services have more male than female employees. At MediaMonks, we not only value and embrace diversity, we put great effort in creating a highly diverse company and changing the situation in the industry as a whole. To succeed in both, we installed the “Women in Tech”initiative which is intended to sponsor, inspire, and advice women who aspire to be successful in tech. Started by our team in Buenos Aires, this initiative is now implemented at our headquarters and actively promoted company wide. The current female/male ratio in our industry has, for a big part, to do with the reality that the vast majority of people graduating from studies related to digital technology (digital design, software development, etc) is male. This automatically results in the fact that the majority of applicants responding to vacancies concerning digital technology is male. Besides our “Women in Tech” initiative, we work to create an equal female/male ratio by tapping into the opportunities available outside of the digital tech departments (sales, PR, HR, creatives, producers, project managers, etc). The positive impact of our efforts can already be seen when looking at the difference in female/male ratio when including all roles versus excluding the tech-heavy positions; with the ratio improving from respectively 0,21 to 0,26. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 9 II EDUCATION & INNOVATION PERFORMANCE 2017 Innovation 27,242 hours / yearly worked hours [#] It’s our ambition to be at the top in digital design and inspire young talent as we work to achieve our goal. We want to offer talented people a platform where they can develop themselves and provide them with an environment that allows them to get enthusiastic about our working field. We also continuously strive for innovation within our sector and are always searching for the latest technologies that will contribute to improving the world of digital design. Not only do we aim to transfer our in-house (digital) knowledge to the world, we also aim to optimize our in-house knowledge. Therefore, the budget spent on training and educating employees greatly increased over the past year. At MediaMonks, we care about the development of our employees and invest in their talent to give them the opportunity to grow. LEARNING THROUGH AUGMENTED REALITY DIGITAL LEADERSHIP & INNOVATION Being at the vanguard of our industry, MediaMonks Part of our involvement in the Digital Design Master aspires to improve the connection between digital entails offering students from different educational innovations and education. Over 2017, we immersed backgrounds an opportunity to follow a traineeship or ourselves in new forms of (digital) learning by means internship. The master started in September 2016 with of new technologies, like augmented reality. AR has 25 international students. In the years to come, we will turned out to be an effective tool to transfer insights intensify our efforts to support the development of young and knowledge in a new, innovative way. Based on this talent and in making the Digital Design Master technology, we set up three interesting projects over the a comprehensive and progressive master study. last year. MediaMonks is certified to offer internships for two relevant schools: ECABO (for future Assistant Snapguide Communication, Marketing employees Or management/ We collaborated with the Rijksmuseum and various CEO assistants) and GOC (for creatives). influencers to create the Rijks Snapguide which offers a modern way of guiding young people through the In general, MediaMonks wants to play a leading role in museum and educates them via Snapchat exercises. advancing digital design and digital communication. This involves improving and optimizing all our organizational Into the Wild processes as well as sharing our findings, learnings In cooperation with WWF, we produced the AR experience and integrated improvements with other parties both “Into the Wild” that transforms a museum into a virtual within and outside the sector. Collaborating instead of rainforest you can physically explore by walking around. competing with each other is also part of our shared The app combines computer vision and augmented reality value-vision. By sharing our latest innovations and to let visitors learn about the devastating effects of findings with our clients, suppliers and partners, we want deforestation first hand. to enable them to grow along with us. Openly sharing the latest software developments and updates via an online Harry Potter Celestial Globe platform is an example of how we employ our shared For the British Library’s Harry Potter exhibition, we value-vision. created an interactive display that lets visitors discover ancient constellations that inspired the names of J.K. MediaMonks’ innovation and development work is Rowling’s characters. eligible for the fiscal stimulus of WBSO (Wet Bevordering Speur en Ontwikkelingswerk). In 2017, 27,242 hours of WBSO grant have been assigned to MediaMonks, which amounts to 3,35 % of the total amount of hours worked. This gave us some time and capacity to perform research & development activities and search for innovations regarding new software and creative products. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 10 OFFERING OUR TALENTS AND EXPERTISE MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 11 I CHARITY PERFORMANCE 2017 Donations Projects for Public good 8 projects per year [#] Unpaid / voluntary hours 964 hours per year [#] OFFERING OUR EXPERTISE WHERE NEEDED NEW PARTNERSHIPS Another way we employ our ambition to contribute to In 2017, MediaMonks set up new partnerships with the society is by actively sharing our expertise and offering initiatives Get It Done and FutureNL and it to social initiatives and charity projects. As indicated project SpaceBuzz. before, we believe that our expertise in digital design and communication provides modern time solutions Get it Done to modern time problems in society. From our point of Get it Done is an initiative that enables young, talented view, digital design and communication can be strong professionals to work on impactful projects of various drivers to enhance positive social change. By making our foundations. Connecting well-known brands, young knowledge and resources available to social initiatives professionals and foundations, Get it Done allows for the and charity projects, we contribute to the corresponding exchange of knowledge to help reach the foundation’s goals. This means we provide voluntary hours to help goals. This approach closely aligns with our own ideas, as build digital communication platforms, educational we believe that there is an endless value in applications and tools or productions to help achieve mutual learning. or relay a project’s intended objectives. Comparing this year’s numbers with those from the previous year, the FutureNL amount of charities and charitable projects we took Besides being involved with the overarching Get it part in has increased as did the amount of voluntary or Done project, MediaMonks also works on one of the unpaid hours worked by our employees, counting up to foundations it supports, namely FutureNL. FutureNL a total of 964 hours which is the equivalent of 120K of strives to make the education in digital skills part of the commercial value. curriculum for elementary and secondary schools across the Netherlands, preeminently a cause we can help bring In working on charity projects, we make sure to always forward using our particular expertise. Together with coordinate with our clients: for many years now we’ve McKinsey and the Rabobank, we work to help FutureNL supported our largest clients to develop the best and grow and gain influence. most innovative charitable campaigns by contributing our talents and skills in digital communication. SpaceBuzz SpaceBuzz aims to teach children about the We are investing a substantial amount of resources environmental vulnerability of our planet by means of into great charitable projects. In 2017, we donated a augmented and virtual reality. We are happy to support total of €16,925,12 to six foundations and projects for SpaceBuzz with their proof of concept development and the public good in the Netherlands and to two in Brazil. use of virtual reality technology. With this partner, we Our aid goes to a wide variety of charities, from health are able to support a scalable concept that educates our care related projects (like Kika or GAJEC) to projects for future leaders about sustainability and Earth, via technological knowledge exchange (like digital technology. Stichting Drupal). MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 12 A FAIR, SUSTAINABLE AND EFFECTIVE WAY OF WORKING MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 13 I ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY PERFORMANCE 2017 Amount CO2 emission [tonne] C02 emission [kg] / FTE Mobility Commuting Car 675,776 km 149 243 Public Transport 5,703,014 km 34 66 Business Car 80,672 km 18 37 Flights 6,797,555 km 1051 1721 Energy Gas 21,250 m3 40 83 Electricity 501,812 kWh 326 446 Water 5,653 m3 1685 2.57 TOTAL CO 2 TONNE PER FTE 0 1.25 2.5 3.75 5 AVERAGE MEDIAMONKS TOP SCORE MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 14 MediaMonks strives to be the best in all its doings. innovations to our data center. We’ve deliberately chosen Therefore, we also pay a lot of attention to the way a data center that makes use of cold corridors, smart we organize our business processes and how we meters and extensive virtualization of its servers. The handle the impact it has on the world. In our notion, adjustments we made have paid off; like in the previous the ICT industry can play a major role in contributing years we have experienced decreases in electricity and to a low-carbon society and can be of great influence gas use. when it comes to pushing the world in this direction. Digital communication products provide a low-carbon As we’re an international company that experiences alternative to the printing industry. And the digital continuous growth, our carbon footprint, due to mobility interfaces we build can offer people concerned with (especially international transportation), increases as well. sustainability innovative and low-carbon tools. In 2017, the kilometers traveled by air almost doubled. We are highly aware of the fact that companies in the Therefore, we have been encouraging our Monks to use ICT sector are big consumers of electricity as intensive public transport when commuting to work. We offer every use of computers, displays and servers requires a employee a yearly subscription for free public transport considerable amount of energy. To tackle issues like to and from work. Furthermore, we made the careful this, we feel it’s of importance to have an understanding decision of situating our headquarters next to the train of the impact caused by our sector as a whole. All the station. As in the years before, this led also in 2017 to a data centers in the world combined, consume 2% of the growing number of Monks that commute to work by train. global electricity supply, which is similar to the carbon As for our increasing number of flights abroad, we opened footprint of the airlines industry. offices in those parts of the world we were visiting regularly, such as Singapore, New York, London, LA, Dubai MediaMonks has the ambition to bring down this and very recently Stockholm, São Paulo, Buenos Aires amount of consumption considerably. We are and Shanghai. By promoting video conference calls and constantly looking for ways we can decrease the reducing the need to go abroad to visit our partners, we environmental impact of our operations. To this end, try to actively decrease our carbon footprint. we’ve implemented the necessary means to improve our business processes and reduce emissions over the OUR WASTE HANDLING last years. In doing so, we distinguished three key areas: energy, waste and sustainable procurement. Working in the digital field has the advantage of producing minimal physical waste. Due to the use of ENERGY EFFICIENCY MEASURES digital administrative processes and our efforts to use as less paper as necessary, we produce hardly any Regarding our carbon footprint, we can be most effective paper waste. In addition to paper and glass recycling, in the conservation of energy. One of the means to reduce MediaMonks also collects plastic waste. Over the last year, our carbon footprint is applying some basic efficiency we reduced the amount of waste by installing (tap) water measures in our electricity and energy usage which coolers at our HQ, replacing the use of 1560 plastic water is, as a company working in the ICT sector, one of our bottles annually. Notably, the majority of waste produced largest emissions. Next to purchasing green-certified at MediaMonks is organic, and therefore biodegradable. electricity and energy-saving lights, we’ve been working As MediaMonks is growing, we see it as our responsibility to implement additional impactful measures. We’re in to have all our employees cooperate in keeping physical the process of reducing our amount of physical servers waste production to a minimum. from up to 20 to just 3. Replacing the physical servers with virtual ones, helps us become more energy-efficient: Moreover, we also apply a sustainable end-of-life policy using less energy and making efficient use of hardware. regarding old hardware. This policy distinguishes three scenarios: To improve our energy label, we’ve placed solar panels on our HQ rooftops. With these solar panels, we were able 1. In case of malfunctioning hardware, we first try to generate the amount of energy needed to sustain 3,6 to repair it. If this turns out to be impossible, the households for one year. In 2016 we already gained energy hardware will be recycled in appropriate ways. label A, and we plan to further advance this important 2. Workable parts of old hardware will be re-used; development in the coming years. 3. Hardware (or parts of old hardware) that we cannot use anymore will be sold. Also, we keep looking for ways to improve our energy efficiency in collaboration with our strategic partners. For example, we strive to constantly apply the latest MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 15 II SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT PERFORMANCE 2017 Suppliers CSR policy 50% number of top 20 suppliers [%] Publicity disclosing CSR policy 40% number of top 20 suppliers [%] We put a lot of effort in making our supply chain more sustainable, which can be seen in the good performance of our supply chain management. In 2017, half of the top 20 suppliers used by our headquarters has a CSR policy in place, and 40% is publicly disclosing their CSR policy. This is a result of our policy to make a conscious decision when choosing suppliers. For all business partners and suppliers, we apply basic sustainable procurement principles. By taking the size of potential orders and the influence it has on our operational excellence into consideration, we’re able to make the best decision when it comes to sustainability. Moreover, we encourage our suppliers and business partners to pay attention to CSR by underlining its importance. We make sure to carefully look at energy, office supplies and other facility requirements when assessing procurements. This approach helps us to maintain a fair and transparent relationship with all parties involved. Following our headquarters in the Netherlands, our offices in London, New York, LA, Stockholm, Sao Paulo and Buenos Aires are increasingly aware of the importance of sustainable procurement. Due to this development, these offices now also work with a growing number of partners that are working with or on a CRS policy. SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT MediaMonks has updated its internal policies to We are aware of the fact that our choice of supplier has ensure compliance with the General Data Protection a significant impact on the total of our environmental Regulation (‘GDPR’). Our policies and procedures enable footprint. By annually tracking the CSR policies and our clients and end-users to practice their privacy rights publicationsof the 20 largest suppliers in the countries in accordance with the GDPR and provide guidance for we have an office, we are able to assess the sustainability controlling and processing data. The installed policies levels of our current suppliers. By doing so we ensure the regulate the handling of data and uphold a high level of transparency of our sourcing. As indicated above, 40% security. The renewed policies apply to all MediaMonks of our suppliers is transparent about their CSR policy and offices and include procedures for all phases of a project. activities and present them openly on their website or in online publications. Examples of our top 5 suppliers When desired, customers can require individual who are transparent and serious about CSR efforts are MediaMonks project team members to sign a special nonSchiphol Travel, NS, Aces Direct, Sligro and Colliers. disclosure agreement. CLIENTS Also, in 2017 our data and our office have been secured by following the highest industry standards. This is a result Our business exists by the virtue of our clients. Therefore, from the measurements we take to optimally secure we take our relationship with them, their data security all our and our customers’ data and information. All our and their privacy very seriously. Our approach in this NDA work is processed on in-house servers, managed by is twofold: certified datacenter managers and secured by hardware firewalls. And our in-house servers are protected by an 1. Confidentiality alarm and secured electric gates. Both customer data and information about productions are treated completely confidential. We don’t accept any 2. Integrity form of breaking this confidentiality. All MediaMonks To maintain fair relationships with our customers, our employees have signed a confidentiality agreement/ employees are prohibited from purchasing goods or nondisclosure agreement, acknowledging that they services from a client, unless the purchase is made at the cannot disclose data or information from MediaMonks, same price and if it is subject to the same conditions as our customers or other business partners. All our external in place for the public. Furthermore, MediaMonks doesn’t creative, production and business partners and individuals allow employees to accept money, gifts or goods or oblige working with our customers on our behalf, sign a oneself in any way to the client. As in previous years, also confidentiality agreement as well. in 2017 we made sure this regulation was executed. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 16 MEDIAMONKS ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 2017 The results below indicate MediaMonks’ performance relative to the ‘average’ office and best practices in the Netherlands. The scores are based on a benchmark set by the Dutch government. ELECTRICITY 2017 kWh PER FTE 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 GAS 2017 M3 PER FTE 0 75 150 225 300 WATER 2017 M3 PER FTE 0 3.5 7 10.5 14 COMMUTING BY CAR 2017 KM PER FTE 0 1750 3500 5250 7000 TOTAL CO2 AVERAGE 2017 MEDIAMONKS TOP SCORE TONNE PER FTE 0 1.25 2.5 3.75 5 MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 17 APPENDIX TEN UNIVERSALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: PRINCIPLES UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE Principle 1 Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 7, 8, 15  MediaMonks takes a clear position and global responsibility against violations of basic human rights, such as the right to privacy and integrity. Principle 2 Make sure business is not complicit in human rights abuses 7, 8, 15 We contribute to this by promoting fair labour conditions in all our offices, and have integrated this in our human resource policy and procurement policy. Principle 3 Uphold freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 7, 8 MediaMonks respects the freedom of association and employees’ rights to organize or join employee organizations. Principle 4 Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 7, 8 Diversity is a prerequisite for success and all discrimination is prohibited. For example, in total 28 different nationalities are working for MediaMonks. Principle 5 Support effective abolition of child labor 7, 8 We do not tolerate bullying or other physical or verbal acts of an abusive character. Decisions that concern employment, promotions, development and compensation are based on the employees’ job knowledge and competence. Principle 6​ Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation 15 Active responsible supply chain management helps us track possible human rights violation such as child, forced or compulsory labor. Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 13, 14 MediaMonks works actively with minimizing our environmental impact it is part of our everyday business. Focus areas within our environmental policy are energy, mobility and waste. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 13, 14 Active sustainable supply chain management helps us raise awareness on energy efficiency amongst our suppliers, and work with them on innovations. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 13, 14 technologies Knowledge is an important factor to our environment and energy management. We work together with our strategic partners on innovative energy measurements. For example with our datacenter supplier. Principle 10 Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery 15 MediaMonks has zero tolerance with regard to all forms of bribes and corruption. We neither offer nor accept gifts and hospitality that are improper. This is integrated in our contracts with our employees. Also, they have signed a non-confidentiality agreement to prevent data breaches.  Our undertaking is to conduct ourselves in an ethically correct manner in everything we do, in compliance with applicable legislation and our company values, industry standards and international guidelines. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 18 OUR CSR PROGRAM For questions, recommendations or ideas about the MediaMonks policy, please contact us: facility@mediamonks.com MEDIAMONKS HQ MEDIAMONKS UK MEDIAMONKS STO MEDIAMONKS DBX Schapenkamp 2 23 Heddon Street Norrlandsgatan 18 Boutique Offices, Villa No. 8 1211 PA Hilversum London, W1B 4BQ 111 43 Stockholm Knowledge Village (Dubai Media City) T +31 35 621 21 50 T +44 (0)20 7440 3580 T +46 8 50 70 35 00 Po Box no. 502921 Dubai E info@mediamonks.com E london@mediamonks.com E stockholm@mediamonks.com T +971 52 948 6613 E dubai@mediamonks.com MEDIAMONKS NY MEDIAMONKS LA MEDIAMONKS BA MEDIAMONKS SP 127 Elizabeth St 1214 Abbot Kinney El Salvador 5137 Palermo R. Fidalga 162, Vila Madalena 10013 NY New York Venice CA, 90291 C1414BPS Ciudad Autónoma 05432-000, São Paulo, SP T +1 347 767 6929 T +1 907 891 8571 de Buenos Aires T +55 11 3097 0508 E ny@mediamonks.com E la@mediamonks.com T +54 11 5368 2189 E saopaulo@mediamonks.com E ba@mediamonks.com MEDIAMONKS SG MEDIAMONKS SH MEDIAMONKS MX 30 Bukit Pasoh Road 135 Yanping Rd, Jing’an Calle Emilio Castelar 149 089844 Singapore Shanghai 200042 Polance III Sección T +65 6438 9897 T +86 151 2109 7484 11550 Miguel, Ciudad de México E singapore@mediamonks.com E shanghai@mediamonks.com T +52 155 8624 5177 E mexico@mediamonks.com www.mediamonks.com
