Based on Direct line’s values and strategy which Who we are matching United Nations’ Global Compact Production house & integrated marketing communication principles, we emphasize our commitment to all services provider. clauses included in the Global compact hoping We are your Shortcut to Media World … to gather all efforts and initiatives carried out by all the member countries out of nobleness and “The shortest path between 2 points” goodwill to serve humanity as a whole Direct Line consists of: HUMAN RIGHTS Media & Marketing Line We are all really in need to highlight the Production Line importance of human respect and dignity, General Manager: Audio Line Maya Patsalides especially after the hard situations Syrian people Tech Line have had in such war, which showed low level of All our creative teams operate at our four-story building in morality and humanity Free Zone, Damascus. LABOUR The meaning of the name “Direct Line” All conditions are very suitable to work on The idea of the name “Direct Line” came from two very improving labor criteria and build healthy job different but related values: environment which innovating productivity and creativity for the next period of rebuilding and • Personal value: economic revolution Originating from the Direct Line Management’s vision and principles in life in general… in any direct line there ENVIRONMENT is transparency and honesty… and at the end of the day: Focusing on this principle in all projects and “may the truth prevail” investments to protect remaining environmental aspects and repairing damaged ones • Professional value: A direct line at work provides: the best service for the best ANTI-CORRUPTION prices. Corruption is the reason of any failure especially A direct line takes us from the concept to its adaptation. after it›s now effecting all processes in all levels In a direct line, there are no “round-about ways”. Direct line as a company and employees are committed to anti-corruption and following integrity and professionalism (which is applied in all UN associations and organizations) and fighting prejudice in attitudes and declarations We do believe in the role of UN and its principles in supporting Syrians to rebuild Syria and handle all community problems. Our Vision In line with its policy of providing integrated services; and To become the leader in providing a Multidisciplinary Creative Solutions. in response to local market demand; we have developed a special division of Advertising, marketing and Media Our mission We are committed to offer our clients solutions throughout the world and Media & Marketing Line access to the newest technologies at an affordable price. Develops corporate identities, full range of marketing communications, and strategic campaigns with their We combined several integrated divisions, each operating independently, yet related promotional support based on solid marketing coordinating efficiently at various levels to provide high quality services and objectives… ensure customers satisfaction. Corporate Identities (Logo creation & stationery adaptation…) We supply complete communication packages from initial concept to delivery, Brand and Message Development in all types of multimedia and broadcast Advertising Campaign Brand Activities We provide alternative means to the high cost of film and video production and Creative Concepts, Artwork, POSM post-production that fit our client’s needs and budgets. Media and Coverage Printing Our quality is the result of our dedication to constantly upgrade our technology Social Media Research and communication and skills. campaigns Advanced Market and Marketing research Our Value Marketing Planning & Execution At Direct Line, our employees are our company›s most valuable assets. Strategic Marketing Consulting Our work environment is nurtured in a unique way enabling creative thinking Advanced Corporate Marketing Training to thrive and employees to develop to their fullest potential, thus delivering Events Participation and Sponsorship Activation only the best products and the highest customer satisfaction. Brand Activation Digital Marketing, Programmatic & RTB and many other tools Direct Line consists of 4 integrated divisions that complement and interact with each other: Media & Marketing Line Tech Line Production Line Audio Line From idea to realization, the shortest path between 2 points Production Line In the aim of keeping up with the evolution of information Coordinates and produces projects partially or entirely. We are equipped to and technology, and out of belief in the importance of the carry out: TV commercials, documentary films, short films, televised series of international encounter and cooperation in the field of several episodes, from production, directing…to post-production. interactive multimedia production, we have developed a Film, TV series, Video Clips… special department charge of various multimedia. Visual Identity TV Commercials Tech Line C.G. Website development Documentaries Creative IT interface and solutions Chroma Interactive presentation DVD 2D & 3D Animations/ Composing Multimedia presentation 3D Architectural CD Business Cards Special effects Smart Advertising Devices solutions Surround photos Colors/ Materials Application iOS and Android development In order to cover all work aspects; Direct Line has recently developed a special new section specialized in audio; Devoted to communication in its broadest sense, Direct Line ensures the entire process of services related to Audio Line its function, starting from the idea up to the final film Develops corporate identities, full range of marketing communications, production. and strategic campaigns with their related promotional support based on solid marketing objectives… Corporate Identities (Logo creation & stationery adaptation…) Brand and Message Development Advertising Campaign Brand Activities Creative Concepts, Artwork, POSM Media and Coverage Printing Social Media Research and communication campaigns Advanced Market and Marketing research Marketing Planning & Execution Strategic Marketing Consulting Advanced Corporate Marketing Training Events Participation and Sponsorship Activation Brand Activation Digital Marketing, Programmatic & RTB and many other tools The Ten Principles of the Global Compact Human Rights: Principal 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human right; and Principal 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. In Direct line, all processes, procedures and policies are in consist with Human rights principle We consider employees special circumstances and support them in any special financial or health status considering humanity and morality before anything else One of our employee has a chronic disease and we customized all situations to fit his status, also we support employees who have kids to have enough time with their families Labor Direct line is a family which its members represent all political parties, social levels and religions Principal 3: Business should uphold the freedom We support their right of having their own opinions and of association and the effective recognition of the declaring them in free, lovely and respectful atmosphere right of collective bargaining; Some of employees are volunteer with NGO organizations Principal 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and some of them are working with political parties and compulsory labor; Principal 5: The effective abolition of child labor; We are interested in volunteering activities and charity and events , so we worked on documentary movie for Basma Principal 6: The elimination of discrimination in unit in Al Bayrouni hospital for Children with cancer for respect of employment and occupation. free , also we started a matchstick challenge most of Syrian celebrities joined it to attract attention to the issue of Children with cancer Also, we support any initiative serve Syrian youth since we believe in their skills and talents, So Direct line was a sponsor of the event of Syrian Private University on the occasion of Arabic Language Day. In addition to that, Mrs. Maya Patsalides , owner and General Manager of Direct Line was Chairperson of the jury for the competition of creating TV ad and producing it Direct line believes in Women role in building community side by side to men Since all must be equal in rights and duties, so Mrs. Maya Patsalides has participated in NOUN campaign for Women›s Empowerment. https://www.facebook.com/ SyriaTrust/videos/1333316316773909/ Also she was one of the judges of Startup weekend Homs Direct Line supported young talented Syrian by offering job and training opportunities All the employees at Direct Line are older than 19 years of age; 52% of them are men and 48% women During festive seasons and on special occasions, the Direct Line family grabs the occasion and celebrates collectively either in the company or outside. Hoping to be so productive in spreading positivity and prosperity in Syrian community Environment Anti-Corruption Principal 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Principal 10: Businesses should work against corruption environmental challenges; in all forms, including extortion and bribery. Principal 8: Undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility and; Internationally, the media being our line of business, we Principal 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally have noticed the huge corruption worldwide and the friendly technologies. perilous sectarian incitation prevailing in information and TV stations. We have organized several seminars In last years, so many factors negatively impact to environment because of to counsel our employees on the risk of corruption and all bombs and Explosions caused by terrorists supported by Governments information lies and on making them feel that we are one claiming environment protection and work on publishing environmental signs and the same people living together under the roof of one and the same nation, despite our various doctrines and As a company, we did our best to highlight environmental issues and stand beliefs. against of all kinds of pollutions and damages, so we worked on simple initiates All reforms sought worldwide will be doomed to failure if to protect our environment not started with combating the corruption and the fight In order to continue business in our office and protect the environment against sectarian incitement, beginning from the highest from pollution, we decided to replace a diesel-powered generator with levels down to family and child... a sophisticated inverter at a higher cost of purchase. That said, we have Locally: in this phase of economic prosperity, it’s a must protected our staff and environment from the increased pollution, have to be against any kind of corruption, and committed oriented the use of power, and have contributed towards our modest standard professionalism and limpidity in business world to start through minimizing the emission of gases and protecting the ozone layer. from these rules in rebuilding process hiring Syrian Thanks to the Lord’s great mercy and to “double-layered glass” we were experiences and skills and considering Syria weal away protected against mortar splinters shelled by terrorists on the Damascus Free from any personal benefits. Zone where our company exits. In the company: We offer a flexible, transparent atmosphere, as we strengthen the relationships between After examining the steps mentioned above, we find that Direct Line each other, aiming to get rid of every cause of the is constantly and instinctively oriented towards the conservation of the corruption, as our company have never encountered any environment, always supporting initiative to that end. kind of corruption, extortion or bribery at all during the last period. Final notes We hope United Nations Global Compact principles have been committed by all concerned parties to make difference in all communities, wishing UN can support Syria and Syrian through the following points • Working to cancel the Economic blockade which obstruct the economic revival to maintain business level which can affect all other aspects of living • Hiring Syrian experts and skilled people in all projects and investments which UN is involved in • Using UN power and authority to spread positivity, peace and forgiveness between Syrians instead of instigation, and sectarianism demonstrated last years To all respected and kind members of the Compact, Best Regards. Tel : + 9 6 3 1 1 2 1 3 4 6 1 6 Fax : + 9 6 3 1 1 2 1 3 4 6 1 5 Damascus Free Zone info@directlineme.com w w w. d i r e c t l i n e m e . c o m /directlineme
