Sustainability Report 40 Alimak Group, Annual Report 2017 Sustainability report As an international company with 2,400 employees, production in eight countries and sales in more than 100 countries, Alimak Group affects society in many ways. With Alimak Group’s leading position in the industry follows a great responsibility to contribute to a more sustainable development of the construction and industrial sectors worldwide. Alimak Group’s long experience, in 2018, the Group Safety celebrates its 70-year anniversary, of supplying quality Alimak Group contributes to a safer and more reliable products backed up by extensive after sales support, work environment for all those employed by the comenables the company to provide exactly what the clipanies’ customers within the construction and industrial ents demand; i.e. safety, quality and reliability. sector by supplying quality tested vertical transport solutions. In many developing countries, where simpler In 2017, the company finalised two major acquisitions. and less safe equipment often has been used to move The integration of these has a strong base in the fact people and goods vertically, the company’s products that the acquired companies share the same values as and solutions make a major change for the better. Alimak Group. Local regulations often require regular inspections by Part of the integration process consists of examining certified staff, something which Alimak Group offers as and evaluating how the acquired companies conduct part of its After Sales services. their business today. By using the concept Best of Four, best practices are identified and implemented Efficiency to the benefit of the whole organisation. The energy Hoists and platforms play an important part of concreated by the present momentum in the organisation, struction and industrial projects in the strive to follow provides the company with a unique opportunity to tight schedules. Alimak Group’s products are known implement new methods, goals and practices aimed at for their high quality and reliability. Their design and resulting in even safer and more efficient solutions to technical solutions also contribute to fewer transportathe challenges of tomorrow. tion hold-ups and thus better efficiency. SAFER AND MORE EFFICIENT SITES Through smart solutions, the company’s hoists and Alimak Group’s definition of sustainability is above all platforms enable property developers to work in based on contributing to creating safe, reliable and smaller spaces, or to lift entire room modules in a efficient sites for customers. Hundreds of thousands construction project. This promotes efficiency in the of construction and industrial workers come in contact entire construction process and optimises land use. For with Alimak Group’s products every year and every indust­rial customers, service lifts provide access to vital time this happens, they should be able trust that safety systems and components. BMU units placed on, or in, has been prioritised during production and installation. high-rise buildings and constructions provide safe and efficient access for facade maintenance. Information and Industrial processes and construction projects in all training, safety controls, energy efficiency, service and markets, not least in the developing countries, are maintenance, as well recycling, are also offered as part becoming increasingly complex and customers of the business model. demand more extensive safety arrangements and increased efficiency combined with a high degree of Life cycle cost control. In addition to this, stricter regulations Alimak Group’s solutions are often subject to great concerning health and safety are now applied globally. stress caused by heat, cold, vibrations and particles, Sustainability Report 41 Alimak Group, Annual Report 2017 The acquisition of Avanti Wind Systems diversified Alimak Group’s product portfolio into renewable energy. such as sand, dust or dirt and heavy lifts. Despite that have agreed to the Code of Conduct of the all this, the equipment must perform – day after Group; day, year after year. Alimak Group’s products are of • energy and water consumption of the production high quality and last for a long time, something that facilities; promotes the productivity of the customers while • waste generation as well as disposal and recycling reducing their environmental impact as they use of this. fewer resources. The After Sales operations, including service, repairs, spare parts and renovation, contribWork environment ute to ensuring, or even extending, the expected life Alimak Group’s impact on society is also about offercycle of the equipment. ing a good work environment for its 2,400 employees at the factories, on sites, in the field and at the offices. ALIMAK GROUP’S IMPACT ON HEALTH AND In 2017, the acquired companies contributed with ten THE ENVIRONMENT new production plants in a further six countries. In many countries, the Alimak name is synonym with construction hoists. The fact that the brand has lent Work condition regulations differ greatly between its name to a whole products category is, of course, different countries, which also means great variations something to be proud of – but it also brings certain between experience in measuring and controlling work obligations. conditions around the globe consistently. Alimak Group is currently educating and training its employees in The environment and quality order to fulfil the demands that the company has set. Alimak Group’s biggest impact on the environment derives from production and assembly. The Group Alimak Group’s systematic work to improve the work works actively in order to reduce the environmental environment is mainly focused on prevention and fast footprint of the company, with focus on supply and rehabilitation in order to avoid long sick leaves and production. permanent ill health. All of the twelve production facilities within Alimak Every legal entity has a designated person in charge Group are quality certified according to ISO 9001. Work of health and safety. Tasks include ensuring that there is currently under way to expand the certification to are routines and tools to collect and address as many ISO 9001:2015 during 2018 and 2019. safety observations as possible. A regular recording of these types of observations was commenced at the During the year, a project was conducted aimed at end of the year and they are expected to result in a defining the new and extended Group’s most relevant reduced number of incidents over time. non-financial key indicators. Measuring of these has been initiated and goals will be set in 2018. Many of Alimak Group’s employees perform tasks on site at the customer’s premises, in work environments Examples of identified key indicators include: that Alimak Group cannot control. Some customers • CO2 emissions; might have a lower level of security consciousness • number of employees, suppliers and distributors than the standards adhered to by Alimak Group. The Sustainability Report 42 Alimak Group, Annual Report 2017 All employees always carry relevant safety equipment and they are also safety trained for the tasks that they perform, including work at height, first aid, evacuation and fire protection. company meets these challenges through training, COOPERATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS demands, visualising the risks as well as dealing with Alimak Group strives for close dialogue and coopthese risks. eration with its different stakeholders. The dialogue with these should be honest, transparent and All employees always carry relevant safety equipment based on facts. It forms the basis of the company’s and they are also safety trained for the tasks that they sustainability work and what is prioritised in order perform, including work at height, first aid, evacuation to increase value creation, reduce environmental and fire protection. Great efforts are made on projimpact and contribute to improved social developect coordination with the customer and risk analysis ment in all different parts of the supply chain. together with co-workers and the customer. Customers Transports Alimak Group strives to offer safe products of high Alimak Group manufactures and assembles its products quality together with services that create value for in eight countries and distributes these to more than the customer. Alimak Group should always act in an 100 countries. Mostly, there are local, or regional, spare ethical way in business contexts and follow the compart centers in order for the company to be able to offer pany’s guidelines for conducting ethical business. fast service as well as minimising environmental impact through avoiding unnecessary transports. Alimak Group Employees always prefers “green” and environmental friendly Alimak Group’s employees are key to the success of transports whenever this is possible. the Group. The goal is to be an attractive employer and the ambition is to attract, develop and retain qualCODE OF CONDUCT ified and motivated employees in a professional and Alimak Group’s business and operations are governed attractive work environment. Alimak Group’s activities by the Code of Conduct, which is based on UN Global should be conducted with respect for human rights, Compact’s principles for human rights, work condihealth and safety in line with its Code of Conduct. tions, the environment, business ethics and anti corruption. The Code applies to all employees, members Capital market of the Board of Directors, distributors and suppliers. Alimak Group strives to be an attractive investment It has played a central role in the work during 2017 for shareholders and work actively to achieve longto ensure that the whole group, including external term, responsible and sustainable development of partners, shares the same values. During the year, the shareholder value. Events that affect the company Alimak Group has rolled out a global training camare communicated simultaneously and transparently paign regarding the Code aimed at the whole group, to shareholders and the market. including the acquired companies. The entire Code, as well as the training campaign, is available at the Suppliers and distributors Group’s intranet in English as well as a number of Alimak Group should be a reliable partner and strive other languages. for long-term business relations. The company expects suppliers and sub suppliers to adhere to international Sustainability Report 43 Alimak Group, Annual Report 2017 standards for human rights, work conditions and tunities, as well paying taxes and social contributions relevant laws and regulations concerning the environin the markets where the company operates. The comment, anti-corruption, export control and sanctions pany should operate in a long-term and responsible according to the company’s Code of Conduct. way and according to local legislation in the countries where it operates and based on the Code of Conduct. Society Alimak Group contributes to economic development locally through creating direct and indirect job opporSustainability data for the doubled Group1 2017 2016 2015 Power consumption, electricity (not district heating), MWh 8,6403 7,819 6,837 CO2 emissions, tonnes 6,6023 9,2724 6,7594 Water consumption (estimated), m 3 15,689 3 12,430 8,258 Solvent emissions (estimated), tonnes 29.012 29.03 25.77 Wood residue, tonnes 311.23 247.5 170.8 Corrugated cardboard, tonnes 15.53 14.9 14 Combustible waste, tonnes 104.22 59.3 55.4 Office paper, tonnes 9.12 18.2 4.5 Number of incidents (more than one day’s absence) 152 10 14 Purchasing, by geographical region, % Purchasing categories, % C D A) Europe, 59 A) Steel and steel C B) APAC, 30 related, 57 C) Americas, 11 B B) Cables and other A A components, 17 B C) Electronics, 19 D) Drive units, 7 1) 2016 and 2015 data only for the Group prior to the acquisitions, 2) Only Alimak Hek 3) Only Alimak Hek and parts of the aquisitions, 4) Previous years recalculated Sustainability Report 44 Alimak Group, Annual Report 2017 Four sustainability focus areas 1. 2. Safe, efficient and reliable solutions Resource efficient production Alimak Group focuses on continuously improving the Alimak Group focuses on reducing the environmental safety, efficiency, ease-of-use and service life of its impact from its production in the long term, mainly products. The company leads technology development in through ensuring efficient and responsible use of raw the industry and its global presence enables faster and material, energy, water and chemicals as well as minimismore efficient services to customers across the globe. ing emissions and waste. All of the twelve production facilities are quality certified according to ISO 9001. Work Through the acquisitions of Facade Access Group and is currently under way to expand the certification to ISO Avanti, Alimak Group almost doubled its technical 9001:2015, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 during 2018 capacity, strengthened its competence base and extended and 2019. its geographical footprint. The technical development centres were connected in 2017 through a global network. In recent years the production facilities have invested in a number of resource saving measures. These include the In 2017, Alimak Group launched several new hoists and introduction of new laser cutting equipment, timer platform products adapted for the Asian market. Several controlled ovens in the paint shop, switching to low record-breaking facade maintenance products were also energy bulbs and several other measures resulting in launched, increasing their future competitiveness and reduced energy consumption. application areas. In the wind segment, several new tools and solutions were launched, aimed at supporting safer and simpler installations and a higher degree of efficiency. ACTIVITIES IN 2017 ACTIVITIES IN 2017 • Expansion of the product portfolio with the first • All production facilities appointed a person responsible industrial hoist directed at Chinese and South East Asian for health and safety. markets and a high-speed unit for future markets. • A power survey at the Skellefteå plant was finalised, • Adoption of a traction unit programme for the Industrial resulting in a number of measures aimed at reducing Equipment business area. energy consumption, including switching to low energy • Charlotte Brogren recruited as CTO of Alimak Group. bulbs and time controlled engine preheaters. ACTIVITIES IN 2018 ACTIVITIES IN 2018 • Full operation of the global organisation driving • Strong focus on ensuring good working conditions and innovation. improving internal communication. • Investments in new technology, improving reliability • A new paint system will be evaluated, aimed at reducing and safety for customers. the consumption of solvents in the long term. Sustainability Report 45 Alimak Group, Annual Report 2017 3. 4. Responsible and efficient purchasing and Employees and business ethics logistics solutions Alimak Group operates in more than 100 countries and Alimak Group requires that all suppliers and their through the acquisition of Manntech, CoxGomyl and subcontracted suppliers comply with the Group’s Code of Avanti, the number of employees increased from some Conduct, other policies and demands. The Code of 1,200 to 2,400. The Code of Conduct has been instrumenConduct is included in all new and renewed agreements tal in ensuring that everyone in the company understands with suppliers. Measures to ensure compliance also and shares Alimak Group’s values when it comes to include training and visiting suppliers. business ethics. All employees, including management, have taken part in a web based training programme. Alimak Group has an extensive global presence, which means that efficient logistics is crucial for reducing the Alimak Group’s whistle-blower system enables customnumber of transports of products and spare parts as well ers, suppliers and employees to anonymously sound the as trips made by representatives of Alimak Group’s sales alarm on any deviations from Alimak Group’s Code of and service organisation. The aim is to minimize both Conduct and business ethics guidelines. The compliance direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases from responsible of the company is in charge of ensuring that transports and trips. Alimak Group chooses ”green” these issues are dealt with. Reports are made at every transports whenever possible, by for example replacing Board meeting. transports of goods by sea from China with train. ACTIVITIES IN 2017 ACTIVITIES IN 2017 • In 2017, 80 per cent of Avanti’s, Manntech’s and • Key indicators of health and safety were defined and CoxGomyl’s suppliers signed the Code of Conduct. All these started to be measured. Information is collected previous suppliers of the Group have already signed and distributed via the intranet. the Code. • Approximately 70 per cent of Alimak Group’s distribu• Processes were established to regularly evaluate tors have signed the Code of Conduct. The goal is for suppliers of direct material and their compliance to local 100 per cent to have signed in 2018. laws and regulations related to the environment, health • The whistle-blower system was developed and placed and safety. externally for increased confidentiality. ACTIVITIES IN 2018 ACTIVITIES IN 2018 • All suppliers are expected to sign the Code of Conduct • All production units with a ISO 9001:2008 certificate will by the year-end 2018. be certified according to ISO 9001:2015 and OHSAS • Training sessions will be held for the company’s key 18001. suppliers. These will include information about Alimak Group, its values and expectations.
