Lonza – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 About Lonza Lonza is one of the world’s leading and most-trusted suppliers to the pharmaceutical, biotech and specialty ingredients markets. As an integrated solutions provider, Lonza is boosting its value creation along and beyond the healthcare continuum with a strong focus on patient healthcare, consumer preventive healthcare and consumer's healthy environment. Lonza harnesses science and technology to create products that support safer and healthier living and that enhance the overall quality of life. With the recent Capsugel acquisition, Lonza now offers products and services from the custom development and manufacturing of active pharmaceutical ingredients to innovative dosage forms for the pharma and consumer health and nutrition industries. Benefiting from its regulatory expertise, Lonza is able to transfer its know-how from pharma to hygiene and fast-moving consumer goods all the way to coatings and composites and the preservation and protection of agricultural goods and other natural resources. Founded in 1897 in the Swiss Alps, Lonza today is a well-respected global company with more than 100 sites and offices and approximately 14,500 full-time employees worldwide. The company generated sales of CHF 5.1 billion in 2017 with a CORE EBITDA of CHF 1.3 billion. Further information can be found at www.lonza.com. Statement of Continued Support from Richard Ridinger “Sustainability is at the core of Lonza. That is how we conduct business and how we create value for our stakeholders. Sustainability is reflected in our long-term business approach to sustainably grow along and beyond the healthcare continuum and to contribute with our products and services to patient’s health, preventive healthcare and safe environment we are living in. Our commitment to corporate social responsibility was underlined by our joining the UN Global Compact. Its principles will continue to be part of Lonza’s day-to-day life, involving all sites.” Richard Ridinger CEO Page 1/10 PRINCIPLE ACTIONS / POLICIES REFERENCE Human Rights Principle 1: In our global “Code Of Conduct,” translated into all corporate languages, we https://www.lonza.com/aboutBusiness should have defined that all employees are expected to know the law as it applies to lonza/global-citizenship/ethicssupport and respect their sphere of responsibility; management is expected to provide appropriate and-compliance/code-ofthe protection of training and guidance, especially to respect human rights and employment conduct.aspx internationally rights. proclaimed human We are committed to the highest levels of quality and operational excellence rights; and … across the regions, functions and markets we serve, every day. This commitment is driven by our passion for customer success, empowerment, trust and integrity. As part of this commitment, the Lonza Code of Conduct establishes the professional standards for Lonza employees at all levels of the company – wherever they are in the world. It serves to define how we do business and how we interact with each other. At Lonza, we believe that any success we achieve is no success at all if not achieved ethically. Principle 2: It is in a manager’s responsibility to monitor the compliance; all departments, https://www.lonza.com/about… make sure that regardless of where they are in the world, are regularly supervised by our Audit lonza/global-citizenship/ethicsthey are not Services department. and-compliance/code-ofcomplicit in human conduct.aspx Performing with integrity means setting the right priorities and delivering on our rights abuses. commitments while adhering to Lonza’s values and the standards set forth in the Code of Conduct. We do this by:  Integrating integrity in all that we do Page 2/10  Holding ourselves personally accountable to high, ethical standards  Demonstrating leadership by fostering an environment focused on performance with integrity and accountability Page 3/10 Labour Principle 3: The Code of Conduct provides the basis for creating and maintaining the https://www.lonza.com/aboutBusiness should relationship of mutual trust, which is essential to business success. It lonza/global-citizenship/ethicsuphold the freedom expresses explicitly that we consider fairness in our dealings with employees to and-compliance/code-ofof association and be of paramount importance. It is our commitment to the corporate social and conduct.aspx the effective ethical responsibility, the respect for human rights and employment rights. recognition of the right to collective Local management and human resources work closely together with employee bargaining; … representatives, work councils and unions in all countries and regions according to the specific laws and agreements. All existing contracts with unions are renewed on a regular basis in order to meet employee labor interests. In addition, our Lonza’s Supplier Code of Conduct provides for rules against child labor at our suppliers. Principle 4: Our Code of Conduct is applied to all actions and activities of Lonza in the https://www.lonza.com/about…the elimination of pursuit of a high level of social responsibility and as such is also crucial lonza/global-citizenship/ethicsall forms of forced element against forced and compulsory labor. and-compliance/code-ofand compulsory conduct.aspx labour; … See also Lonza’s Supplier Code of Conduct above. Principle 5: In our Code of Conduct, all managers are committed to act in compliance with http://www.lonza.com/about…effective abolition the law. In addition, Lonza’s Supplier Code of Conduct explicitly bans all forms lonza/globalof child labour; and of child labor at our suppliers. citizenship/standards/code-of… conduct.aspx https://www.lonza.com/aboutlonza/investorPage 4/10 relations/corporategovernance/policies.aspx Principle 6: Our Code of Conduct explicitly bans any form of discrimination; all managers https://www.lonza.com/about… the elimination of are obliged to act accordingly. Lonza does not tolerate any discrimination, lonza/global-citizenship/ethicsdiscrimination in harassment or bullying on the basis of ethnicity, national origin, color, religion, and-compliance/code-ofrespect of creed, age, sex, disability or any similar characteristic. conduct.aspx employment and occupation. Furthermore, Lonza has implemented a Global Data Policy that protects all employees against misuse of individual/personal data. https://www.lonza.com/aboutlonza/investorrelations/corporategovernance/policies.aspx Page 5/10 Environment Principle 7: At Lonza we are committed to providing the highest quality products and Corporate Citizenship website: Business should services that delight our customers while also minimizing our impact on the http://www.lonza.com/aboutsupport a environment, conserving energy and natural resources, and helping to lonza/global-citizenship.aspx precautionary improve the quality of life. As part of our broad corporate social responsibility approach to efforts, the key elements of our approach to sustainability are the following: Standards: environmental http://www.lonza.com/about Empowering our employees within a culture of innovation challenges; … lonza/global Extracting the highest efficiency from our raw materials, including citizenship/standards.aspx energy  Measuring and reporting our environmental impact Sustainability: http://www.lonza.com/about Collaborating with industry associations and other stakeholders to lonza/globalimprove continuously citizenship/sustainability.aspx “Vision Zero” – the ethical principle that underscores all our efforts in the realm Management: of the environment, health and safety (EHS) – sets the ultimate goals of http://www.lonza.com/aboutachieving zero injuries, zero manufacturing process incidents, zero distribution lonza/globalincidents and zero environmental incidents. It is at the heart of our EHS policy, citizenship/management.aspx wherein Lonza commits to operations and practices that prevent harm to people and damage to the environment or property. EHS policy: http://www.lonza.com/aboutOur principles for environment, health, safety and security set forth in the lonza/globalpolicy and resulting from the company's ethical conviction take precedence citizenship/management/policies. and apply throughout Lonza. Whereas the EHS policy defines the high -level aspx principles, our corporate EHS management system consisting of 22 detailed guidelines supports their implementation. Our Central Process Safety department part of the corporate EHS group – whose expertise helps keep our processes safe, made further progress in 2017 in supporting the manufacturing sites. The department is working closely Page 6/10 with the sites in the implementation of the internal rules and standards for process safety to which all are obliged to adhere. Numerous site visits across the world with in-person exchange of advice and expert knowledge drive safe operation to excellence a prerequisite for our license to operate. Our EHS group also oversees our companywide sustainability efforts. The continuous-improvement tools and disciplines that drive improved safety and environmental quality are also applied to making sustainable use of natural resources, reducing our carbon footprint, minimizing hazardous waste and managing remediation activities responsibly, as well as otherwise improving the quality of life for our stakeholders. EHS risk assessments serve as valuable tools in our business and operating practices and in our planning processes. We review new ventures, capital investments in production equipment and systems and other major projects not only for the business opportunities they present, but also for their environmental, health and safety impact. Principle 8: Providing transparent evidence of corporate sustainability practices is part of …undertake our commitment to excellence. Most of this information is shared on our initiatives to corporate website; and in addition, we disclose climate data and activity promote greater Sustainability homepage: assessments in the framework of the Carbon Disclosure Project for the benefit environment http://www.lonza.com/aboutof our stakeholders. responsibility; and lonza/global… citizenship/sustainability/continua l-improvement.aspx Our U.S. facilities are third--party certified under the Society of Chemical Manufacturers and Affiliates (SOCMA) ChemStewards® initiative. Lonza Ltd EHS-performance tracking: in Switzerland is a Responsible Care® company, and our facility in Nansha http://www.lonza.com/about(CN) is certified under both ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. All of our facilities lonza/globaladhere to the Lonza EHS management system, which is based on the citizenship/sustainability/air.aspx ChemStewards® program and addresses all aspects of environment, health, safety and security. Page 7/10 Energy and climate: http://www.lonza.com/aboutLonza facilities are member of the Responsible Care program in Switzerland lonza/globaland of SOCMA’s ChemStewards program in the United States. At all facilities citizenship/management/climateworldwide, Lonza promotes and lives the cycle of continual improvement for change.aspx environmental, health and safety issues. We keep track of our EHS performance and make the outcomes transparent for the general public. Year 2017: http://annualreport.lonza.com/201 Lonza supports ICCA's Responsible Care Global Charter and has signed their 7/company/corporatedeclaration of support. responsibility-insights/investingenvironment-health-safety All our sites are internally audited comprehensively and systematically for For further details, go to management system and performance of implementation of our FINANCIAL REPORTS on environmental, health and safety principles and guidelines and the compliance Lonza.com and click on the with standards and regulations. ANNUAL REPORT ONLINE and choose the section CoPE (energy savings), horseshoe crab conservation (endotoxin detection), Corporate Responsibilty MODA green alternatives (paperless, efficient QC micro processes) are Insigths sustained examples for such initiatives. Page 8/10 Principle 9: Lonza participates in industry groups that promote sustainability. As …encourage the participants in and signatories of the American Cleaning Institute® and the development and Sustainability Charter, we are committed to a mission that endeavors to diffusion of benefit society and improve the quality of life through hygiene and cleanliness environmentally by driving sustainability improvements across our industry and throughout the friendly supply chain. technologies. About two thirds of the EHS capital expenditure in 2017 was absorbed by the http://annualreport.lonza.com/ large chemical and pharmaceutical manufacturing complex at Visp and the 2017/company/corporaterelated infrastructure. Most prominent were the preinvestment related to the responsibilityplanned new Ibex manufacturing complex, the replacement of electrofilters in insights/investingthe solid and liquid residual waste incineration plant to allow a continued environment-health-safety state-of-the-art highly efficient operation, besides the revamping of a plant complex where ammonia recovery, the breakdown of non-biodegradables and wastewater extraction activities take place. An investment into a significant improvement to avoid emissions from process wastewater collection and pretreatment basins was realized and leads to a sustained reduction of odor emissions while setting an even higher standard to safeguard against potential groundwater contamination. Numerous EHS-related capital was spent on projects at other sites in 2017, including significant warehouse safety upgrades at the French water site in Amboise, and at the biopharmaceutical activities in Porriño (ES). Further projects included safety upgrades at the U.S. site in Rockland, ME, and in Rochester, NY. Page 9/10 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Lonza takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and is https://www.lonza.com/aboutBusiness should committed to acting professionally, fairly, and with integrity at all times. lonza/global-citizenship/ethicswork against and-compliance/anti-corruptioncorruption in all its anti-bribery.aspx forms, including Lonza’s Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy applies to everyone working extortion and for any company within the Lonza group of companies, including all officers, bribery. managers, directors, employees (whether permanent, fixed-term, or temporary), agents, consultants, contractors, secondees, temporary workers and agency staff, students, or any other person associated with Lonza. Lonza conducts business in countries around the world and deals with many different cultures. Regardless of where Lonza is doing business, it will uphold its standard of conduct by acting ethically and responsibly and by complying with the applicable laws of the countries in which it operates. In the event that the laws of more than one country apply to the transaction, Lonza employees must act in accordance with the most restrictive anti-bribery and anticorruption laws that apply. Page 10/10
