Global Compact 2017 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Contents Foreword 3 Introduction About Aurubis 4 United Nations Global Compact 5 The Ten Principles of the Global Compact Human Rights 6 Labor 8 Environment 9 Anti-Corruption 15 District Heating Project 16 Outlook 18 Global Compact 2017 Dear readers, Aurubis has been committed to the United Nations We take the safety and health of our employees at all Global Compact since 2014. We conform to the ten sites very seriously and utilize a number of measures to principles regarding human rights, labor, the environreduce work-related accidents. In particular, the stagment, and anti-corruption when developing our business nation of the accident figures in 2017 provides us with processes and strategies. continued motivation for reinforcing our efforts on the path to our “Vision Zero”. Environmental protection also Aurubis is currently in a transformation process from plays a central role for us. We are already a forerunner copper producer to a multi-metal group. Copper will of in this regard today, but we will not rest on our laurels. course remain a central component of our business, but Indeed, we want to better understand the expectations Aurubis can do more: We want to extract significantly placed on us. For this reason we also actively sought out more metals from the raw materials we currently use dialogue with our stakeholders and held constructive and make them available to society. We thus make a key discussions last year. contribution to sustainable development and help close the material cycle for copper and other metals. With this Communication on Progress, Aurubis reinforces its self-imposed commitment to implementing the The Aurubis strategy “Growth – Efficiency – Responsibilten UN Global Compact principles in the company and ity” that was presented in 2017 shows how we want to to using them as an important guide when working with achieve our Vision 2025 and, at the same time, describes suppliers, customers, and partners. the high priority of responsible company management at Aurubis. We view this as a contribution to both securing I invite you to take a look at our activities on the followour company’s future and to sustainable development ing pages or in our current sustainability and environwhen it comes to the environment and society. mental reporting (accessible at www.aurubis.com/ responsibility). On the following pages, we provide an overview of related instruments, measures, and concrete activities from We would be pleased to enter into an open dialogue the year 2017 that satisfied our requirements for responwith you – we welcome your ideas and remarks! sible business activitiy. Warm regards, For example, we established the foundation for our flagship project “Using Industrial Waste Heat to Supply HafenCity East” in 2017. This project will save more than 20,000 t of CO2 annually in the future. Jürgen Schachler Hamburg, June 2018 Foreword 3 About Aurubis Aurubis AG is a leading worldwide provider of non-ferrous metals and the largest copper recycler worldwide. The company processes complex metal concentrates, scrap metals, and metal-bearing recycling materials into metals of the highest quality. Its main area of expertise is the processing and optimal Aurubis has about 6,500 employees, production sites recovery of concentrates and recycling raw materials in Europe and the USA, and an extensive service and with complex qualities. The group of companies is oridistribution system in Europe, Asia, and North Ameriented towards growth, efficiency, and responsibility: The ca. The Group is managed centrally from the company main components of the strategy are the expansion of headquarters and administrative center in Hamburg. the leading market position as an integrated copper producer, entering new markets in industries of the future, Aurubis’ customers include companies in the semis inthe highly efficient and optimal recovery of additional dustry; the electrical engineering, electronics, and chemmetals and by-products from complex raw materials, ical industries; and suppliers of the renewable energies, and practicing a responsible attitude when dealing with construction, and automotive sectors, among others. people, resources, and the environment. Aurubis produces more than 1 million t of copper You can find more information at: cathodes annually and from them a variety of copper www.aurubis.com products such as wire rod, continuous cast shapes, rolled products, and strip, as well as specialty wire and profiles made of copper and copper alloys. Precious metals, selenium, lead, nickel, and a number of other products such as sulfuric acid and iron silicate also belong to the product portfolio. 4 Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2017 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress By signing the United Nations Global Compact, we at Aurubis have committed to supporting the protection of human rights in our area of influence, to guaranteeing international labor standards, to improving environmental protection, and to countering corruption and bribery. The following tables show guidelines, management and Reports, the Annual Reports, and on our website systems, and measures that Aurubis has put in place and ( www.aurubis.com). We inform our employees and carries out in order to implement the ten principles. It external stakeholders regularly about the implemenalso shows the specific activities and progress made in tation of the UN Global Compact principles – during 2017. events such as the dialogue series CU2Talk, the internet and intranet, and the employee magazine CU. You can find further detailed information in our Sustainability Reports, the Aurubis Environmental Statements Introduction 5 Human Rights Principle 1: Affirmations, regulations, and management systems Businesses should support and » Affirmation of commitment to the ILO Core Labor Standards respect the protection of interna» Aurubis requires its business partners, particularly those in primary raw tionally proclaimed human rights. material sourcing, to adhere to UN conventions on human rights Principle 2: » Sustainability strategy » Supplier screening Businesses should make sure that » Code of Conduct valid throughout the Group they are not complicit in human » Compliance management rights abuses. » PRIMA company values (see box) » Group-wide Gold Supply Policy to fulfill due diligence regarding conflict minerals » Due diligence guidelines of the OECD (Organisation for Economic O  ur company values (PRIMA) Cooperation and Development) are Performance, Responsibility, » Vision Zero: reducing workplace accidents as an objective of the sustainIntegrity, Mutability, and ability strategy Appreciation. Measures PRIMA, which means “great” » Inclusion of a clause about adhering to UN sanctions and trade restrictions, in German, is derived from the as well as UN conventions related to human rights, environmental protecfirst letters of the following tion, and safety in all new supply contracts for primary raw materials English words: Performance, » Business Partner Screening: Screening of suppliers and customers under Responsibility, Integrity, aspects of sustainability, compliance, and tax law Mutability, Appreciation. » Whistle-blowing hotline (in multiple languages) 6 Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2017 Activities in 2017 and assessment of the results » “Good Delivery” status in the London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) confirmed for the fifth consecutive time » Percentage of – mostly long-term – contracts for primary raw materials that contain the aforementioned clause about adhering to UN Conventions is over 80 % » Experiencing PRIMA: workshops about company values for apprentices in Hamburg » Continuation of the stakeholder dialogue on social issues (including participation in and contribution to CSR Practitioner Day for implementing responsible supply chains) » Ongoing involvement in reducing workplace accidents with a number of activities at all sites (e.g., 3rd Aurubis Safety Days in Hamburg, workshop on increasing safety awareness at the Stolberg site) » Aurubis Bulgaria receives special Corporate Social Responsibility prize for supporting individuals with disabilities Downloads A  urubis Sustainability Report 2015 Aurubis Code of Conduct (including the PRIMA company values) Additional information www.aurubis.com/responsibility Sustainability Management Supply Chain  w ww.aurubis.com/corporate-governance www.aurubis.com/gold www.lbma.org.uk/good-delivery www.csr-praxistage.de The Ten Principles of the Global Compact 7 Labor Principle 3: Affirmations, regulations, and management systems Businesses should uphold the » PRIMA company values (see box on page 6) freedom of association and the » Code of Conduct valid throughout the Group effective recognition of the right » Compliance management to collective bargaining. » Developing measures to increase interest among girls and women for Principle 4: technical education and professions as an objective of the sustainability strategy Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Measures and compulsory labor. » Whistle-blowing hotline Principle 5: » Measures related to diversity Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Activities in 2017 and assessment of the results Principle 6: » Implementing training sessions: In 2017, approximately 600 participants Businesses should uphold the attended training sessions on antitrust and anti-corruption law. elimination of discrimination » Continuation of the stakeholder dialogue on issues of sustainability in respect of employment and (for example the ongoing dialogue with relevant actors to implement occupation. the National Action Plan on Business and Human Rights in Germany) » Experiencing PRIMA: workshops about company values for apprentices in Hamburg » Aurubis Lünen was recertified as a family-friendly company » Participation of Aurubis Bulgaria in the UN Global Compact Initiative “I am proud of my parents’ work” Downloads A  urubis Sustainability Report 2015 Aurubis Code of Conduct (including the PRIMA company values) Additional information www.aurubis.com/responsibility Sustainability Management Employees & Society www.aurubis.com/corporate-governance www.aurubis.com/compliance www.mintpink.de 8 Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2017 Environment Principle 7: Affirmations, regulations, and management systems Businesses should support a » Company guidelines on environmental protection precautionary approach to » Corporate Environmental Protection Policy environmental challenges. » Strategic environmental goals Principle 8: » Affirmation of external guidelines such as Responsible Care » Membership and active participation in the leading economic, industry, Businesses should undertake and technical associations initiatives to promote greater » Dedicated organizational units for environmental protection at every environmental responsibility. production site/plant Principle 9: » A certified, integrated management system (IMS) at Aurubis AG for Businesses should encourage environmental topics (ISO 14001 and EMAS), energy (ISO 50001), and the development and diffusion quality (ISO 9001) of environmentally friendly » Business Partner Screening technologies. » Certification in accordance with the WEEE End Processor Standard (voluntary standard on processing precious metal-bearing WEEE fractions such as printed circuit boards; WEEE = Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive) » Participation in CDP climate change program » Stakeholder dialogue with non-governmental organizations and environmental associations » Hamburg Master Plan for Climate Protection » Aurubis is doing intensive research and development work to continually optimize products and processes and expand its position as a technological leader through new processes. The consideration of current and future environmental standards, an efficient approach to resources, and the continuous reduction of emissions are important criteria in this respect. The Ten Principles of the Global Compact 9 Environment Climate Air Measures Protection Nature » Group-wide environmental goals (mediumand long-term), including Conservation Water monitoring goal achievement & Biodiversity » Site-specific environmental goals (shortand medium-term), including monitoring goal achievement Noise Soil » Continuous improvement of water, soil, and immission protection, as well as efficient use of energy and raw materials in the production plants Waste » Continuous improvement of Business Partner Screening to reinforce a sustainable approach to raw materials Group environmental » Aurubis uses the best available plant technologies (BAT) protection targets until 2018 » Supported by the Aurubis Operating System (AOS) introduced in 2017, production processes are systematically analyzed and continuously Air optimized with environmental aspects in mind. » Target: 10 % reduction in dust emissions com» Involvement in the EU project on achieving an environmental balance pared to 2012 » Example: lowering fugitive emissions in the between organizations and products: “Organisational Environmental KRS area in Lünen Footprint” and “Product Environmental Footprint” (2017: OEF sector Water rules for copper production accepted by the European Commission) » Target: 10 % reduction in metal emissions from » Internal and external audits to review the effectiveness of primary copper production in bodies of water compared to 2012 environmental, energy, and quality management systems » Example: optimizing new rainwater treatment » Regular transfer of information between the environmental and energy plant in Lünen officers at all production sites Soil » Training for employees working in all plant areas relevant for » Target: reducing the discharge of pollutants environmental protection into the soil » Example: large-scale paving of Lünen plant » Expansion of the stakeholder dialogue on environmental issues premises » Cooperation in the installation of wind turbines at the Olen site with an Waste output of up to 28,000 MWh of electricity (annual savings of more than » Target: increasing recycling rates 12,000 t of CO2) » Example: stronger fayalite marketing in Pirdop (BG) Noise » Target: reducing noise emissions, especially in new technical projects Nature Conservation & Biodiversity » Target: improving nature conservation at the production sites » Example: participating in NABU project UnternehmensNatur in Hamburg Climate Protection » Target: Reducing CO2 emissions by 100,000 t of CO2 through energy efficiency and heat recovery projects » E xample: using industrial waste heat to provide district heating in Hamburg 10 Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2017 Environment Activities in 2017 and assessment of the results » More than € 16 million invested in environmental protection in copper production in 2016, more than € 560 million since 2000 » € 11 million invested in R&D in fiscal year 2016/17 » (Re-)certification of the environmental, energy, and quality management systems at all production sites » Certification of the integrated management system (IMS) for Aurubis AG » Successful recertification pursuant to the ISO/TS 16949 specifications for Aurubis Stolberg and the plants in Buffalo (USA) and Zutphen (NL) » Achievement of the Group-wide environmental protection standards in all areas » Significant outperformance of the emission reduction targets » Completion of countless measures at all sites to improve the environmental performance The Ten Principles of the Global Compact 11 Environment Select examples General » Active involvement in the Eurometaux industry association (environment, energy, and climate change, as well as sustainability committee) » Annual report of sustainability indicators to the International Copper Association (ICA) to show how the copper industry is contributing to sustainability goals » Official confirmation of the environmental and health compatibility of Aurubis Finland’s Nordic Products through successful certification in accordance with ISO 14025 and EN 15804 » Participation in the UnternehemensNatur (Company Nature) project organized by NABU (German Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Union) and implementation of the recommendations » Green Month at Aurubis Bulgaria Climate/energy » Active involvement in energy efficiency networks as part of an initiative of German government and business » Participation in NEW 4.0, a large-scale interregional project to identify optimization potential in the area of electricity generation » Extension of the Partnership for Air Quality and Low-Emission Mobility with the city of Hamburg until 2020 and implementation of the sixth voluntary agreement to reduce emissions » Mobil.Pro.Fit. program: development of sustainable, efficient, and climate-compatible mobility management at the Hamburg site. Certification as Mobil.Pro.Fit. company issued in 2017 » Implementation and participation in dialogue events as part of Aurubis Stolberg’s affiliation with seven additional companies to form the Energy Efficiency Network Aachen » Preparation of the flagship project on the use of industrial waste heat recovery for Hamburg’s HafenCity East neighborhood (see p. 18) » Various projects to save energy at all sites, including Olen: optimized management of energy input, e.g., by optimally operating the fume suction equipment on the smelting furnace roof. Reduction of about 500 t of CO2 p.a.; Pirdop: electricity generation from waste heat through backpressure turbine (12,000 MWh p.a. reduction in external electricity demand); Emmerich/Avellino: energy efficiency measures, e.g., compressed air reduction, optimized control of frequency converter, use of waste heat in compressor, LED lighting, and CO2 reduction due to electricity/gas savings of 360 t or 665 t CO2 p.a. 12 Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2017 Environment Recycling/circular economy » Participation of Aurubis Hamburg in the European research project FORCE – Cities Cooperating for Circular Economy to develop new concepts for waste prevention and treatment, with a focus on waste electrical and electronic equipment. As a multi-metal recycler, Aurubis supports the project with its expertise for the purpose of improving the recycling of strategic metals (e.g., copper, gold, silver, and lead) through the best possible collection and dismantling system for waste electrical and electronic equipment. » Aurubis Lünen: consulting and assessment function in the ADIR project (EU-sponsored project to implement a new, automated recycling technology for electronic scrap) » First place for Aurubis AG and Grillo-Werke in the Responsible Care competition in the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia for the project Closing the Loop – The Shared Material Cycle of Aurubis and Grillo-Werke and second place in the nationwide Responsible Care competition (motto: “We have good ideas for a circular economy”) Water » Optimization/expansion of the water treatment plant at the Pirdop site » Ongoing optimization of the rainwater retention, preparation, and usage facility to reduce the use of city water in Lünen Air » Continuation of the voluntary agreement with the city of Hamburg for the further reduction of emissions in cooperation with the Hamburg Authority for Urban Development and the Environment » Adjustment of slag handling at the site in Pirdop, Bulgaria, to further reduce fugitive emissions The Ten Principles of the Global Compact 13 Environment Certifications by site EMAS: system with guidelines for Site EMAS ISO ISO ISO TS Efb environmental management systems and environmental audits 14001 50001 9001 16949 ISO 14001: standard for Hamburg, headquarters (DE) x x x x environmental management system Lünen (DE) x x x x x guidelines Pirdop (BG) x x EN ISO 50001: standard for Olen (BE) x x energy management system guidelines Fehrbellin, CABLO (DE) x x x x EN ISO 9001: standard for Nersingen, Strass, CABLO (DE) x x x x quality management system guidelines Hamburg, E.R.N. (DE) x x x x Buffalo (USA) x x TS 16949: standard for quality management system guidelines Pori (FI) x x for the automotive industry, based on ISO Avellino (IT) x x 9001 Zutphen (NL) x x x Efb: Waste Management Company Stolberg (DE) x x x (certificate in German) Emmerich, Deu. Giessdraht (DE) x x x Stolberg, Schwermetall (DE) x x x x Röthenbach, RETORTE (DE) x Hamburg, Peute Baustoff (DE) x1 1 f or the sale of iron silicate granules used to produce blasting abrasives Downloads Environmental Protection in the Aurubis Group and Consolidated Environmental Statement 2017 Aurubis Sustainability Report 2015 Additional information www.aurubis.com/responsibility Environment & Energy Product Responsibility Sustainability Management Certificates www.cdp.net www.eurometaux.eu www.sustainablecopper.org www.ce-force.eu www.ica.com www.mobilprofit.de www.adir.eu 14 Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2017 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Affirmations, regulations, and management systems Businesses should work against » Affirmation of the German Corporate Governance Code corruption in all its forms, includ» Code of Conduct ing extortion and bribery. » Compliance management » Risk management Measures » Implementing compliance training sessions » Risk assessment » Business Partner Screening: screening all suppliers and customers under aspects of sustainability, compliance, and tax law » Whistle-blowing hotline (in multiple languages) Activities in 2017 and assessment of the results » Implementing training sessions: In 2017, approximately 600 participants attended training sessions on antitrust and anti-corruption law. » Review of all business units for the risk of corruption as part of the institutionalized and routine risk assessment Downloads Aurubis Sustainability Report 2015 Additional information  ww.aurubis.com/corporate-governance w  ww.aurubis.com/compliance w www.aurubis.com/responsibility  ww.aurubis.com/annual-report w The Ten Principles of the Global Compact 15 Aurubis is heating HafenCity! Aurubis AG is contributing to climate protection far beyond its own plant gates. Starting in the 2018/2019 heating period, a joint heat supply concept with the energy provider enercity Contracting Nord GmbH will supply HafenCity East, a recently developed Hamburg neighborhood, with heat discharged from Aurubis’ processes. This heating concept is nearly CO2-neutral. In 2017, Aurubis laid the foundation for this game-changStarting in late summer 2018, the heat will be transporting contribution to an environmentally sound urban heat ed to HafenCity East as warm water via a district heating supply. In February 2017, Aurubis AG and enercity Conpipe several kilometers long, which is currently under tracting Nord GmbH signed a contract in the presence construction. of Hamburg’s Environmental Senator Jens Kerstan for supplying industrial waste heat to the Hamburg neighThe project is unique in terms of its reach and sets new borhood HafenCity East . This will reduce carbon dioxide benchmarks for future heat supply approaches in cities. (CO2) by more than 20,000 t per year in the future. The district heating agreement is one of ten case examples for the project “Flagships of Energy-Efficient Waste Aurubis removes the heat from what is known as the Heat Use” started by the German Energy Agency (dena). contact plant, in which the gaseous sulfur dioxide that accumulates in the process transforms into liquid sulfuric Aurubis could deliver significantly more district heating acid. The contact plant consists of three lines. About to the city of Hamburg in the future. With the establish160 million kilowatt hours (kWh) can be extracted from ment of the right technical, financial, and contractual each individual line annually, for a total of nearly 500 foundations, saving up to to 140,000 t of CO2 would be million kWh. The heat from one line is sufficient to possible. Aurubis is working on this intensively. supply HafenCity East, which is why only one line will be converted initially. 16 Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2017 250 t heavy, 18 m high, and an outer diameter of 6 m: the intermediate absorber, the “heart” of the district heating system, stands on the Aurubis plant premises. The practically CO2-free heat that will be used to heat the new neighborhood is formed in this cylindrical container. Chapter A look ahead In the past year, we carried out and initiated a number of We have many plans – measures to contribute to achieving the goals we have and we look forward to bringing them to life! set. We gradually improve ourselves in this way, guided by a clear strategy and by our values, which are in line with the goals of the Global Compact. In 2018 we want to continue standing up for sustainable development with our employees at our sites worldwide. We are aware that we can achieve the most when we put forth a joint effort. Consequently, we have made knowledge about sustainability topics an integral part of vocational training in the Group. The Aurubis apprentices’ Sustainability Week took place recently again, this time with a focus on the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Sincerely, We will continue to advocate in the future as well: We Kirsten Kück promote the circular economy and our employees’ safety and health. We are developing our environmenSustainability Manager tal protection measures further and we are involved in Phone +49 40 7883-3270 various initiatives, for example the CSR Practitioner Days k.kueck@aurubis.com for the implementation of responsible supply chains and the partnership with ZEIT Wissen to support sustainable Hamburg, June 2018 ideas and projects. 18 Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2017 Rankings and ratings 2017: CDP Climate Change: B oekom Corporate Rating: BEcoVadis: Gold Status Global Compact 2017 Global Compact 2017 aurubis.com Aurubis AG Hovestrasse 50 EN_18/06 20539 Hamburg, Germany Phone +49 40 7883-0 Fax +49 40 7883-2255 info@aurubis.com
