Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd E.S.G. report issue 1 july 2016 june 2017 03   Our commitment 04 U.N. Global Compact 07 About this report 11 Key Indicators Scorecard 14 About Denis Asia Pacific 15 The pictures featured in this ESG report are the artwork of the awarded photographer Stefen Chow. Governance and Ethics 19  Our People 22 They depict real consumer families of Ayam Brand™ Environmental Responsibility 25 products around the world against an iconic landscape of their respective country. Our next Report 37 04 05  Today and everywhere, companies are under pressure to make meaningful contributions to transition towards a more sustainable society and have been challenged to examine their impact on environmental and social resources. Shareholders are ultimately responsible for overseeing the implementation of their company’s long and short-term strategic plans; they play a crucial role in fostering an environment that will support the embedding of sustainability into the strategies of the companies they own. They must signal a willingness to their companies’ management toward elevating social justice, creating business value and meeting regulatory & environmental responsibilities. They encourage and push their companies to set sustainability objectives that are in line with what makes the most sense for their businesses. The Denis family have embraced the journey toward sustainability as this was both a natural transition and adaptation of the Group’s historical values to the world of today. For a 155 year family-owned business, sustainability could ultimately be defined for the shareholders as the utmost desire to leave the most fitting family legacy: ● a flourishing Group our employees are proud to work for, ● reputable brands our customers are proud to shop for, and ● a sustainable company that we are proud to own and to pass on to future generations.  The 5th generation of the descendants of Etienne Denis are indeed, very proud today to sign-off this inaugural ESG report. Daniel Denis Olivier du Paty ESG Committee Chairman Chairman of Denis Group Holding SA, Director of Denis Group Holding SA, Board of Directors Board of Directors 06 07  Denis Asia Pacific’s journey towards sustainability started in 2011. We made a conscious decision to have a fundamental rethink of what manufacturing and marketing mean in today’s context. Sustainable manufacturing and marketing are strategic imperatives that reflect our company’s desire to deliver long term value to our shareholders as well as acting in our own self-enlightened interest to conserve the use of resources while achieving our corporate goals. Our role as CEOs is to initiate and supervise a comprehensive framework around sustainable manufacturing & marketing that would cover input and operations as well as the complete life cycle of the product. In this process, CEOs manage relationships between issues, objectives, policies and rules, and act to make them consistent with each other. The role of CEOs is also to gain management and employee support for the sustainability program, to act visibly and transparently, as actions put in place by top management provide the most powerful example to engage the entire company. CEOs should also encourage and reward the personal involment of staff in sustainability efforts to increase participation and to generate a strong feeling of ownership and commitment to the company’s sustainability strategy. As CEOs, we are willing to conduct the change at a ideal pace that allows our staff to adapt and to change their views and habits, and that delivers results consistently without over-promising. We are also, however, willing to lead the way in our markets and our business sectors. This is demonstrated in the report with many examples such as our involvement in SASPO, an initiative to promote the use of sustainable palm oil with WWF, our decision to have a significant part of our energy used in production sourced from renewables and the BCA Green Mark certification of all our buildings and facilities before 2030. As we embark on this exciting journey of sustainable manufacturing & marketing, , that we  position as a key pillar of our corporate policy, the company will reap the many benefits it offers: the protection of the environment, the prosperity of the community as well as an increase in productivity, profitability and enhancement to our competitive advantage. Fabien Reyjal Ting Seng Hee Denis Group Holding CEO Denis Group Holding CEO 08 09  Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd has been a member of U.N. Global Compact, The scope of the U. N. Global reference to the 10 Principles and to work Network Singapore, since January 1st 2016. Compact, Network Singapore on ad hoc solutions in order to keep what is membership. good, to correct what could be wrong and to amend what could be improved. A reliable company’s value system Labour The scope is inclusive of (1) Denis Asia and a principled approach to doing The company created an ESG committee Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Pacific Pte Ltd, (2) all companies in which business. (refer to page 12). The committee defined freedom of association and the effective Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd is in a position of control by having a majority of shares and eight projects or pledges for 2017. The 8 Corporate sustainability starts with a recognition of the right to collective bargaining; (2) SFI Supply Management Pte Ltd (a sister pledges decided by the ESG committee come company’s value system and a principled with key indicators that are monitored and holding company of Denis Asia Pacific Pte approach to doing business. This means Ltd.) and its subsidiaries. presented in the ESG report. operating in ways that, as a minimum, meet Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of fundamental responsibilities in the areas of forced and compulsory labour; SFI works closely and uniquely for Denis Asia human rights, labour, the environment and Pacific Pte Ltd, therefore the Denis Asia anti-corruption. Responsible businesses enact Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Pacific shareholders decided that SFI and the the same values and principles wherever they companies controlled by this holding should have a presence, and know that good : be integrated into the sustainability journey Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination practices in one area do not offset harm in and form part of the ESG report. in respect of employment and occupation. another. By incorporating the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact into strategies, In this ESG report, “DAP” or “the company” Environment policies and procedures, and establishing a should stand for both Denis Asia Pacific Pte culture of integrity, companies are not only Ltd and SFI Supply Management Pte Ltd Principle 7: Businesses should support a upholding their basic responsibilities to precautionary approach to environmental holding as defined on above scope. people and planet, but also setting the stage challenges; for long-term sustainable development and The list of the companies is published in success. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote page 18. greater environmental responsibility; and Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd has therefore Problem-solving strategy pledged to incorporate the 10 Principles of Principle 9: encourage the development and United Nation Global Compact in its diffusion of environmentally friendly The group had a 155 year history and company governance and to live by these. technologies. strong, established values before joining They are divided into four main topics: United Nation Global Compact, Singapore Anti-Corruption Chapter. DAP is also a medium sized compaHuman Rights ny albeit with international coverage, and Principle 10: Businesses should work against limited resources in terms of management Principle 1: Businesses should support and corruption in all its forms, including extortion resources which could be devoted to sustainrespect the protection of internationally and bribery. ability. proclaimed human rights; and Denis Asia Pacific has also pledged to It was therefore sensible and logical to adopt Principle 2: make sure that they are not publish a biennial ESG report to openly a problem-solving strategy, which consists of complicit in human rights abuses. monitor the company’s progress. identifying the company’s weaknesses with 10 11 The 8 pledges decided in 2016, for fish from the Pacific and implementing 2017 and into the future, can be BPA-FREE linings in cans. divided in four main topics Social: Environment: (6) DAP will start monitoring their human resources as a whole across the two hold(1) buildings and facilities belonging to DAP ings with a set of various key indicators, have to achieve Green Mark certification by such as gender equality per category, train2030. ing and development, monitoring of medical leave and and days lost due to injury. (2) The production facilities belonging to DAP have to implement a plan to: (7) DAP will increase the role of MyKenzen in . significantly reduce their energy supervising training within the company in consumption, especially from fossil fuels employee well-being and safety at work. The . significantly increase the share of two holding companies will encourage local renewable sources of energy in their energy initiatives relevant to this. consumption . significantly reduce waste. Governance: Supply Chain: (8) DAP is implementing a zero tolerance policy for any case of corruption, fraud, (3) All DAP suppliers should, within a reasonharassment, malpractice and unlawful able time-frame, sign and comply with our discrimination. This policy is complemented supplier code of ethics, in line with the Ten with a whistle-blower procedure. Principles of United Nation Global Compact. (4) The supply chain should propose and work towards solutions to the sustainability issues highlighted by the ESG committee. The      two main challenges identified in 2016 for the supply chain are palm oil supply and tuna supply. (5) DAP wishes to be in advance of food safety regulations and inspire consumer confidence by being pro-active in implementing the latest recommendations, for example, guaranteeing the absence of mercury contamination in canned tuna, guaranteeing the absence of any risk of radioactivity in 12 13  This is our inaugural sustainability report. The report covers our For sustainability reason, the ESG report is governance, social and environmental performance for the yearly available only on digital format. It can be downloaded in pdf from most of DAP’s period July 2016-June 2017, in comparison (when possible) with the websites. period July 2015-June 2016. It is also available for consultation on The report is planed to be biennial, except if The ESG committee meets every two months. https://issuu.com/denisbrands exceptional contents justify an additional It decides on the ESG projects, it designates issue. the senior director or manager in charge for each project, sets the key indicators and Feedback & contact An ESG committee at the highest monitors progress. The ESG committee considers it a duty to level of management answer any question about our ESG report, Accuracy of data which is relevant and not frivolous, but it will We have constituted an Environment, Social entertain only written questions addressed by and Governance committee (ESG committee) We rely on our internal procedures to verify email (ESG@denisgroup.net) or by post to: at the highest level of management. The the accuracy of data and information committee is chaired by a family shareholder provided in this report. ESG committee and member of the Denis Group board of Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd directors, demonstrating the high level of As we are not a public listed company, the Denis Group Building commitment in the durability and sustainabilESG committee freely decides the context, 21 Tagore Lane ity of the business model by the family scope and boundary of the company ESG Singapore 787479 owning the group of companies since 1862. report, but any information in the ESG report The group CEOs are the vice-chairmen of the is shared with accurate, relevant data in full committee. transparency and honesty. The Group Marketing Director acts as the If a project fails to reach its key indicator at coordinator and the leader of the ESG the time of the ESG report, the provisional committee. data will be provided with an explanation of the difficulties encountered in the completion The ESG committee also includes the Supply of the task. Chain Director, the Production Director, the Quality Director, the R&D Director, the Availability of the report: the choice Finance Director and the Human Resources of digital format Manager. The ESG report is to be published within The ESG committee, assisted when needed 6 months after the closing of the data by external experts, reviews and determines collection. the context, scope, boundary and prioritization of the ESG projects. The ESG report is available to anybody without limitation. 14 15 DAP Sustainability Key Indicators scorecard 12 Months July-June 2015/2016 2016/2017 PEOPLE Employees 1,682 1,595 Females employees 67% 66% Employee turnover rate 29% Average training hours per staff 14.5 Equivalent medical leave days 10,274 Equivalent injury days 1,245 ENVIRONMENT GHG total emissions (tCO2e) 11,413 11,915 Packaging materials (mt) 6,282 5,527 Recycled materials in packaging (mt) 1,574 1,362 Percentage of recycled materials in packaging 25% 25% Electricity consumption (Mwh) 8,902 9,459  Natural gas consumption (mmBtu) 90,887 67,905 Charcoal consumption (mt) 364 Water input (m3) 416,599 364,245 Water discharged (m3) 270,454 240,412 Normal waste generation (mt) 5,207 3,667 Hazardous Waste generation (kg) 794 1,055 Recycled & Reused Waste (mt) 4,969 3,340 Percentage of Recycled & Reused Waste 95% 91% 16 17  Our History Alce Nero and Denis Group formed a joint needs of new consumers. venture in 2004 to promote and distribute Denis Group has a fascinating 155 year Alce Nero, a leading Italian organic food ● the opportunity to promote the cultivation, history. The vision, mission, solid values and brand, all over Asia. manufacturing and use of organic & natural business principles provide the foundations foods in the region. for this exceptional longevity. The In 2017, Denis Group opened a new descendants of Etienne Denis are still at manufacturing site near to Ho Chi Minh in ● the new opportunities that will be brought the helm of the group’s businesses. Vietnam, with the aim of distributing its food about by the next big wave of massive brands in the Greater Mekong region. investment in infrastructure in ASEAN in the Denis Group gets its strength and stability next 10 years. from three different sectors, in which the Our vision of the future group is able to achieve and maintain a high ● and the opportunity to grow a sustainable level of professionalism, paired with a historiDenis Group is well positioned to benefit food supply model with a concern for waste, cally innovative spirit: food & beverages, health from the key trends that are expected to nutrition and stability and with substantial sciences, and consumer goods distribution. shape our future markets, namely: social impact in society as we envisage it tomorrow. This ESG report covers the food & beverages ● continued urbanisation combined with activity which started in 1956 when Denis greater connectivity that requires convenient, Group took over the A.Clouet company in safe, healthy and cross-cultural food. Malaya with its main food business: Ayam Brand. Ayam Brand, founded in 1892 in ● pursuit of investment in the understanding Singapore by Mr Alfred Clouet, became an of better health through good nutrition, clean international brand distributed in more than food, and better hygiene. 30 markets on three continents and is ranked today among the top 500 consumer ● the pleasure of food discoveries and of brands in Asia-Pacific. creating moments of reunion and surprise for family and friends centred around food; we To cater for the expansion of its food see this as a key preoccupation across the business, Denis Group invested heavily in world. production and logistics. The main production & logistics site is in Taiping, We see many opportunities for the Group in Perak in West Malaysia. It employs more than the coming years: 1000 staff. The Mafipro site consists of three factories and produces mainly canned fish ● the opportunity to make our brands truly and baked beans. The Guinea Foods factory global by reaching more consumers cans fish and sauces. Guinea Foods consists worldwide. of two factories to meet the growing demand for sauces. Taiping is also an important ● the opportunity to develop new & logistics base for the group with two large innovative segments such as ready-to-eat warehouse sites: SFI phase 1 and SFI meals, frozen foods, foods on-the-go and phase 2. foodservice solutions that better address the 18 19 Our companies Thailand The Commercial Company of Siam Ltd. Singapore Holding 1168/3-4, 2nd Floor, Lumpini Tower, Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd Rama IV Road, Bangkok 10120 21 Tagore Lane, Singapore 787479 T + 66 2 285 6858 F + 66 2 285 6830 T +65 6459 8133 F +65 6459 2867 Vietnam Denis G.M. Co Ltd Companies controlled by this holding: Lot 17-4, Singapore Tech Park, Ben Cat Town, Binh Duong Province, Vietnam Australia T +84 274 357 9798 F +84 274 357 9799 A. Clouet (Australia) Pty. Ltd. 11 Melissa Place, Kings Park, NSW 2148, T +61 2 8814 8086 F +61 2 9678 9508 Singapore Holding: SFI Supply Management Pte Ltd Indonesia 21 Tagore Lane, Singapore 787479 PT. Faretina T +65 6459 8133 F +65 6459 2867 Jl. Radin Inten II, No. 8, Duren Sawit Jakarta 13440 T +62 21 8690 0868 F +62 21 8690 1336 Companies controlled by this holding: Malaysia Malaysia A. Clouet & Co (KL) Sdn .Bhd. SFI Food Sdn Bhd. 19 Persiaran Sabak Bernam, Section 26, 40400 PT 32730, Jalan Logam 5,Kawasan Perusahaan Shah Alam, Selangor Darul Ehsan Kamunting Raya, 34600 Taiping, Perak T +60 3 5191 1069 F +60 3 5191 1988 T +60 5891 8704 F +60 5891 3919 Mafipro Sdn. Bhd. Mexico     Jalan Perusahaan Tiga, Kamunting Industrial SFI Alimentos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Estate, 34600 Taiping, Perak Tenochtitlan 570, 19 Puesta del Sol, Tel: +605-8912704 Fax: +605-8913919 LA Paz, 23090 BCS Guinea Foods Sdn Bhd Jalan Lintasan Perusahaan, Kamunting 3, Kamunting Raya, 34600 Taiping, Perak. Tel: 05-8911899 Fax: 05-8912899 Singapore Clouet Trading Pte. Ltd. 21 Tagore Lane, Singapore 787479 T +65 6459 8133 F +65 6459 2867 20 21  DAP has an excellent reputation for governance and ethics, built with This procedure is meant to protect genuine The ethics committee’s internal members are consistency and determination over its long business history. The whistleblowers from any unfair treatment as M. Daniel Denis, Mr Nicolas Denis, Mr Ting company intends to remain committed to the highest ethical and a result of their report. Denis Group Seng Hee, Mr Fabien Reyjal, Mr Hervé Simon. professional standards and also to integrate new governance and ethics encourages employees and outside parties Mrs Chan Kum Lin is acting as the ethics requirements as the world moves towards more transparency, complexity to put their names to their allegations committee’s secretary. and globalization. whenever possible. The ethics committee Governance Ethics The ethics committee has three main roles: DAP, including its subsidiaries and related Code of ethics (1) to set ethics rules that apply to all companies, is committed to the highest companies under DAP, except if the local law corporate governance practices. DAP has a company code of ethics, which is regulates differently. published in the employee handbook and/or (2) to approve local company ethics & rules The Board of Directors of Denis Asia Pacific on the intranet for the companies that have it. of behaviour. Pte Ltd consists of ten members, including (3) to deliberate on reports of severe wrongthe Chairman, with overall responsibility for Zero tolerance policy for severe doings and to suggest what steps should be the approval of strategic plans, budgets, wrongdoings taken by the CEOs, including disciplinary investments and financial results and for the sanctions or dismissal, if needed. Should the support of the Group CEOs responsible for DAP has a zero tolerance policy for severe CEOs choose not to follow the ethics bottom-line operations. As part of its wrongdoings, therefore employees and committee recommendations, they must commitment to best practice, the Company outside parties, such as suppliers, customers, inform the company shareholders with their pays specific attention to the composition of contractors and other stakeholders, are reasoning. the Board and guidance thereof, the role requested to report any issue to the and responsibility of the Directors, access to management. They may use a website, The ethics committee should be made up of information and conduct of shareholders “DG-report.net’, where their anonymity will be representative(s) of the shareholders, of the meetings. protected. This may be used to report any CEOs, and representative(s) of the senior concern or complaint regarding: management. It should include at least one Internally, an Audit Committee is in place, external member, chosen for his/her reporting to the Board of Directors, with (1) Corruption and bribery knowledge of the company and his/ responsibility to review audit plans with (2) Failure to comply with laws and her moral standing. internal & external auditors, to consolidate regulations audited accounts, to perform internal audits (3) Harassment As of today, the ethics committee’s external and to investigate any matters related to the (4) Discrimination on the basis of gender, member is Mrs. Ai Ming Lee, Senior Partner Company’s internal control system. cultural background or origin, disabilities at Dentons-Rodyk, Singapore Judge of (5) Theft Peace, Member of Singapore Copyright Three directors of Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd (6) Forgery Tribunal, independent Director in the Boards make up the board of directors of SFI Supply (7) Misappropriation of funds and classified of Agri-Veterinary Board of Singapore (AVA), Management. This board adheres to the documents Keppel Land Ltd, KReit Ltd and HTL Holdsame principles of governance and audit (8) Abuse and misrepresentation of power ings Ltd. protocols. and authority 22 23  DAP’s HR strategy is to attract, motivate, train and retain quality employees in order to build with them a profitable, durable and sustainable business model. Creating value for employees is an important Workers, located mostly on the site of part of our business vision. DAP believes that Taiping, Malaysia and Bet Cat Town, Vietnam our employees play the prime role of driving account for 90% of our people, while the company and determining its success. executives and management represent 5% respectively. We are committed to building an organization with a respectful and honest environWomen and various age groups have a fair ment for our employees, whilst creating value representation in the organization. Women for customers and stakeholders. account for 66% of all our employees. DAP is confident that their share in management Diversity and gender equality have always (42%) will improve in the coming years with been core values of the Group. Our employthe increasing percentage of females ees come from varied cultural and ethnic graduating from universities in Asia-Pacific. backgrounds. We are committed to creating a fair and inclusive workplace, where all employees are given equal opportunities for learning and development. Hiring and rewards are strictly based on merit, loyalty and confidence. At the end of June 2017, DAP employed 1,595 people, a stable figure versus end June 2016 (1,682 people). 94% of employ ment contracts are full time. Less than 6% Employee development is strategic for DAP. are temporary contracts. There are only 3 Our commitment is to create an environment part time contracts for the whole holding. where employees can develop their full potential. Continuous upgrading of employee . skills and knowledge is necessary to innovate, to work safely and to serve customers better. Providing regular training opportunities is also important for employee motivation. At end June 2017, DAP had provided 23,092 hours of training for the year . This represents an average of 14.5 hours per member of staff. The following chart shows an equal distribution of training hours within all categories of employees. 24 25 nutrition information campaigns for the holding’s companies. MyKenzen is organizing comprehensive health screenings, corporate fitness classes & sports days, nutrition talks & nutrition campaigns throughout the year. MyKenzen also organized a three day comprehensive wellness retreat in Malacca for seven companies of the group involving 174 employees. At management level, DAP has a low employLocal company initiatives are developed ee turnover (12%). In production, our 29% under MyKenzen supervision to encourage turnover is in line with the food industry in staff to take regular physical exercise and labor tense markets with full employment. improve their daily diet. As examples of these At end June 2017, the yearly number of MC initiatives, Australia is having a “Get Healthy leaves was 10,274 days: an average of 6.4 at Work Program”, Malaysian factories have days per employee. The average number of a monthly aerobics session and a weekly days varies per category. Being food manuHealthy Wednesday with the distribution of facturers, the production sites have strict free fruit and discounts on a healthier lunch rules to protect production from any conat the canteen. tamination. In the same period, we had 1,245 injury days. There was no report of severe HR efforts are being developed in the area or fatal injury. 88% of injury days occur in of employees’ well-being at work. New female production. The average days lost due to staff rest rooms and nursing rooms for injury for men are 1.3 versus 0.5 for female. breast-feeding mothers, monthly birthday gifts and a renovated first aid room are a few examples of the many local initiatives to improve staff’s sense of belonging.   The nutritional services, MyKenzen, part of DAP, has, as one of its objectives, to improve the well being of employees. The certified nutritionist of MyKenzen is organizing several 26 27  We aim to produce high quality and healthy food products, whilst We will simultaneously deploy the same enviIn November 2017, the Denis Group Building, reducing our impact on the environment. ronmental management system in our factory located at 21 Tagore Lane in Singapore, was in Vietnam, aiming to be ISO 14001:2015 the first DAP building to be BCA Green Mark certified in 2018. certified following renovations undergone in We are therefore continually implementing The highest international 2016. The next buildings to be certified are new projects and developing our environmenstandards and certification BCA Green Mark certification our facilities in Selangor, Malaysia and in tal management system within our producNew South Wales, Australia. tion & logistics facilities and in our offices, ISO 14001:2015 certification The BCA Green Mark Scheme was launched taking advantage of new technologies, implein January 2005 as an initiative to drive Energy saving programs menting the highest international standards ISO 14000 is a family of environmental Singapore's construction industry towards and obtaining industry certifications. management standards. They help more environment-friendly buildings. 80% of Yearly DAP energy consumption comes from organizations minimize their operations’ Singapore’s buildings should be BCA Green three sources: natural gas (67,905 mmBtu), We believe that such exemplary focus and negative impact on the environment, Mark certified by 2030. electricity (9,469 MWh) and charcoal (364 conduct is of proven economic benefit. It complying with applicable environmental mt).e encourages the entire workforce to mirror laws, regulations and requirements and BCA Green Mark is a benchmarking scheme, our actions, take initiative and strive for procontinually improving their performance with which incorporates internationally recognized Electricity consumption is split 89% for fessionalism and contributes to savings and respect to environmental safeguards. best practices in environmental design and production/logistics and 11% for offices. increased productivity. performance in order to: ISO 14001 is an international recognized standard part of the European Union's ● Facilitate a reduction in energy, water and Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). material resource usage GHG total emissions EMAS requirements are considered to be the world’s highest standards, with demanding ● Reduce potential environmental impact 11,915 tCO2e performance improvement, legal compliance, and reporting duties. The latest version of ● Improve indoor environmental quality for ISO 14001 is ISO 14001:2015. better health and well being In the environment charts, MM stands for “Malaysia The factories on our Taiping site (Malaysia) ● Provide clearer direction for continual Manufacturing Site”, MV for “Vietnam Manufacturing Our first ESG report gave us the opportunity have been certified under ISO 14001 since improvement Site” and O for “Offices” to sum up the quantity of Greenhouse Gas 2012. In beginning 2017, we recruited a emitted (GHG) by electricity and gas usage in specialist engineer to implement upgrades to The BCA Green Mark scheme has also Energy-as-a-service our activities. meet the standards of the 2015 version. The extended its reach beyond Singapore and is factories successfully completed their ISO gaining popularity in other countries within A new business model has emerged which Within the next two years, DAP aims to 14001:2015 certification in 2017. the region. considers energy as-a-service, redefining how reduce its total GHG emissions (at we should think about our relationship with constant activity) by 15%. We have also taken this environmental In 2016, DAP pledged to have all buildings energy. Until recently, energy was considered management approach with our Taiping and facilities under its ownership BCA Green a cost beyond our control – a necessary This result will be possible as a consequence logistics centre in adopting a life cycle Mark certified by 2030. The 12 year time expense required to run our facilities. In the of a series of coordinated initiatives. perspective. It should complete its ISO span will allow us to spread the investment new energy-as-a-service model, we are 14001:2015 certification by 2018. and also adapt the renovation cycles of changing our relationship with energy in two these facilities. important ways: 28 29 ● we are implementing intelligence software least 25 years, we took this opportunity to periods, 2015/2016 and 2016/2017 (from ● we are increasing the number of cans per linked to a network of sensors, using change some of our roofs. These new roofs July to June), as the new production site in carton for those products with a high-turncloud-based technology and analytics include skylights to use fewer electrical Vietnam started to operate in the later over on supermarket shelves. capable of monitoring and analyzing our lights, and to benefit furthermore from the period. energy consumption in real time sun’s power. ● we are commissioning a piece of scientific Materials consumption research to improve all our main packaging, ● we aim to reduce energy usage and The PPA was signed in August 2017 and the like for instance the possibility of reducing inefficiencies to improve business outcomes installation is planned to start in February (1) Raw materials the metal weight per can without affecting and reduce our carbon footprint. 2018. The lease project allows us to have the quality and safety of the food. cheaper energy costs from the start without Our factories produce a large variety of high The eSight software that we are implementup-front investment. 20 years of fixed prices quality food products for our customers. The ● DAP will sign up to the Singapore Packaging has been validated in many recognized will allow us to improve our production cost 22,803 metric tons of raw materials mostly ing Agreement in 2018. companies around the world, such as Nestlé, control. At the end of the 20 year lease, we consists of fish, beans, peas, tomato, sugar, Rolls Royce, and Airbus. Besides its economexpect the installation to provide us with at salt and other various food ingredients. The Singapore Packaging Agreement (SPA) is ic benefits, we expect this energy control to least an additional 5 years of 20% (almost) a joint initiative by government, industry and contribute significantly to our carbon footfree electricity for the Taiping site. (2) Packaging materials NGOs to reduce packaging waste, which conprint reduction target. stitutes about one-third of Singapore’s The solar plant on its own should represent We produce mostly canned food; therefore domestic waste in terms of weight. The 2018 Solar Project a reduction of 1,300 tCO2e per year. A our packaging materials are metal cans, saving of more than 10% of our current glass jars, metal closures and cartons. (3) Paper consumption We are going to install a sizable solar plant carbon footprint and 2/3 of our carbon on our main industrial & logistics site in emissions reduction target! Paper consumption is a good example of Taiping, Malaysia. We aim to produce how good practices in manufacturing have around 20 to 30 % of the site’s electricity The Taiping site could easily take twice as not yet been adopted by staff working in needs from this renewable source of many solar panels. We aim to monitor the offices. energy. evolution of solar and battery technology and we will be in a position to increase our For many years, our factories have prioritized We will use 7 of our rooftops to install solar energy plant when new breakthroughs the production of lithographed cans (82%) around 3,800 solar panel units, which should significantly improve the performance of both improving productivity and saving hundreds produce around 1,300 kWp. solar panels and energy storage. of kilos of paper. Surprisingly, our offices consumed 5,586 kg of paper in 2016/2017, Our system will allow us to prioritize solar Materials and water These packaging materials are highly i.e. 1,450 kg more than our two manufacturpower when our production is running, but consumption recyclable. ing sites combined. also to send the excess or non-used electricity to the electricity grid, when our producMaterials, water and energy consumption Our commitment to reduce our impact on Furthermore, a series of coordinated initiation has slowed or stopped. occur mostly on production sites, so the the environment leads us to make 25 % of tives in production brought about a 10% report focuses on them in this chapter. We our packaging from recycled materials, saving in paper in 1 year: fax replaced by In launching this project we have had to take nevertheless added office consumption when mostly carton. emails, automatization of double sided printmany things into consideration, for example the figures are significant, as is the case for We are putting several initiatives in place to ing, photocopy machines with prioritization, the capability of our roofs and structures to paper. further reduce our packaging and its impact development of paperless documents such hold this number of solar panels. Moreover, on the environment: as pdf. as our solar system is intended to last at It is difficult to compare the two yearly 30 31 Water consumption stored and treated by authorized contractors, according to the regulations in force. ● Water input In the yearly period 2016/2017, DAP consumed 364,245 cubic meters of water. 99.3% were used by our production facilities. Saving water is one of our top priorities. Paper has a major impact on the environAll year long, factories make constant efforts ● Water monitoring ment. 500 litres of water are necessary to to save water and use it more efficiently. For produce 1 kg of paper. All too often, some example, one of our warehouses now uses Today, around 15% of our water usage is rainwater to clean the outside compound. Waste is a critical element of factories’ players of the paper industry in South East not yet traceable due to the way water is We also provide training for our staff on economic and environmental responsibility, Asia could be contributing to deforestation, used or other reasons such as use in toilets, good practices in order to use less water. In therefore this waste is carefully controlled in slash and burn practices leading to degraded washrooms or evaporation. One target of our the production process, we aim to use water order to be reduced, reused and/or animal habitats, air pollution and carbon next ESG report will be to trace this unmoniin a closed loop in the very near future. recycled. emissions. tored water and to put in place measures to make most efficient use of it. It contributes to the factories’ The Forest Stewardship Council certifies that productivity earnings whilst also contributing Waste monitoring and control forest products, like paper and wood, have to the protection of the environment. been sourced in an environmentally friendly, In the yearly period 2016/2017, DAP’s manuAt the end of the waste processing chain, socially responsible and economically viable facturing sites generated 3,368 tons of the final waste residue, which is in fact manner. The FSC was founded in 1993 in waste, the equivalent of 13% of the material disposed of, is 326 tons, ie the equivalent to response to concerns about deforestation. input. 1% of the material input. Currently, 100 % of the paper used in our Our waste is split between 3,367 tons of In other words, we are able to give a normal generated waste (mostly containers factories in Malaysia is FSC or PEFC certified. Water discharged second life to 91% of our waste. and packaging, scrap and rejected products, ● But only 24% of paper used in our offices is sludge and metal) and 1.1 ton of hazardous certified as sustainable. 66% of our water input is eventually waste. discharged. For the next ESG report, DAP aims to reach Hazardous waste is the waste that can not Our factories are equipped with Waste Water two significant figures: be disposed of as it could potentially pollute Treatment Plants to ensure that the ● 100% sustainable certified paper the environment because of its ignitability, discharged water is fully treated before corrosivity, reactivity or toxicity. This includes release. Our competent and trained employa double digit reduction in offices’ paper oil, batteries, solvents, paint etc… ● ees work every day to release clean water, consumption. which meets the stipulated standards. Hazardous waste is monitored, properly 32 33 Supply chain sustainability We do not have a direct relationship with ● Skipjack tuna (KATSUWONUS PELAMIS) their factories and who, in turn, make it mantuna fishing vessels as we work with fish canMost of our canned tuna is produced using datory for their own suppliers. We believe that, for a Fast-Moving Consumer ning factories, which produce our recipes to skipjack tuna. The skipjack tuna used by our • Labour and social conditions comply fully Goods business like ours, the sustainability our specifications, and under our quality brands is caught in the Pacific Ocean, in with national laws and international treaties of the supply chain is key to the durability control. Our area of influence is in the purareas assessed by WCPFC as not overfished, (preventing, amongst other issues, illegal of the business model and to the company’s chasing specifications we provide to the but they could come from any other fishing labour and human rights abuses like slavery ethics. canned tuna manufacturers. area where skipjack tuna resources are or child labour). healthy (not overfished) as assessed by • No corruption. As an established centennial company, DAP The use of stringent tuna purchasing specifiRFMOs. • No tuna supply from illegal, unregulated, benefits from a heritage of solid values. But, cations that require sustainable fish sourcing and unreported (IUU) fishing with an internationally renowned brand portis our way of putting pressure on the tuna In the yearly period 2016/2017, 100% of the • No tuna supply from fishing vessels not folio, DAP has also to check that its suppliers fishing industry to make progress not only skipjack tuna was sourced in line with this certified as Dolphin Friendly or those practisadhere in turn to its ethics and that they do on sustainable tuna fishing but also on fair sustainability specification. ing shark finning or fishing endangered spenot participate in unsuitable and/or illegal and compliant labour practices. cies. activities or ventures that could taint the repManufacturers who have been selected to ● Yellowfin tuna (THUNNUS ALBACARES) utation of the company and of its brands. produce for DAP must accept our sustainDAP uses yellowfin tuna for canned tuna in (3) The recommendations ability specifications. oil or in water. In some parts of the world, From 2017, all DAP suppliers should adhere yellowfin tuna is overfished. Our requirement We play our role in encouraging our supplito its “Code of Conduct” which can be downOur sustainability specifications cover three is that yellowfin tuna for our brands is fished ers to improve catching methods for skipjack loaded from this link. main categories: from the Western Pacific, which is assessed and yellowfin tuna in order to limit bycatch as not overfished by the WCPFC. (accidental catch of other species). “code of Conduct” (1) The biomass In the yearly period 2016/2017, 62% of the Most of our tuna is caught by purse seine As far as DAP’s direct supply chain is conDAP only uses tuna species which are not skipjack tuna was sourced in line with this fishing vessels and a small percentage from cerned, our Ethic Committee identified three endangered and from biomass that is sustainability specification. 2017 has been a pole and line. We do not accept other methissues, sensitive to consumers, NGOs and healthy (not overfished). tough year in term of sourcing and we had ods of catching (like long lines) because of public opinion: Sustainability of tuna supplies, a few months without any supply from the an excessive bycatch rate. mercury risk in tuna and palm oil sustainabilData on the biomass situation is assessed by Western Pacific. We had to get 48% of ity. These three topics have been therefore Regional Fisheries Management Organizations Yellowfin from the Indian Ocean instead. We As of today, our suppliers are unable to been put top of the list of our priorities. (RFMO), international intergovernmental orgastill have work to do to achieve our 100% distinguish between the percentage catch of nizations dedicated to the sustainable mantarget in the coming years. purse seine on free school tuna versus purse agement of fishery resources in international seine on FADs as they are mixed in the fishSustainability of tuna supply waters. We follow the Indian Ocean Tuna DAP closely monitors information and reports ing vessels. We are, however, in constant Commission (IOTC/iota.org) and the Western from the RFMO and ISSF to keep updated on dialogue with our suppliers who are commitEven though DAP’s tuna business represents and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission the status of skipjack and yellowfin tuna ted to collecting data and sharing technical less than 0.1% of the yearly world tuna (WCPFC/www.wcpfc.int) in particular. Most of their biomass. information. This should allow us a better catch, the company is committed to being a data is published by ISSF (International Seafood understanding of the situation within a short brand that stands for quality and acts with Sustainability Foundation HTTP://ISS-FOUNDATION.ORG/) (2) The code of conduct time frame in order to improve our purchasresponsibility by taking a strong stand for ing specifications. sustainable fish sourcing, compliant fishing DAP therefore only sources two species of As explained above, DAP works with suppliand manufacturing practices. tuna: ers, who share the same code of conduct for 34 35 Tuna & mercury 55.2% of analyses comes with a “not quansafely consume our products with total ● South-East Asia Alliance for Sustainable tifiable” result, which means that the traces peace of mind. Palm Oil Most tuna consumers worry about the possiof mercury are so insignificant that the lab ble presence of mercury in tuna. Big marine machine is unable to give a figure in part per Sustainable palm oil DAP is proud to be among the founding predators like shark, whale, swordfish and millions. The limit of quantification is 0.13 members of the South-East Asia Alliance for some big tuna species may contain traces of ppm. ● DAP palm oil policy Sustainable Palm oil (SASPO), an initiative of methyl mercury because mercury concentraWWF Singapore. tions increase at the top of the food chain. 0.5% of analyses (5 production lots out of DAP has, since 2011, implemented a policy 1,066) comes with a detection ranging of ‘responsible use’ of palm oil, by replacing The vision of the Alliance is to make CSPO The most stringent regulations in the world between 0.13 to 0.17 ppm, which remains it wherever technically possible, by an alterthe norm to stop the haze as well as deforaccept a safe maximum level of detection of extremely low and far from the most strinnative vegetable oil with a healthier nutrient estation and animal habitat loss in the 0.40 ppm (parts per million) and the western gent regulations in the world. profile, like olive oil or soya bean oil. region. It aims to provide a platform for commarket usually sets the limit at 1.00 ppm. panies to come on a sustainable journey While official websites are reassuring, many With this constant production monitoring, Today, palm oil is present in a very limited towards producing, trading and using certiconsumer websites often fail in providing the DAP is one of the few companies able to number of DAP products and our volume of fied sustainable palm oil. general public with clear advice. guarantee for each production batch the palm oil purchasing is as low as 100 MT per absence of mercury risks in the tuna distribyear for Ayam Brand™ and 700 tons for DAP palm oil policy proves that it is possible As explained above, DAP sources only small uted under its branding. others brands. for medium sized companies to develop and sized fish from two species of tuna: skipjack implement sustainable and responsible poliand small Yellowfin. Because the selected The Pacific Ocean & radioactivity concerns Despite our extremely low use of palm oil, cies. Recent years' events have demonstrated tuna are relatively small, they are naturally DAP has nevertheless established and that it is our duty to participate in all possiunlikely to concentrate mercury like big sized Since the Fukushima incident of March 11, adhered to two stringent standards: ble efforts to reduce and eventually eliminate predators. 2011, we have occasionally received haze from our lives. consumer enquiries in which concern is (1) The palm oil used in any DAP products Notwithstanding the tuna selection, DAP has, expressed about possible radioactivity should be sustainable. Whatever their size, all companies should since 2016, adopted a radical measure to contamination of fish caught in the Pacific Our factories are RSPO certified and they adopt this necessary environmental goal. reassure consumers about its brands. Ocean. As a consequence, DAP management only source certified sustainable palm oil of took the initiative to equip our canned fish West Malaysian origin. For the total peace of mind of its tuna confactories with radioactivity detectors. Since Thanks to its palm oil policy, implementsumers, DAP sends each and every batch of then, we have continued to test batches of (2) DAP product labels should be transparent ed since 2011, DAP is 99.5% certified as its tuna production for mercury analysis by our canned fish production. Up to today, and explicit. sustainable for its palm oil ingredient an independent laboratory. So since July analyses have always been negative, and products, with the aim of achieving 2016, more than one thousand analyses are confirming world-wide scientific experts’ When a DAP product contains palm oil, it 100% by 2019. performed. reassuring consensus on this matter. has to be clearly stated on the ingredient list. With 17 months’ worth of analysis, we are Nevertheless, our investment in this equipable to divide them into three categories: ment has not been wasted since we consider it, as per the question of mercury in tuna, to 44.3% of analyses comes with a “not be our duty as manufacturer and marketer detected” result. The limit of detection is to produce the necessary evidence in order 0.04 ppm. that our consumers can trust our brands and 36 37 In its 2017 palm oil scorecard report for “Leading the way Malaysia/Singapore local companies, WWF DENIS ASIA PACIFIC (AYAM BRAND) SCORE: 10 gave DAP the best score of 10 out of 12 with this comment: WWF commends Denis Asia Pacific for showing strong leadership in regard to the procurement of sustainable palm oil within the Southeast Asia region. Denis Asia Pacific has demonstrated transparency and commitment to purchase 100 per cent CSPO, is an active member in RSPO, a founding member of SASPO and publicly discloses the total volume of palm oil volumes used for each of their brands. While it has yet to achieve 100% physical CSPO, Denis Asia Pacific is leading the way for other Singapore-based companies to follow.”     38  We aim to publish our next ESG report in December 2019. By then, we expect to have reduced our carbon footprint by 15%, installed 8,300 solar panels, certified two more buildings under BCA Green Mark, reached 100% use of sustainable palm oil, and certified our Malaysian logistics site and our Vietnamese manufacturing site under ISO 14001:2015. In doing so, we will have increased our productivity, improved the image of the company and our brands and further ensured the durability of our business model. The main transformation that we are ultimately seeking, however, is the mindset change of each and every member of our staff in order to generate a strong feeling of ownership, pride and commitment to the company’s sustainability strategy. ESG committee Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd Denis Group Building 21 Tagore Lane Singapore 787479
