CAP and Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 CAP is committed to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and the principles of the UN Global Compact. These guide the way we work and the way we implement policies, processes and programs to clearly align our thrust for business growth with our obligations to the society. The CSR policy recognizes the company’s role in the following broad areas: Leadership with vision and values, market place activities, workforce activities, Supply Chain activities, Community activities, Stakeholder engagement and Environmental concerns. The journey has been rewarding and we are encouraged to keep doing good. Leadership, vision and values We regard ethical leadership and practice as critical to responsible business and are committed to conducting our business according to ethical, professional and legal standards. Shared values: The CAP community strives to live its shared values of integrity, Respect for the individual, Customer focus, Team Spirit, Innovation and Openness and Communication. UACN code of ethics: CAP is a signatory to the UACN code of ethics and conduct which outlines expected pattern of conduct for all employees including the rejection of any form of inducement giving or receiving. Whistle blowing: The whistle blowing procedure in place ensures that e-mails are anonymously received, discretely investigated and a report sent to the Audit Committee. Marketplace activities Our service mission is to delight our customers with exceptional quality products and services. We aspire to provide peace of mind for our customers. Some of the marketplace activities are:Product information integrity: Precise and concise information about our products are provided to customers through clear and proper labeling and products information bulletin. Value/culture alignment of dealers: Dealers and their employees are educated on the values of the company and are supported to imbibe them. Customer involvement in improvement processes: Product knowledge and suggestions for improvement are discussed regularly with our customers at different customer/consumer engagement fora. Customer satisfaction surveys are also conducted as part of the feedback system. Capacity building of dealers and users: Several training and development initiatives are conducted annually for our dealers, partners and other users of our products. HSE compliance of dealers: Dealers’ outlets are regularly assessed for compliance with HSE standards and practices. Corrective actions are taken as appropriate to ensure conformity. Careline Unit: The Customer Careline unit collates and monitors feedback from our customers and other Stakeholders. This is fed into our process and customer satisfaction improvement initiatives. Workforce Activities We aspire to be an employer of choice. We recognize that our success is dependent on the caliber and motivation of our People. Recruitment and retention: Our policy involves the right placement of people in the right roles and retention of talented people. Annual employee surveys are conducted to provide information on what employees' value and where they want us to improve. Training and development: The annual training plan achievement is measured to monitor performance and progress. Effectiveness of training programs is also monitored through annual performance appraisal of staff and delegation of responsibilities. Freedom of association and collective bargaining: Our employees belong to a vibrant local union and an industry wide trade union. Self-development: The tuition costs of pre-approved and relevant programs of study are fully paid for by the company. The Crèche: A friendly crèche is operated at the company's head office at Ikeja to promote babymother bonding. Recognition: We recognize the achievement of employees who display exemplary traits of integrity, dedication to duty, customer focus and initiative in line with our shared values. Life after work training: We constantly remind employees of the inevitability of retirement and train them to face the challenges of that situation when it occurs. Appointment and fair treatment of suppliers and contractors: Suppliers of goods and services are appointed using defined criteria that do not discriminate on the basis of religion, tribe or sex. We strive to treat them fairly and settle their invoices on due dates. Fair treatment of shareholders: All shareholders are treated equally. Safety, Health and Environmental (HSE) Activities We are committed to providing a working environment that is safe for all employees, contractors, customers and members of the public. The company is ISO 9001:2008 certified and also has the ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System (EMS) certification. HSE policy and manual: This sets out the company policy on HSE and actions/guidelines for maintenance of a safe workplace. HSE assessments and fire drills are conducted regularly. Environmental Assessment: We conduct periodic environmental assessment of our operations. The environmental assessment report is submitted to the regulatory agencies for verification. Promoting sustainable environment: We maintain a vibrant relationship with the Nigeria Conservation Foundation. We also ensure that our operations are carried out with minimum impact on the environment. Promoting healthy lifestyle: We conduct health seminars, provide the environment for recreation and share knowledge on the essence of living well. We have a gym and other recreational facilities to promote healthy living through regular exercise and relaxation. Community activities CAP values community leadership and responsibility. We are committed to playing a responsible and responsive role in the community. In 2017, we undertook the following projects:  Donated Paints to the Rotaract Club of Lagos for their “Paint your Environment” Project  Donated Paints to the Artisan School for Decorative Painting  Donated Paints to Little Beginnings Academy  Supported the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) Ikeja Branch Meeting for CEOs/Managing Directors  Repainted SOS Social Centre, Ejigbo (2017 Major CSRLet’s Colour Campaign)  Supported the Nigerian Red Cross Society’s Seminar to Mark the International Day of the Girl-Child  Supported the Community Forum of the Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (Lagos Mainland)  Sponsored the Annual School Inter-House Sports Competition of Ogba Primary School  Supported the Pacelli School for the Blind Christmas Celebration CAP A Participant in the UN Global Compact Initiative In August 2006, the company was accepted by the United Nations' Secretary General as a participant in the Global compact initiative-raising the bar in human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. We have joined the local network and are committed to propagating the values of the Global Compact. Global Compact Principle Action Taken/Impact Achieved 1 Businesses should support and The staff handbook provides guidelines on Staff respect the protection of welfare, disciplinary and grievance procedures. internationally proclaimed human Employees are made aware of their rights at the rights workplace and are assured of fair treatment always. 2 Businesses to ensure that they are People are assessed based on defined criteria not complicit in human rights that do not discriminate on the basis of religion, abuses. tribe or gender. CAP is represented at employers’ associations with a view to assisting the process of human rights observance. 3 Businesses should uphold the CAP workers belong to a vibrant local union. freedom of association and the CAP recognizes the union's right to collective effective recognition of the right to bargaining and implements industry's collective collective bargaining. agreement on schedule. 4 The elimination of all forms of Employees discuss, negotiate and agree their forced and compulsory labour; terms of employment and are free to accept/reject the terms without coercion. CAP employs 8 hour work day and annual leave with full benefits. The effective abolition of child CAP will not employ anyone under the age of 18 labour; years and will not do business with any supplier that engages in child labour utilization. 5 The elimination of discrimination in CAP is an equal rights employer, without respect of employment and discrimination on account of sex, tribe, religion or 6 occupation. profession. 7 Businesses should support a We have undertaken product substitutions in our precautionary approach to operations based on environmental environmental challenges; considerations. We are committed to producing environmentally friendly products. For example, the company has successfully produced Lead-free water based paints making the company first to achieve this feat in the country. CAP is also at the advanced stage of producing a low VOC solvent based paint. 8 Undertake initiatives to promote We work closely with agencies to monitor our greater environmental environmental performance and sustain responsibility; improvements. We conduct quarterly environmental audits. We ensure regular maintenance of our effluent system. CAP has a well-articulated Environmental Management Programme which made the company to be awarded the NIS ISO 14001:2004 (Environmental Management System) certification by SON. 9 Businesses should encourage the In making decisions to buy or use products and development and diffusion of services, we appraise their environmental environmentally friendly friendliness. technologies. 10 Businesses should work against all CAP is a signatory to the UACN code of ethics forms of corruption, including and conduct which outlines expected pattern of extortion and bribery. conduct for all employees including the rejection of any form of inducement, giving or receiving.
