Made for life Sustainability Report 2017 External Assurance We declare this report in accordance with GRI G4 core level. Material aspects and indicators are shown on p. 8 of this report. Detailed Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) are in online supplement ‘C’. The scope of the information and data in this report covers global operations from January to December 2017. Aperam’s production capacity is focused on: > 6 production sites in Brazil (Timóteo), Belgium (Châtelet, Genk), and France (Gueugnon, Imphy, Isbergues/Recyco). > 14 Steel Service Centres (SSC from our Service & Solutions segment) > 12 transformation facilities: 5 in Service & Solutions segment; Pont de Roide and BioEnergia from Stainless & Electrical Steel segment; Rescal, Amilly, Imhua and ICS from Alloys & Specialties > 16 sales offices: 10 for Service & Solutions segment and 6 from Alloys & Specialties > Registered office: 12C rue Guillaume J. Kroll, L-1882 Luxembourg Safety data cover Services & Solutions and Alloys & Specialties, as well as on-site contractors. Human resources data exclude contractors. Subject to the exclusions indicated below, environmental data covers all main industrial sites, SSCs and corporate offices. Environmental information is compiled locally and aggregated centrally. In our greenhouse gas emissions calculation we apply f ISO 14404-1 and ISO 14404-2 standards, which state that biomass is considered to be carbon neutral. The CO​2​ emissions data relate to Scopes 1 and 2. The following exclusions apply to the environmental data: (1) Raw material data exclude packaging and miscellaneous parts; (2) Scope 3 indirect emissions. The report represents our Communication on Progress relating to UNGC membership (see Online Supplement ‘A’). The report does not cover any joint venture operations or activities of partner organisations. Independent assurance statement The ‘made for life’ report is a component (the ‘summary’) of our complete sustainability reporting (the ‘Report’) for the year ended 31 December 2017. The Report is composed of five items: the ‘made for life report’ and four Online Supplements – A,B, C and D. Our 2017 Report can be found on our website (www.aperam.com/sustainability), together with the four online supplements. The summary report provides part of the information required to satisfy GRI G4 ‘In Accordance Core’.Therefore, the summary should be read with its accompanying Online Supplements to constitute the complete Report. Deloitte Audit Société à Responsabilité limitée issued an unmodified opinion using ISAE 3000 limited level assurance with respect to the Report on the following subject matters: adherence to the Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines (the ‘GRI’ or ‘GRI Guidelines’) with respect to the Principles of Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context and Completeness adherence of the disclosures in the Report to the GRI ‘In Accordance Core’ criteria and the appropriateness of the GRI Index on pages 51-52 of the Report and fair presentation in all material aspects in accordance with GRI Guidelines, of selected performance data, marked in the Report with a ‘*’: – EN5: Energy intensity (pages 27 and 28), – EN8: Water withdrawals (pages 27 and 32), – EN18: CO​2​ intensity (pages 26 and 27), – EN21: NOx, SOx and other air emissions (dust only pages 27-31), – LA6: Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender (only LTIFR pages 11 and 12, and Severity Rate LDR page 11) 1 Contents About Aperam Opening words​ from our Chief Executive Officer. Company profile ​A global leader in Stainless and Specialty Steel​ ​serving multiple markets. Sustainability strategy ​How Aperam’s roadmap and reporting comply with GRI principles. Social: Our People With safety as our top priority, Aperam aims to be a sustainable and profitable company. The key to achieving this is our productive and passionate workforce. > See how our approach ensures the safety, development and well-being of our people. Environment: Our Planet As part of an energy-intensive industry consuming metallic ores and other raw materials, Aperam takes our environmental stewardship seriously. > ​Read about the many ways we are becoming a more sustainable company by reducing our industrial footprint and working to raise awareness about the issues. Governance: Our Stakeholders From the energy of our subcontractors who assist our teams to the strong partnership built with our suppliers and our customers and up to the local infrastructures our success is dependent on the communities we operate in. Knowing this, our Corporate Governance is based on the highest standards and complies with the most rigorous business ethics. > See how we continually strive to develop in a way that benefits the public at large. About this report GRI Index Country Supplements ​Allow stakeholders from our three main countries of operations (Belgium, Brazil, France) to learn about Aperam’s sustainability actions in local languages. Methodology Supplements​ United Nations’ Global Compact reference; Report Materiality Process at Aperam; GRI Index for 201​7​ Report and Disclosures on Management Approach 2 About Aperam Opening Words from ​Timoteo Di Maulo​, Chief Executive Officer 2017 was a year of high achievements for Aperam. Despite challenging market conditions, we achieved the highest level of operational and financial performance since our creation. I believe this performance only partially highlights the success of our many initiatives aimed at making Aperam a sustainable safe and profitable company. But before turning to our fundamental principles and 2017 achievements in the field of sustainability, let me start with safety. After all, safety is and will always remain our top priority. ​In 2017, our lost time injury frequency rate remained stable at 1.4. Although this performance is twice better than our industry average1, we continue to work hard towards achieving our ultimate objective of zero accidents. We do this via key actions focused on changing mindsets, improving procedures and training the entire organisation. It is simply not acceptable that anyone working for Aperam could get hurt. This is the cornerstone of our commitment to sustainability. Although we have had some significant improvements this year, I wish to focus on the key principles of our Sustainability roadmap and let you discover the details of our numerous and ingenious improvement projects further in this report. > First, the people.​ To ensure that Aperam’s innovative people are at the core of our strategy, in 2017 we conducted our first Employee Global Climate Survey. This survey, along with the subsequent discussions we held with our employees, confirm some of Aperam’s key strengths. These include a strong focus on safety and a true adherence to our strategy. We are now building on these strengths to unlock the fantastic potential that I see everyday in our teams. Firstly, we have designed a new set of key competencies to help Aperam transform into a more resilient company. Secondly, we are rejuvenating our company, enrich our way of thinking and improve our diversity using all available means. We are rolling out a strong People roadmap focused on learning and job mobility to ensure our human capital remains agile and versatile and develops the competencies of the future. Throughout 2017, we have intensively hired new talent with a special focus on young graduates and apprenticeships, often with an objective to stimulate innovation and create a momentum for change. Although the branding of our industry as an employer does not often reflect the thrilling careers we offer, nevertheless, those that come to us are delighted by the passion in our teams and the many challenging opportunities we offer. This vibrant energy is indeed the key to our success and we take great care in ensuring that this a renewable energy! > On the environmental side​, we also have quality assets. Speaking of renewable energy, did you know that more than 30% of our energy comes from renewables and that our 2017 carbon footprint was 50% lower than ISSF standards? This is why we can legitimately claim to produce the “world’s greenest stainless steel. This performance is the combination of two factors: our Brazilian Blast Furnaces that substitute metallurgical coke with a charcoal produced from our FSC-certified forestry and our European EAFs that recycles a very high rate of scrap. In fact, being 100% recyclable, fit for all usages and maintenance-free, Aperam’s stainless steel is a sustainable material of excellence. Building on this momentum, this year we continued our efforts to further reduce our environmental impact, as can be seen in our reduction of dust emissions. > Finally, on the governance side​, Aperam simply aims to exemplify best practices. In our dealings with all our stakeholders and in-line with our values, we show respect, benevolence and transparency. As a responsible company, we are keen to arrange regular engagement, build trust and cooperate on mutually profitable solutions. This means listening to our customers in order to understand and anticipate their needs and strive for the best solutions. In 2017, we also focused on improving the depth and agility of our interactions with our stakeholders, which you can learn more about in the following pages. When I look back at our achievements, I clearly see that our success is built upon the kind of passion and innovation that is only possible when your employees are happy to work for your company and fully share in its values. This makes me very proud. So let’s continueand even accelerate this trend in 2018! Sincerely, 1 2.87 as per ISSF June 2017 report, most recent data for 2016 3 Company profile Aperam is a public limited company Aperam Global Performance​ ​G4-EC1 listed on the Luxembourg stock USD millions​ unless otherwise stated​ ​(2) 2017 2016 2015 2014 exchange and on Euronext Amsterdam, Brussels and Paris Shipments (mt) 1.94 1.92 1.89 1.81 > 6 main plants Revenues 5,075 4,302 4,739 5,485 Operating costs​ (3) 3,819 3,213 3,655 4,259 >> 4 melting shops: Employee wages & benefits 599 556 555 681 Timóteo (Brazil), Châtelet and Genk (Belgium), Imphy (France) Payments to providers of capital​ (4) 129 107 26 65 >> 5 main cold rolling sites: Payments to government 64 60 70 67 Timóteo (Brazil), Genk (Belgium), Gueugnon, Community investments 1.0 0.5 1.0 1.0 Isbergues and Imphy (France) EBITDA 619 492 501 547 > 1 FSCⓇ-certified​ BioEnergia Economic value retained 463 366 439 393 eucalyptus plantations and charcoal Direct economic value generated 5,075 4,302 4,739 5,485 production facility (Brazil) Economic value distributed 4,612 3,937 4,300 5,092 (2) Differences between Global Aperam and the sum of the different regions and segments (next page) are due to all operations other than those that are part of the Stainless & Electrical Steel, Services & Solutions and Alloys & Specialties operating segments,​ together with inter segment eliminations and/or non-operational items that are not segmented. (3) Operating costs include R&D costs of USD 20 millions f​or Aperam Group. (4) ​Payments to providers of capital = Net Cash Interest and dividends paid to capital providers during the year, in line with amount of interest paid (net) of USD 8 millions and USD 10 millions and dividends paid of USD 121 millions and USD 97 millions stated in the cash flow statement of the 2017 and 2016 Annual Reports, respectively. In 2015 and 2014, payments to providers of capital only related to net cash interests as there was no dividend paid. 4 Our multiple markets and applications Aperam 2017 Sales by regions Aperam Performance by Division​ ​G4-EC1 Services & Stainless & Electrical Steel Alloys & Specialties Solutions Europe​: South America: Worldwide: Worldwide Aspect Indicator Unit Genk, Châtelet, Timóteo, BioEnergia 14 service centers Imphy, Amilly, Rescal Gueugnon, Isbergues 6 transformation units Imhua (PRC), & Recyco, Precision -1 6 sales offices Indore -ICS (IN) People Own Staff (End of Period)* FTE 3,213 3,335 1,778 1,204 Shipments Steel shipments kt 1,253 629 818 33 Revenues 3,169 1,044 2,284 511 Employee Wages & Benefits 307 101 105 70 Payments to Providers of Capital​ (4) -51 0 38 34 Economic million of Contribution Community Investments USD 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 Payments to Government 35 7 13 6 EBITDA 395 123 78 52 Economic Value Distributed 2,682 923 2,251 493 OHSAS 18001 100 100 90 100 ISO 14001 100 100 50 100 (excl. Sales offices) (excl.Imhua) % of Site ISO 9001 sites 100 100 95 100 Management ​(excl.Recyco) ​(excl.Bio Energia) ​(excl. Sales offices) (excl.Imhua & indore) System 60 Certification ISO 50001 0 15 0 (excl.Recyco) ISO TS 16949 / Others % / total 80 / 0 100 (TIM) / FSC​ ® 25 / 0 60 / 1 site ISO 26000 (excl.Recyco) CoC & M (BIoE) 3 sites EN 9100 * Gap between total workforce and workforce by division corresponds to Headquarters. 5 About Aperam Sustainability Strategy Our sustainability strategy plays a key role in helping us realise our business ambitions: > ​At Aperam, Safety always comes first. On the Social side, we rely on our People to transform this company from a traditional industry into a connected, agile and innovative organisation. For this, we need highly engaged, dynamic and inventive employees, and we are committed to making every effort to support the growth of our employees. > ​On the Environmental side, we are not content to simply comply with regulations, we aim to exceed them. For example, our 2020 targets (-35% CO​2 intensity vs. 2008; -10% energy intensity vs 2012; -5% water consumption and -12% dust intensity, both vs. 2015) demonstrate our commitment to continuous improvement. > ​Regarding Governance, our high ethical standards can be seen in our strict corporate governance rules and our structured compliance programme. Our relations with key stakeholders are based on transparency and respect. With customers, we aim to pre-empt needs and act as a partner. And we regularly engage with suppliers and communities to address concerns in a responsible way. 6 While continuing with the efforts we First recognitions but progress both our business and our initiated from day one, we have also continues! stakeholders. This assessment, based added new actions and refined our on a 4-level scale ranging from minor strategy. Although we ​believe we can still to critical, is regularly reviewed and improve​, in particular regarding the updated: Sustainability Strategy and overall awareness level of the Aperam 2013 and 2014: defined the governance in 2017 brand, in 2017 we saw significant materiality matrix based on progress. For example, our Company stakeholder input gathered at our six The organisation, set up in 2015, is now ranked by many external major sites. remains valid and is comprised of: analysts as being amongst the most 2015: updated matrix based on a ➤ ​Members of the Board of Directors: sustainable players in our sector. This survey of Aperam’s closest in charge of the overall management was reflected in the positive ratings stakeholders our employees. of the Company. They decide on the from ESG analysts and various 2016: resumed the matrix update direction taken based on proposals benchmarks (see p. 38). However, it while expanding its scope. Thanks to from the Leadership Team (LT), a is important to note that these the 11 matrices defined by the major group of nine senior executives rankings are not heavily factored into sites from all our segments, we headed by Mr. Timoteo Di Maulo, the our customers’ selection criteria. covered 85% of our global workforce. Company’s CEO. The Board of 2017: continued with our Directors has two committees, Moving forward, we expect to see methodology to focus every-otherincluding the Audit and Risk even more results as the Company year on one specific stakeholder Management Committee, which further incorporates our sustainability group. reviews are covering compliance and roadmap into everyday decisions. other sustainability topics on a To get there, awareness-raising In 2017, we also set up specific quarterly basis. actions will be accentuated. More meetings to engage with local ➤ ​CEO: responsible for Aperam’s importantly, to ensure alignment and authorities at each of our main sites. sustainability performance and prioritisation, in 2018 we will be This series of meetings were an compliance. implementing company-wide opportunity to explain our strategy in ➤ ​CHRO, Head of Communication objectives across the organisation. To detail, present short term action plans and Sustainability: responsible for support these objectives, the first on stakeholder engagement at the defining the Sustainability Strategy via chapter of our CEO’s personal local level and evaluate each of the discussions with and monitoring by objectives, which are to be echoed at material aspects of our GRI matrix in our specific Environment, Social and all levels of the organisation, is face-to-face meetings. Of course, our Governance (ESG) Committee. entitled “Health & Safety and units’ management regularly meets ➤ ​ESG Committee : meets regularly Sustainability” and encompasses these key local leaders, but these to monitor progress, propose new topics clearly labelled as “Health” and meetings usually focus on hot topics, work streams and lead validated “Sustainable industry with long-term emergencies and other specific projects, either in full committee or by Environment and Energy focus”. It subjects. These matrix reviews were a dedicated sub-committees per topic. also includes business ethics labelled time for a systematic assessment, ➤ ​LT reviews: quarterly meetings are “Compliance and reputation”. In with all the topics rated, even those now held to ensure the involvement of addition, other standard sustainability that never raise the attention of the the entire organisation and both topics like diversity (with a clear focus authorities because they are perfectly support and challenge the ESG on gender) are also included as top handled by Aperam. committee in their projects. priorities for the Group. This ensures alignment across the Company and ⬛ ​This exercise allowed us to confirm For environmental-related areas clear progress during the course of and refine our vision, while adding a based on clear targets for 2020, in 2018. handful of topics seen as salient by 2017 we started a working group. The these officials: “Urban Integration”, group, in coordination with the “Industrial Security” and “Noise”. Working and reporting on the responsible plant(s), is in charge of right topics > ​The first of these topics, “Urban defining the best way forward and integration” was not previously on our proposing viable directions for 2030. Since 2013, we have used GRI4 radar, but it is clearly an area where Although their work remains ongoing, standard principles (Global Reporting our sites have a responsibility. some priorities have already been Initiative’s sustainability reporting identified. For these, the working guidelines) to define our most material > ​The second topic, “Industrial group is focused on phasing and sustainability issues and the impact Security”, was already covered in assessing the costs of the necessary they have. The materiality of an issue previous reports, within the “Pollution project steps. is based on its potential impact on prevention” chapter. Here we 7 described the protocols in place to > ​Although “Noise” was a topic with officials from the Local Authorities ensure quick reactions in case of tackled in view of our environmental is that there is no need to revise our accidental pollutions. It is obviously permits, it was not identified among full matrix. Instead, in the table below, clearer to distinguish these topics the most material. However, last we have highlighted the key topics, from matters of intrusions, such as year, with three Service Centres the priority list derived from this European anti-terrorism efforts, which adding their input to the analysis, particular stakeholder group with are covered by National programmes. Noise and Traffic gained in whom we have engaged this year, as “Pollution prevention and importance in our matrix. At the well as the add-ins that they remediation”, on the other hand can specific request of representatives requested. deal with awareness, installations like from Local Authorities, this year we retention basins or regular simulation added it. For full details of our final 2017 exercises. Going forward, we will consolidated matrix and its variations, make sure to address the two topics. Apart from these particular items, the see our online methodology key takeaway of this thorough review appendices. Material Aspect 2017 Category Ranking / feedback as per Local Authorities’ Page Comment Occupational Safety People #3 11-13 Sustainably Profitable Governance #1 in the meaning of “Sustainable industrial presence” 38-40 + Annual Report (Occupational) Health People #7 with Health in general (not only occupational) 13-14 Legal & Fiscal Compliance Governance Important only when the name of the City can be mixed 42-43 + Annual Report (esp. p.38) Customer Satisfaction Governance 47-50 Air & Dust Emissions Environment #2 with focus on “Inconvenient dust falls” 30-31 Pollution Prevention #6 with a distinct sub-topic: “Industrial Security” (new Including Awareness-raising Environment 34-35 >> Industrial Security topic but already covered in previous reports) actions Competencies & Employability People #14 16-20 Employee Engagement People 15 Product Innovation Environment 41 With Customer satisfaction Energy Consumption Environment 26-29 Social Dialogue People #15, especially if strikes can block the city centre 40 Here in Governance Fair Business Practices Governance #12 46-47 With Compliance Anti-Dumping Governance 47 + Annual Report p.23-24 Waste/Recycling Environment 33 Cash, Debt & Financing Governance n/a + Annual Report (esp. p.44-51) Raw Material Consumption Environment 33 Within Waste/Recycling Diversity & Equal Opportunity People #10 22-23 + Annual Report p.62 Supplier Labor Practices People 41 Attracting talents to the industry People People 23-24 New item 2016 Water Consumption #5 with a complementary focus on water discharge Environment 32 >> Water Quality quality, together with consumption level Community Engagement Governance #8, distinct from “Philanthropy & CSR”, ranked #21 43-46 #4 in Local authorities’ perspective new topic added, ​ Urban integration​ NEW Governance 44 Add-in 2017 to be assessed in 2018 from Aperam’s view #13 from Local Authorities’ present in Aperam matrix Transport emissions Environment 36 but lower in terms of priority. Not rated by all the officials met, but very consistently Noise Environment 37 Add-in 2017 rated as quite important. 8 Alignment on the United First, our management approach is matter of fact, it is meaningful for Nations’ Sustainable based on the very principles that Aperam employees to work in a Development Goals many of these goals are founded on. company that brings products that are Hence, it is only natural that we “socially useful” and can help solve Our strategy is fully in line with several support these principles when they some of the challenges of Sustainable of the United Nations’ Sustainable are enacted as a global programme. Development. And so we consider Development Goals (’SDG’). We ourselves supporters of these causes. The second reason we adhere (more believe that we can legitimately state actively) to some of these our full support of the goals listed Below we discuss how and why our Developments Goals is that often the daily process and/or products below for two key reasons. inherent properties of our products contribute to each SDG. can really serve the cause. As a Aperam supports the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals >​ ​Product​: Stainless steel is a hygienic material by excellence[1], as it is easy to clean and disinfect. Stainless steel is also totally inert, meaning it does not impair the organoleptic properties (taste, colour and smell) of food or alter its chemical composition. Because of these properties, it is used in a wide range of food applications (cutlery, tableware, sinks, the food industry), and medical applications (hospital material, surgery and dental tools). >​ ​Process​: In an industry where heat, hazardous substances and the size of installations create risks of all sorts, Health & Safety is Aperam’s primary concern and the priority in all our proceedings. For all these reasons, we heartily support SDG 3 see p. 11-14. > ​Product​:​ N/A > ​Produc​t​: The inert nature of stainless, together with its cleanability, make it an > ​Process​: ​Achieving a gender balance ideal candidate for applications related to has been a historical challenge for the fresh water (incl. tanks and fountains, Steel industry, where physical strength water boilers, sanitary piping systems, and endurance were once a requisite. etc.) and water treatment (incl. Although these times are long gone, the sewerage, distillation, desalination). stereotypes still exist. This ​topic is Moreover, thanks to its immunity to aggressive media , ranked high in our priority list as from 2017​, and has stainless steel is a sustainable solution, allowing users to received a special commitment from management, who reduce leakage for long-lasting supply pipes and storage decided to set up specific objectives for creating more solutions. It also contributes to better management of the gender balance in our workforce see p. 23-23. world’s water resources. > ​Process​: In our forestry, located on hydric-stressed areas like our other plants, lowering water consumption and improving the quality of discharge are key elements of our Environmental strategy see p. 32. > ​Product​: Among our affordable and ​>​ ​Product​: Our ubiquitous and robust highly conductive metals (Alloys, products enable innovation and are able Electrical steels), some also offer to overcome any challenge. New grades magnetic properties. This has led to the and surface finishes are used by our development of clean energies through customers to create brand new looks in applications in fuel cells, wind turbines, the automotive, building and etc. See p. 48. construction, and power distribution sectors see how we address Innovation p. 48. >​ Process​: More than 30% of Aperam’s energy use comes from such renewables as biomass (charcoal) and, via pilot >​ ​Process​:​ ​Research & Development and innovation are projects, wind and solar see p. 28-29. top priorities for Aperam. We also help our customers adapt their own processes (welding, stamping, etc.) to make the most of their tools. See p. 47-49. 9 > ​Product​: Stainless steel not only gives >​ ​Product​: Stainless steel is the “green a building’s facades, stairs and lifts a material” par excellence and is infinitely decorative touch, it can be also found in recyclable. Within the construction road and pedestrian bridges. Its is sector, its actual recovery rate is close to commonly used in a structure’s safety 100%. Stainless steel’s longevity fulfills elements, such as handrails and the requirements of sustainable banisters, as well as in the wires, cables construction. A suitable choice in terms and tie rods of a suspension bridge. It is also of grade, surface finish, installation and maintenance recommended for deck and anchor elements, including guarantees the user unrivalled service life. Construction those built in marine and polluted environments. Our components in stainless steel are delivered ready to install metals also contribute to energy-efficient, low emission on site, reducing local pollution (noise, dust, etc.). transportation (subway and rail cars, catalytic exhausts, Furthermore, during demolition, these can be salvaged for electric cars), which helps make our cities more re-use in recycling, adding value. See p. 47. sustainable and breathable see p. 48. >​ ​Process​: Aperam stands as a recycling champion: it > ​Process​: Aperam is committed to a sustainable integrates a maximum amount of recycled material (not cohabitation with our neighbouring communities, allowing only scraps) in its production and also takes good care to host cities to thrive and addressing inhabitants’ legitimate leverage wastes and by-products in line with our requests see the entire report. zero-waste target see p. 33. > ​Product​: Due to our preeminent use of >​ ​Product​: Our products do not contain scrap and charcoal, Aperam reports an conflict minerals and they are not sold in almost unrivalled CO​2​ footprint for its violation of any enacted economic metal, which helps manufacturers and sanctions. end users reduce their own carbon footprint see p. 47. >​ ​Process​: Ethics are a key component to Aperam’s values. We comply with all > ​Process​: Our BioEnergia applicable regulations, interact FSC-compliant forestry, which produces sustainable transparently with authorities and support the fight against charcoal as a substitute to extractive coke, acts as a corruption, money laundering and anti-competitive carbon sink. Our plants are constantly driving down their practices among others see p. 41-42 and 47. energy use to reduce consumption and participate in our climate action plan see p. 26-28. 10 Social Our People The safety of our people is non-negotiable and always our top priority. When we protect each other, we build team spirit and promote proximity at the same time. In 2017, we kicked-off an ambitious ​People Transformation plan built around 3 axes: Performance Management, Learning and Development, and Internal Mobility. At the heart of the plan, the launch of a new Leadership Style puts managers and employees back at the centre of their professional development (starting with the roll-out of a company wide Human Capital Management system: ​MyHR​), with an increased emphasis on bottom-up innovation and diversity. Health & Safety monthly H&S committee at the LT level, as well as an operational Voices from SAFE trainees Occupational safety restricted committee with a few Looking at the table on the next page, members from Divisions to jointly ❝ ​Initially, when registering to the one can see that our lost time injury make decision and roll out SAFE training, I thought ‘One frequency rate did not significantly systematically. week: it will seem an eternity!’ But improve in 2017. This is primarily due to a poor performance in Q3 after the > 2. ​“​Training​” remained a key that’s not how it feels at all.​❞ attention point for Aperam. The SAFE Northern Hemisphere’s Summer ❝ ​It is a very well conceived and training initiated last year continued to stoppages. lively training, mixing theory, be deployed, with the aim of changing Although some progress were made on the total amount of incidents, the mindsets, stimulating excellence in discussion and field audits. Also, behaviours, and further leveraging the fact that the group of trainees actual severity rate (0.11* vs. 0.09 in best practices in the industry and 2016) is still a concern. Aperam gathers employees with various within Aperam. cannot be satisfied as some employees were injured at work and In 2017, 35,000 hours of training, 20 profiles, from operators to office trainers and 1,000 trainees were workers, joiners or managers, some of the reported accidents could recorded and the feedback was have resulted in much more severe helps share experience and really positive (see aside), so we will after-effects. not stop here… create awareness.​❞ In this context, the Leadership Team ❝ ​Some people may fear this is > 3. ​As for “Behaviours”, another key decided to continue with the six-pillar strategy depicted in last year’s report, action for the year was the CEO just about repression, but this is message sent out in September to all really to put everyone on the which has not yet met its full potential. Aperam employees, engaging all to refuse the poor Q3 H&S results and same page. And it addresses instead renew their focus and professional risks as well as commitment. personal life’s gestures. It’s nice In 2018, we intend to go one big step further with the launch of a three-year and useful.​❞ programme to assess the maturity of ❝ ​I will take it again and I really workers through one-week site audits. recommend everyone to take it​. > 1. ​In terms of “​Alignment​”, some of > 4. ​Based on incident analysis (each Aperam Gueugnon’s the actions consisted of building is analysed in detail with the root Amandine​ (Scheduling) and common standards and a unique cause identified, often using videos to Laurent ​(Maintenance) catalogue for personal protection explain the circumstances of the equipment (PPE). The organisation incidents), significant progress was was also revised with the addition of a made on the “Audit” pillar in 2017. 11 Picture​: Saint-Eloi celebrations in Châtelet’s Hot Strip Mill (Belgium): On December 1st, to refresh a tradition while ensuring a safe and friendly team-building moment compatible with production imperatives, the site arranged barbecues within the workshops to celebrate the patron saint of goldsmiths, miners and metalworkers. All day long, all teams were able to enjoy brochettes, soft drinks and chats during breaks. At a glance​ (​G4-LA6) Indicator Unit Target 2017 2016 2015 2014 Page 2017 Employee n/a 9,599 9,558 9,522 9,424 Workforce p. 25 FTE Joiners n/a 793 674 834 n/a p. 24 % staff n/a 11.9 11.9 11.8 12.2 Women Diversity p. 22. % exempts n/a 20.2 20.4 20.3 n/a Fatalities All 0 0 0 1 0 Fatalities Employees # 0 0 0 1 0 Safety p. 11-13 Fatalities Contractors 0 0 0 0 0 (and Responsibility LTIFR All 1 1.42* 1.46* 0.98 1.10 in the Value Chain /1,000,000 p41) LTIFR Employees 1 1.27 1.60 1.03 1.24 hours LTIFR Contractors Below 1 1.75 1.10 0.87 0.82 Absenteeism % 2.0 2.19 2.19 2.26 2.03 p. 40 (1) (2) (1) Employee Satisfaction n/a 81 n/a​ 71​ n/a​ p. 15 Training hours hours/FTE n/a 34 36 33 n/a p. 20 *Data highlighted with a star have received external assurance. (1) No Aperam-wide survey (2) Aperam-wide, Exempts only. 12 Work consisted of technical audits of ▉​ For an example of the type of key installations to identify remaining actions happening across our various risks and develop action plans units, we can look at a company-wide accordingly. programme on motion and walkways. In most of our sites, more than half of > 5. ​Amongst our “​Communications​” the incidents reported involve motion actions was a series of pop-ups that and walkways, so special care was automatically ‘popped-up’ when taken in 2017 to better mark logging on to a computer. Run over a pedestrian ways and ensure the rules 12 week period, the pop-ups showed were all respected. employees sharing their personal In Châtelet, new posters (see aside) reasons, in their own words, for were arranged all over the site to keep making Health & Safety the safety principles front and centre and undisputed priority at work. This new ensure risks are not disregarded when company-wide campaign was very it comes to simple gestures like well received, discussed among walking. teams and supported by local actions. > 6. ​For “​Technical Excellence​”, SAFE Training several topics are under way and will come to a conclusion in 2018 Among these is a modern reporting tool, as 35,000​ ​hours ​of training Aperam Châtelet posters well as digital learning modules based on gamification. 20 ​trainers 2017 Health & Safety awards With this extensive, multi-facet On page 32 of last year’s Sustainability programme, 2017 can be seen as a year of turn-around, although some 1,000​ ​trainees Report we highlighted the work done by Aperam Genk to reduce accidents and improve controls and safety in transport progress was noted toward the end of fleets, with very significant results and the year, and all efforts are being some carriers banned. made to sustain this trend. ▉​ With Safety being a topic embraced Since then, this programme won the by the entire company, from second prize at our annual International shop-floor to management, 31 Stainless Steel Forum, thanks to its executives from Germany and Austria multifaceted approach and engagement asked themselves : with all parties involved. As ISSF “Do you always take your commented: ”This is a timely reminder that our safety programmes are not responsibility seriously? What can confined only to the plants, but extend YOU do before it is too late?” and, as outwards along the routes taken by our to safety and third parties, “How to transport.” deal with temporary workers or with customers that have low safety standards?” The discussions listed the causes for insecure behaviors: time pressure, false role models, self-satisfaction, wrong priorities, underestimation of Health and wellbeing risks, lack of knowledge... or lack of courage. Although there is no formal group At the end of this workshop, all Health roadmap at Aperam, Our Chinese staff illustrating “One Aperam” participants agreed that each of us is nonetheless it is a key objective for Health & Safety logo. responsible for the life safety and the 2018. As a matter of fact, building a health of their colleagues during all programme at Group level, providing company activities. We all have an clear orientations and increasing important role to play, through employee awareness is among the communication and hazard personal objectives of our Leadership identification... we have to act before it Team members for the year. e expect is too late. to formally add the missing roadmap by end of this year. 13 In the meantime, as has always been ▉​ At Campinas S&S site, the goal is to ▉ ​In France, a specific collective the case, actions at our sites range provide the customer with the best agreement has been in force since from strong medical preventive polished stainless steel. Since 2011, 2015. In 2017, the implementation of programmes up to regular articles in this has been done via a 20 kt the “Qualité de Vie au Travail” newsletters. A number of units have capacity polishing machine. However, programme (QVT) focused on organised several specific campaigns, this useful machine does come with promoting quality of life at work. It did which can have a great impact in drawbacks. this through various actions. terms of buy-in and awareness, as Even if perfectly compliant with local The site-specific committees, well as in terms of team building. The regulations, the system was comprised of representatives from events at small sites like Turkey (55 generating some dust, which was Health & Safety, Human Resources, employees) or Iberica (63 impacting the working conditions of Management and the Unions, met employees), which conducted a range the employees operating in the area regularly to analyse collective issues, of outdoor activities, illustrate this close to the machine. In addition, the determine priorities and built their own perfectly. design of the system could not action plan, in addition to nationwide This year, we would like to highlight guarantee the absence of sparks. actions. For instance, some sites two action plans and give some news To improve both point, a specific opted for complementary training on about the French “QVT” programme. investment was validated in 2017. The specific topics (eg. stress first improvement was to install a management) or to focus more on ▉ ​This year in Timoteo facility was robust spark identification system, ergonomics to decrease work-related launched the Sou + health initiative together with a waterjet system to pain, etc. (with + representing healthier, safer extinguish any sparks. The second In the course of 2017, 200 managers and more sustainable). improvement involved a revamping of have been trained, which Starting in June, the site launched its the aspiration system by changing the strengthened the general awareness own Health Promotion Centre, which pipes’ diameter and the filters. of the stakeholders about the QVT. is dedicated to employees and their Thanks to these actions, and after the Furthermore, the outcome of the families and covers all topics, free of air quality was measured and climate survey shared with each QVT charge, from pregnancy to disease validated by the health team, the use committee allowed them to tailor their prevention. During pregnancy, of the dust masks were no longer action plans accordingly. In addition, families can count on the “Pregnant needed. This tremendously improved all the discussion sessions between Couple” course, where the health the employees’ working conditions management and team members centre team provides helpful while keeping all precautions were an opportunity to share opinions information about pregnancy, birth regarding their health. and difficulties related to well-being at and infant care, along with proposing work. the ‘being parents’ exchange sessions between different couples. Among the to-dos for 2018 will be the As of December 2017, 8,992 medical renegotiation of the regulatory checks and 3,645 odontological visits national agreements, in particular were registered, reaching 91% of the regarding “painfulness at work”. centre’s occupational yield and But this will be covered in our ​2018 figures continue to grow quickly. report. The new Health Promotion Centre in Timoteo Aperam Turkey’s event on Health & Safety, including families. 14 A highly competent and company as a good place to work before the end of 2018. Regarding which is six points above the Industrial other communication channels, it was engaged workforce norm! decided to increase the frequency of Engagement Among the identified areas of communications and diversify the improvement underlined by channels, using more videos (with Aperam’s workforce is made of​ 9,599 respondents was some lack of focus subtitles!) to broadcast key messages full-time employees, of which​ 10% ​are on diversity and the need for within the Company. One example is exempts and over 98% permanent as enhanced communications, as well as the video used to clarify the new of Dec. 2017see table p. 25 ​(G4-10). weaknesses in the recognition of Aperam competencies released at the achievements and the visibility of end of 2017. Other examples are the Getting our people’s opinion development opportunities. posters used to announce the survey results. We firmly believe that having a highly Employee Survey 2017 engaged workforce is one of the most > 3-​ Promote opportunities and important contributors to the internal mobility via a specific website. company’s results. This is why, in 91%​ ​are proud​ of our By the end of 2017, this website was January 2017, Aperam launched its products already up and running (see next first anonymous All-Employee page) with all vacancies published Engagement survey, which recorded a 63% response rate and an overall 84%​ ​recommend internally before going external. This was open to exempt in a first pilot Sustainable Engagement score of Aperam​ ​as a good place to phase in July and then extended in 81%. This score combines three work September to the entire population. dimensions measuring if our A large communication campaign employees are Energized (81%), supported the action, with the Engaged within Aperam (84%) and publication of posters with QR codes Enabled to perform their work (79%). and the regular e-mailing of To reach a thorough understanding of newsletters dedicated to Careers at the results, Aperam built the survey to Aperam. Initial results are already in allow for a drill down from the and include a couple of successful consolidated global level down to the internal mobilities set up. site level. In addition, we also > 4​Increase our focus on Learning benchmarked our responses with and Development as the key other international heavy competencies of the future. We are manufacturing companies. convinced that the rapid evolution of technology, and the trend towards Committing to improve digitalization in particular, offers tremendous potential for our Further to this analysis, the following company. commitments were made, with the To benefit from this potential, we must aim of taking our employees’ be able to pair our investments in commitment to next level: technology with investments in the In the end, this survey confirmed > 1-​ Exchange on the proposed action development of new competencies some key Aperam strengths, including plans at local level, so that every site with our people. A Learning & good scores overall on engagement. and/or manager (reaching the Development roadmap has been In particular, the figures show a strong minimum in term of size of teams to developed towards the end of 2017 global alignment on Safety as our N°1 ensure anonymity) was able to and will be rolled-out in the course of priority (84% of answers) and on analyse the results and organise 2018 and beyond. The key elements Aperam’s strategy (83%), and collective sessions at the site level to of this roadmap are detailed below. highlighted among our assets the show all figures, discuss the proposed > 5​Focus on Recognition. sense of responsibility (93%) and action plan and get oral feedback. What is clearly a strong point in Brazil, pride in the Company’s products >​ ​2-​ Improve existing communication perhaps partially because of cultural (91%). channels and re-conduct this survey differences, remains a developing Compared to other industrial groups, regularly. On this last point, we point in Europe. We can do a better there is an even stronger emotional currently plan to organise a repeat job at using non-financial recognition connection to Aperam, with 84% of survey every-other-year at minimum, to motivate our people and further employees willing to recommend our with the next iteration taking place increase their engagement. Rather 15 than opting for the roll-out of a Reporting, Performance and Goals, company-wide employee recognition Compensation, and Benefits, My programme, we decided to focus on Profile (competencies, experience and the role of the first line manager. This career aspirations) and Learning topic will be addressed as part of the Management (LMS). As of 2018, all 2018 roll-out of a company-wide modules will gradually become Video of CEO and CHRO explaining the leadership curriculum built around available to all employees in the Aperam People Transformation programme to Aperam’s eight core leadership company. all exempts. competencies (see right), of which “Leader as a Coach” is a pivotal one. In addition to their role in organising the work, we expect our leaders to act as coaches for the development and engagement of our people. Aperam Leadership Style > ACCOUNTABLE > FASTER ​IN EXECUTION The Aperam Leadership Style On top of this, each member of > CONNECTED Aperam’s Executive Committee, our > AWARE ​OF THE ENVIRONMENT In November 2017, we launched the Leadership Team, decided to coach a > ​ABLE TO ​TRANSFORM ​BY new ​Aperam Leadership Style​, a set talented senior manager that is not LEARNING of core behavioural competencies that part of their organisation. > INFLUENCING we believe are fundamental to > ​LEADER AS A ​COACH realising our transformation. Personal Voices > CREATIVE ​& INNOVATIVE THINKING accountability forms the basis for the new behaviours that we want to Bert Lyssens, CHRO develop, and the focus on Learning ❝ ​How we manage our Human People Transformation and Coaching skills ensures we put a How we manage our Human Capital stronger focus on the development of Capital is a critical factor that will is a critical factor that will determine our people throughout the company. determine the success of the success of Aperam’s These eight new competencies are Aperam’s transformation. transformation. We are convinced that the first to be rolled-out to all Aperam the only way to become a exempts and will guide our evaluation This is why we are committed to Sustainable, Safe and Profitable of candidates for new positions and delivering our Aperam People company is through the realisation of promotions. They will also help us to our People Transformation structure the development of our Transformation and to Programme. exempts. In 2018 we plan to launch a constantly measure our In 2017, we launched two 360 degree assessment of all our top progress via the All Employee fundamental elements of this 100 managers and implement a Engagement Survey that was programme: a new leadership style leadership development curriculum built around eight core competencies built around these key competencies. organised for the first time in that are critical to our transformation By focusing on top management first, 2017. It was this survey that and a new company-wide Human we intend to further disperse the new helped us to prioritise our Capital Management system, branded leadership style throughout the actions: revisit our performance MyHR, that puts the manager and the company. employee at the centre, when it As ​coaching and mentorship​ will be management, focus on internal comes to developing their key instruments in the development of career opportunities through the competencies and career within the new leadership style, we kicked new Career Portal and increase Aperam. the coaching and mentorship our focus on Learning and The development of the new MyHR programmes off starting with senior system started during the second half management. A number of external Development to unlock our full of 2017, with an official launch of the certified coaches were assigned to people potential.​❞ first modules to all exempts in January selected senior managers. 2018. The MyHR system consists of the following modules: Core Data and 16 Performance Management extend the new process to In the second half of 2017, the non-exempts in the years to come. Aperam Leadership Team took up the This will ensure a better alignment of challenge to redesign its Performance performance management across the Management for exempts. After entire company and increased several brainstorming sessions and transparency on process completion benchmarking with market best (real time status reporting). practices, it was decided to redesign ▉​ ​The new Human Capital the process based on the following Management System (MyHR), which principles: was deployed in the second half of a) a stronger alignment between 2017, has already rolled out the individual and organisational goals modules related to Performance through the publication of Management and Compensations & organisational goals at the start of the Benefits. Performance Management cycle. This means we are now able to Individual employees are then invited embed our new vision and our revised to align their individual goals with the set of competences into one pre-defined organisational goals. company-wide tool, enabling us to b) more focus on ​continuous​ feedback Poster highlighting the new career portal. cascade objectives from the CEO c) focus on peer feedback so that level down to the different teams. employees are evaluated based on Internal Mobility This creates a strong alignment the feedback of their manager, other Increasing internal job mobility is a around the same goals, starting with managers ​and​ the employees they key element in our People our prime objectives on Sustainable regularly cooperate with. Transformation programme as it will Development and Health & Safety. It d) increased transparency, allowing increase the versatility and will organise a fully transparent managers to share their personal adaptability of our people. appraisal process, with strict goals In July 2017 we launched a new workflows to ensure that the e) better follow-up by real-time status Global Internal Mobility policy stating necessary discussions have been reporting on process completion that all vacancies need to be effectively held with the N+1. 2017 Annual Performance reviews To fully leverage the benefits of our published internally and employees Training organisation, more people are are free to apply for internal vacancies 2017 2016 2015 2014 combining local responsibilities with (providing they have completed a Blue Collars 68% 71% 65% n/a minimum of two years in their current transversal roles, or sharing their time White Collars 84% 90% 85% 87% between one main role and role). The transition to the new role Exempts 99% 95% 96% 95% participating in a project. To account should not take more than 3 months Aperam 75% 77% 73% n/a for this, the new system can look at (with exceptions to be approved by both matricial and functional Human Resources). In 2017, our overall performance relationships. In addition, it provides The new internal mobility policy was review rate was 75% ​(GR-LA11, see the possibility to enrich the accompanied by the launch of the table above​). We report an performance analysis with feedback new Aperam Career Portal which was improvement for exempts and slight from ‘internal customers’, peers or opened to all employees worldwide in deteriorations for the other categories functional managers. September 2017. The career portal of employees. However, this global Finally, the new system will also link contains an overview of all vacancies, statement needs to be put into the yearly performance review with testimonials and frequently asked perspective by looking at the results the personal development strategy questions. Regular newsletters remind reported by units. For instance, in that each employee defines for him or employees of new vacancies that are Timoteo, over 99% of the some 1,500 herself, resulting in a solid career published on the portal. workers get an annual performance path. ▉​ ​For some examples of the review, whereas some smaller sites Overall, this new system will facilitate development path that we love to see have no documented process in the deployment of the competencies and accompany within our teams, place. that are at the heart of Aperam’s read the four inserts focus on Lionel, transformation. More functionalities, Thanks to the deployment of the Francisco, Jane and Sofie. especially related to Learning and Performance and Goals module in the They personify the commitment and Career Management, will be added in global MyHR system, we will now learning ability that we wish to the course of 2018. have the opportunity to gradually promote. 17 Career path: Lionel at Gueugnon In 1980, Lionel started at the Gueugnon site’s Training Centre as an electromechanic, before being hired as a finishing operator. By 1994, he had become finishing team leader, and continued to develop through different roles in Continuous Improvement held at the Long Slitting Workshop later in the 2000’s. Next, he participated in a project dedicated to performance improvement (“a very rich experience,” he Our Gueugnon Site in Burgundy (France), with stresses). Supported by the Gueugnon management team the new RB8 tower. and driven by his willingness to progress, he attended a two-year master program at EM Lyon (2011-2013). At the same time, he was named Head of Lionel’s career tips Slitting, and in 2015, he became the Manager of the Finishing & Skin Pass Workshop, where he led the 200-people operation. Still, Lionel was not finished ​Keep learning​: this is essential with his professional advancement. In April 2017, he left the operational side to to adding to our field experience. start working as the site’s Deputy Head of Human Resources. ​Take advice​ from a coach, “​Since the beginning, I decided to develop and go further in my career. I put all his/her vast experience helps to my efforts into that. But my career path is also linked to the fact that I do love go further and faster while problem-solving and dealing with people. This really corresponds to my personal avoiding mistakes. interest, travelling and meeting people around the world, which allowed me to see how cultural diversity and riches can be fruitful to an organisation. This really ​Put your heart and soul into consolidated my motivation. what you do!​ Results do not Today, my new job is an amazing change as it gives me the opportunity to think come without effort, but with work from another perspective, without the urgency of a production line. Now, in order and perseverance, we can to start the week on a positive note with my team, we start every Monday with a achieve whatever we want! debriefing about the success of the past week, then we go through the points still pending in a better mood, while always promoting exchanges within the team!​” Learning and Development broader than training, as it involves all employees’ competencies and forms of learning, including on-the-job development priorities; Learning and Development is a key learning accompanied by mentorship. 3​. the Human Resources Learning & component to Aperam’s People While formal training is expected to Development organisation, focused strategy and it is the third axis of our evolve more towards digital learning, on implementing a modern learning People Transformation Programme. on-the-job learning will be structured infrastructure that links development The transformation we want to by coaching and mentorship provided curricula to competencies; accomplish requires everyone to shift by the manager. 4​. business leadership teams, defining to a new operating mode one that is Learning by doing can also be done in a strategic workforce and competency agile and better connected. This is a safe, online and virtual environment. planning for the years to come; and true for everyone, from shop floor In 2017, we rolled out a game-based 5​. Learning Academies that provide workers that will work in a more learning platform that prepares our functional knowledge and learning automated and data-driven sales team for the challenges of a content. environment to managers who are more e-business driven environment. expected to act as agents of change. Two more gamification platforms are As part of our Learning Strategy, we Furthermore, the results of our set to be rolled-out in 2018 and will have decided to focus on the roll out Employee Engagement survey focus on Health & Safety and of the following six Learning confirm that personal development bottom-up Innovation. Academies: and future career perspective are at Maintenance Academy, IT Academy, the heart of people’s concerns. Our core learning process is built Automation Academy (all three started around five key roles: in 2017), Project Management Academy, Our new Learning and 1​. the employee, at the centre, who takes accountability for his or her Leadership Academy, and Safety Development roadmap development; Academy (all three to be started in Aperam wants to evolve into a 2018). 2​. the manager, acting as coach and company where continuous learning is providing open feedback on the part of our culture. Learning is much 18 As already indicated, on-the-job training hours at a global level, with Learning learning and coaching is being further significant increases in Belgium and strengthened in-line with our new France, compensating a decrease in embed in ​culture leadership competency: “Leader as a Brazil; The last evolution was linked to coach”. cost containment measures in a 70%​ internal training In 2017, in-line with this ambition, 70% of recorded training hours were difficult economic context. provided by internal employees (like Overall, we are satisfied that most of 6 ​Academies for our SAFE programme or the induction sessions on the “World of our training efforts are dedicated to our first priority, Safety: 55% of total Steel”). recorded training hours. In addition, 34 ​h/FTE​ ​average 2017 Voices 26% of recorded hours relate to technical training, which is important in our ambition to achieve operational 2017: transitioning to a more Marie-Pierre excellence. global and integrated approach Duale, In 2018, we expect to see these to Learning Aperam Head of numbers reflecting a stronger focus Learning & on leadership (see above) and also Although our largest countries (Brazil, going forward a continued increase of France and Belgium) have local Development training related to technical learning management systems in competencies. place, we plan to consolidate this into ❝ ​The evolution a new global Learning Management On-the-job learning at Aperam in Europe System (LMS) that is fully integrated of technology offers us in the broader MyHR platform (see tremendous opportunities in the above) together with Competency area of learning. Management, Learning and Career Development. Our Learning and Development > ​The new global LMS will allows us roadmap is built around this with to develop learning paths that an increased focus on digital correspond to the strategic competencies needed for each learning, gamification and the organisational function. It will roll-out of a company-wide consolidate all learning content, Learning Management System including generic material purchased Career Acceleration Program externally, material developed as part of the broader roll-out of a our new MyHR Human Capital Since 2011, Aperam has in-house by internal experts. In 2017, implemented under the coordination only a minority (estim. 5% ) of the Management system. of Human Resources a Career training hours were followed via We used the roll-out of MyHR as Acceleration Program (CAP) with e-learning modes, which proves that a test case for this, starting with the objective of using the Combined we have a huge unlocked potential to Assurance (Internal Audit) further increase our training coverage the first in-house created department as a training ground to and efficiency. e-learning modules to teach develop future business leaders. To address this need, tools have been employees and managers how This 2-year program focuses on selected to build in-house online ensuring young talents to gain a learning content, the first of which was to use the new system.​❞ mastery of broad-based technical rolled-out with the launch of the new skills, familiarity with all business MyHR platform. Our 2017 results in training units, the ability to build networks Finally, globally consolidated reports While are preparing the roll-out of our across the company, and the will provide us with an overview of new MyHR LMS in 2018, we still professional and personal qualities competency gaps and learning relied on a multitude of systems that needed to innovate and lead. activities in a globally standardised provided rough data for 2017: see See Jane’s testimonial p.25. format. This will enable us to steer our table on the next page. learning priorities and investments in Based on these estimates, we can the years to come. note an increase in the number of 19 2017 Training follow-up Training 2017 2016 2015 2014 Country Hours Cost USD Hours Cost USD Hours Cost USD Hours Cost USD Belgium 43,713 2,767.3 30,350 1,885.7 30,638 1,963.5 41,016 2,358.7 Brazil 176,243 850.8 191,148 823.3 186,788 868.4 193,984 1,232.9 France 78,122 988.1 71,123 974.0 56,481 979.7 55,384 1,173.1 Germany 5,576 104.1 3,395 108.0 2,965 94.2 1,880 112.8 Italy 6,203 54.2 3,575 47.9 3,831 39.9 4,579 47.8 RoW 19,168 249.5 16,780 304.4 16,500 234.5 17,812 280.8 TOTAL 329,025 5,014.0 316,371 4,143.3 297,203 4,180.2 314,655 6,040.8 Training session on Leadership Aperam consolidated. Total of external training hours and spent reported, without internal costs.​ ​(G4-LA9) in Massalengo (Italy) in July 2017. Career path: Francisco at Châtelet In 1997, at the age of 17, Francisco joined Aperam’s Timoteo plant in Brazil as a trainee (SENAI) in the Cold Rolling Mill. He was then hired as an electromechanic-greaser, and later moved into several technician roles. After graduating as Mechanical Engineer (which he did by taking night courses over the course of four years), in 2009 he became Process Engineer at the Hot Rolling Mill and, later, Head of the Finishing Workshop. By 2016, Francisco was Head of Timoteo Hot Rolling Production and, when he graduated with a Master’s in Business Master, Aperam granted him a 12 month specialisation course in Metallurgy. With the aim of continuing to learn even after 20 years in Timoteo, in 2017 Francisco seized an opportunity to take part in a six month STA (Short-Term Assignment) and moved to Aperam Châtelet, in Belgium, with his wife and two kids. “When I was invited to stay in Châtelet at the end of the STA, we accepted with joy, glad to continue to live our dream, discover another culture and enrich our vision of the world. And even if starting a ‘new life’ in another country can be complicated, at first, I have been very well attended by attentive and benevolent people. I believe that one of Aperam’s main strengths is to give people the opportunity to grow and also to exchange with different cultures and experiences, extracting the best from its diversity. Now, I am very proud to operate as Châtelet Head of Hot Rolling Production (which is two times bigger than Timoteo’s) sharing day-to-day challenges and successes with a super positive team. Having started from operational Francisco and his family (above) functions enables me to better understand the context and level of difficulty of an operational problem which sure helps when looking for solutions!” Francisco’s career tips: Châtelet Hot Strip Mill in action (below) ​Feel and act as the company’s owner, not just selling eight hours of work a day for your entire life you’ll do a better job. ​You have to​ love problems​. They happen every day and by solving them, we can go further and improve. ​Be available and ​ready to help​. ​Keep learning​: techniques, languages, soft skills, etc. 20 And as icing on the cake, the managers from different seniority and “inventors” of the implemented ideas various working areas, facilitated by are also rewarded. local HR and an external consultant. After validation by Genk Management ▉​ ​In our 2016 report, we also committee, the result was presented described a programme in Genk that to all line managers in an interactive looked at motivating employees to workshop. Special attention was given remain employed even when they are to Safety, Communication and already entitled to their pension. In Change Management. Next year this 2017, significant progress was made framework will be used to formulate on this front. an action plan to strengthen the Explaining our products and processes. Eighty-two blue collars workers, leadership competences. representing about 10% of the Site specific initiatives population, volunteered to participate ▉​ ​To start diffusing a leadership style In 2016, we reported in our report the in one of the six focus groups on in line with Aperam’s new framework, initiative launched at S&S Brazil and “workable work and working longer”. S&S Italy organised a specific training Precision. Here are some news from Each group included a mix of young for a group of Second Line Managers them… and old people from different working from the two sites. The objective was areas and various shift systems. They to reflect on the difference between a ▉​ As we aim to spur innovation​, ​our were asked what they like and don’t boss and a leader and how to give Precision unit at Pont de Roide has like about working for Aperam and effective feedback to their teams. The taken the lead and developed a what the company and they could do training session was very interactive, complete programme where ideas are to keep them motivated until the end with participants learning from the welcome. Here, people can share of their career. trainer and from each other, thus their ideas concerning three different Out of the 190 answers and 176 building team spirit. At the end of the topics: Safety, Progress and the site’s proposals received, the topics of session, the trainees received specific “Emergence” plan. Leadership and Communication, tasks to perform with their team so The idea can be very simply shared Working Tools, Workload, Work-life they could put into practice all that via an online form, after which a balance, Work systems and Training they had learnt. During the follow up monthly review is conducted by the were the most often cited. Around session, which took place in October, site Management Committee. Once a these topics some actions are already 2017, participants shared concrete suggestion is approved, it is then taken, in consistency with our All experiences with using the new shared with a dedicated working Employee Engagement Survey competencies they learnt during the group who, together with the takeaways, and other – short term as first session. originator of the idea, is charged with well as long term actions will be In conclusion, the trainer stressed the putting it in place. In 2017, an developed in close collaboration with importance that the learning does not average of 50% of the some 260 the social partners. stop at the end of the training. To suggested ideas were implemented, grow as leaders, they can't just wait with Safety and Continuous Progress ▉​ ​To take an example, Genk site took for the next training session, but must being the most popular topics. There the time to elaborate on the topic of practice and make their new skills a were also three disruptive ideas for Leadership, which is also the core of part of their everyday work. the “Emergence plan” that were Aperam’s new competency framework implemented. (see above and in left-hand blue Training in Massalengo Service Centre. This shows why all ideas need to be insert). prioritized according to their feasibility, Indeed, in order to align and translate the cost incurred and the time needed Aperam vision on leadership to the for implementation. Regardless of production environment, a whether or not they need a design competency framework was created phase before execution, the explaining what “leadership necessary support team will be competences” mean (and what they formed locally and the idea will be put don’t mean) for a line manager in the in place. production environment. This leadership framework was the result of discussions within workshops consisting of five representative line 21 Promotion of diversity the best score with a ​45%​ ratio overall. level. In order to mobilise energies, it Following a series of workgroups, a was formalised by a collective Aperam employees come from over series of improvement axis were agreement and signed by all 54​ different nationalities (​2017​). In the defined: representative unions. future, we will continue to boost Correct salary gaps. In 2​ 017,​ we The efforts will focus on increasing the cultural diversity by further increasing finalised benchmarking the salaries of number of women across all jobs and geographical and functional mobility all exempts based on external market fight against stereotypes, the latter of (see the stories of Francisco, Jane data. The new Compensation module which will be extended externally and Lionel above). At the same time, in our MyHR system will allow us to through partnerships with NGOs such we are rejuvenating our workforce by better steer our annual salary reviews as “elles bougent”. Joint work on hiring young graduates and by focusing on internal and external awareness about “feminine skills” and apprentices (see below: Attracting pay equity. jobs will be conducted at schools, and talents in our industry). Introduce a diversity objective into Aperam ambassadors for the Nevertheless, we still have not the management’s personal targets programme will gather in a dedicated significantly improved our gender for 2018 (see new Performance network. balance. The need to promote Management). As per the agreement, a shared workplace diversity as a key objective Steer the percentage of women methodology with specific monitoring was also reflected in our All Employee selected for internal talent criteria is set up in order to ensure Engagement Survey (see page 1 ​ 4)​. management programmes (​40%​ of fairness in treatment for each candidates for these programmes collective and individual situation. In​ 2017​, women made up only ​11.9% were female in​ 2017​). Action plans are being defined on all of Aperam’s total workforce (stable Focus on making our industry more aspects: work conditions​ (accessib​ility compared to 2 ​ 016​ and almost attractive to women as part of our of the workplace, clothes adapted to equivalent to 2 ​ 013​ at 1 ​ 1.8%​), with a recruitment and employer branding morphology...), equality at work higher representation amongst campaigns. Today, half our (training opportunities, parental rights, exempts (​20.2%​, stable over three testimonials on recruitment platforms wages), hiring strategy, etc. Clear years). In Belgium, women account like LinkedIn and JobTeaser come targets in terms of increasing the for​ 4.5%​ of the workforce and 1 ​ 3%​ of from female employees. number of women in the workforce exempts, whereas at the other end of have also been set up for each entity. the range France counts 1 ​ 4% ​of ▉​ In France, in addition to an existing More news to come in our 2018 women in total and 2 ​ 3%​ of exempts. local agreement, it was decided to report! Our Luxembourg headquarters boast build a programme at the national Career path: Sofie, Steel Plant manager at Genk In September 2002, after finishing a master in metallurgy, Sofie joined Aperam at its Genk site (Belgium) as an operational Support Engineer. Her joining aligned with the start-up of a huge revamping project that doubled the plant’s capacity. She worked on the Argon Oxygen Decarburisation process, later becoming the line manager of AOD/VOD area where she oversaw 75 people. Afterwards, Sofie added the responsibility of Process & Product Quality, later becoming the Head of Continuous Caster for five years. By 2015, she switched to the Cold Rolling Plant in the role of Operational Support working more on such people management aspects as safety and evaluation interviews. In 2017, after having Sofie’s career tips worked 12 years in the steel plant, during which time she also become the mother of two children, Sofie moved to Head of Customer Services. “​It has been a good Be open-minded; experience to learn how to deal with our skills and constraints, aiming at the best response to customer expectations.” Have a strong will to work Most recently, starting February 1​st ​2018, she accepted the challenge of becoming the hard and build up Steel Plant Manager and member of the Site Management Committee. Sofie says experience, and in this way, “​despite it being considered a “men’s world”, I see it as a place where I feel welcomed through knowledge and and I am very motivated to build together with this strong team a safe and sustainable commitment, gain the steel plant ahead of competition. respect of the organisation I believe that Aperam understands how beneficial it is to adapt to this evolutive world, and your colleagues; and, giving new generations the opportunity to utilise their energy and new ideas and Treat everyone with combine it with all the experience accumulated over these years. To me, this is the respect. best formula to keep on being a leader in our area.​” 22 But diversity and discrimination are in lip reading, but not enough to not just gender equality. Last year, we actively participate in the Finishing mentioned the initiatives happening in department’s Flash Meetings. This Timoteo, and below we highlight other meant that she was excluded from initiatives happening across the joining her 3​ 5​ other employees in this group. exercise. In​ 2017​, a business administration intern presented a ▉ ​In Genk, 2017 was marked by the possible solution during the ​SIPAT DUOday programme, which asks (Industrial labour accident prevention participating companies “Do you dare week, an annual health and safety to do a duo”? It is an initiative where event). Her idea consisted of two people with an occupational disability steps. First, interested people could or health problem get a chance to do sign up to learn sign language. a one-day internship within a Second, the structure of the Flash company. Genk employees were meetings was changed so that Janei enthusiastic about participating and and her post colleague can prepare a decided to “host” a DUOday intern message before the meeting and both within the Health, Safety and share it during the event. These Environment (HSE) central lab. initiatives have been a real success Much thought was given to how such for all of the participants who showed a day should be organised for how they are able to welcome somebody “with an occupational diversity. disability” so we could adjust our activities accordingly. However, as soon as we met the candidate ahead of the internship, it became Jonathan in duo in Genk’s HSE lab Extract of immediately clear that it was us who Aperam Genk’s newsletter remained “limited” in our way of ▉ ​At Campinas, in Aperam S&S Brazil thinking. The intern was 20-year-old site, a similar inclusion action was put Jonathan, who told us about his into place some years ago, when chemical background and his desire APAE (Association of disabled to expand his knowledge in this field. persons’ parents and friends) came to He also explained his ‘limitation’ an the site to train personnel. This was autism spectrum disorder. done in preparation for welcoming When we picked up Jonathan at the Ioece, an employee with a mental reception on the D-Day, he was disability who was joining our Janei at S&S Campinas bursting with enthusiasm which cleaning team (about 6 people/shift). proved contagious! In the morning, The only adaptation requested Attracting talent to our wastewater samples were collected concerned the regularity of his for analysis in the central lab (see industry activities: he should always be picture). In the afternoon Jonathan In 2017, we made attracting new responsible for the same tasks every assisted the Security department in talent a priority in order to bring some day. The biggest surprise for his preparing for an upcoming emergency urgently needed and missing co-workers was how conscientious drill and took part in a safety audit in competencies on board. To do so, we Ioece is about his obligations, often the Melt Shop. piloted a Campus Recruitment reminding others to keep their After an intensive and pleasant day, strategy that initially focused on workplace clean and even giving Jonathan thanked the team for the schools and universities in France. It suggestions about safety rules. opportunity and the educational was soon expanded to Belgium, Today, Ioece is very well integrated experience and we all thanked him Germany and Italy in order to attract into Aperam’s community, known and for the same! international profiles. appreciated by everybody on the site. This first initiative to put diversity in The objective of the strategy was to practice was heavily promoted in A second case to exemplify this site’s improve our branding as an employer Genk’s print magazine (see picture). openness is Janei’s story, who joined and position Aperam as a great place the packaging section (two workers) in for young graduates to work. The 2014​. Being deaf, she is very efficient effort paid off, with several new hires made right after events. We also 23 recognised that this was a unique the competencies of existing partnered with local Employment and opportunity to attract trainees looking employees. In addition to these, some Training Agencies to define a specific for internships or vocational contracts new initiatives are to be reported for new “CQPM” diploma on stamping in their country or abroad. 2017. press operations (a 11-month programme combining courses and As a result, in 2017 we hired more ▉ ​For example, the regional agency in field training) with a pre-recruitment than 20 trainees at Exempt level in charge of training at our Imphy plant phase. vocational contracts in Europe and (GRETA 58) has finalised an The latter was a true innovation as it welcomed more than 10 young extensive 400-hour training relied on tailor-made simulation graduates in a VIE contract (French programme on melting shop exercises (manipulations, questions) program called Volontariat operations that targets job seekers. to assess competencies according to International en Entreprise) in Built in cooperation with our in-house needs and identify potential Luxembourg, Germany and Brazil. experts and the French Steel industry candidates irrespective of their This represents a unique opportunity Training agency (​ADEFIM​), the training background. As a result, all preto invest in the development of young path covers technical modules on selected candidates were interviewed graduates and, ideally, offer them an steelmaking processes, as well as without any prior screening of their opportunity to start their career with transversal modules regarding quality resumes, which allowed for much Aperam at the end of their contract. management, maintenance, more diverse profiles, including communications and of course safety. women and even a former pastry The programme took place between ►​ 793 joiners in 2017 September and December and mixed cook. To ensure that the change in work environment would not be a theoretical courses and on-the-job roadblock, a one-week observation 80% in permanent sessions with a close monitoring by period at the plant was offered to contract Aperam professionals on each tool. some. From the 80 people attending the first Now that the programme is over, 29 average age informational meeting with the GRETA 100% of the trained candidates have (31 in 2016) 58 in July to the selection of the eight became permanent employees at Aperam Amilly. This combination of 17% are women trainees, the selection process pre-recruitment by simulation and the (same as 2016) included several phases of tests and interviews. Starting with no knowledge “CQPM” training programme adds a about the steel industry, by the end of lot in terms of experience and the programme, the eight selected diversity! trainees (see picture) were offered a ▉ ​To ensure that our joiners get the 12-month contract with Aperam. This information they need to have a contract included a continuous positive start in this complicated and monitoring, an induction process and fascinating industry, Aperam has put access to a specific sector-specific together company-wide induction diploma “CQPM Operateur de programmes. In addition to the local Fusion”, which opened up new schemes with strong Health & Safety opportunities. capacity building and sessions on our Visiting campuses. Code of Conduct, European That being said, in previous reports newcomers are invited to a tour of our we highlighted the difficulty of finding main local sites. In 2017, the tour some competencies on the market. again dedicated time to safety, before This is true both because the drilling into the production process academic path does not exist and and ending with a presentation of our because experienced people are not products. There was also time for available. To address this need, some networking, with several lunches with of our plants have developed an plant managers and members of the internal framework, such as Timoteo The eight Imphy trainees and their instructors Leadership Team were also and Gueugnon, which focus heavily scheduled. These moments were ▉ ​In the same spirit, Amilly unit (110 on apprenticeships, or Imphy and its excellent opportunities to establish a workers) is also having a hard time internal school (see previous reports) sense of belonging and openly finding operators. They have that trains newcomers and enhances discuss their first months at Aperam. 24 Career path: Jane in Timoteo J​ane joined our Timoteo site at the age of 18, first as an intern, then as Production Assistant. Once she graduated with a degree in Finance and Controlling, she joined the Hot Strip Mill as Junior Analyst. In September 2007, she became Auditor, where she also followed a two-year Post Graduate programme in Cost Management. In 2010, she switched to Internal Audit (called Combined Assurance in Aperam). In line with Combined Assurance’ aim to be a training ground for future business leaders, Jane travelled a lot over the World to run multiple audits on various processes, lead fraud investigations and present her recommendations in terms of action plans. She also took a one-year International Master course and graduated as a Certified Internal Auditor in 2013. Beginning of 2018, she shifted to a new job as head of Compensation & Benefits in Brazil’s Human Resources department. Jane is quite motivated about this drastic change in function: ​“Being involved in so many different missions was a rich experience which is very helpful now. I am facing many challenges and I need to be open-minded to understand the different sites’ procedures and manage to align them. I’m sure this year will be very challenging to me!”​. Jane’s feedback split with 97% Full-Time employees compare these figures to those of our (9,333), as can be seen in the table 2017 joiners, of which 28% were ❝ ​My experience in Combined below. This is a +0.4% increase (+40 below 25 (ie. 221), it means that 38% Assurance has been very FTE) versus 2016, but does not reflect of our employees below 25 were enriching: I gained visibility on more profound changes in our recruited in the course of the year. workforce ​(G4-10). That’s quite a refresh! This truly the company, its businesses and reflects the ambition fora deep different processes, along with > ​Primarily, workforce turnover was at renewal of our staff, considering our an inside perspective of its a 241 net increase, mostly the result age pyramid and the new needs of of onboarding 793 joiners (80% our industry. management levels permanent contracts) and the My missions allowed me to build departure of 552 FTE, with 24% ▉​ The mix of various generations (​Y, trust and confidence with the leaving for pension or pre-pension. Z​…) can be seen as a challenge for stakeholders which is essential in Also to be noted is the divestiture of both employees and their our Tube unit (Ancerville site in management. To address this, in my new position in the company. France), mentioned in last report and 2017 our Imphy unit started dedicated So overall, the move to which has triggered a reduction in our workshops and specific actions to Combined Assurance acted as a workforce of 166 FTE in April 2017. ensure that each generation catalyst and a true career > ​Based on the 2017 workforce, the understands one another, to optimise average seniority within Aperam is 15 collaboration and to leverage accelerator!​❞ years (considering the years prior to everyone’s motivation. the spin-off, within Usinor, Arcelor or A good example of how Aperam A rejuvenated workforce ArcelorMittal companies). In terms of strives to have the most motivated age, 40% of our staff is over 45 workforce in our industry. At the end of 2017, our workforce years-old and 6% below 25. If we stood at 9,599 Full-Time Equivalent, Aperam total workforce Aperam consolidated total of Full-Time Equivalent employees, at 31/12/2016​ ​(G4-10) 2017 Gender Full-Time Part-time TOTAL exempts N-exempts Our Workforce Permanent Female 1,015 118 1,133 201 933 Contract Male 8,163 147 8,310 793 7,517 97% full-time contracts Fixed-term Female 11 1 12 1 11 10% exempts Contracts Male 144 144 6 138 TOTAL All 9,333 266 9,599 1,001 8,598 793​ ​Joiners ​ie 8% of staff 2016 Gender Full-Time Part-time TOTAL exempts N-exempts 552 ​Leavers​, ​o/w 24% on Permanent Female 1,007 112 1,119 196 922 pre-pension/pension Contract Male 8,126 136 8,262 768 7,494 Fixed-term Female 17 0 17 2 15 514 supervised workers Contracts Male 161 0 161 8 153 TOTAL All 9,311 247 9,558 974 8,584 25 Social Our Planet Metallurgy uses immense energy and hazardous substances to transform raw materials into the precise blend of alloys required by our clients. In turn, these Alloys can be used in making useful, affordable and long-lasting products, including vehicles and buildings, for a sustainable way of life. Today, Aperam is continuing its journey to sustainability with milestones on energy, CO​2​, air and water to name just a few. The ultimate goal is to ensure that our production processes impact the less possible the environment or our neighbours. We are proud to be providing the world’s “greenest stainless steel”. Industrial Footprint very significant investment made in 2016, we hope to sustain this Energy and CO2 excellent operational performance using charcoal, which justifies us Carbon footprint saying that we produce “the world’s greenest stainless steel”. Actually, In the steel sector, which is one of the Aperam is 50% lower than the latest most energy-consuming sectors, ISSF standards, making us amongst Aperam’s CO​2​ footprint is driven by the best players in our sector2 a two factors: energy consumption, position that we will strive to retain. which impacts our Scope 2 carbon emissions (see below) and charcoal Since we consider it our duty to focus consumption, which reduces our firstly on our industrial footprint, we Scope 1 emissions by avoiding the are currently not studying carbon use of Coke in our Brazilian Blast offset via CO​2​ sequestration (beyond Eucalyptus at our BioEnergia forestry. Furnaces. Although the standard what our eucalyptus forestry naturally steel-making process demands that does). Our carbon footprint is That being said, with no technological carbon add-ins are made during the currently calculated according to the breakthrough in sight to substantially melting process, Aperam’s tools have latest standard in use (enacted by ISO change the carbon intensity of our been adjusted to accept carbonised 14404 and supported by our industry, our focus remains primarily (eucalyptus) trees instead of professional organisation WorldSteel), on our charcoal usage (see above) extractive coke. whereby our forestry is supposed to and Energy consumption (see next As a result, our 2017 (scope 1+2) CO​2 be carbon neutral. section). footprint stands at 1,111 kilo-tonnes But this means that all the leaves and branches that fall in the forest and that As a side topic, we are also starting to (769 +341 kt) or 0.49* t/ tons of slabs, we let degrade into humus to broaden pay greater attention to our Scope​ 3 back to our 2013 best performance always more the layer of breeding soil emissions. At Aperam, we started to level. This also represents a 16% are not counted. estimate these based on our transport decrease vs. 2016 and a 34.5% For us, our BioEnergia forestry is and I​ T ​emissions, both start to decrease vs. 2008, in accordance with actually carbon positive. This means reduce. In 2016, our Scope 3 footprint our 2020 objective ​G4-EN18​. Aperam’s carbon footprint should be related to transport and IT, as The next step will be to perennialize even better, but the figures we reported to the CDP, was at 513 kt of this excellent performance by disclose are based on this commonly CO​2​e and 6,3 kt of CO​2​e respectively. ensuring the reliability of our adjusted used methodology that is actually process, which requires a lot more detrimental to us. care in the handling of the earth. This is actually why we temporarily reintroduced coke in 2015 to stabilise one of our blast furnaces. Thanks to a 2 ​ISSF 2015 average footprint 0.92tCO2e/tcs (latest information available) 26 CTLES Pierre L’Excellent Antonin Damon Picture:​ The extension of the existing CTLES (“Centre Technique du Livre de l’Enseignement Supérieur” a French body in charge of preserving and communicating materials for Parisian higher education establishments) building was entirely made using Aperam 304L stainless steel with the Uginox Bright surface finish. Such a surface finish on the facade reflects the environment, which changes throughout the day, as the light changes,, and when the observer moves. The material’s texture provides varying degrees of reflection intensity depending on the viewing angle, modulating from striped echoes like those found in impressionist works, to a pristine mirror image. The nature surrounding it is its main playground; trees and sky become merged with the building’s surface until it fades away. Aperam’s environmental footprint at a glance Indicator Unit 2020 target 2017 2016 2015 2014 Page (1) Energy consumption GJ/ t cs​ -10% intensity vs. 2012 (ie. 12.2) 12.4* 12.8* 12.8* 13.0* Energy​ ​p. 28-29 CO₂ emissions t / t cs​(1) -35% intensity vs. 2007 (ie. 0.49) 0.49* 0.58* 0.54* 0.48* CO​2 p. ​ 26-28 Dust emissions t 343.2* 549.8* 520.9* 441.8* Dust emissions g /t cs​(1) -12% intensity vs 2015 (ie. 211) 151 242 240 213 P. 30-31 Wastes ​(landfilled) kt Zero waste for landfill 116 115 103 110 Recycled input in production % n/a 27 27 30 28 Waste & Recycling > Reuse rate % 100% reused or recycled 94.2 93.3 93.5 93.4 p. 33 > Wastes: hazardous 51 51 36 54 kt Zero waste for landfill > Wastes: nonhazard. 65 65 67 56 Water ​intakes million m​ 3 3​ -5% vs. 2015 (ie. 21.1 millions m​ ) 22.6* 23.0 22.1* 22.3* 3​ (1) > Water intake m​ / t cs​ 10.1 9.9 10.0 10.5 > Water recycling % n/a 95.3 96.3 95.4 95.5 § Water > Water discharge million m​3 n/a 15.8 14.9 14.7 16.9 p. 32. > Suspended solids into water n/a 390 355 204 379 t​) > Metal discharge into water n/a 8.1 7.6 6.4 10.7 EN5 EN6 EN8​ ​EN18 EN21 EN23 ​​*Data highlighted with a star have received external assurance. (1) ​ ​ ton of Crude steel. 27 In 2017, 32% of our energy mix (see Impact of Carbon markets next page) came from renewable > ​Another large stream of energy sources notably charcoal biomass. savings came from the replacement All over the world, a growing of key equipment or the set-up of number of jurisdictions are setting > ​Regarding process optimisation​, new technologies​. A good example up incentives to make emitters cut we have several active programmes is the replacement of two of our their CO​2 emissions. Until now, in place. In Europe, we are rolling out European Hot Strip mill engines (see only our European operations strong management systems, often picture). (which represent 43% of our through ISO 50001 certification. In emissions) were subject to such Brazil, with the help of the Viridis ▉ ​Shipped by river from Germany to conditions (ETS quota allocation). System, we are increasing our Belgium during the annual Taking into account existing ETS vigilance on consumption. Both of maintenance shutdown in August rules and current prospects, our these projects continued to bring 2017, these new 12 MW Alternative latest projections do not anticipate additional savings in 2017. Current motors represent a 50% a quota shortage before the Also in 2017, we launched specific increase in nominal power over their mid-2020s. programmes that had a high impact predecessors not to mention lower Brazil does not have a CO​2 market on energy consumption. Led at the consumption and maintenance costs. or a carbon tax and no plans for Group level by dedicated teams, one These motors, and others in the Hot one in the near future. project focused on reliability. As Rolling process, necessitated a major To support the transition to a low unplanned stoppages generate heat investment and a three-week carbon economy in our own way, losses, which in turn demand installation using an enormous crane we have implemented an internal warm-up energy during restart and a process that garnered significant price of CO​2 (based on scope 1+2 result in a much higher consumption coverage by national TV and emissions), which we apply to all than necessary in the normal run, it is newspapers. As a result, we saved investments we envisage. This important to increase the machine’s 2.2 Gwh in 2017 and expect additional internal price was initially set in reliability. Thanks to this project, we savings in 2018 for a full-year impact. 2016 at 15 US$/ton. Even though saved some 28 MW in 2017. In Today, Aperam’s Châtelet location is this is already much higher than addition, a central Energy programme home to two of the largest roughing current market prices in Europe, was launched and has a high potential motors anywhere in the world!! we anticipate raising it even higher for savings. for a more powerful incentive. ▉ ​In 2017, the project achieved an important result concerning the use of Energy Variation Speed Drive (VSD) and high performance motors. At the Timóteo Steelmakers are big consumers of Melt Shop, VSD were installed in two energy, and savings are primarily big motors of the dedusting system of achieved through three key types of MRPL, resulting in more than 60% initiatives: reduction in electricity consumption General process optimisation, and saving 9.7 GWh. The same New technologies, like Alternative solution is now being applied to other Giant motors of 12 MW at Châtelet.. Current (or asynchronous) motors, big motors in Brazil (EAF) and Specific energy optimisation (fatal Châtelet (AOD). Energy energy re-use, etc.) ▉ ​Another important subject covered Aperam is using these three initiatives to continuously improve its energy by the energy project is LED lighting. 32%​ ​Renewable In 2016, our Genk site started energy​ used in 2017 efficiency in line with our -10% 2020 replacing old lamps with LED, which target. In 2017, we are pleased to see resulted in 182 MWh of energy our consumption decrease savings in 2017. Now, this subject has Consumption intensity vs. 2012 significantly in terms of absolute value (-3.9%), as well as in energy intensity been brought to the corporate level as part of the Energy Efficiency project, -10%​ target​ (2020) (12.4*Gj/ton of crude steel, -3.0% with the goal of speeding up its compared to 2016), primarily thanks to a very positive performance in implementation and ensuring the -8.4%​ ​achieved​ ​(2017) entire Group reaps the benefits of Brazil (-8.5%) ​(G4-EN5)​. improved energy use, safety, purchase and maintenance costs and on working conditions. 28 > ​In terms of specific energy based on the heat recovered from the ▉ ​Looking forward, we have to optimisation​, we can recall the furnaces of Recyco and Weee remember that our energy intensity re-use of blast furnace gas in Metallica (one of the host companies). depends on the metallurgical blend Timoteo, a project that concluded in All options have been shared and we are producing not all metals melt 2016 but generated 200 Gwh of discussed with the various at the same temperature. Also, when additional savings in 2017. The stakeholders, including Regional we “sophisticate” our products, project focused on the increased use Authorities, and decisions should be especially during downstreams of BFG to replace NG and LPG in the made in 2018. operations (eg. strings, thinner coils, Ladle Heating of Melt Shop. It bright surface finish), we consume included improvements on automation ▉​ To expand on the project for a better more power per ton of crude steel and and control, reliability, work conditions use of the gases generated by the our indicators deteriorate, even if we and safety and it became a truly wood pyrolysis and following the reach the highest possible energy innovative solution once a flex burner pattern implemented in Lagoa Unit, efficiency. As an example, our Alloys was developed. The project was BioEnergia in Brazil invested in a unit consumes almost two times more recognized in Timóteo with several second gas burner in 2017, this time energy by slab than our pure awards in 2017. The complete for Palmeiras Unit. It consists of a Stainless European units. modification in the Ladle Heaters complex incineration system This means that historical series are fostered savings of 66.5 GWh/year. designated to burn gases with a not that easy to interpret without a mix capacity of 11,700 Nm³ of gas per indication, and that our strategy to ▉ ​To ensure the systematic hour and withholding temperatures of always produce more value-added identification of similar opportunities, up to 1200 ºC. products for our customers may cause the Isbergues site partnered with the With the new burner, 55 carbonisation our energy intensity ratio to French Environmental Agency kilns are now neutralised, in addition deteriorate... (ADEME) to conduct an analysis of to the 42 at the Lagoa Unit. This has the energy either consumed or resulted in two key achievements. Blast Furnace in action in Timoteo (Brazil). generated on this industrial platform. Firstly, we can observe the The site not only hosts Aperam’s LC2I environment impact with the reduction rolling mill (a state-of-the-art of CO​²​ emissions from the charcoal automatised line), our waste-to-value production (although not counted Recyco subsidiary, a Service Centre according to WorldSteel and one of our R&D hubs, but it also methodology). Second, there is the provides shelter to other independent potential economic gain when we start businesses either historically attached to use the heat from the burning gas to the plant or recently added and all to dry the wood or to generate benefiting from this industrial-friendly electricity which will start in 2018. and well-equipped centre. As a result, 43 sources of fatal energy have been Aperam 2017 energy split (%) G4-EN5 identified, with 17 presenting more potential. As to the latter, to clarify the type of heat (steam or water) and the temperature, simulations have been run and seven scenarios have been defined to leverage either internally or externally this energyequivalent. Finally, the technical projects have also been converted in financial terms to identify those offering the best return on investment. Amongst the projects under study with Aperam are the recuperation of fumes from the LC2I, either to ensure the heating of the Aperam Service Centre and Finishing Mills or to reduce the Operations in progress at Châtelet. consumption of natural gas at the start of the process. Another option is to design an urban heating network for the city of Isbergues/Saint Venant 29 Dust and air emissions blocks than coke and disaggregates When we look at our materiality more easily. The fact that it is lighter matrix, and even in discussions with means it is easily blown by the wind, our stakeholders, dust (rather than thus dust reduction is even more more general air emissions) remains challenging. Overall, with the the key area where our responsibility installations as they are, our filtering is is challenged. This is why we do not not effective enough to avoid dust and consider it sufficient to simply comply coloured smoke at difficult stages of with local regulations. the process, and the suction is not Starting several years ago, we set up always sufficient to attract the an initial target of -12% reduction in particles resulting in diffuse dust and intensity of our ducted dust (compared an inconvenience for the to 2015) to address the legitimate neighborhood. requests of our neighbours. Knowing this, in 2016 we conducted We believe that our two Belgian an external consultancy study and a melting shops have developed what new methodology to identify the are now best-in-class routines that priority systems to be enhanced. This aim to have the most efficient decision was based on a stress test management of dust emissions (see (in worst conditions) to estimate the previous reports). These routines are limits of our tools. Principal areas of continuously improving our diffuse focus are the charcoal loading/ dust emissions, notably in 2017, when unloading systems, conveyors and the we added new roofs or buildings to blast furnaces, on one side, and the shelter operations in the Genk and melting shop, on the other. Châtelet slag yards (see picture). > ​Short-term actions were launched in 2017 on critical chimneys and key dedusting systems. Some important investments were also validated to Dedusting installation at Timoteo (the size of 6-floor building) and renovation works in upgrade motors or order new filtering progress with new pipes ready to duct dust. bags for a higher efficiency of installations. A key achievement was ▉​ At our Imphy unit, the situation is the full covering of charcoal different, because of the addition of conveyors, replacing clogged or new equipment. Still, the actions leaking ducts and many (thousands!) undertaken in the course of the year Erecting the building for the “cold” zone of our slag yard at Châtelet in summer 2017. filtering bags. Over the past three are part of a multi-year roadmap to go years, maintenance on the blast beyond compliance and apply best Our other Aperam units are starting to furnaces’ dedusting installation has standards. They focus on two actions: apply these best practices, in line with tripled. increase monitoring; reduce diffused our new 2016 roadmap and dust though enhanced capturing. methodology, starting with the > ​Next steps include a five-year intensification of measures and an roadmap, which will be fine-tuned early 2018. It will integrate carefully Dust enhanced maintenance plan of our dedusting installations. phased revamps of installations and important investments, with significant reengineering and stoppages of -38%​ emissions vs. 2016 Key 2017 developments production to plan well ahead. As a ▉ ​Our Timoteo unit, which is our first step, a list of priorities has been Maintenance ​tripled in largest unit and the only one operating planned for 2018, starting with the Timoteo and doubled in Imphy blast furnaces, represents around setting up of online monitoring since 2015 ​& investments 90% of Aperam’s dust emissions. (pressure, etc.) to implement more Thus, it is our primary focus. To be effective preventive maintenance and fair, the courageous and keep upgraded installations in good environmentally-friendly decision to conditions until a full refurbishment replace coke by charcoal has can be made. complicated dust containment. Charcoal comes in much thinner 30 > ​As a matter of fact, a first key partially the result of conjunctural we are currently not technically able to improvement was made in this area events (temporary suspension of provide such figures for our full scope. during 2 ​ 017​ summer stoppages with some tools, brand new filtering These measures confirm that we are the setup of a ducting hood for the sleeves), but we do believe that our fully compliant with our local permits fumes emitted by the casting ladle. dust emissions have been significantly and national regulations. We aim to The collected dust is channeled reduced YoY thanks to a very clear progress and will get a more complete through bag filters before going to programme in Timoteo and in our coverage as new monitoring is being Recyco for a 100% recycling. other plants, most notably Imphy, set up in our plants according to our Further work streams are also which saw a -10% decrease in strategy. planned through 2021, including an absolute value. This encourages us to extraction to be installed directly as a continue with our efforts to NOx/SOx emissions (Europe) tons 2014 2015 2016 2014 fourth hole onto the EAF, ducting to consistently reach a performance be organised at the oxycuting station, below our target ​(G4-EN21)​. NOx 844 917 783 910 and some operations to be confined SOx 75 83 55 48 (see also our focus on Imphy Slag yard) and the repair of existing leakages. Dust settles on the Slag yard > ​On the measuring side, systems Last year, we reported about the have been strengthened with respect tensions at the Imphy slag yard. The to both ducted and diffused dusts. increase in activity fostered accrued Since 2014, diffused dust falls are dust falls in neighbouring gardens monitored at six stacks scattered in and a ten-fold increase in truck trips. the urban area around the plant. The Although the aim of this activity was unit decided to address the concerns for a “good cause” (i.e. the clearing expressed by some neighbours and of historical slag stocks), it was put itself in a position to prove its clearly an inconvenience to performance. To do so, continuous neighbours. monitoring of the emissions will be As of early 2018, we can report a needed, with alerts in case of complete change in the situation. anomalies. Measures will also be Firstly, our former subcontractor’s used to regularly report to all contract has not been renewed. interested parties. Instead, a new firm, one that will Starting in 2017, continuous treat the slags in a closed building measuring systems have been far from our plant, has been installed and calibrated at the melting selected. This means that most of shop and, in the medium term, all Imply melting shop: recovery of the dust in bags the disturbances related to noise chimneys will be covered. ready to be sent to Recyco. have ceased and truck movements This enhancement project, designed will soon be drastically reduced. with the help of external and internal > ​What is also a significant progress The operations that currently remain experts and local authorities, will is that our Brazilian stress-test with on this piece of land are limited to demand significant investments as abnormal conditions (377 +22 tons emptying the melting pots, sorting and accrued maintenance expenses, worst case scenario ie. -37% vs. the metallic parts and loading the but Aperam aims for more than 2016) reflects the system trucks. However, even these compliance this is our responsibility. enhancement occurred during 2017. activities could cease definitely We are confident that improvement towards the end of 2018. In fact, 2017 results in dust emissions will continue in 2018, especially with starting January 2019, we have the addition of a new vigilance among committed that these operations will > ​Overall, considering all these teams in production workshops. be performed in a closed building initiatives, we are happy to report a significant reduction in our dust > ​To increase transparency on this and with strict thresholds in terms of emissions, even in times of increased topic, and to show that we do not dust emissions. We are currently production. Our total emissions pretend that dust is our only type of finalising the decision regarding the consolidated using regulatory emissions, we decided to disclose future location of this process. methodologies indicate a -38% more data regarding our air To be continued in our next report. reduction, with 343* tons emitted emissions. This year, for the first time, (ducted and part of diffused), which is we are also providing NOx and SOx a 151 g/t cs in intensity. This figure is figures for our European units only, as 31 Water ▉ ​In 2017, the Isbergues site Overall this year, we are slightly We see this topic as moving up in our conducted a full study with an external disappointed by these results as some priority list. Our discussions with local company and the French Water of the actions undertaken last year, in authorities this year have confirmed Agency. Currently, the site reports a particular in Brazil, have not yet that dry seasons may soon foster 77% consumption in closed circuits for provided clear savings. With the more problems regarding water its Cold Rolling tool (LC2I), which is activity of the plants being the main availability and that restrictions might lower than the Group average, and an driver for water consumption, the rise be necessary in some places, even in excellent 99% ratio for the Recyco in production has not been offset by Western Europe. unit. It collects rainwater on an area of sufficient progress in terms of closed 27 hectares and uses two water circuits. It has also been impacted by Aware of this fact, we have defined a intakes from the canal. different technical issues. -5% reduction target in terms of water The situation is clearly complex, and After a continuous decrease between consumption compared to 2015. to fully understand it, the study drilled 2012 and 2015, consumption has While we are starting to infuse new into the overall water intakes and gone up by 3% in 2016 and is stable habits at central level, all action plans discharge quality, looking for in 2017 (-1.7% in absolute value), with are still site-specific for the moment. opportunities for further improvement closed circuits down from 96.3% in They start with a review of existing in recycling circuits or rainwater 2016 to 95.3% in 2017. infrastructures, repair of leakages, collection. In terms of water quality, which we and better monitoring of consumption In terms of intake reduction, the started to report on only last year, we to make sure only the necessary conclusions submitted in early constantly monitor our discharge into water is withdrawn, in line with January 2018 identified several the nearby rivers, both visually and production needs. improvement areas, such as the with chemical analysis. We hope to extension of rainwater collection see more progress soon. ▉​ In this respect, our Châtelet site (some six hectares are at stake) and provides a flattering example. It the rehabilitation of a former decanter reports a 98% closed circuit 2015-2017 Water use by source as an intermediate storage pool. Such consumption and a constant reduction (m​3​ and %) actions could lead to a few points in water intakes over the years (-13% G4-EN8 reduction in volume intake and in 2017). drastically cut our discharge, thereby In fact, the plant needs large volumes also reducing the risks of accidental of water to cool down the slabs and pollution. hot rolled coils. These streams are In terms of water treatment efficiency collected and treated in a large water and water discharge quality, more treatment installation, including a vast work and more investments will be open air decanter, the management of necessary as the overall layout of which was recently re-internalised by equipment is suboptimal and some the site. add-ins (buffer pool) could really make To operate on a sound basis, in late a difference. 2016, work began to revamp ducts, The decision on the action plan will be check pumps and proceed to a heavy made by summer 2018. cleaning up of filtering and tanks, among others. Results of these actions came very quickly. By the first semester of 2017, drastic reductions in leakages, energy consumption and volume being pumped from the Sambre River (see picture) were achieved. More work is planned to finalise the full revamping of the installation and to get a perfect reliability of the system, with the necessary pressure and quality for operations and an even better environmental impact. Other equipment will also undergo a similar review. The river Sambre next to our Châtelet plant. 32 Waste & Recycling had stored back in the ​1970​s and that ▉ ​At Aperam Gueugnon, two major With steel being endlessly reusable, it can now be efficiently treated. In ​2017​, achievements can be noted for 2017. is both an input in our industrial we recovered 89 tons, up 1 ​ 5%​ from The first concerns the cooling system process as well as our end product. 2016​, and we expect to continue until of an old pickling line stopped in 2011. With a dedicated unit in Europe the full stock is gone, presumably in When in use, the cooling system had (Recyco) whose business is to treat 2021​. generated hundreds of tons of slag melting shop dust to recover the loaded with metallic oxides. The ▉ ​Last year we mentioned the start-up collection tank used to be regularly metallic content and send it to melting collection of beverage cans in cleaned, but when the machine was shops, it is no stretch to say that Châtelet. In 2017, this programme discontinued, the remaining slag was Aperam is a recycling champion! grew substantially. The unit collected left behind. In 2017, a first batch of But our work does not stop here. To approximately 20,000 cans from slag was removed and sent to a further bolster our commitment to offices and restrooms that were specialised centre for treatment. A recycling, we are working towards directly recycled in the melting shop. similar operation is planned in 2018 to becoming a zero-waste (for landfill) This represents nearly half the annual finalise the removal of this hazardous company. Although there is no estimated consumption. waste. company-wide programme for In addition, the plant introduced a few The second achievement involves the achieving this yet, all units are complementary collection routines: cold rolling line, which also generates dedicated to addressing the one for plastic bottles and cups and a lot of waste and materials hazardous wastes that can come in several channels for domestic or contaminated by hydrocarbons. All the form of slags (mud), dust or acids. heavy batteries (see pictures). For the this waste is normally collected and With 26.6% of the input of our process latter, the recycled weight has already sent to an appropriate processing already coming from recycled sources reached nine tons! facility. In 2017, the unit has fully (​G4-EN2​including scraps, In the course of 2 ​ 018​, more waste will renovated the storage area used for refractories, reconditioned electrodes, be collected, including printers’ this waste. The work has also pallets, etc.) it is not that easy to cartridges, styrofoam and other improved the collection of rainwater create a second life for some material. The unit is even looking at from the concerned area in order to aggressive by-products such as acids. recycling suits and shoes! avoid the flows being polluted by the To do so, our technicians and R&D In addition, over the summer the unit contaminated waste and ending up in team must work with external firms to a heavy cleaning to recuperate the the natural environment. find proper solutions. sludge from the Hot Strip mill water Both achievements were highly treatment station (see above). More appreciated by local environmental than 5​ 00​ barrels have been filled, agencies. which will then be sent to external recovery centres. 2015-2016 Residues split The new storage of plastic at Châtelet. (%) G4-EN23 Scrap yard at Timoteo So in 2017, we report that 88% of our wastes are recycled and 2% reused which means 4% of our wastes are still being stored in wait for solutions The new collection of batteries at Châtele.t (as proves the Cruzinheiro project below), and 6% only landfilled with a small 0.9 points improvement over 2016 (​G4-EN23​). But let’s give some update about the actions undertaken last year. ▉ ​The Cruzinheiro project in Timoteo, which started in ​2016,​ is extracting ancient dust that our predecessors 33 Other initiatives abnormality and raise the alert as A third significant security necessary. improvement area can be found in the Industrial Security Precision unit’s replacement of​ 21 ▉​ In Pont de Roide , the desire to tonnes of Ammonium that was In previous reports, we discussed the apply the best standards has led to previously used to produce frequent exercises and simulations the proactive modification of several DiHydrogene. Since​ 2016​, the that we run at our sites (Timoteo in security points. The first one is related presence of this element had last year’s report, Isbergues and to the site’s only entrance point, which classified our site as “​SEVESO ​low” Gueugnon in 2015). This year, we is enclosed in the city and bordered under European regulations, with a would like to highlight the measures by the river. In 2017, a new badging risk over a seven kilometre perimetre. taken on a permanent basis to ensure system was set up for employees In this unit, DiHydrogene is used for the security of our sites. Although going through the guard post and the bright annealing furnace and thus there are central guidelines on this pedestrian turnstile. Complementary does not justify a​ SEVESO topic, the action plans are determined barriers and video cameras were also classification in itself. In​ 2017,​ Aperam at the unit level and in line with site’s installed, and a security firm was Precision eliminated the entire stock risk analysis and local regulations and appointed to provide better control of of Ammonium and switched to in coordination with local or regional all carriers and external providers DiHydrogene, which is now delivered authorities. entering the site. weekly to the site. Furthermore, the In 2017, several of our sites Furthermore, as this site operates with site is organised not to keep more strengthened their anti-intrusion a low volume of Fluoride Acid, a than what is necessary. measures. Here we report on two robust training programme dedicated interesting examples. to both internal and external Awareness-Raising ▉ ​In Isbergues, new measures have firefighters is in place. Organised been taken within the context of new every three years by the site’s security In 2017, the Group decided to make regulations applicable to SEVESO team and with the help of external sure the company’s targets were fully sites. On this 101 hectares historical experts, the training consists of an clear to all employees. To start, an site that also host external companies, accident and victim treatment awareness-raising campaign was the complete action plan simulation. It has been attended by launched during the week of the encompassed topics related to four groups of about 1 ​ 2 ​people (see United Nations’ World Environment ligthning, identifying vulnerable zones pictures), with the last training Day. (storage of acid, electrical happening in ​2017. World Environment Day “Let’s commit to action transformer, etc), upgrading the together” with Aperam targets in German. information system and setting up enhanced 24/7 video monitoring. As a result, 14 new cameras have been placed on strategic places to ensure night detection, offering powerful focus and 360 degrees monitoring of the necessary areas (see example). Images from Isbergues’ new video cameras. 1) Preparation of the exercise (above). 2) Acting: simulation of a faintness (below). All of these images are broadcast into The campaign used a poster detailing the guard post that is located at the our targets and asking all employees site entrance and in constant liaison to “commit to action let’s do it with the emergency unit. As a together!” (see above). This was result,the team is now better able combined with a quiz inviting even to quickly detect any intrusion or employees to assess their maturity 34 level and pick-up a few ideas on how come to work at such a cleaner, nicer Bee-ing aware of the to “commit to action” at home and at and even safer site!”​. And this is not work.These ideas included such the end! The goal now is to keep this environment simple things as reporting leakages or same level of cleanliness and For the past two years, the turning off PC screens at lunch, up to continue to improve resource Isbergues site has monitored its air such things as purchasing food in bulk efficiency. The next step is to reduce emissions using bees. The site (to reduce packaging waste), using the amount of garbage being installed three beehives of 250 000 electric or hybrid cars rather than generated by keeping in mind the 3Rs bees that gather pollen from an thermal engines... or even adopting a Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. average distance of three hen to transform waste into eggs! kilometers from the site. Unsurprisingly, this last action was Set up in partnership with the Bee clearly the less popular from the list, City company, this project allows us as per our respondents! Another to verify on an annual basis that action prepared in 2017 will bring its there is limited metal constituents in ▉​ ​Aiming to spread awareness fruits in 2018. the collected pollen This is not only regarding environmental topics Considering the importance of another check of our air emissions, amongst our operational staff, we information technologies, a specific it also contributes to the protection started a pilot project in the Gueugnon “Green IT study” analysed existing of the biodiversity and, more workshop responsible for transforming operating modes and defined areas specifically, insects and bees. coils into disks (which will be further for improvement. Together with the Aperam personnel are invited to stamped into cookers). They were optimisation of infrastructures, user participate in the work, which helps about 40 employees who benefitted training was recognised as being key. raise awareness. Even though bees from this experience and learnt the In 2017, teasers were released (see are a major actor in providing the ABCs​ of sustainability (why care about igloo ad) to promote the ‘greener’ IT pollinisation that our food depends biodiversity, what are Greenhouse tips that would come starting in 2018. on, they suffer from severe Gases, what are the consequences of climate change). This was also an mortality. In France, it is estimated opportunity to clarify Aperam’s that four million beehives are policies and mid-term targets while needed, but only slightly more than also highlighting sustainability as a one million are to be found. major challenge and an In 2017, the full harvest of over 30 extraordinary opportunity for the kilos was offered to Isbergues staff company. During two-hour sessions as a token of Aperam’s held for each group, exchanges commitment towards sustainability. covered day-to-day activities within From weighing honey (below) to distributing the company and in personal life, packed honey (bottom) in Isbergues. making clear our impact on the planet and the responsibility each of us has. Green IT project 2017 Teaser French. After some first “Why bother?” reactions, talks fostered the desire to ▉​ For years, our Timoteo site, with the go further and spur sustainable support of our Foundation (see p. 47), projects at the workshop level. Further has organised events to celebrate deployment of this pilot is envisaged. World Environment Day with workers ▉​ ​At Aperam Genk, 2017 saw the and their families. In 2017, Timoteo introduction of a bicycle leasing plan. teams added a new “Organisation & With this programme, employees can Property” programme. get a company bike, including This cleaning marathon started in the insurance and maintenance, for a workshops with the goal of cleaning period of three years for a small salary the whole site of useless material, participation. At the end of the leasing furniture and equipment. The contract, they can buy the bike for a operation ran from November to fraction of its initial price. Employees January and also included a can not only opt for a city bike, but repagination of the entrance, internal also chose a mountain bike, a race roads, parking, gardens and site bike or an electric bike. This is what signaletics. As per employee we call “moving green”. comments:​”it is quite stimulating to 35 Transportation impact our units are already next to optimum, attempts to obtain an efficient action This is the second year that we are but some are still trying to improve. plan and results from the company. reporting on Group estimates related The second was terminated for ▉ ​In 2017, our Pont-de-Roide site ongoing violations of our safety rules to the impact of our Freight underwent a specific logistics audit and labour laws and because of a Transportation. with the help of a consultant. This lack of financial transparency. Overall, Aperam’s freight has moved study provided a global view of the from an 87 to 88% truck share material flows, allocation of packages, These figures are reported within the (excluding maritime), +1 percentage storage zoning, evolution and overall ​G4-LA6​ indicator on page 44. point vs. 2017 with a slight organisation. Among the first benefits improvement on waterways (in to come from this exercise was an 2017 Carrier seminars particular from our Genk site to the optimised warehouse distribution, thanks to the resizing of our pallet Following the Safety Carriers Day Port of Antwerp. However, in order to racks and the redesign of our organised in Genk in 2015, our address delivery constraints, some packaging area that resulted in a gain Gueugnon and Isbergues sites units have been forced to use more of space and time saving. Further organised a similar Safety Day with air connections. improvement will come in 2018 with a all road carriers in 2​ 017​. We see that some units have increased the share of transport made new Material Planning method, which The Safety Day in Gueugnon took by rail or multimodal (rail + last is currently being implemented,and place in October and brought kilometers by trucks) for costs the use of new lift trucks that are together 18 transport companies. reasons. Sometimes, this increase better adapted to our material. The plant tours and the exchanges was the result of wanting to build an Transport performance was also between participants allowed alternative to trucks, thus reducing our analysed from the standpoint of everyone to generate ideas on dependence on monopolistic local packaging weight, flows and end improving site safety, especially in carriers or to address a shortage in destinations. We consulted ​49 the parking lots and on the roads. fleet and/or drivers. This was exactly potential freight suppliers, seven of Some actions have already been the case in Brazil (+4%, excl. oversea which met our expectations in terms implemented, if not completed. sales), where economic conditions of service performance (which was have caused many carriers to go defined based on quality, time, price, The Safety Day organised at bankrupt, thus significantly reducing environmental management and fleet Isbergues in December gathered all the panel of available partners. age). carriers operating for Aperam, along In terms of loading optimisation, we with other external companies > ​In 2017, we made the decision to present on the site (esp. Weee report an 88.8% rate with a minor terminate our contracts with two road Metallica and Thyssenkrupp). In slippage compared to 2016. This transport companies. Although our addition to road carriers, the decrease is due to a slightly less good purchasing economic performance National Police came to present loading rate from Genk (85%), was affected in Genk and Gueugnon, their process control on trucks. Gueugnon and out Italian Service we decided that our priority was to Finally, awards were given to Centre. stick to our business rules and ensure carriers in several categories, with However, these small decreases were the safety of our employees and the Best Carrier Award going to almost compensated for by an deliveries. The first contract Transports Blanquart for their improvement of +1% at our Timoteo terminated was for repeat Health & remarkable achievements and plant (95%) and +5% in Sersheim Safety violations by the drivers within performance in safety. (Germany) (83%). Overall, many of one of our plants, after several failed Transport Day in Gueugnon Transportation impact​ (estimates, excluding maritime) Indicator Unit 2017 2016 Comments Rail traffic* % shipments 11 13 Road traffic* (except 88 87 Maritime) River/Other traffic* 1 <1 Trucks average loading* % 88.8 89.5 with lower rates in S&S Safety inspections at site* % outbound 100 100 * Estimations in millions tons.km based on major plants and the five largest Service Centres: Germany, Italy, Brazil, France, BeNeLux. 36 But from the start, there has been a lot of complaints from the neighbours about noise pollution. To address these concerns, in 2015 we decided to invest in a new stacker. With the new stacker fully functional by early 2016, noise pollution has already been significantly reduced. But a new measurement campaign proved that the performance was still insufficient, and the need for a soundproof enclosure around the stacking line was quickly confirmed especially if the unit wanted to organise night shifts. Several companies were invited to help install the necessary soundproof shelter, including an expert in noise pollution and a firm specialised in noise control measurements. In order LED-illuminated workshop in Timoteo. operator’s control devices. As the to maintain good visibility in the system is clever” enough to identify enclosed production process, Noise echos, the situation has improved a cameras have also been installed and Although we have been dealing with lot over the past years. But there has extra windows added (see picture). the subject locally for years, it has not been some examples of birds nesting Thanks to the soundproof shell, noise yet been reflected in our Sustainability close to the microphones that have pollution has been reduced to 30 dB Report. As discussions with local triggered alerts! (A) in the workshop in 2017, which authorities have indicated an insert, also means a significant improvement we have included it this year. However, noise is not always so in employee working conditions. simple to handle. Oftentimes Sascha Glaser, site manager, looks Our basic principle is very simple. root-causes can be difficult to track Firstly, we manage our plants with a back at the results with satisfaction: “I due to echoes with nearby buildings am very pleased that everything view to be fully compliant with our and activities, not to mention varying environmental permits and with the worked out just fine, because we have atmospheric conditions. When the faced a lot of scepticism at the working conditions mandated by problem is recurring and the root labour regulations. Secondly, we try to beginning of the project. With this new cause clearly identified, sound walls investment, we will be able to be reactive in case of complaints. This (like those set up in 2017 at Genk and also means that we give clear significantly increase our operational Châtelet) or encapsulation can be flexibility while ensuring the instructions to our subcontractors, organised to address noise. particularly those that are active in satisfaction of everyone.” The benefit of such actions can be Since early 2017, there are three scrap yards. Sometimes we also seen in the work undertaken in one of arrange our schedule to avoid shifts operating in Duisburg and no our German Service Centres in 2017. complaints from the neighbours. disturbances, postponing operations that can cause noise or vibrations to ▉ ​The Duisburg (Germany) Service the day time. Center is located in a residential area In some instances, on our largest and operates a cut-to-length line that sites surrounded by inhabitants, we can cut metal sheets. Needless to have pushed the logic further. In say, when sheets of stainless steel Genk, for example, microphones have weighing up to one tonne are been installed around the site to make dropped, it makes some noise! In fact, sure the proper operators (eg. crane measurements have given a maximal drivers, etc.) are alerted of any value of 86 dB (A) near the “dropped abnormal situations. Beyond certain sheets”. limits, alerts are automatically Employees are of course protected German sound-proof enclosure. generated via texts triggered on the with appropriate protection equipment. 37 Governance Interacting with our Stakeholders We aim to achieve best practices in governance and apply the strongest business ethics. These are the keys to building trust with our customers, our employees and the communities we work in, to protecting our market position and license to operate, and ensuring our ability to thrive. Our strong customer focus, with innovation and R&D being key pillars, is testament to the fact that we are good at listening and able to find the right solutions a pattern we repeat in our social dialogue and stakeholder engagement. Sustainably profitable Steel Executive of the Year by the local purchases represent 57% of total Metal Bulletin’s Stainless & Special spent (exc. raw materials, ​G4-EC9​). In Aperam is transforming itself into a Steel Conference. addition, we also participate in local 21​st century industry. Key to this is the cultural life though our community Phase 3 of the Leadership Journey® engagement initiatives (see page 44). the Transformation Program to Being aware that we are such a major achieve the next structural profitability contributor to the local communities improvement, which involves we operate in reinforces our sense of leveraging the digital revolution and responsibility and our duty of the power of big data to further efficiency. enhance our operational efficiency and customer service offering. 2017 recognitions Long-term strategy Metal Bulletin’s 2017 Stainless & Special Steel Reconfirmed as ​“AA” Conference named Aperam CEO Tim di Maulo (Leadership level) by Efficiency as a responsibility Stainless Steel Executive of the year. Since Aperam’s creation, we have ▉ ​In addition, we take pride in getting been successful in an early positive feedback from stakeholders restructuring of our downstream who look at us from very different operations in Europe to adapt to perspectives. Our good performance Rated ​“A-”​ (Leadership level) by changing market conditions. As a is acknowledged in unisson by result, we are better able to face financial and ESG analysts (see headwinds and are already well on aside), and we were happy to hear our way to building a sustainable from the ​ ​mayor of Châtelet that future for our teams. To do this, we “Having a company like Aperam, is a Listed in ​Excellence register have reorganised our tools, reduced gift for our city”​. from 29 to 17 and, when necessary, Actually, as a responsible company, downsized our staff in a fully what we bring to surrounding responsible way (see previous communities is primarily a support to reports). local economy in the form of taxes As a result of its operational and and salaries and in local purchases. financial turnaround, Aperam is now well-positioned to seize the benefits of As a responsible company, what we the long-term growth perspectives of bring to surrounding communities is Rated ​Gold b ​ y EcoVadis our stainless and specialty-steel primarily support to the local economy markets. This responsible strategy in the form of taxes, salaries and local and its efficient delivery are now purchases. In 2017, we channeled recognised and often applauded by $599 million in salaries and $64 many of our stakeholders. It was million in taxes to local economies reflected again in 2017 with our CEO (​G4-EC1 ​see also our three country Tim di Maulo being named Stainless supplements) and, at our largest sites, 38 Picture​: ​Aperam Stakeholder Day in Gueugnon (“Journées Portes Ouvertes”), with well-equipped visitors of all horizons discovering the site under the guidance and protection of volunteer employees. Aperam employees are keen to show their plants and can explain with passion the noble art of producing steel and alloys. In 2017, we saw a number of our sites opening their doors to external visitors, families of employees, students from local institutions, authorities or simply curious neighbours. At a glance ​G4 PR5 GRI, G4 SO1 GRI Indicator Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 Page Customer satisfaction: Alloys 8.8 9.3 9.2 9.1 Rate on 10 (1) (1) Customer satisfaction: Stainless 7.1​ n/a 7.4​ 7.8​(2) Customer & Innovation focus p. Innovation (R&D spent) $m 20 18 18 20 47-50. New products in Sales Index base 2015 122 125 100 n/a EWC committees​ (3) # 4 4 4 4 Sustainably profitable p. 41. Fraud allegations reported # 17 7 11 9 Forensic cases founded # 4 2 5 3 Risk management and Compliance p. 42 -o/w significant cases​(4) # 0 0 0 0 Local purchase at main sites % 57 57 58 62 Sites with exhaustive % 50 n/a n/a n/a Stakeholder relationships p. 44-47 Stakeholder engagement policy of main sites (1): Europe , (2): Brazil , (3): EWC (European Work Council) initiated in April 2013 , (4): Following review by the Audit & Risk Management Committee. 39 Building our sustainable, safe Robot now provides two slitting lines furnaces. In the future, automation will and profitable future at the same time. continue to revolutionise our industry Not only does this improves and change the daily tasks of our However, to remain sustainably productivity, but is also a major employees, reducing harmfulness and profitable and keep ahead of global milestone for the ergonomics and repeat tasks. Our training and competition, we need to embrace fully safety of employees. A similar system development strategy are there to all new technologies, automation, has also been implemented in help our people evolve in line with this digitalization and innovate through a Belgium at our Genk Service Centre trend. Furthermore, our hiring fully connected organisation, building in the course of the year. practices reflect this indisputable shift upon our skilled and passionate towards specialists, automation, workforce. This is why several new digital maintenance, etc. projects came to life in 2017, while In this context, social dialogue is key milestones were also announced obviously a key component to within the phase Three of our engaging with our people, in addition Leadership Journey. to such efforts as our global Employment Climate Survey. Amongst the projects that will shape Employee representatives and unions Aperam’s future are the development Automatic system for slitting lines at S&S are a natural intermediary for our staff, of new capacities. This will be done in Germany (Sersheim). as they also are a familiar business hot rolling, at our Belgium plant in partner in discussions regarding the Châtelet where we aim to implement organisation of operations. a fourth shift and for which we are recruiting new workers. It will also For this reason, we promote a positive happen in cold rolling, with a new dialogue, ensure the right to collective investment project at our Genk plant bargaining at our sites and have consisting of new Cold Rolling and collective labour agreements in place Annealing and Pickling Lines. throughout Aperam. The latter aims to establish state-ofWe believe our operations run in a the-art modern lines using the latest sound social climate, without major Monitoring pulpit on the shopfloor (Gueugnon). technology. Among the expected social conflicts or disruptions in 2017 benefits will be a widening of our and with an absenteeism rate of 2.1%, product range to the most demanding which is in line with 2016. applications, improved lead-time and In 2017, we had four meetings with flexibility to market demand, and a our European Work Council, which significant increase in the efficiency recently reactivated a committee and cost competitiveness of our dedicated to Health & Safety. assets. These objectives will be conjugated with clear breakthroughs Responsibility in the value in terms of health, safety and chain environmental impact. Monitoring cabin (Genk). In 2017, we already launched the Responsible employer Overall Supply chain CSR risk renovation of some of our lines using assessment state-of-the-art technologies, Clearly, some of our transformation In continuity with the supplier highlights of which are listed below. projects are going to change the way assessment system initiated in ​2016​, work is performed within Aperam, we have put in place additional ▉​ The traditional work on slitting lines which is why we had such a large actions leading to a better alignment operated in many of Aperam’s Service reshuffle to our Human Resources across the different sites and Centres are still characterised by policies. countries concerned. handwork. Already, visitors are surprised to see > ​Starting with the raw material supply Our Sersheim site, in Germany, is the so few operators in plants the size of chain, we have assessed 5% more first service center at Aperam where a cathedrals, as only a dozen employee suppliers this year (ie 94 in total). In tool robot was installed for slitting are needed to monitor a melting 2017, we decided to update our lines. After a one-week training course phase, which can be done while methodology and incorporate for six Aperam machine operators at comfortably seated in front of questions derived from the SA8000 the Supplier’s and support during the numerous screens in closed control standards together with other week of the launch, the Twin-Tooling rooms far from the heat of the 40 questions related to Aperam’s suppliers’ Human Rights policies. compliant with laws and business environmental objectives. Starting in 2018, we are putting in ethics, the Brazilian team ran an After review of the responses received place informative meetings based on extensive analysis, screening around (a 81% response rate), we took the the SA8000 referential for all our main 400 different supplier companies decision to withdraw European sites and countries. This will better coming from all fields. They used a companies from the list of the entities prepare our teams to use the new methodology where each entity was presenting a risk on the ground that supplier’s audit referential, which now checked for possible fines and local regulations were providing includes a specific focus on Health & sanctions, and also verified media for sufficient protection with respect to Safety, Human Rights, and possible litigations related to severe Human Rights risks (Labour Environment all in line with Aperam’s corruption, labour conditions or the laws). On this basis, we are glad to sustainability commitments. environment. see a significant reduction in the total At the end of this thorough screening, of suppliers presenting potential Key 2017 developments the dedicated working group reported Health and Safety (3, ie. -6.8 pts) or only seven cases where the screened Environmental risk (4, ie. -3.7 pts). Important as it is, by no means does suppliers raised significant issues in Regarding Human Rights aspects (in Aperam limit ourselves to asking terms of business ethics. Each one of particular related to labour), we see questions and sending audit these cases were discussed on the an stable number of suppliers where questionnaires. local compliance committee. the topic is considered as material, We also have very clear guidelines in leading us to put higher focus on this our General Conditions of Purchasing point for the coming year. and specific commitments that must > ​Regarding non raw material be signed by subcontractors operating suppliers, in 2017 we conducted an on our sites, all of which can be found assessment with a slightly different on our official Group internet site. scope in terms sites covered, amid However, as these are just documents decision to only report suppliers signed at headquarters by people that campaigns undertaken in the new may never physically come to our global tool (SAGA) from 2018 all sites, it is important that we also surveys will be undertaken in this tool. continue to engage with our suppliers As a result, among the total number of directly. 186 suppliers assessed (13% less ▉ ​To make sure that safety comes first than in 2016), we identified 11 in real life, the Genk plant has used suppliers with a potential risk since 2006 a specific test to assess regarding Health and Safety, eight the awareness of every single regarding Environmental impacts and contractor entering the premises. six concerning Human Rights (other In 2017, a fully revised version was than Health & Safety, which are rated adopted, in the form of an interactive separately) ​G4-LA15​/​EN33​. test offered in four languages and These suppliers are notified of the covering 17 safety and environmental assessment results and, where topics. When the respondent doesn’t Aperam has identified specific know the right answer, he or she must concerns, a careful monitoring is study the rules in the digital leaflet in setup by our purchasing teams. relation to each topic and find the right However, two of our freight suppliers answer. did not respond to our alerts and were The new test was introduced during replaced (see details on page 36). summer maintenance. A total number Overall, although this assessment of 600 contractors passed the test. provides only a partial view, it The average time needed was 27 contributes to a change in mindsets at minutes, although some contractors the purchasing department level. needed more than one hour. Screenshots of the e-Learning test for Genk’s In view of the above, we continue to ▉ ​On a different topic, but still related contractors. work to raise the awareness of the to our supply chain, our Brazilian teams involved in purchasing or colleagues again paved the way for suppliers’ quality assessment so they Aperam. Wanting to make sure that have a better understanding of the suppliers that work for us in Aperam’s expectations regarding its Timoteo and BioEnergia units are fully 41 local presence. To get an optimal action organised for the United Policies based on efficiency and make ethics and Nations Day against Corruption (Dec. international standards compliance the backbone of any 9th). Again built in 10 languages to Our Company policies, available on decision, the programme was reach Aperam employees our website, were inspired by redefined based on six pillars: everywhere, a pop-up was triggered international references: Alignment, Communication, on all screen (see aside) to recall the International Labour Office Behaviour, Audit, Technical Expertise, ethical need supported by Aperam to United Nations Human Rights Charter and Continuous Improvement. combat corruption, which fuels United Nations Global Compact Without going into the details of each, criminality and hinders global United Nations Convention Against let us just highlight the development. Corruption ‘Communication’ and ‘Alignment’ In this period of preparation of OECD Guidelines for Multinationals pillars. year-end celebrations, it was also an ISO standards (Quality, Energy, etc.) opportunity to remind all employees of SA 8000 ▉ ​In terms of Communication, new Aperam’s new No-Gift policy. routines were set up so that repeat messages and regular actions made a ▉ ​To improve alignment, several Risks and Compliance permanent impression on mindsets. actions have been combined. Risk monitoring Among the new routines are two Firstly, onboarding of top annual, company-wide actions.​ ​In management was improved starting In 2017, there were 17 allegations 2017, the concept was inaugurated with a specific video-conference relating to fraud, which were referred with a short six-question, web-based chaired by our CEO. We also added a to the Group's Combined Assurance quiz on Aperam’s Code of Conduct, “compliance certificate” that Department for investigation. At the which was rolled out in 10 languages summarises the actions of the year, end of 2017, 11 forensic cases had and accompanied by a message from allows one to report breaches to our been finalised, with four cases our CEO during the summer. This Code of Conduct and to touch base founded and seven unfounded. An action was an effective first move on the unit’s adhesion to the additional three were under because it received over 3,200 compliance programme. To take this discussion and three remained in individual responses, with many sites one step further and address ethics at progress. Following review by the reaching a 100% rate on white collars. the local level, our Brazilian unit Audit and Risk Management It was also a success as the average decided to dedicate a full-day seminar Committee, none of the four founded rating given by the respondents was a to the topic (read insert). cases had a material impact on four out of five, with a lot of very In addition, a compliance training path Aperam accounts. positive comments supporting the was defined jointly with the Heads of Our Risk Management process is action. Functions to ensure that all based on a quarterly review of our employees in one specific function main risks and mitigation action plans were aware of the relevant policies for all key risks. It encompass all when they join and are also regularly possible areas, from tax to natural trained in accordance with the risks disasters, via topics such as identified and with the existing corruption, electricity prices, etc. awareness level. which are discussed at our Board’s Other actions dealt with such topics Audit and Risk Management as insider dealings, home-made Committee. e-Learning modules and antitrust All the top risks are disclosed within exercises for key managers, as well our Annual Financial Report (page 51 as work-streams related to and 52), all of which are analysed, anti-corruption and anti-money weighed and assigned a strategy. laundering (in line with Loi Sapin II in France and other increasingly stringent regulations in Brazil and Restructuring our Pop-up inviting all employees to join Aperam elsewhere). We also started to Compliance approach and the United Nations’ fight against Corruption, embrace the topic of Global Data here in Italian (10 languages available). Privacy regulations, which is a In 2017, our Compliance Framework Another strong move of ​2017​ (and significant challenge for a cloud-based went one step further by restructuring second company-wide action) was the company organised into digital itself entirely and completing its anti-corruption awareness-raising functional platforms irrespective of the network of correspondents for a better employee’s location. 42 “Let’s talk about Ethics” seminar in Brazil For the first time, an Aperam unit hosted a half day seminar on ethics and compliance. The seminar, which was held in August 2017, included lectures from a professor of ethics and education and presentations from the NGO Transparency International (see picture) and the Brazilian Compliance Officer of ArcelorMittal. Topics covered ethics, transparency and integrity, how to build a culture of effective integrity, and Aperam policies. All contributions highlighted the role of individuals as “integrity is everyone's role” and were followed by a Question & Answer session moderated by the Chief Operation Officer Stainless and Electrical Steel South America Frederico Lima. The seminar was attended by more than 200 employees, either physically or though web conferencing. Further deployment of the messages to all employees was also organised, thanks to a specific manager’s guide and four videos covering the main topics discussed. Stakeholder particular, the special exhibits with After a safety welcome, neighbours, photos from local association and former employees, students and other relationships educational boards regarding the guests were properly equipped and environmental and social impacts of invited to a tour of the workshops. The Focus of the year 2017 the process and the mitigation visits were led by employee We are very keen to maintain a close measures implemented over the years volunteers of all ranks, and operators relationship with our stakeholders. For were much appreciated. explained the process at their own us, doing so is both fully consistent A more technical presentation was workshops with the help of with our values and simply good also given by the management in a explanatory boards. Additionally, business management. During the specific meeting with representatives stands showcased various recent economic crisis, some of our from local authorities, with a particular applicants, presented our sites had to discontinue regular focus on planned investments. This environmental results and served as a encounters and routines with their meeting was followed by a tour of the temporary museum with historical usual stakeholders. In Brazil, plant, highlighting all the photos. however, these actions never really improvements implemented in the The event was covered by media halted, which is underscored by the past few years to limit dust emissions (see the headlines) and generated a focus on our Acesita Foundation, and improve water management. lot of enthusiasm, both on the visitors’ which you can read about in the side and from our internal staff that Imphy’s Open Day: visit of the plant. left-hand insert. In Genk, the annual was proud to show off their plant. Juniors’ Day also continued to take place. But in 2017, we saw a swell of actions as many European sites resumed such communication actions after years of suspension. ▉ ​It had been three years since Aperam organised a Stakeholder Day in Imphy, which we last reported on in our 2015 Sustainability Report. The ▉ ​In Gueugnon (France), the event first initiative had been much was even larger (3000 visitors). It had appreciated and the plant decided to been 14 years since the unit last re-organise one in June. The event organised an Open Day of a similar welcomed representants from local magnitude, so they decided to make authorities (city, region and officers this edition count. The four-day event from environmental agencies), as well was organised in June and as groups of students and any necessitated the involvement of many individual having registered. employees, subcontractors and local The event provided an opportunity for associations. a visit of the site’s workshops. In 43 The Service & Solution division is When you add to the equation the mostly constituted of units below 200 increasing number of individual cars employees, with many only gathering and traffic and the shortage of parking 50 to 100 employees, on one single spaces, it gets even more tricky. With site in the country, and many different a trend towards revitalising city countries scattered on the planet. It is centres, you understand that the not so easy to build a company situation can be complex and that culture in such conditions. there is often little room, in both Last year we presented the program meanings of the word, for an easy aimed at raising the pride and sense S&S Italy celebrating Podenzano’ 20th solution. anniversary. of belonging to this part of Aperam. Some of these topics are still under This year, we saw that they also took discussion, as is the case for a new up the opportunity to show their pride parking area in the city centre of locally. Gueugnon, and we will follow-up on these. But some have finally been ▉ ​At the Genk Service & Solution solved to the satisfaction of all. Let’s Centre, only a few miles away from see the example of Châtelet. the entrance of the Genk plant, a family day was organised (see ▉ ​Although our Châtelet site is not picture). In Poland, employees new, it has undergone expansion. In organised an open day with a local 2004 a new melting shop was added primary school and a celebration for to the original Hot Rolling Mill. the unit’s 10th anniversary (see The initial layout of the newly enlarged below). site included an entrance that soon started to raise discontent amongst Welcome speech by Sascha Klömpges (co-CEO) and Sascha Glaser (site manager). locals, due to the traffic congestion generated by the parking of inbound In Italy, the S&S team celebrated the trucks. 20th anniversary of the Podenzano Further to discussions with all unit, which opened in September concerned parties, and in particularly 1997. Unique in Europe, the with the urban communal authorities, Podenzano Service Centre is one of it was decided to fully reconsider the the two S&S sites in Italy and focuses entrance layout and adjust the traffic S&S Genk Family Day on the requalification of stored lanes accordingly. A few years later, material and second choice from our the entrance was fully reshuffled, with European mills. In Duisburg, the waiting area moved in front of the Germany, we marked the 25th pedestrian entry, where truck drivers anniversary of the site, which will soon can rest safely and wait until they be transferred to the nearby city of receive a specific code (via a printer Haan for a new chapter in its history. for the drivers at main gate) inviting them to direct their vehicle to the raw Urban integration material yard or anywhere they are Based on our discussions with expected. S&S Poland visited by primary school officials from local authorities, we Today, there are no more trucks decided to include this new topic in waiting on the road from Châtelet to our report. As some cities have grown Pont-de-Loup. Even if this up around our plants, the parallele modification required the closing of a expansion of our industrial premises bridge that was a popular shortcut for on one hand and of the residential local residents, all agree that the zones on the other, have not always situation has been changed for the always happened harmoniously. better, improving the safety and Some of the problems related to noise reducing the traffic congestion around or dust are directly linked to the close the site. proximity between our tools and the S&S Poland celebrating its 10th anniversary. residential houses. 44 our efforts to ensure the best neighbour relationships with our communities Thanks to these guidelines, it will also be possible to rigorously define which sites do not comply with our standards and to measure in a fully transparent way the number of sites that have a consistent stakeholder engagement mode, as the GRI suggests. For this last exercise, this year we ran a preliminary assessment. We have rated the grievance mechanisms in place according to demanding criteria (including 24/7 availability) and we also looked at the public disclosures of results. After analysis, we decided that local development plans may not be necessary at sites where the local communities do not expect it. For Rotterdam Central, Netherlands communication channels: paper instance, given the very flattering Team CS: Benthem Crouwel Architekten, magazine, yearly celebrations, comments from the Châtelet mayor, Amsterdam MVSA Meyer en Van Schooten Architecten, A’dam West 8, Rotterdam neighbour’s newsletter, etc. the fact that no systematic © Jannes Linders development programme exist is not Stainless 316L Uginox Mat finish ▉​ As part of this new stakeholder seen as a problem: it simply does not engagement policy and to promote correspond to local needs. Picture​: A new bird landed in Rotterdam in 2014 transparency, all of Aperam’s main with the grace of origamis. It structures the Today, only three of our sites have a sites will be provided with two urban landscape, covering ways and platforms, consistent local development plan: our additional communication tools. nesting solar cells and restoring to the Timoteo and BioEnergia units, which population the large square initially designed in The first is a standard poster to be rely on the Foundation for a very front of the station in the 50s and demolished displayed at a site’s entrance in order since then. The roof of this International impactful programme (see also next to provide the public visitors as well Railway station is covered with Aperam bright page); and Isbergues, which as neighbours with key facts about stainless steel. continues to develop activities in line our plants. Our annual safety with the revitalisation agreement performance will be released, together started some years ago (see previous New policy with our main environmental reports). In line with the survey conducted in indicators, to materialise our 2016 (see also, last year’s report), we commitment to improvement. Also on Overall, based on this challenging have formalised the Aperam way for the poster will be a QR code, leading definition, we consider that 50% of our conducting stakeholder engagement. to a brand-new online contact form, main sites have fully compliant and This was approved by our Leadership which will serve as a portal to channel cohesive stakeholder engagement Team in September 2017. The all enquiries to the relevant people. routines ​(G4-SO1)​. objective is to provide a framework for The idea is that anyone can easily Among the gaps identified are the the existing engagement modes, reach us so that any problem can be public disclosures and grievance ensure they cover the key stakeholder solved before it escalates into a crisis. systems. The two communication groups, and strengthen exchanges As a web-based tool, it will be tools previously discussed are meant where they are less structured. available 24/7 and will provide a to fill these gaps. To do so, Aperam guidelines will means to contact the site in the local With the envisaged measures, we clarify the pattern for effective language while remaining fully could reach 100% next year on the communications with key groups of auditable and secure. same scope and add more criteria for stakeholders (depending on the size a continuous improvement of our All of these initiatives were presented of the site) and suggest frequency and engagement practices. to local authorities, together with our operating modes, leveraging existing country pages, and area testament to 45 Aperam’ Acesita Foundation in Timoteo ... and in BioEnergia In Brazil, Aperam places a high priority on Corporate As in past years, our unit worked actively on many Responsibility and social impact investing, in line with the environmental and social programmes, sharing with its joint interests of the company and of the neighbouring employees and local communities: communities. > “Health Blitz” happens throughout the year, taking every In 2017, our Aceita Foundation continued work on its many occasion to reinforce internally Aperam’s message about social programmes. Based on a request from municipal Health & Safety. These activities include April authorities, we invested in a partnership with the local International Day for Health & Safety, the “S” day in association called ​Junior Achievement Minas Gerais for August, (S for “Saúde”, which is health in Portuguese), the project ​“Entrepreneurship in the School”​. In order to participation in National Traffic Week, the SIPIN develop Junior’s entrepreneurship skills and employability, (Integrated Week for Fire Prevention, see last year’s the project aims to prepare the next generation for their report) or SIPAT (Integrated week for the labour accident professional careers by promoting behaviours based on prevention) in December. This year, Bio Energia put in ethics and citizenship. In 2017 alone, 1,245 students place an itinerant “health stand”, which toured across received training, which was provided by 69 volunteer neighbouring towns with a team ready to speak about instructors over the course of 644 hours​. ​The training healthy and nutritious diets and to calculate visitors’ Body focused on best practices, improving the skills needed to Mass Index and blood pressure. This was organised in build an environmentally friendly, economically feasible parallel to the workshop visits, where the safety of and socially fair business, irrespective of its status as an equipment was checked and general information on individual or collective entreprise. safety best practices was shared. Always attentive to include employees’ family in Aperam > ​The topics of Water and Energy were covered by the programmes, the Brazil foundation also launched two “Preserve water: avoid life leakage” and the“Turn on events based on the “Sou +” ​programme ​(“I am +”, also these tips” campaigns. As part of the campaigns, Aperam described in People, p.14 )​: distributed “tips flyers” to employees and visitors, with > ​Oikos “Sou+”, ​: Playing, Making and Learning at Oikos best practices on how to reduce water or energy with pedagogical workshops and actions focused on consumption. “being+” i.e. being healthier, safer and more sustainable. > ​BioEnergia also held the annual SimBio. This year the This happened at the end of July as a warm up before event focused on the theme “Admire, respect and care: going back to school in August. Thousands of people putting in action our best intentions” and aimed to visited this three-days event! highlight the different ways to preserve nature and local > ​“Sou + Familia Aperam” (I am + Aperam family)​: 90 biodiversity. The public was invited to this event, where employees’ children, from 10 to 16 years old participated in they could ask questions, learn about environmental this three day event organised in October. Participants protection, and participate in recycling workshops. learnt about the ‘Sou+’ concept, which aims at stimulating People could also visit various stands explaining the local them to apply safe, healthy and sustainable behaviour at flora and fauna, about the hydric resources and the home... with a lot of fun (see above)! recovery of degraded areas or even about apiculture. Over 500 people visited the BioEnergia stands. For more, visit www.brasil.aperam.com 46 Customer and Innovation Focus Committed to Innovative Products and Sustainable Service various nickel alloys and specific stainless steels. Innovation as the strategic driver These applications are intended for high-end applications One pillar of Aperam’s Top Line strategy is to meet the and are often used for specific customer demands, next generation of customer needs according to especially in the aerospace, electronics and petrochemical megatrends by providing a better product offering. industries. As to our product offering, Aperam’s portfolio of innovative All of our products are backed by a network of proximity stainless steel applications includes a range of service centres with state-of-the-art tools tailor-made to value-added niche options. meet our customers’ every need (to read more about Furthermore, our Alloys and Specialties segment Aperam’s new cut-to-length line in Isbergues and the specialises in the design, production and transformation of revamping of our German service centres, see p. 41). The World’s Greenest Steel Materials and their recycling rate in packaging waste Europe (2012 basis, Eurostat​) Sustainability is part of Aperam's DNA. We are the only steel mill in the world that produces steel using 100% charcoal instead of extractive coke in Brazil. In Europe, most of our production comes from scrap, 80% for austenitics particularly. Because it is produced from a clean and renewable energy source, we classify our product as ‘Green Steel’. By doing so, we maintain a relationship of respect with the surrounding environment. The Product Front stainless steel – making it the material Our innovation abilities extend way Stainless steel is much more than just of the future. beyond the product facet. Aperam a metal – it’s a ubiquitous part of our operates using a systematic Knowing that stainless steel can serve combination of products and services lives. From the alarm clock that wakes as a valuable substitution for other you up to the kettle that makes your that extends from the design or materials, and also taking into account co-development stage to the product’s night-time tea, stainless steel can be its low environmental impact (see found in many of our home production and end use. As our goal graph above and the chapter on is to make your life easier, we take a appliances, cooking utensils and other Environment), our R&D team of 130 everyday objects. It also plays a collaborative approach to R&D and researchers is committed to base our product offerings on our prominent role in an array of important developing innovative new industries, including energy customers’ needs. applications. Aperam’s R&D centres production, transportation and design value-added products and automotive, building and construction, EU Anti-dumping Update solutions in terms of grade, surface heating, food, chemical, and In an effort to modernise European aspect, functionality and properties to electronics. regulations, social and address the unresolved challenges of Thanks to its recyclability, durability, environmental standards will be our customers. This is also reflected versatility, ease-of-use, cleanliness taken into account when calculating in our $20 million in investments and and aesthetic appeal, stainless steel the injury margin in anti-dumping in our 2017 sales, where new is the material of choice for investigations. products represent an increasingly applications of every kind. For goods originating in countries large share (18% more than in 2015). Furthermore, many of the applications with lower social and environmental that will soon define how we live more New products* in 2015 2016 2017 standards, the cost incurred by EU sustainably, such as fuel cells, wind Sales companies to comply with such (Volumes, Index 2015) 100 125 120 standards will be included in the turbines and low emission vehicles, *New products defined as products being sold are embracing the benefits of calculation of the injury margin. for less than 5 years. 47 AREAS OF FOCUS Stainless Steel in Buildings << PANEUM​: If you happen to be in the Austrian village of Asten, chances are you noticed the shiny, futuristic PANEUM building. The building’s metallic bubble gets its iconic shine thanks to it being cladded with Aperam’s versatile stainless steel shingles. PANEUM House of Bread II Asten, Austria COOP HIMMELB(L)AU © Markus Pillhofer Stainless Steel and Alloys in Transportation << Fuel Cell:​ a key component to fuel cells, a sustainable alternative to the combustion engine, are bipolar plates. However, as producing these bipolar plates is a time consuming and costly process, the viability of fuel cells remains in question. AION, Aperam’s cost-effective high-value solution for fuel cells has been developed, making hydrogen vehicles economically viables. Direct injection systems >> to support the market’s shift towards green vehicles, Aperam developed an Iron-Cobalt alloy grade specifically tailored for direct injection systems. It offers high saturation magnetisation to meet high pressure exposure, high electrical resistivity for high dynamics and short switching time, and high corrosion resistance to gasoline. Electrical Steels and Alloys in Energy << GOCore for lower consumption energy generation and transportation: Launched in 2017, the new production line installed in our Timoteo plant integrates the production of oriented grain (GO), non-oriented grain (NGO), and the novelty of super-oriented grain (HGO) steel. This innovation places Aperam in a select crowd of world producers of HGO. GoCore HGO is a more permeable steel with better energy efficiency, aligned with the trend of greater demand for more efficient products and resulting in lower consumption of electricity. For the energy generation and distribution sectors, this means smaller and more efficient electrical power transformers. Efficient power transmission cables >> STACIR/AW (also known as HSTACIR/AW) is an innovative new cable technology that transports twice as much energy as traditional cables. It accomplishes this by using an Aluminium clad strengthened Invar core. As the discoverer of InvarⓇ, Aperam Imphy played an important role in the development of this new cable technology. Its new DURINVARⓇ grade is a reinforced Invar with a very low coefficient of thermal expansion. This allows the core to bear the cable’s weight when working at high temperatures by doubling the current flow. DURINVAR is currently being validated proving the power of pairing customised solutions with comprehensive technical assistance. 48 customer service. Out of 10, Aperam The Service Front scored 7.1 for Stainless in Europe, 7.2 To monitor how well we are meeting in Brazil and Alloys was rated 8.8 these needs, Aperam regularly (​G4-PR5​). The first results for 2018 surveys customer satisfaction to: for Brazil already show a +0.4 > ​Measure satisfaction across all improvement. aspects of the customer relationship But these surveys are about more > ​Understand the importance of each than just numbers – they serve as a of these aspects catalyst for change. All of our > ​Identify basic expectations and departments, from our industrial sites priority actions, detect future needs to the commercial sales force, use this and then build a competitive feedback to improve our customer advantage for Aperam service offering. ▉ ​We know that our success depends > ​Assess the level of knowledge that on our customers being confident in our customers have about Aperam’s ▉ ​For instance, noting a demand for their use of stainless steel. For this products and services enhanced supply-chain support, reason, Aperam is dedicated to Aperam developed a comprehensive supporting each customer through Customer focus portfolio of digital services geared technical assistance, product specifically towards meeting our co-development and skill sharing. Proximity ​via our integrated customer’s supply chain needs. On Our global presence includes 20 sales distribution network the customer side, this Industry ​4.0 offices and 14 service centres, approach include: meaning no matter your location, Service ​& ​agility ​(technical > e-aperam.com: online service Aperam can provide local, assistance, e-platform) platform offering 24/7 eCommerce on-the-ground assistance. For more and eServices technical requests, we also offer the Product innovation > ​Electronic Data Interchange ​(EDI)​: opportunity to benefit from the support an efficient way for customers and of our Stainless Steel Research $20 m​ R ​ &D spent suppliers to build a fully automated Centre, the Força Inox training in Brazil and Atelier Inox training in and integrated supply chain > ​Automatic Inventory Replenishment: Europe (see below). In 2017, Stainless & Electrical Steel and Alloys underwent a to get real-time updates on order comprehensive review of their books and deliveries. Stainless Steel Research Centre:​ a one-stop-shop for all technical questions relating to the production and use of austenitic, ferritic, martensitic and duplex stainless steels, along with Iron Nickel and Iron Cobalt products. Located in our Isbergues production plant (Stainless) and in Imphy (Alloys), the Research Centres are the heart of our global technical network that includes research centres across Europe and Brazil and that work in partnership with several world-renowned universities and expertise centres. Through this network, our customers have access to: support in optimising their processes; devices for tool and part modelling; welding and forming support; and the latest grades offered by Aperam. Co-development: ​by listening to our customer’s demands and collaborating with them, together we develop the high-quality, innovative products they need to stay at the forefront of an always-evolving industry. Our engineers assist in the design and execution of new mediumto long-term projects. Aperam also helps optimise our customers’ manufacturing process, evaluate how they can reduce costs, enhance the skills of their personnel, and provide their team with the technical training needed to succeed. Força Inox & Atelier Inox Training: Atelier Inox 2.5-day introduction to stainless steel programme focused on the versatility of our wide range of grades, with the aim of helping customers identify the best possible solution for their needs. Brazil’s Força Inox training offers different options, from a one-week technical training to spot seminars. Both programmes include opportunities to get hands-on experience with the grades, along with workshop visits. Topics covered include corrosion resistance, welding, forming and stamping. The targeted audience ranges from design offices up to production technicians. 49 Your Preferred Supplier Whether it’s an innovative, high-performance stainless steel solution, providing local technical assistance or co-developing a new product, every one of our actions shares the same goal: to be your Preferred Supplier. ISSF award-winning Aperam Stainless Steel for Chernobyl clad The troubled nuclear reactor at Chernobyl is now covered by a domed sheath made from Aperam’s 316L stainless steel. This new application was given the Gold Award by the International Stainless Steel Forum (ISSF), in recognition of how stainless steel can be used to benefit the environment and the public at large. Aperam South America as best steel mill supplier In 2017, Aperam customer Raizen, a leader in the sugarcane and fuel distribution sectors in Brazil, named in 2017 Aperam South America as the best steel mill supplier. Last year, Aperam delivered 332 tons of stainless steel to Raizen without any supply problems. Based on the Supplier Quality Index (SQI) that Raizen uses to evaluate delivery punctuality and quality, Aperam earned a perfect score. Imphy Alloys earns a Gold Recognition Award from EcoVadis In 2017, Aperam Alloys Imphy’s commitment to social responsibility earned a Gold recognition from EcoVadis. The assessment analysed the quality of the company’s CSR management system in the areas of environment, social, ethical and responsible purchasing. The ranking places Aperam among the top 5% of companies rated by EcoVadis (see also p. 39). Alloys’ Imhua’s performance applauded by Siemens In April 2017, Imhua (Aperam’s Alloys unit in China) welcomed a Siemens Audit Team, which conducted a full production audit with an impressive 87% final score, noting amongst the unit’s strengths a strong focus on Environment, Health and Safety. Aperam Alloys plans to leverage these very satisfactory results to help increase its downstream cores business – including from Siemens. 50 About this Report This report is based on Aperam figures, unless otherwise stated, and is intended to materialise our commitment to transparency and responsible business behaviours. It is based on our interpretation of the following initiatives: United Nations Global Compact Carbon Disclosure Project ISSF Sustainable Charter WorldSteel Sustainable Charter Global Reporting Initiative for which an Index is found below GRI Index Disclosure code and label Information or reference Economics Economic G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 1. Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated & distributed Present report page 4-5 ; Annual report 2017 page 3-4. Procurement G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 1-2. Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spent on local suppliers at main sites Present report page 38-39. Environmental Material G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 2. G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input material Present report page 27, 33. Energy G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 3. G4-EN5 Energy intensity Present report page 27, 28. Water G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 4. G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Present report page 27, 32. Emissions G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 3. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Present report page 26-27 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other air emissions Present report page 27, 30-31. Wastes G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 2 G4-EN23 Weight of waste by disposal method Present report page 27, 33. Labour Occupational Health G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 4. & Safety G4-LA6 Rate and gravity of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Present report page 11-12 and absenteeism, number of work related fatalities, by region and by gender Training & Education G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 5. G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, Present report page 17, 19-20. and by employee category G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Present report page 17. reviews, by gender and by employee category Supplier Assessment G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 5-6. for Labour Practices G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour Present report page 36, 40-41. practices in the supply chain and actions taken Society Local Communities G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 6 G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Present report page 39, 45-46. engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes Product and Service Labelling Customer G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 6. Satisfaction G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Present report page 39, 49. 51 General Standard Disclosure Information or comment Reference Strategy & Organisation G4-1 CEO statement Opening Words. Current report, p. 3 G4-3 Name of organisation Aperam Cover G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Aperam Annual report 2017, p. 8. Current report, p. 5 G4-5 Location of headquarters 12c rue Guillaume J. Kroll, L-1882 Luxembourg. Back Cover G4-6 Countries of operation Production facilities are listed by geography in Aperam Annual Report 2017, p 9. G4-7 Ownership and legal form Public limited company in Luxembourg G4-8 Markets served Key markets and sales by destination. Current report, p. 5. G4-9 Scale of organisation Aperam Annual report 2017, p. 8. G4-10 Employees and workforce Employees Figures based on FTE as of December 2017, Full time own employees at year-end including Aperam Drosbach Headquarters and excluding Haven Genk. Female workers: 12% of the Aperam overall; 20% of exempts. The small workforce at BioEnergia in Brazil is subject to variations due to seasonal factors (growing cycle of the trees: planting, harvesting etc.). Alloys ICS is included starting 2015 reporting. G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements 100% of the Aperam employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Description of supply chain Description of supply chain available within our Online Supplement C – p1 G4-13 Changes to organisational profile Divestiture of Aperam Tubes France (Ancerville) in April 2017. G4-14 Precautionary approach See our risk management Current report, p. 42. G4-15 External initiatives We also operate in partnership with various organisations, principally via the Current report, p. 51. Aperam Acesita Foundation in Brazil. G4-16 Associations and advocacy organisations EUROFER, Brazil Steel Institute, ISSF and WorldSteel. Annual Report, p. 38. Identified materials aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities consolidated in financial statements Annual Report, p. 162. G4-18 Process for defining report content In line with the GRI-G4 framework. Current report, p. 6-7, Online Supplement B. G4-19 List of material aspects Description of our Stakeholders groups as well as our reporting process and Current report, page 8 Online Supplement B materiality analysis is to be found within our Online Supplement C – p1. – p1-2 G4-20 Aspect boundaries within/ and without/ the Online Supplement B G4-21 organisation – p1-2. G4-22 Restatements Restatements may result from: Mergers or acquisitions, change or scope of segments (eg. precision), change of base years or periods, nature of business, measurement method. Stakeholder Engagement G4-23 Changes in scope and boundaries No significant changes on scope and boundaries G4-24 Stakeholder groups Current report, p. 7, G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders Description of our Stakeholders groups as well as our reporting process and and Online G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement materiality analysis is to be found within our Online Supplement C. Supplement B. G4-27 Key topics and concerns G4-28 Reporting period Calendar year 2017 (Annual) is reported into Made for life Report 2017. G4-29 Reporting cycle Previous issue reported on calendar year 2016 G4-30 Previous report G4-31 Contact point sustainability@aperam.com​ or ​contact@aperam.com G4-32 Content Index Reporting to GRI-G4 in accordance at Core level. Current report, p. 1. G4-33 External assurance Main report, and online supplement bundle. Current report, p. 1. Governance, Ethics and integrity G4-34 Governance structure Current report, p. 7, Supplement D – p1, Annual Report, p. 58. G4-56 Values, principles, standards, and norms Aperam Code of conduct – available on the web in multiple languages Current report, p. 46. For other GRI-related reference documents, please see the Online Supplements at aperam.com/sustainability. 52 Aperam 12C, rue Guillaume J. Kroll L-1882 Luxembourg Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Email: contact@aperam.com For more information please visit our website: aperam.com/sustainability Copyright 2018 © Aperam Produced by Aperam Disclaimer Forward Looking Statements In this report, Aperam has made certain forward-looking statements with respect to, among other topics, its financial position, business strategy, projected costs, projected savings, and the plans and objectives of its management. Such statements are identified by the use of forward-looking verbs such as ‘anticipate’, ‘intend’, ‘expect’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’, or ‘estimate’, or words or phrases with similar meanings. Aperam’s actual results may differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements due to the known and unknown principal risks and uncertainties to which it is exposed, including, without limitation, the risks described in this report. Aperam does not make any representation, warranty or prediction that the results anticipated by such forward-looking statements will be achieved. Such forwardlooking statements represent, in each case, only one of many possible scenarios and should not necessarily be viewed as the most likely to occur or standard scenario. Aperam undertakes no obligation to publicly update its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Unless indicated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references in this Report to ‘Aperam’, the ‘Group’ and the ‘Company’ or similar terms refer to Aperam, ‘société anonyme’, having its registered office at 12C, Rue Guillaume Kroll, L-1882 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and to its consolidated subsidiaries. Aperam Sustainability Report 2017 Online Supplement A United Nations Global Compact references To facilitate stakeholders’ understanding and benchmarking of our corporate responsibility performance, we show how our operations and strategy align with the UNGC’s ten principles (www.unglobalcompact.org). Our Sustainability Report and specific additional items (as noted) represent our UNGC Communication on Progress (COP). 1. Our Statement by the Chief Executive is on p3 of our 2017 Sustainability Report. 2. Our practical actions to implement the Global Compact principles in the four key issue areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption are described in our Sustainability Report, as well as in online supplement C which covers our Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA). 3. Our measurement of outcomes is described in the performance dashboards “at a glance” of each sections, on p12, 27, 39 of our Sustainability Report. Further detail is provided in each chapter: Human Rights Labour Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and association and the effective recognition of the right to Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human collective bargaining; rights abuses. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; >> Assessment, Policy, Goals and Implementation: Principle 5: the effective abolition Our policies and how we implement them are described in all of child labour; and our Sustainability reports and in the online supporting Principle 6: the elimination of documents, specifically: discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ■ Sustainability Report p42-45 (Supplier impact, Risk and >> Assessment, Policy, Goals and Implementation: Compliance, Stakeholder relationships) and Online Our policies and how we implement them are described in the Supplement C (Economic; Supply chain management); 2017 Sustainability Report and in the online supporting ■ Code of Business Conduct, available on www.aperam.com documents, specifically: under sustainability and corporate policies; ■ Sustainability Report p21-22, 42-45 (Promotion of diversity, ■ Code for Sustainable Sourcing Supply Chain, Risk and Compliance) and Online Supplement and Purchasing, available on www.aperam.com under C; sustainability and corporate policies; ■ Human Rights Policy, available on www.aperam.com under ■ Annual Report Corporate Responsibility Statement p; sustainability and corporate policies; ■ Online Supplement D on ‘Corporate Governance at ■ Code of Business Conduct, available on www.aperam.com Aperam’ and Annual Report p36-38; and under sustainability and corporate policies; ■ Human Rights Policy, available on www.aperam.com under ■ Code for Sustainable Sourcing and Purchasing, available sustainability and corporate policies. on www.aperam.com under sustainability and corporate policies ■ Annual Report Corporate Responsibility Statement p37; and ■ Online Supplement D on ‘Corporate Governance at Aperam’ 1/2 Aperam Sustainability report 2017 Supplement A United Nations Global Compact references continued Environment Anti-Corruption Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all approach to environmental challenges; its forms, including extortion and bribery. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and >> Assessment, Policy, Goals and Implementation: Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Aperam Policies and implementation are described in the 2017 environmentally friendly Technologies. Sustainability Report and in the online supporting documents, specifically: >> Assessment, Policy, Goals and Implementation: ■ Sustainability Report p42 (Risks and Compliance); Our policies and how we implement them are described in the ■ Code of Business Conduct, available on www.aperam.com 2017 Sustainability Report and in the online supporting under sustainability and corporate policies; documents, specifically: ■ Code for Sustainable Sourcing and Purchasing, available on www.aperam.com under sustainability and corporate policies; ■ Sustainability Report p26-37 (Environmental impacts) and ■ Anti-corruption and bribery policy on www.aperam.com p47-48 (Product & Customer responsibility); under Corporate Governance and Compliance; ■ Environment, Energy, Health and Safety policies, available ■ Annual Report Corporate on www.aperam.com under sustainability and corporate Responsibility Statement p38; and policies; ■ Online Supplement D on ‘Corporate Governance at Aperam’. ■ Code of Business Conduct, available on www.aperam.com ■ Anti-Money laundering policy under sustainability and corporate policies; ■ Tax policy ■ Code for Sustainable Sourcing and Purchasing, available on www.aperam.com under sustainability and corporate policies; ■ Annual Report Corporate Responsibility Statement p37-38; and ■ Online Supplement D on ‘Corporate governance at Aperam’. In addition, Aperam underlined in its 2017 its full support to the United Nations Sustainable Developments Goals. In particular, the reasons for our unconditional support to nine of them, which are listed below, are detailed within our Sustainability report page 9-10. 2/2 Aperam Sustainability Report 2017 Online Supplement B The Report Materiality Process at Aperam 2017 Group matrix Very similar to 2016 P1 Occupational Safety E2 Energy Consumption S8 Market Dynamics S1 Sustainably Profitable P3 Social Dialogue S10 Data Privacy and P6 Occupational Health S6 Fair Business Practices cyber-criminality S2 Legal & Fiscal Compliance S4 Anti-Dumping P4 Community Engagement S3 Customer Satisfaction E3 Waste/Recycling E9 Transport Emissions E4 Air & Dust Emissions S5 Cash, Debt & Financing E7 Climate Change E5 Pollution Prevention/ E12 E1 Raw Material Consumption S7 Economic Sanctions Industrial Safety NEW P8 Diversity & Equal Opportunity S9 Supplier Environmental Practices P5 Competencies & Employability S7 Supplier Labour Practices E10 Biodiversity P2 Employee Engagement P12 Attracting talents E11 Noise NEW E8 Product Innovation E6 Water Consumption S11 Urban Integration NEW P9 Philanthropy 1/5 Aperam 2017 Sustainability report Supplement B Determining Report Content > In 2016, our matrix has been updated European anti-terrorism context whereas resuming the 2014 methodology and “Pollution prevention and remediation” We follow a structured process to topic ranking, but taking into account the can deal with awareness, installations identify our most material sustainability answers from our 11 major sites such as retention basins or regular issues and determine the content of our including three sites for Service & simulation exercises. We will make sure report. Solutions (Brazil, Germany and Italy) to address the two topics going forward. This is based on the GRI G4 Reporting and two additional industrial units with > “Noise” was a topic tackled in view of Principles for Defining Report Content. more specific business, Précision in our Environmental permits, but not To determine if an Aspect (topic) is Pont-de-Roide and BioEnergià. The identified among the most material. material for us, we assess its potential Group matrix had finally been Already last year, with three Service impact in sustainability terms and on our consolidated using each of the matrices Centres adding their input to the business. This assessment evaluates defined by our units and weighing their analysis, Noise and Traffic had gained in potential financial and reputational risks responses based on the number of their importance in our matrix. This year, to Aperam; the importance to our employees. A final fine-tuning was some of the representatives of Local stakeholders and the links with our performed using the feedback of our Authorities have requested to add it mission and goals. From our internal risk Leadership Team to reflect also the specifically and so we have. perspective, we evaluate the magnitude opinions of those of our stakeholders that interact more with central functions Apart from these particular items, the of the impact using a scale from Minor than plants (Professional Associations, takeaway of this thorough reviews with risk to Critical risk. Large Industrial customers, ESG officials from the Local Authorities is that > In 2014, further to regular stakeholder analysts, etc.). there is no need to revise entirely our full engagement at our six main plants in Thanks to this process, we had matrix but only to add the missing items Europe and Brazil, we updated the 2013 expanded the scope to cover 85% of our and highlight the new topics introduced assessment and improved our local and global workforce and managed to reflect further to our discussions.. Group-level materiality dashboards and the diversity of our sites, stakeholders we identified 12 sustainability Aspects and material topics. The final matrix is available on the first for the Aperam. Building on this, we page of this Supplement, with the new have decided not to conduct a full review > In 2017, we decided to continue with topics inserted with an estimated in 2015 but to drill down on a specific our methodology to focus every other positioning and highlighted with dotted stakeholder group: Aperam employees. year on one specific Stakeholder group lines. A recapitulation highlighting the and we set up specific meetings to comments and topics of interests as per The idea was to make a refresh of our engage with local authorities at each of the interrogated officers from our Local Materiality matrix making a focus on our our main sites. Authorities is also page 8 of main report. Employees’ view and to make sure that This series of meetings were an we are addressing the key topics, from opportunity to explain our strategy in The Boundary Protocol their specific perspective. This approach detail, present short term action plans on could be extended to other kinds of stakeholder engagement at local level Aperam operates in Europe and South stakeholders going forward. and evaluate each of the material America. The specific operations that are aspects of our GRI matrix in face-to-face subject to the materiality process has > In 2015, as a result, we used a specific meetings. Of course, our units’ been expanded from six to eleven Survey, asking our people to prioritise management regularly meets these key production facilities, located in Brazil, topics on the three pillars of our local leaders, but the debates are usually Belgium, France and now also in Sustainability strategy: Aperam people; focused on topicalities, emergencies and Germany and Italy. Environment; Governance. other specific subjects. Then was the Operations within the boundary of the time for a typical “helicopter view” report represent all main entities The responses collected from our exercise where the important points included in our consolidated financial worldwide staff from all Divisions which are perfectly handled get no less statements (G4-17a). confirmed that our previous matrix was attention than the less important areas This list of entities is provided in note 26, still valid, with Health & Safety where some issues need solving. p162 of our 2017 Annual Report. undisputedly the primary focus of the This exercise allowed us to confirm and However, there are entities included in Company and Aperam employees fully refine our vision, while adding a handful our consolidated financial statements supporting the action plans deployed to of topics considered as salient by these that are not subject to the sustainability that regard. The survey also highlighted officials: “Urban Integration”, “Industrial reporting processes and coverage two additional topics, Local Pollution Security” and “Noise”. (G4-17b). These are as follows: Prevention and Quality of Life at work , > The first one, “Urban integration”, was which were then added to our matrix and not in our matrix and had never arose ■ Process: As described, the materiality 2015 report. until then, but it is clearly an area where assessment is based on the eleven our sites have a responsibility. significant sites and the views of the ESG Also in 2015, we received enquiries of > The second topic “Industrial Security”, Committee. The resulting list of material several ESG-rating agencies or we had already covered in previous Aspects is then applied to the whole shareholders’ associations. reports, within the “Pollution prevention” Group. chapter. Indeed, we were describing the ■ Materiality Process: The materiality We have taken these elements into protocols in place to ensure quick process highlights topics that are account both for our internal focus on reactions in case of accidental pollutions. material for the Group and does not some areas and for our 2015 It is obviously clearer to distinguish these supersede local analysis and specific Sustainability reporting. two topics as matters of intrusions are site-based action plans; also covered by National programs, in particular with the 2/5 Aperam 2017 Sustainability report Supplement B The Report Materiality Process at Aperam Continued ■ Additional information identified in the GRI G4 Mining and Aspects, their indicators and the materiality boundaries are Metals Sector Disclosures document is somewhat relevant to shown below. Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Aperam operations and reporting; for example, ‘Additional information is shown in Online Supplement C. disclosure requirements’ for Economic and Environmental information is not relevant but we have included information for the local community aspect; and ■ Coverage: We report performance data for the Group (G4-17a). GRI Index Disclosure code and label Information or reference Economics Economic G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 1. Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated & distributed Present report page 4-5 ; Annual report 2017 page 3-4. Procurement G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 1-2. Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spent on local suppliers at main sites Present report page 38. Environmental Material G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 2. G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input material Present report page 27, 33. Energy G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 3. G4-EN5 Energy intensity Present report page 27, 29 Water G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 4. G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Present report page 27, 32. Emissions G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 3. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Present report page 26-27 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other air emissions Present report page 27, 30-31. Wastes G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 2 G4-EN23 Weight of waste by disposal method Present report page 27, 33. Labour Occupational Health G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 4. & Safety G4-LA6 Rate and gravity of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Present report page 11-12 absenteeism, number of work related fatalities, by region and by gender Training & Education G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 5. G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, Present report page 17, 19-20. and by employee category G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Present report page 17. reviews, by gender and by employee category Supplier Assessment G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 5-6. for Labour Practices G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour Present report page 36, 40-41. practices in the supply chain and actions taken Society Local Communities G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 6 G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Present report page 45-46. engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes Product and Service Labelling Customer G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C page 6. Satisfaction G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Present report page 49. 3/5 Aperam 2017 Sustainability report Supplement B The Report Materiality Process at Aperam Continued Reporting notes All these elements are taken into With our new official guidelines, and the account in our calculations and foreseen implementation of additional General reporting notes: zero-waste target. Since 2015, we have communication tools, we define Safety data covers our Services & improved our overview of Aperam total improvement areas and help our sites to Solutions and Alloys & Specialty wastes and have finalised the mapping; progress. operations, as well as contractors on as a consequence, we are able to report site. People data does not include the hazardous and non-hazardous Managing risks at Aperam contractors. wastes and the EN23 on its entirety. Environmental data covers all main Risk management processes are industrial sites, service centre operations ■ LA6: This health & safety metric embedded in the organisational culture. and corporate offices, with the following covers also sub-contractors working on They support decision-making and exceptions: raw material data excludes Aperam sites. continuous improvement, and allow us to packaging and miscellaneous parts. identify and act on opportunities. Our ■ LA9: This training indicator is currently Combined Assurance risk management Specific indicators notes: provided only in total and by country, function facilitates this process and ■ EC9: Local supplier information covers with estimates regarding the split in prepares the Risk Management reporting mainly non-raw materials industrial terms of topics, status or gender as the documentation for both the purchasing for our most reporting systems are not aligned across Management Committee and the Audit & significant operations in Europe and Aperam. We hope to be able to provide Risk Management Committee. Our Brazil. It excludes BioEnergia and our more detailed follow-up as the Human framework for managing risk is based Services and Solutions units, which have Resources platforms get rolled-out. on: different purchasing needs. ■ COSO Enterprise Risk Management From 2016 reporting, we have started to ■ LA11: This career development Framework; include non-raw materials suppliers but indicator is currently provided with the ■ ISO 31000 principles and guidelines we are still in a progressive learning split by exempts / non-exempts. for risk management; and phase, trying to strengthen our ■ Benchmarking with external methodology and improve our scope. ■ SO1: This indicator reflects the companies. proportion of our sites that conduct ■ EN21: Only dust emissions are active stakeholder engagement, of the Our Audit and Risk Management reported as this indicator is relevant to eight main sites analysed in greater Committee supports the Board of our local stakeholders. NOx, SOx and detail (see section 1). Directors in fulfilling their corporate other pollutants are monitored according Because our appreciation of ‘active governance duties relating to defining to our regulatory permits but not fully stakeholder engagement’ was still too and reviewing risk, managing risk reported they are highly sensitive to qualitative, and not specific enough to assessment, and risk audit, all the above specific metallurgic grades production, assess objectively the level of including also sustainability risks. Page 7 so measured emissions can vary responsiveness of local stakeholders, we of our Risk Management Manual considerably from day to day and the decided to build a pragmatic but clear describes risk as a pillar of corporate reliability of the measurement is difficult stakeholder engagement policy with governance and the organisational to sustain. predefined conditions to fulfill to be responsibilities for risk. In 2016 and 2017, we have improved our considered having an “active stakeholder measurement protocols, increasing the engagement”. Our numerous Aperam Policies and frequency of our measures and Whistleblowing protocols allow introducing a logic of stress-test with the Based on the extensive mapping of employees to raise concerns over aim to ensure compliance at all times. existing practices conducted in 2016 possible irregularities and malpractices We will continue in that direction in 2018. over 30 of our sites, we validated what on various topics such as fraud, are Aperam corporate guidelines in corruption, money-laundering. ■ EN23: Steel production is based on terms of stakeholder engagement. the melting of different raw materials and Thanks to this assessment, we were In addition, the compliance programme processing of slabs into coils or smaller able to calculate a preliminary view of set up in 2014 (including a network of formats of steel (such as sheets, tubes, the SO1 indicator, based on several local champions and a full set of policies) bar and wires). The process generates clear criteria: has pursued its roll-out, with a focus on by-products, such as slags or scraps, > High end grievance mechanisms Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption in together with industrial wastes (such as (including a 24/7 availability) 2017. Amongst the significant aspects of dust, slag, sludge, oils, acid, refractories > Public disclosures of results. the program was the enacting of a and paper). > Practices of Stakeholder engagement specific internal Gift policy that was not beyond legal requirements. only communicated within Aperam but These residues, many of which have a After analysis, we disqualified the criteria also dispatched to our external business metallic content, are considered valuable linked to local development plans which partners. so they are sorted and considered as did not seem necessary everywhere, in potential materials for reuse or particular in Europe. The implementation of these actions was treatment. This last point was also confirmed accompanied by extensive local Usually they are reused in the process or through our round of discussions with communications and training, carried out sent for treatment at Recyco or an officials from Local Authorities, which in liaison with our Combined Assurance external firm, but in some cases they are have not expressed high expectations in risk management function. simply stored for the future or land-filled. terms of philanthropy or development plans.. 4/5 Aperam 2017 Sustainability report Supplement B The Report Materiality Process at Aperam Continued Our Stakeholders’ list for 2014, still valid until 2017. Stakeholder engagement is an ongoing activity at each Below is a summary of the stakeholders we engaged site, and it is the responsibility of the site’s General with, when building our 2014 Materiality Matrix that Manager or equivalent. Any new issues that require also served as a basis for the preparation of this attention is shared with key subject matter experts report. within Aperam and is then included in our materiality assessments. Employees & Management Authorities & regulators Communities Unions, Governments and local authorities Neighbours & Communities, Educational Institutions & trainees, Competition Authorities NGOs & Local Associations, Retired Aperam employees, Standardisation Authorities Local Media, local Academics, Students and potential joiners Local economic players Our engagement is reflected in: Our engagement is reflected in: Our engagement is reflected in: – Collective agreements including CSR – Regular meetings with local authorities – Stakeholder day or meetings based incentives – Policies and formal procedures eg. – Site visits or open days – Proximity meetings Anti-Trust, Anti-Money Laundering, – Specific newsletters or internet pages – HR and Human Rights policies Economic Sanctions. – Press releases and interviews – Data Privacy policies – Compliance programmes and – Acesita Foundation programs – H&S programmes and H&S days trainings, including specific intranet – Preference and support of local – Yearly performance appraisals – Regular measurements, certifications suppliers – People development plans and risks prevention protocols – Environmental & Human Rights – Training plans & catalogues – Combined Insurance audits and policies – Professional Committees alerting systems – Pollution prevention training exercises – Climate Surveys, Sustainability and – Diligent responses to enquiries – Local development and student fairs other surveys – Support of global initiatives such as – Social media – Newsletters incl. Bonus letters CDP, Global Compact. – Our new Stakeholder engagement – Videos on Company results and policy and internal guidelines. campaigns. Customers Financial partners Business partners Customers, Shareholders Suppliers and Subcontractors, End Consumers Banks & investors Trade Associations, Subscribers Stock Exchanges Audit & Certification firms, Our engagement is reflected in: Our engagement is reflected in: Our engagement is reflected in: – Code of Business Conduct – Code of Business Conduct – Code of Business Conduct – General Purchase Conditions – Meetings, site visits, trade fairs and – Policies on Anti-Fraud, Insider – Environmental policies technical customer trainings dealings, Money-Laundering, – Sustainable Sourcing charter – General Sales Conditions Double-Signature protocols – Associations, working groups and – Product documentation – Regular assessments, certifications exchanges on H&S best practices – Antitrust & Anti-Corruption policies and risks prevention protocols – Subcontractor Safety Charter – Economic sanctions policy and – Combined Insurance audits and – Requests for quotations and annual protocols alerting systems contract negotiations – Requests for quotations and annual – Earnings & press releases, IR meeting – Congresses and trade fairs contract negotiations & IR day, interviews – R&D partnerships – Customer satisfaction surveys – Shareholders meetings, general – Certification audits and site visits – R&D partnerships. meeting, etc. – Direct dispatch of general communications such as Sustainability reports or Gift policies. 5/5 Aperam Sustainability Report 2017 Online Supplement C Aperam GRI Index 2017 – DMA section Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Economic Our general approach is to seek the Procurement – Supply Chain ‘business case’ for our sustainability Our Code for Sustainable Sourcing and actions. We assess sustainability risks Purchasing describes how we work with Economic performance via our group risk register and our suppliers and asks them to meet The circulation of economic value management process (see p58 of our minimum health and safety, human generated by private industry has a Annual Report), and set four-to five-year rights (we support the Universal positive impact on local communities, targets to meet our environmental Declaration of Human Rights), ethical regional economies and national trading objectives and usually shorter-term and environmental standards. We balance sheets, primarily as a result of targets (twoto three-year) on social and encourage our suppliers to work with us the jobs created by our commercial governance action plans. to identify and develop ongoing activity. The tax we pay to the state and the improvements to our sustainable We report the economic value generated procurement. programmes we run to improve social at Group level with some sub-indicators In support of our company vision and of conditions in communities where we at divisional level. We do not manage or the United Nations’ Global Compact operate also make an important positive measure the economic value generated principles, we work with our suppliers to: contribution to society. In addition, the at country level. Operationally, we follow ■ Operate a lean supply chain that returns we pay to our investors facilitate some of them also at regional level for supports our corporate policies; their continued financial interest in Stainless & Electrical Steel Division ■ Develop procurement solutions in line Aperam. (Europe and Brazil) but we have chosen with customer, regulatory and wider not to disclose them in this report as they stakeholder needs and expectations; We manage our potentially negative are less relevant to our external and impacts via a range of suitable channels. stakeholders. ■ Create long-term value and reduce risk Our legal, commercial and financial matters are managed through for our business, our suppliers and our However, starting 2017, we have stakeholders. appropriate governance and executive released three Country supplements for processes in accordance with the laws of our three largest countries of operations We aim to achieve these objectives the Duchy of Luxembourg where we are and have included some elements listed, as described on p56 of our Annual by setting standards for sustainable pertaining to local economic procurement, and by collaborating, Report. contributions, such as the salaries paid Our human resources teams manage innovating and embedding sustainable and will improve going forward. purchasing into our business processes. the employment impacts through a wide range of policies and practices in line with our values and using trained >> Indicator: EC1 Direct economic Aperam procurement department experts. We manage our community value generated and distributed. is divided into the purchasing of raw impacts primarily through our Acesita materials and non-raw materials. Raw Foundation in South America and material procurement processes through meeting and engaging with local optimise the supply chain process stakeholders at our European sites. management for raw materials and define best practice for local raw material We assess the effectiveness and quality supply chain management processes. of our approach through internal audit and external assurance, in accordance with our listing requirements. 1/6 Aperam Sustainability report 2017 Supplement C Aperam GRI Index 2017 – DMA section Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) continued The key objective of non-raw material Supply chain Secondly, the properties of our various purchasing is to have an effective grades, as well as our energy intensity, purchasing process for Aperam industrial depend upon the right dosage of the sites with a platform for central buying. different ores. Also, our production Non raw-materials are mostly composed process generates a lot of different of operational products (such as rolls residues (e.g. sludge, dust, slag), many and electrodes), industrial products of which still contain valuable chemical (such as oils and lubricants) and various elements and can be treated for internal services including logistics, industrial re-use or sales. and IT services (see next page for the diagram). Finally, our melting, rolling and shipping Our supply chain comprises companies processes request more diverse providing raw materials such as recycled materials than simply metals, and our stainless steel, and non-raw materials purchases encompasses consumables such as goods and services. (G4-12) such as gas, refractories (made from silica, alumina, etc.), oil or acids, that We use approximately 4,000 suppliers, can often be recycled. As a result, on a though the exact number varies from day-to-day basis, we are striving to avoid month to month. Suppliers are located any type of waste, we are promoting around the world, mostly close to where recycling and reuse and trying to reduce we operate. Subcontractors also work total consumptions as much as possible. on our sites. In South America we are conscious that We have committed to become a smaller suppliers will be part of a zero-waste company and are actively community where economic looking for various options to leverage all development may be limited or where types of waste and extract value out of they may be social deprivation. We them. We are partnering with external explain our approach to managing firms and have also implemented our community impacts below. own recycling channels, notably through our fully-owned Recyco subsidiary. Of course, where it is possible for us to exert a positive influence we do so – for To monitor the deployment of this policy instance, one of our procurement criteria in Aperam, we use various indicators is that our suppliers support our followed at site level and reviewed by the community involvement practices. management on a monthly basis. Our General Purchasing Conditions Amongst them are the scrap usage ratio require our partners to respect quality, (metallic recycled input material at the environmental, safety and labour melting phase) and our yield indicators practice regulations, and subcontractors (in all our transformation sites), which we that perform services on Aperam do not disclose for confidentiality premises have to comply with our reasons. General Health and Safety Instructions As a consequence, the total input (GHSI) to ensure they align with our high breakdown (EN1), is material but not safety standards. disclosed. In some specific cases Aperam may Environmental We are also monitoring our Waste even help suppliers to safeguard their recycling ratio and our Recycled business continuity if they face difficult Manufacturing input ratio, which takes economic conditions. Materials into account products ranging from Stainless steel is 100% recyclable and scraps to paper, via refractories or >> Indicator: its production process requires various electrodes (EN2), and we have finalised extractive materials. For a stainless steel the exhaustive breakdown of Aperam EC9 Percentage of spending on producer the right usage of input waste by type in 2015 (EN23). locally-based suppliers. materials is key. >> Indicators: Firstly, extracting minerals and ores is EN2 recycled manufacturing input, EN23 more costly than collecting scraps (for us waste breakdown as well as for the community as a whole). As a consequence the usage of recycled metallic input has a positive impact on our profitability. 2/6 Aperam Sustainability report 2017 Supplement C Aperam GRI Index 2017 – DMA section Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) continued Energy consumption Emissions Steel making is amongst the most Local air quality is an important issue for energy-intensive industrial processes. As our operations. Our Environmental energy costs have increased and Policy commits us to a long-term environmental regulations progressed, approach to environmental performance. we have invested in more efficient Dust (particulate matter) is our main methods and equipment. material issue, but we also emit volumes of NOx and SOx and other air emissions. Lifecycle of stainless products Our Environmental Policy commits to a long-term approach to resourceThese are carefully treated and efficiency and sustainability. Our Energy monitored at source. We operate air Policy covers all Aperam sites and quality monitoring stations and work with operations. It promotes new efficiency regulatory authorities to support their air programmes, and tight collaboration with quality monitoring efforts. We operate in suppliers and customers to maximise the jurisdictions where air quality regulations energy efficiency of our steel products. are strongly monitored and enforced. As a consequence, we monitor our annual We identify and implement energy dust, NOx and SOx performance in conservation measures to cut costs and relation to our operating limits (as protect both our customers and defined in regulatory permits) and our ourselves from price and supply performance trends. Since our level of volatilities. Since production can vary, production can vary, we look at our monitoring our energy intensity (together performance using both absolute and with absolute energy use) is a key metric relative metrics. for our performance. We have in place two targets that address our energy use: Diffused dusts are measured periodically to evaluate the leakages and identify the ■ Revised (from 5%) to a 10% reduction areas for improvement and dust falls are in total energy consumption by 2020 also a relevant additional indicator, as it (from a 2012 baseline). reflects directly the nuisances caused to ■ A 35% reduction in carbon intensity of local populations. But this last metric is our current sites by 2020 (from a 2007 impacted by external factors such as the baseline). wind, or alternative sources of pollutions (agriculture, traffic, ..), rendering the We monitor the effectiveness of our interpretation subject to debates. So we energy management based on data at only report externally dust emissions. site level, and our performance relative to the two targets above. With the aim to change mindsets, improve the reliability of our >> Indicators: measurements and ensure that progress EN5 energy intensity, is continuous, we have set up an action EN18 GreenHouse Gas (GHG) plans with global Aperam target and we emissions intensity. started to conduct more frequent measurements. We aim for a -12% decrease of our dust intensity in 2020 compared to 2015. >> Indicator: EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions (Dust). 3/6 Aperam Sustainability report 2017 Supplement C Aperam GRI Index 2017 – DMA section Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) continued Water Occupational Health and Safety Water is an important resource which is Nobody working for, or with, us should under stress in some parts of the world; People have their health and safety Aperam’s significant sites of operation compromised in any way. This is are not located in water-stressed Aperam’s top priority across the regions, except for BioEnergia’s The workforce of Aperam represents an Company, for anyone at any moment. plantations. However, BioEnergia meets asset for the company, as well as a There are three drivers for good its water-related permit conditions as per significant part of the costs. Therefore it management of our health and safety local regulations. is key to the competitiveness of the performance: legal, moral and financial. company. The FTE of the total workforce Our health & safety management and Our Environmental Policy commits us to is used to calculate several KPIs, practices are governed by our Health & a long-term approach to resource including ‘productivity’ (tonne/FTE) and Safety Policy. Vigilance is central to the efficiency and environmental ‘competitiveness’ (total cost of commitments in Aperam’s Health & performance. We operate in jurisdictions employment/tonne). Safety roadmap. where water quality regulations are Achieving our targets on these KPIs is strongly enforced. The vast majority of vital for the sustainability of Aperam. Aperam people, as well as our water (more than 90%) is sourced subcontractors, are briefed and trained from surface waters – Details such as the employment on safety. It is central to the Continuous local rivers and canals. The rest is contract, employment type, gender, Improvement Challenge. It is a vital part sourced from rainwater harvesting, region, also give us a view of the of customer visits. There is a well groundwater and municipal supplies. We structure of the workforce. We have attended annual Health & Safety Day do not receive wastewater from any stated in our ‘Aperam Way’ our and a competency framework to make other organisation. commitments to promoting sure people have the right skills and diversity and the development of each equipment to do their job safely. We monitor water consumption carefully employee. at each site, through automated Our Leadership Team has reinforced this metering wherever possible. Through HR data are consolidated at the heightened vigilance by establishing four this we are able to accurately measure Corporate level monthly. The data are key safety priorities: visible leadership, our consumption (in cubic metres) on a reported by dedicated HR Reporting root and branch risk evaluation, clear monthly basis at significant sites of Partners in each entity in a unique HR understanding of good practice to operation. system. HR concepts are defined in a achieve fatality prevention and safety special document, shared with the HR auditing for managers. Reporting Partners at each site. Where we are abstracting water, this Consolidated headcount data are made must be in accordance with the We have monthly, senior level health & available through a database tool. We safety global conference calls to discuss conditions of our abstraction license. We measure the internal workforce by FTE are subject to periodic inspections from general performance, the management at the end of the period – this number response required and individual the relevant authorities to ensure varies only a little. compliance. We monitor the incidents using detailed descriptions, effectiveness of our water management root causes and photographic evidence. The external workforce (including This is a check on how well we are based on data recorded at site level, and supervised workers) is usually measured in terms of our total annual consumption managing safety. Also, we collect by the average FTE in the period and comprehensive data to track (in m³) and our relative consumption per this workforce can vary a lot (due to tonne of crude steel (in m³ per tonne of performance. seasonal variations and scheduled crude steel). annual maintenance, for example). We have an Aperam target of -5% We use a combined Lost Time Injury At the Corporate level, the supervised (LTI) Frequency Rate, which reduction of water intakes in 2020 workers are counted as part of compared with 2015 (ie -8% versus incorporates the impact of lost days as sub-groupings but not statistically well as occupational disease. For this 2012). consolidated on an individual basis. We reason we do not collect distinct data to therefore do not report their split by report an Occupational Diseases Rate In 2017, we have also started to report gender or employment type. on water quality. (ODR). >> Indicator: To comply with the Aperam safety standards, all accidents are only counted EN8 total water withdrawal by source. once, and are put in the highest category. So, if the incident resulted in a fatality (as sadly was the case in 2015), it is categorised as such but if not we assess if the person was absent from work for at least one day, excepting the day of the incident. 4/6 Aperam Sustainability report 2017 Supplement C Aperam GRI Index 2017 – DMA section Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) continued If this is the case then the incident is Training and education categorised as a lost time incident (LTI). People are at the heart of Aperam and If not we assess if the person did we want to retain talented employees. It ‘adapted work’ as prescribed by a is important that we listen to our Stakeholders medical professional. If this is the case employees and that we support them so then the incident is categorised as an that they are equipped to develop Supplier assessment for incident requiring medical aid. If not we themselves and deliver a quality-work. labour practices count it as an incident requiring first aid. So it is vital that we have a competency The way we assess our suppliers and framework and management system that subcontractors is guided by our Code for The absenteeism rate is monitored only works and that is recognised by our Sustainable Sourcing and Purchasing, for our employees, excluding supervised people. supplier commitment programmes, workers. The rate is defined as the supply number of hours of absence for illness Through our talent development chain risk assessment, supplier awards, up to a maximum of six months divided programme – Global Exempt on-site contractor rules and our General by the number of theoretical Development Programme (GEDP) – we Terms and Conditions. They govern how to-be-worked hours. We calculate this provide our exempts and managers with we work with suppliers to understand based on the time and attendance data annual appraisals and career performance and improvements, how we reported each month by each entity. development reviews. Through this, at support them and how we focus on key Also, small entities are not included – the the annual review, a manager assesses areas for improvement. workforce of small entities is 3% of the whether or not an individual has workforce of Aperam. achieved the yearly goals and the Suppliers and subcontractors are subject expectations from their career plan. The to pre-qualification reviews and on-site At the Corporate level, the time and latter are tailored to specific roles, and induction and training, audit and attendance data are available by site, by measuring an individual’s dialogue, principally on health and safety country and Division.Currently our data performance annually, both the manager labour practices, but nominally on wider collection does not differentiate between and the employee can formally evaluate human rights and ethical standards. Our men and women because our performance against the plan and find supplier evaluation is the tool by which operational workforce at the six main the best ways to move further. we assess suppliers on business sites is predominantly male. If/when the performance, and decide on female proportion becomes more We monitor the number of annual improvement action plans and significant, we will review this. appraisals conducted yearly and we boss-to-boss discussions, for example. make sure that our internal targets are The actions taken with subcontractors on When we uncover an ongoing issue, we constantly met or exceeded. We also site include action plans on site safety, establish a thorough management monitor Blue Collar and White Collar briefings upon site access and the use of response. For example, in 2014, we had workers through annual interviews, temporary workers, for example. set up a specific working group to tackle which are organised locally. We report the declining contractor safety the information for the group and by Expectations are described in such performance. In 2015, we have employee category. action plans, but they are also enshrined responded to the fatality occurred at in the contractual documents, which are Châtelet with an additional specific We also provide our workforce with the subject to our procurement policies program aimed at involving the entire necessary tools to maintain and upgrade described above. No incentive schemes staff worldwide. Leveraging on the their competencies and their behavioural per se exist to encourage going beyond collective motion in order to make the skills via external training or on-the-job compliance. In addition to our preventive entire staff reflect on their own reflexes learning experiences. To monitor our measures, we have procedures in place and mindsets, this program also allowed efforts, we are also putting in place a for terminating a relationship with an Aperam to collect news ideas and try new Human Resouces system, which is existing supplier in case of detection of new methods for the needed change currently under deployment. As a result, non-respect of any rules on labour management. in 2017 we can only report estimates of practices. training hours by country. We hope to be Safety is a material impact inside able to report the indicator entirely in Since 2010, we also assess Aperam as well outside the organisation 2019. sustainability practices of our raw (cf. G4-18 Boundary protocol). material suppliers. Our raw materials Subcontractors are entities effectively >> Indicators: supplier survey covers topics such as operating inside or outside of Aperam LA11 percentage of employees receiving health & safety management, human but for whom safety is a material aspect. regular development reviews, by gender rights, business ethics, environmental and by employee category ; management, REACH and conflict >> Indicator: LA9 average training hours by region, by materials. In addition, in Latin America, LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, employee, by category and by gender. strategic suppliers sign the Commitment occupational diseases, lost days, and to Corporate Responsibility Aperam absenteeism, and total number of South America. work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. 5/6 Aperam Sustainability report 2017 Supplement C Aperam GRI Index 2017 – DMA section Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) continued In 2016, we have started to use the Our team there runs projects using same approach for non-raw materials volunteers as well as funded suppliers. Firstly, SAGA, a global tool programmes to promote development in Products has been designed (and implemented education, training, youth services, early February 2016) to assess suppliers citizenship and the environment. Product and Service labelling with a systematic form including a series They conducts community needs Health and safety impacts of products of questions related to Human Rights, assessment, using feedback from are assessed at the metallurgical design Health & Safety or Ethics. The aim was grassroots stakeholders, local partners stage and certification relating to to allow to assess (potential) suppliers, and our Environmental Education Centre materials safety in the use phase is in to red-flag those with mediocre scores (Oikós). We do not currently monitor the place. This applies to all significant and to follow-up on any remediation number of discrete assessments within products. action requested by Aperam, further to the ongoing process. on-site audits. Stainless steel is manufactured and In 2018, we have continued with this In Europe, we continue to focus on independently certified according to project but the improvement envisaged specific partnerships on more of an international standards such as the EN, have been perturbated by other ad-hoc basis. We do not run specific ASTM and UNS series. We are regularly programs launched in parallele within the community needs assessments: we audited on these certifications. Purchasing function. As a result, the participate in community projects as a Our latest material safety data sheets schedule of the suppliers’ reviews result of stakeholder feedback at the six confirm the absence of health or organised by our sites was not always main sites. toxicological hazards. compatible with the deadline for our Sustainability reporting and In 2016, we have decided to We meet European regulations and consequently the scope of ou 2017 homogenise our practices and organised French ministerial decrees relating to reporting is not improved as we an inventory for 30 sites. The result of materials intended to come into contact expected last year. this analysis will be guidelines which will with food. Finally, Aperam Stainless We have still continued with the allow us to have specific criteria to base Steel Europe achieved compliance with reporting but on a different scope in future SO1 assessments. EU REACH regulations again as our 2017 with a view to keep up with the In 2017, we have defined and validated products do not contain any substance efforts of some of our sites. these guidelines and prepared the listed on the Candidate List of the implementation which include the roll-out European Chemical Agency. >> Indicator: of additional communications tools to LA15 Significant actual and potential interact efficiently with communities. Product information of this type is negative impact for labour practices in Based on these preliminary works, we provided to customers. Regular product the supply chain and actions taken. were able to formalise a clear sheets and brochure documentation methodology to assess in a fully disclose the raw materials – it is the auditable manner the number of sites balance of nickel and chromium for that meet the criteria proposed by the example that generates the properties of Impacts on local communities the steel desired by the customer. guidance elements regarding the GRI We contribute to the economic SO1 indicator. But also, and more livelihoods of those who work for us We have no recorded incidents of importantly, this will hekp us follow up on directly and those in the supply chains non-compliance relating to product iprovements in this area. serving us, we pay company taxes Information. In 2015, Aperam further where we operate, and we operate enhanced its joint R&D, marketing and GRI G4 Mining and Metals Sector community involvement in line with our commercial platform with the aim to spur Disclosures: values and with frameworks such as the and accelerate innovation. We are only working on impact UN Global Compact assessments while operating in the community. We do this through a Customer satisfaction is of paramount In addition, in order to promote importance to us for business reasons long-standing community sustainability in its host regions, Aperam and it is part of our collaborative engagement process. South America operates the Aperam approach to R&D. We survey customer Acesita Foundation with projects in satisfaction regularly, usually every one >> Indicators: culture, education, environment and to two years, overall, and in line with our SO1 Percentage of operations with social promotion. Since 1994 the market approach . This enables us to implemented local community foundation has helped integrate us into monitor how well we are meeting their engagement, impact assessments, and the community of Timóteo, partnering requirements. Results are discussed by development programmes (See specific with NGOs (non-governmental the Leadership Team. note in our Supplement B Aperam organisations), governments at federal, Sustainability Report 2017) , state and city level, global agencies, >> Indicator: EC1 Economic contribution, foundations and institutions. EC9 (see above) PR5 Results surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 6/6 Aperam Sustainability Report 2017 Online Supplement D Governance Structure Aperam places a strong emphasis on corporate governance. The Board of Directors is in charge of the overall governance and direction of the Company. The Leadership Team is entrusted with the day-to-day management of Aperam, and monitors corporate governance requirements to ensure best practice is adhered to. This includes the Ten Principles of Corporate Governance of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The Articles of Association provide that Directors are elected and removed by the general meeting of shareholders by a simple majority of votes cast. Directors are appointed for a maximum term of three years and are automatically eligible for reappointment at the end of this period. Any Director may be removed with or without cause by a simple majority vote at any general meeting of shareholders. Further governance details are published in the 2017 Annual Report. The Chairman of the Board of Directors is not an executive officer, and none of the members may hold an executive position or executive mandate within the Company or any entity controlled by the Company. The composition of Aperam’s Board of Directors for 2017 is summarised hereafter, and in the Annual Report, p27-28 Composition of the Board of Directors: Date joined Term Name Age(1) Position within Company(2) Board Expires Mr. Lakshmi N. Mittal 67 Chairman, December May Non-independent member of the Board of Directors 2010 2019 Mr. Romain Bausch (3) (4) 64 Lead Independent Director January May Independent member of the Board of Directors 2011 2019 Mr. Philippe Darmayan 65 Non-independent member of the Board of Directors May May 2015 2018 Mr. Joseph Greenwell (3) (4) 66 Independent member of the Board of Directors May May 2013 2020 Ms. Kathryn A. Matthews (4) 58 Independent member of the Board of Directors December May 2010 2019 Mr. Aditya Mittal 41 Non-independent member of the Board of Directors December May 2010 2019 Ms. Laurence Mulliez (3) 51 Independent member of the Board of Directors May May 2011 2020 Company Secretary: Mr. Laurent Beauloye Notes: (1) Age on December 31, 2017. (2) See section Corporate Governance/Board of Directors of the Annual Report for the status of independent Director. (3) Member of the Audit and Risk Management Committee. (4) Member of the Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee. 1/2 Aperam Sustainability report 2017 Supplement D In 2017, two committees supported the Board’s activities: the Audit and Risk Management Committee,and the Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee. Further details of the first two Committees are published in the 2017 Annual Report. The Board of Directors conducts an annual self-evaluation in order to identify potential areas for improvement of the Board and its Committees. Details of this evaluation are provided in the 2017 Annual Report. The Board of Directors meets in person at least quarterly and holds additional meetings if and when circumstances. Further governance details are published in the 2017 Annual Report. The Board of Directors held four meetings in 2017. Each Director attended 100% of the Board meetings. Shareholders can provide recommendations to the highest governance body via standard routes such as the shareholders’ meeting. Employees can engage with the Leadership Team and CEO on through regular forums, in particular via various surveys organised throughout the year. The Audit and Risk Management Committee At Board level, sustainability topics are covered on a quarterly basis within the Audit & Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for ensuring the risks are well assessed, in particular with the long-term perspective suitable for Sustainability, and appropriately addressed. The Audit and Risk Management Committee reports its findings to the Board of Directors. The Audit and Risk Management Committee is composed of three Directors. The members are appointed by the Board of Directors each year after the annual general meeting of shareholders. During 2017, the Audit and Risk Management Committee met four times. The attendance rate of the Directors at the Audit and Risk Management Committee meetings held in 2017 was 100%. The three members of the Audit and Risk Management Committee are Ms. Laurence Mulliez, Mr. Romain Bausch and Mr.Joseph Greenwell. Ms. Laurence Mulliez is the Chairperson of the Audit and Risk Management Committee. Each of these members is an independent Director in accordance with the 10 Principles of Corporate Governance of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Environment, Social and Governance Committee At management level, an Environment, Social and Governance Committee was set up in 2015 to take over from our previous Sustainability Steering Committee and accelerate progress. Comprised of seven members, of which three are from the Leadership Team, this committee is chaired by the Head of Human Resources, Communications and Sustainability. This Committee proposes Aperam’s Sustainability strategy, steers and monitors action plans and validates our mid-term objectives and reporting activities. This senior management commitment greatly supports progress in our most material topics and makes sure that key messages cascade across the organisation. At a day-to-day level this Committee is responsible for driving and managing sustainability at Aperam and making progress towards our overall sustainability vision. The Leadership Team sets the long-term ambition for this Committee. The Chief Executive Officer has ultimate responsibility and accountability for sustainability performance and compliance at Aperam. During 2017, we kept overall unchanged our governance of sustainability-related issues and only decided to add periodical reviews at the Leadership Teams monthly meetings. 2/2 Deloitte Audit Société à responsabilité limitée 560, rue de Neudorf L-2220 Luxembourg B.P. 1173 L-1011 Luxembourg Tel: +352 451 451 Fax: +352 451 452 992 To the Management of Aperam S.A. 12C, rue Guillaume Kroll L-1882 Luxembourg Grand Duchy of Luxembourg INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT ON THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OF APERAM S.A. FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 Objectives and scope of work performed This report has been prepared in accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated January 23, 2018 to provide limited assurance on the Made For Life Sustainability Report and its online Supplements for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “Report”) of Aperam S.A. (the “Company”) on the following subject matters (the ”Subject Matters”):  adherence to the Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines (the “GRI” or “GRI Guidelines”) with respect to the Principles of Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context and Completeness;  adherence of the disclosures in the Report to the GRI “In Accordance Core” criteria and the appropriateness of the GRI Index on pages 51 and 52 of the Report and;  fair presentation in all material aspects in accordance with GRI Guidelines, of selected indicators (the “Indicators”), marked with a “*” in the Report, which are: o EN5 : Energy intensity (pages 27 and 28) o EN8 : Total water withdrawal by source (pages 27 and 32) o EN18 : CO2 intensity (pages 26 and 27) o EN21 : NOx, SOx and other air emissions (only dust emission pages 27 and 31) o LA6 : Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender (only LTIFR pages 11 and 12, and Severity Rate LDR page 11) Responsibility of the Management of the Company The Management of the Company is responsible for the preparation of the Report in accordance with GRI and for the information and statements contained within it. The Management is responsible for determining the Company’s sustainability objectives and for establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which the reported information is derived. Responsibility of the Réviseur d’Entreprises Agréé Our responsibility is to conduct a limited assurance engagement on the Company’s Sustainability Report and draw conclusions on the Subject Matters based on the work we performed. We carried out our procedures on the Subject Matters in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” (“ISAE 3000”). In order to draw our conclusions on the Report, we undertook the following procedures:  analysing and testing, by sampling, of the processes related to stakeholder inclusiveness;  assessing the suitability of the reporting criteria and their consistent application;  interviewing Management, corporate sustainability team, data owners and those with operational responsibility at the Company’s head office;  visiting selected operational sites;  understanding through inquiries, analytical reviews, observation and other applicable evidence gathering procedures, by sampling, the key structures, systems, processes, procedures and internal controls relating to the collation, aggregation, validation and reporting of the Indicators presented in the Report;  checking that the GRI Index contains the relevant indicators for each of the standard disclosures required by GRI to be In Accordance “Core”, and;  reviewing the content of the Report against the findings resulting from our procedures. Limitations The accuracy and completeness of the information disclosed in the Report are subject to inherent limitations given their nature and the methods for determining, calculating or estimating such information. Our independent assurance report should therefore be read in connection with the GRI G4 Guidelines as well as with the Company’s definitions and basis of reporting of the indicators as described in the Report which is only available on www.aperam.com/sustainability. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement and consequently does not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance audit. Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion. Conclusion Based on our work conducted as above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that:  the Report of Aperam S.A. for the year ended December 31, 2017, does not adhere to GRI Guidelines with respect to the Principles of Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context and Completeness;  the disclosures in the Report do not adhere to GRI In Accordance Core criteria and that the GRI Index as presented on pages 51 and 52 of the Report is not appropriate;  the selected Indicators marked with a “*” on pages 11, 12, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, and 32 of the Report and enumerated above are not presented fairly, in all material aspects, in accordance with GRI Guidelines. For Deloitte Audit, Société à responsabilité limitée Cabinet de révision agréé Marco Crosetto, Réviseur d’Entreprises Agréé Partner April 18, 2018 560, rue de Neudorf L-2220 Luxembourg Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
