Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) APRIL 2018 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Contents Statement of Continued Support for UN Global Compact ......................................................... 1 Human Rights Principles ....................................................................................................................... 2 Labour Principles ..................................................................................................................................... 4 Environmental Principles ...................................................................................................................... 6 Anti-corruption Principles .................................................................................................................... 8 Statement of Continued Support for UN Global Compact Dear Sir/Madam, I am pleased to confirm that Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd reaffirms its support to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our annual Communication on Progress, I would like to describe our actions and implementation in brief that we consistently improved and enhanced the integration of the United Nations Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy (vision and mission), culture (business ethics and practices), and daily operations (incorporating into the procedures and processes). At the same time, we are fully committed sharing our implementation widely with our stakeholders using appropriate and primary channels of communication. I firmly believe that UNGC, together with its ten principles, directs the ways of not only achieving corporate integrity through transparency and accountability but also realizing sustainable growth. And lastly, UNGC drives us to contribute the communities far and wide through Corporate Social Responsibility activities for improving the quality of life and creating a better world for all. Sincerely yours, Dr. Tun Thura Thet Founder and CEO Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Page 1 of 9 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals In line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd (MIT) highly prioritizes the protection of human rights in our business operations and partnerships. Being as an active United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) member itself through the network of UNGC members fully supports to respect the human rights. The strengthened fundamentals of human rights are applied effectively and constantly in all interactions with stakeholders that drive our objectives to meet the sustainable development. MIT sets the goals in its programme implementation to support the protection of human rights through Corporate Social Responsibility activities as well as to assure there is no misconduct in the workplace stating in the Code of Conduct in accordance with the Human Rights Principles. Implementation In this connection, MIT has been monitoring and reviewing the business practices and procedures enabling to integrate the core principles of human rights that we value. Company policies have enforced to discourage the forced and child labour, discrimination of gender, age, race and religion in employment, etc. The knowledge and awareness of MIT staff members on the human rights are increased through the comprehensive code of conduct that enhanced their understanding to respect the human rights and applied to their day-to-day business as well as personal life. Orientation sessions are scheduled for the staff regarding the prevention of harassment such as physical, verbal, sexual or psychological abuse or threats in the workplace. In order to promote the human rights, MIT focuses on the Corporate Social Responsibility activities throughout the period to further support to the youth and the communities. Corporate Social Responsibility obligations increased by means of accessing wider approaches through the network. MIT mainly devoted to the education sector. MIT continuously supported in terms of the scholarship programme for the outstanding students at the University of Information Page 2 of 9 Technology, Yangon Region, financially supported to the needy students at the University of Computer Studies in Hinthada Township, Ayeyarwaddy Region, and under E-village programme, MIT continuously provided necessary technical and financial support for the computer training centre in Kayin State. In addition, MIT offered on-the-job trainings and internship programme to the students at the University of Computer Studies to support for their career path. MIT employed the interns, as per quorum (12 staff), from the students at the University of Computer Studies in States and Regions. MIT offered a software course for a university student majoring in English pursing distance education to disseminate software skills and knowledge to the youths in his native town. Corporate Social Responsibility activities covered including the support to government sector, i.e. two officials from the Ministry of Education are sponsored by MIT for their travel and required arrangements to attend a workshop held at Harvard Business School, Harvard University in USA. Employees of MIT are provided the facility for transport with office vehicles as well as engaged Oway Taxi service to ensure not only convenience but also comfort and safety for travelling on business. Immediate supports provided in cases of sending to the hospitals, clinics for those who suffer illness while on duty. Medical entitlements for staff are ensured to have proper medical treatment. The staff who need to take long rest in order to undergo medical treatment are allowed sufficient period and to resume their jobs after the recovery. For female colleagues, maternity leave and the full Social Security Board (SSB) benefits during pregnancy are entitled. Health related problems for those staff residing in the staff hostels are well addressed and they can rest assured of our full support. Measurement of outcomes MIT management oversee the overall implementations regarding the support to the Human Rights principle and duly address the areas that need improvement by taking corrective measures. External counterparts (customers, suppliers, partners and stakeholders) appreciated our performance and full support for our employees and the community. The end results of our implementation are proved supporting for the compliance with Human Rights. Page 3 of 9 Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals In all areas of business operations and staff recruitment process, labour principles are fully enforced and uphold by MIT at its sustainable and equal approach. As specifically lay down its labour principles, Company policies are aligned to eliminate all forms of forced and child labour, and discrimination in the selection and recruitment process of staff employment that is clearly stated in the MIT’s staff handbook. Likewise, leave entitlement, overtime allowance including free meals, allowance for travelling expenses to customers worksites that could enjoy by the employees are covered in detailed in the MIT’s staff handbook. MIT aims to create the working mechanism that establish the team orientated, fair and fully rights supportive working conditions and environment. Implementation MIT’s staff handbook is developed based on the core labour principles and updated as a reference and advice guidance towards full commitment in respect of employment and improved business culture. MIT established the freedom of association and promoted the transparency in all communication channels as well as encouraged all of its employees to consult freely with regard to the social/personal requirements, employment and working conditions. Signing of employment agreement between MIT and new recruits are prepared in accordance with the governed laws and labour principles so that equal employment opportunities achieved. All terms and conditions contained in our staff employment agreement comply with applicable laws. Our employment agreement ensures that employees are paid according to minimum wage standards. Forced and bonded labours are totally prohibited in MIT and all employment agreements are thoroughly scrutinized. Page 4 of 9 MIT organized all employees’ registrations in the Social Security Board of the Ministry of Labour, Immigration and Population to enjoy the benefits offered by the government. All type of leaves according to the government policy such as medical leave, casual leave, annual leave, leave without pay, maternity leave and so on are fully entitled by the employees and reflected the new and/or changes as needed. In addition, family bereavement leave and exam leave are allowed for the staff as necessary. Funding and cash are supported for those colleagues who have financial difficulties to cover their medical expenses, and social necessities. Special cash allowances are provided for the social occasions (joy or grief). All employees are provided by standardized office supplies and equipment, technical and software support to perform their duties productively. For. e.g. leave request , attendance (in/out), and overtime request are controlled through mobile application: called “HCM Connect” that is supported in the payroll and HR processes. Since MIT management value the health and proper nutrition of the staff members, the cleanliness of the canteen and hygienic food for lunch and refreshment arrangement are closely monitored. Clean and fresh drinking water are supplied daily and fresh seasonal fruit are available once a week to keep the employees fit and healthy. Management team organized social and health promoted activities namely male football team participated in local tournaments, yoga session for the interested staff members to contribute the physical and mental fitness. Through active participation of all employees in the annual sporting event programme, the relationship and team spirit among the team are increased and developed. As a remarkable event in 2017, a hundred of our staff member took part in POCARI SWEAT RUN MYANMAR. MIT ensured the necessary induction (orientation for the company rules and practices for the new-comers) is delivered upon staff appointment. Capacity building programmes for the improvement of the competency skills of employees are organized by offering on-the-job trainings, sending to New Horizon Training Center, Myanmar to know up-to-date techniques. Moreover, opportunities for the staff attending internationally recognized courses, as well as, to participate in the seminars, workshops, and meetings, when invited, are welcomed. Management team are encouraging the employees to deliver public presentations, and speeches. Technical sharing programme that facilitated by the employees has been initiated to experience the leading of the courses. Our company’s leading professionals and technologists not only organise workshops, seminars, discussions and talks but also offer sponsorships to IT youths so as to Page 5 of 9 enhance and broaden their IT knowledge and outlook. Moreover, our company’s management invite technologists, technicians, educators and experts from different fields of study to keep the employees abreast of the latest up-to-date innovations and developments taking place across the globe. Measurement of outcomes MIT operated and structured its business in compliance with labour principles and applicable laws – both the labour laws of Myanmar and those of the ILO in respect of any working conditions. Through these implementation activities, the productivity and performance of the employees not only well increased but also met the objectives and improved working relationships. MIT management adhered strictly to the rules and regulations, and issued notices and circulars from time to time to observe by all concerned and then reflect in its operations. Management team promoted the activities to support further the rights of the labour. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilities; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals In line with the environmental principles, MIT assures its working environment for the employees are improved considering the environmental aspect (installing LED lights, and waste management in the office, designated ‘non-smoking areas’ in our premises). Environmental issues are addressed by initiating staff awareness campaign programmes (for e.g. firefighting and fire extinguisher demonstration) that increase the interest of staff to save and protect the environment. Furthermore, environmentally friendly technologies are practiced in our day-to-day business operations. MIT targets towards the sustainable and environmentally friendly working environment that promotes the well-being of our employees. Page 6 of 9 Implementation MIT management financially supported for the implementation and installation of environmental friendly supplies as well as encouraging its employees to be well informed of the approaches and practices to protect the environment. We aim to spread these simple practices through our employees around their surroundings, and all concerned parties to realize how to protect the environment. We regulate the usage of the electricity (light, electrical appliances and equipment) that need to be comply by all staff for e.g. switching off the devices unless in use, and at the end of each business day. MIT management team installed LED light in the offices. As part of the environmental principles, MIT has been practicing the computerized system for all forms of recruitment process. MIT has implemented introducing the new software called “HCM Connect” to support the preservation of the environment and develop the paperless workplace by reducing the use of papers in daily business for the leave request, recording of staff attendance; in/out, and overtime request. In addition, email correspondences encourage ending with hashtags (for .e.g. Going Green and environmental theme message) to share the same of promoting environmental responsibilities with our clients, partners and stakeholders. We strongly monitored and addressed the procedural measures in case of emergencies, adopting systematic disposal of waste, installing sanitized drinking water measured at PH Level, draining all residual and waste water properly, maintaining check-list on facility management to keep as environmentally friendly workplace , and to mitigate health and environmental issues. MIT invited township fire service department to provide the talk how to fight fire including demonstration to all staff, in addition, MIT followed the applicable guidelines for the safety measures as advised by local authority. Measurement of outcomes These overall measures through constant implementation of environmentally friendly activities enhance the awareness of the environmental protection of the employees and related parties by means of efficient approach. At the same time, our workplaces and surroundings are clean, and fresh as well as more environmentally friendly atmosphere resulting in the support for the well-being of our employees. Page 7 of 9 We will further move forward in the way of advanced technologies to reduce all actions that affect the environment sustainability and to fight against global climate change. Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals MIT adopted a zero tolerance in all forms of corruptions. MIT has established the policy by observing all local applicable laws as well as international and regional frameworks. We are fully committed to work against all types of corruption such as kickbacks, bribery and extortions as well as misconduct in the course of business operations and partnerships. MIT, as an organization, aims to keep high standards of conducts and value in all its business management as well as fully implemented in compliance with anti-corruption principles. Implementation MIT’s rules and regulations specifically point out the principles of anticorruption to apply to all operational processes. This was, in addition, addressed in all employment agreements’ terms and conditions to prevent malpractices and misconduct. We reinforced clear rules and regulations in the MIT’s staff handbook, as well as anti-corruption commitment has been instituted and incorporated in the Code of Conduct to be observed by all staff. MIT has comprehensive policy in selecting vendors and suppliers; and follow well established process. MIT management team oversee that all cash transactions are processed in accordance with the standardized business practices and all staff are informed how they must practice formal contributions in social activities. Page 8 of 9 Measurement of outcomes MIT firmly practices the anti-corruption in all forms of our business operations including coordination with the public and private sectors. MIT assures that anticorruption principles are fully embedded in its operations. In addition, MIT never had a case associated with corruption when quarterly and annual audit conducted due to the systematic transaction process practiced in MIT. Practicing of these principles are contributed to achieving MIT’s core value, mission, vision, and operational plans. Page 9 of 9
