RAMADA HOTEL & SUITES AJMAN P.O. Box 31631 Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Street, Ajman, United Arab Emirates 2017 Communication on Progress (COP) on the United Nations Global Compact Time Period: July 2017 till June 2018 Page 1 of 19 Contents 03 Introduction * About Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman * Sustainability at Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman 04 Letter from the Cluster General Manager 05Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 07 Labor 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 10 Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 17 Anti-Corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 2 of 19 Introduction About Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman Ramada Hotel and Suites Ajman is a premier accommodation located on Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Street, in the centre of the main city of Ajman. The hotel provides easy access to the UAE’s main airports, commercial centres and cultural attractions. With its spacious and stylish 388 rooms, Ramada Hotel and Suites Ajman caters to both business and leisure travellers, whether on short trips or long-term stays. The hotel offers modern comforts matched with unparalleled service. Guests can enjoy sumptuous food selection at Orchid Restaurant, R Cafe and the 24-hour room service, as well as the hotel’s first-rate facilities including a gym, indoor swimming pool, spa, and free access to its exclusive beach club. Sustainability at Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman has been on the forefront of sustainability and CSR innovation for years, continuing to develop and implement initiatives that create positive experiences for associates, guests, and the surrounding community and environment. The property is known for its remarkable ground-breaking environment initiatives like the launch of Zero Landfill Project in 2012 -a waste management system of the property. Four years after the launch of the project, with the help of recycling and an in-house composter machine, the hotel was able to reduce its landfill waste disposal by 90% and divert more than a million kilogram of waste. The property improved more on its current waste management efficiency through installing new WasteStation dewaterer and macerator machine. With the new machine, it reduces the process of converting the waste into fertilisers from 24 hours to 12 hours, it simplify the process and cut down the labour cost. Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman pioneered an Urban Farming project, where the property converted 430 square meters of its vast parking space to an urban farm, growing seasonal vegetables and crops, which can be of use in the hotel’s kitchen. The property also regularly teams up with various organisations on different sustainable projects including Sealed Air’s “Soap for Hope”, and Emirates Environmental Group’s “Your Can for Tree” campaigns, among others. All year-round, the team does their share for sustainable tourism through regular beach clean-ups and organising activities for Earth Hour, Earth Day, World Environment Day. Through their incessant efforts, the hotel looks ahead to well-preserved environment for the future generations. Page 3 of 19 Letter from the Cluster General Manager Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman places high value on its commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. The property is actively involved in altruistic sustainable activities since 2011. We are honoured to be part of the United Nations Global Compact since July 2016. Our management has always ensured the welfare of our work force and has been actively involved in various sustainable initiatives and charitable projects over the years. Through our membership, we seek to enrich our current business practices, and improve our existing CSR programmes. We will strive to become responsible role models in our field and in the community, and ultimately inspire our industry peers to do their share for a socially responsible global economy. In this second annual Communication on Progress of Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We would like to highlight and share our commitment and achievements during the 2017/2018. We aim to continuously support the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles in its worldwide activities in the coming more years. Yours sincerely, Iftikhar Hamdani Cluster General Manager Page 4 of 19 Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment & Policy Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman is committed to ensure a healthy environment without discrimination and protects all its employees, guests and business partners from any abuses. The hotel’s goal is to display fairness and integrity at all times. Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman continually following the implemented Anti-Discrimination Policy. To better understand the highlights of the Human Rights, the hotel’s Training Manager conducted several trainings to keep the team aware and refresh about Human Rights & Labour Practices. We believe that the persistence of human rights violations clearly demonstrates the need to focus more attention on preventive actions. To protect human rights is to ensure that employees, guests and business partners receive some degree of decent, humane treatment. Implementation Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman had taken the following measures to prevent human rights violations in its work locations: · The hotel’s Training Manager is conducting regular trainings and awareness about discrimination & human rights as well as providing trainings on safety and healthy environment on a regular basis. Page 5 of 19 · As normal procedures, Human Resources Department is well-versed in each of the human resources disciplines and conducts fair judgment in any misconduct transpire and with unfair treatment issues. · Continuously, All Head of the Departments are conducting their regular briefings where staff can also share their thoughts and opinions. · Employee Handbook is available for staff which tackles not only hotel’s information but also include Code of Conduct brief. · Continued membership with United Nations Global Compact (member since July 2016) · Hired different nationalities to avoid Racial, Sexual, Disability and age discrimination. v Given opportunity to Deaf-mute individual by hiring Mr. Rizwan Uddin from Pakistan. He started his career at Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman on January 16th, 2018 as KenFix-It Technician in Engineering Department. · Offered internships for the school students, locally and internationally · Allocated Disabled Rooms for disabled guest as their right to be treated fairly with the other guests. Measurement of Outcomes As of December 2017, Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman analysis of workforce as part of the Human Rights advocate of the property is as follows: Employees 2016 (as of Dec. 2016) 2017 (as of Dec. 2017) Men Women Men Women Employed 237 47 234 57 Internship 09 05 27 8 Total No. of 247 76 261 65 Employees Nationality count 24 25 At Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman, we ensure that both Men and Women are equally treated with fair work. Giving the same opportunity in each work filed regardless of their gender. On record, there is increased of 3% hiring of Women for the year 2017 compare to 2016. Hired 17% of Women in 2016 while 20% of hired Women in 2017. There is increased of 21 Trainee/Interns for 2017 compare to 2016. Year 2017, Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman had total of 35 Trainee/Interns while year 2016 had 14 Trainee/Interns. At Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman, there is no human right violation has been reported till date. Page 6 of 19 Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment & Policy To continuously achieve excellence in the human resources and leadership practices, Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman constantly comply in the hotel’s Employment Policy where the policy operates a fair and consistent approach to all associates which can help improve their career development. Additionally, Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman eliminates all forms of forced and compulsory labour, child labour. Implementation Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman intends to ensure to be a socially responsible employer. · The developed Employee Handbook is available for staff’s awareness about the hotel’s information, Terms of employment, Health & Safety procedures including the emergency procedures in case of Fire, Code of Conduct, Disciplinary & Grievance procedures, Bribery & Corruption, Socio-Cultural, Environmental Commitment, Human Trafficking & Child Exploitation / Employee Exploitation & Abuse including Discrimination & Harassment. · The Hotel Committees are still ready for assistance in case of any concerns that the employee would like to share with. This Committee organizes sports activities, annual staff party, environmental activities, community participation, etc. · The hotel’s Training Manager is conducting regular trainings and awareness about discrimination & human rights as well as providing trainings on safety and healthy environment on a regular basis Page 7 of 19 · Continuously empowering labour with recognition for the staff in order for them to be felt appreciated and for them to encourage working for the betterment not only for the hotel but for them too. Such recognitions are Star of the Month (Front & Back of the House); Supervisor of the Quarter; Star of the Year (Front & Back of the House) and Supervisor of the Year. Other awards/recognitions were given to the selected employee/s for exceptional contribution towards the hotel. Recognitions are given every quarter of the year during the Quarter Staff Gathering. · We continuously encouraged employees to engage in community training participation to enhance and develop their social skills. Measurement of Outcomes Grievance: No grievances were reported by any of the employees. Employee Engagement Activities (July 2017 till June 2018) August 23, 2017 | Summer Mega Sports Day for February 08, 2018 | Ramada Premier League all Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman and Ramada Cricket Beach Hotel Ajman staff February 26, 2018 | Ramada Hotel & Suites March 02, 2018 | ATDD's Old Challenge School Ajman and Ramada Beach Hotel Ajman’s Annual Obstacle 5km Race, Al Zorah which was Staff Party participated of 10 staff from the Ramada Ajman. March 15, 2018 | R Hotels Cricket at Skyline March 18-20, 2018 | Ajman Hotels Volleyball, University, Sharjah Ajman Hotel Page 8 of 19 Training & Development: Apart from the departmental trainings conducted by the hotel’s Training Manager, the following trainings were attended by most of the employees to enhance their knowledge. · External Training: “Effective Performance Appraisals by Bettering Self-Management”, th conducted by COTHM Dubai-UAE on August 19 , 2017 at Excellist Study Centre Ajman. The training is attended by HR Managers of the hotels. · External Training: “Quality Assurance Workshop”, conducted by Wyndham Hotel Group on th th August 15 & 16 , 2018 at Hawthorn Suites by Wyndham Dubai. Attended by Executive Housekeepers of Ramada Ajman and Ramada Beach. · External Participation in Career Fair: CUCA’s Career Fair at Ajman, UAE on April 4, 2018. The hotel’s Training Manager along with HR Team gave insights about the career opportunity in hospitality industry. · Internal Training though Outsourced Trainer: “Arabic Class”, a-month-long training for basic Arabic speaking that runs from October 2017 till November 2017 by an outsourced Arabic Teacher. Attended by selected staff who direct deals with the guests. Turn-over Report/Analysis: Based on the 2016 & 2017 record, the turnover was further reduced to 0.25%. Year 2017 had only 1.11% turnover compare to 2016 with 1.36%. We believe that the core value of the business is to give appreciation and care to staff. Providing their happiness like organizing sports activities, monthly staff gatherings and empowerment keeps them motivated and driven. Termination/ New Year Total Employees Transferred % Turnover Resignation Joiners 2016 3,165 43 64 1.36 2017 3,348 37 51 64 1.11 Page 9 of 19 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment & Policy Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman is fully committed to environmental sustainability and to minimize negative impacts to the Mother Nature and promotes environmentally friendly culture with our internal and external associates during the hotel operation. Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman secured its third consecutive Green Globe certification. The Green Globe certification is a further testament to Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman’s continuous commitment in sustainability through its efficient waste management system, water and energy conservation practices, and awareness campaigns within the team and in the hospitality industry. Page 10 of 19 As part of its continuous commitment to sustainable tourism, the hotel was also granted a Climate Neutral Business Travel certification for 2016 and 2017. Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman has made a sustainable contribution to voluntary climate protection by offsetting 48.02 tonnes of carbon dioxide emission in high quality myclimate carbon offset projects. The carbon offset projects offered by myclimate reduce greenhouse gas emissions on site by replacing energy sources with negative impact on the climate by clean ones. The projects are exclusively facilitates the range of renewable energy and enhancement of energy efficiency. The recognition is issued by myclimate, a Swiss climate protection organisation, in partnership with Farnek Middle East. Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman implemented policies to protect our environment. I. Environmental Policy This policy is deliberately taken to direct and oversee human activities and thereby prevent harmful effects on the biophysical environment and natural resources, as well as to make sure that changes in the environment do not have harmful effects on humans. The Environmental Policy is published in the hotel’s website under “Green Initiatives”. II. Biodiversity, Ecosystem and Landscape Policy Inclusion under Environmental Policy set-forth by Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman: v Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman ensures endangered species, products thereof or item stemming from unsustainable practices are not consumed, sold, traded or displayed. v The property ensures that no captive wildlife on property grounds. v The property prohibits use of alien species in garden, landscapes, and other area of operation. III. Procurement Policy Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman’s procurement department includes identification, selection and purchase of products (i.e. goods and services) with significantly less adverse to environmental and social impacts. Guidelines for Procurement: v Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman always encourage dealing with vendor who adapts sustainability as their core business policies. v Biodegradable Material must be used for items like Laundry Suite cover roll, Shirt cover Bags, Trash bin liners, Garbage bags, Take-away bags, etc. v All Promotional Printing Material of the property must be printed on Wood Free, FSC and Recycle paper Material only and also encourage dealing with those printing press that strongly believe and encourage sustainability as their company policies. v Chemical used at Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman should be eco-friendly, v Vendor for Fruits and Vegetable Vendor must use take back Containers and reuse it on every next delivery. Page 11 of 19 v Amenities used for Guest Room must be certified & approved eco-friendly products by local Municipality or International Third body. v Procurement department must ensure that vendors to use fuel Efficient Vehicle for deliver at Ramada Hotel & suites Ajman and switch off the vehicle while delivering the requested products. v Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman must encourage having at least 25% purchases from local manufacturer/vendors. IV. Waste Management Plan The Waste Management Plan is to mainly identify the waste streams, determine its method of handling and its final disposition, whether it can be composted, sold to a recycler or taken to a landfill. Every effort will be made to limit, segregate, sort, collect and properly dispose of waste generated within the property. Ramada Hotel and Suites Ajman has established this Plan to assure that waste is segregated based on type and to achieve proper waste management scheme. Implementation Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman bolsters up green enterprises by continuously implementing the following actions to sustain our environment. · The hotel committees are assigned to be responsible in their designated areas in order facilitate in planning activities, help create awareness and support community to preserve our environment. v Waste Management Committee The Waste Management Committee is responsible for the proper waste controlling, segregating, monitoring and transmitting properly the waste produced by the hotel. v Green Committee The Green Committee provides Environmental Activities every month. The said committee will facilitate activities that will create awareness not only for the employees but for the rest of the community. · Calendar of CSR Activities 2017-2018 is available to monthly plan of CSR activities. · Joined Emirates Environmental Group’s “Can Collection Campaign” since May 2016. Received the latest certificate of appreciation from Emirates Environmental Group on June 05, 2018 for the valuable contribution of the hotel towards their can collection drive. · Continuously participating in the Sealed Air’s Soap for Hope Campaign. · Continuously spreading the cause on sustainable waste management by speaking in different forums and conference and welcoming representatives from other hotels, establishments, schools across the UAE who wish to learn about Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman’s best green practices. v HITEC Dubai 2017. Mr. Iftikhar gathered experts from different industry to discuss in a roundtable session aboutSustainability starts with your technology on Nov. 15, 2017/Wed at Conrad Hotel Dubai. v Actions Care’s MOVE Career Day. Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman creates awareness on sustainability to about 300 students from National Charity School Dubai on March 05, 2018. Page 12 of 19 th v Ajman 5 International Environment Conference. Iftikhar Hamdani as one of the speakers of the event speaking about “Climate Change and Sustainability” at Ajman th University on March 6 , 2018 v Saudi Travel and Tourism Investment Market (STTIM) at Riyadh International Convention and Exhibition Center (RICEC). Iftikhar Hamdani has been part of the STTIM as one of the speakers with topic Best Practices to Save Cost in Hospitality Entities””. Held on April 2, 2018. v ATM Panel discussing about “Taking Responsibility for Environmental Impacts” held on April 23, 2018 at Showcase Theatre, DWTC. Iftikhar Hamdani was one of the panellists. v Top Hotels World Tour event to discuss in a pane about EXPO2020: Opportunities, Mobility and sustainability . Held on April 24, 2018 at Sheraton Grand Dubai · Continuously using the Hotel Optimizer. Hotel Optimizer is a cost-effective tool to set proper targets and have a clear idea of the hotel’s resource management performance in terms energy, water and waste and even carbon emissions. Measurement of Outcomes Overall CSR Activities conducted & participated from July 2017 till June 2018: August 16, 2017 | Hosted the complimentary full October 16, 2017 | World Food Day: Food board accommodation for the deaf couple from donation to Human Appeal International on Deaf Reach Schools Pakistan. The hotel hosted which will be given to less fortunate individuals. 15 teachers and their families from Deaf Reach Schools in Pakistan throughout August and September January 07, 2018 | Hosted the inauguration March 12, 2018 | Welcomes Special Olympics IX th ceremony of the 5 Edition of Cricket World Cup MENA Games Abu Dhabi 2018 from Philippines of the Blind on January 7, 2018 supporting the and Pakistan. visually challenged individuals Page 13 of 19 March 16, 2018 | Participated in the 4km colour April 19, 2018 | Emirates Walk for Autism, Dubai race, an Abdul Aziz Bin Humaid Al Nuaimi Parks & Resort by R HOTELS. Foundation Initiative which aims to improve overall health & well-being of the individuals June 14, 2018 | Humanitarian support for June 03, 2018 | Distributes packed Iftar meals to Ramada Beach Hotel Ajman’s Housekeeping about 400 labourers as part of the celebration of Attendant for his 10-year old son who is Museum’s anniversary. The distribution was held diagnosed with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia in Ajman Museum commemorating its anniversary (Blood Cancer). The Ramada Ajman team was during the Holy Month of Ramadan. The able to collect Aed 18,669.00 distribution is with collaboration with Ajman Tourism Outstanding Achievements: November 26, 2017 | Ramada Hotel & Suites February 20, 2018 | Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman named on its third year as the Hotel of the Ajman’s Cluster General Manager, Mr. Iftikhar Year for Green Initiatives 2017. Hamdani won the “CSR Professional of the Year” nd at the 2 edition of the Gulf Sustainability and CSR Awards 2018. Page 14 of 19 Total Waste Generated: The property generated 484,787 kg of waste in 2017 compared to 532,890 kg in 2016. This is a decrease of -9.03% or -48,103 kg. Waste Quantities by Type – [kg & %]: Page 15 of 19 Food Waste per Cover – [kg/cover]: The food waste per cover for 2017 is 0.49 kg which is a variation of -7.05% from 2016. Waste Diversion Rate – [%] The property achieved a 32.16% waste diversion from landfill for 2017 compared to 34.20% in 2016. This is a variation of -5.95%. Page 16 of 19 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment & Policy Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman provides guidance on the standards of behavior to which all must adhere and most of these reflect the common sense and good business practices that we all work to in any event and to help identify when something is prohibited so that bribery and corruption is avoided. Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman has a zero-tolerance policy for bribery & corruption. All forms of bribery and corruption are prohibited. We will not tolerate any act of bribery or corruption. At Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman, all are obeying the Bribery & Corruption Policy set. Any breach of this policy or local law may result in disciplinary action being taken and ultimately will result on dismissal. Inclusion under Bribery & Corruption Policy set-forth by Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman: · The business prohibits all form of bribery whether they take place directly or through third parties. · The business also prohibits its employees from soliciting, arranging or accepting bribes intended for the employee’s benefit or that of the employee’s family, friends, associates or acquaintances. · The business, its employees or agents should not make direct or indirect contributions to political parties, organization or individuals engaged in politics, as a way of obtaining advantage in business transaction. · The business ensures that charitable contributions and sponsorships are not used as a subterfuge for bribery. Page 17 of 19 · The business prohibit the offer or receipts of gifts, hospitality or expenses whenever they could affect or be perceived to affect the outcome of business transactions and are not reasonable and bona fide. · The business publicly discloses all its political and charitable contributions. · The business makes known its anti-bribery policies to contractors and suppliers. · The business avoids dealing with contractors and suppliers known or reasonably suspected to be paying bribes. It undertake due diligence, as appropriate, in evaluating prospective contractors and suppliers to ensure that they have effective anti-bribery program. For our business partners, we continuously conduct a Preliminary Supplier’s Assessment & Evaluation Form beforehand partnering to them where states about the supplier's facility to have procedures in-placed to ensure their workplace is free of physical abuse, physical contact with the intent to injure or intimidate, and disciplinary measures that cause physical discomfort. Implementation Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman ensure that internal procedures support the hotel’s anti-corruption commitment, we continually ensure practicing the below measures: · Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman has its continuous excellent audit system. Internal Audit system sets procedure to periodically carried-out checks in some departments that mostly handle cash and contracts. · As part of the internal communication structure, employees can raise their concern over issues such fraud and conflict of interest, bribery & corruption, kickbacks, unethical business conduct, etc. Human Resources Department is well-versed in each of the human resources disciplines and conducts fair judgment in any misconduct transpire and with unfair treatment issues. · We developed Employee Handbook that tackles not only hotel’s information but also include Code of Conduct brief including Bribery & Corruption, whereas, “Bribery & Corruption” in any forms is strictly prohibited in the organization. It is not allowed to accept gifts, hospitality or expenses whenever, they would affect the outcome of business transaction. · We provided a track record of the “Lost & Found”. Lost & found programme maintained by the Housekeeping Department in a safe box that holds the forgotten items for a certain period of time depending on its value. Valuable items hold for one year & non-valuable items hold for six months. · Proper hand-over of shift especially cash count is followed as procedure most especially to those department handling cash. Measurement of Outcomes No deals with incidents of corruption. No case of violations of the policy was reported. Page 18 of 19 Communication on Progress | July 2017 – June 2018 P.O. Box 31631, Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Street, Ajman, United Arab Emirates Tel: 00971 6 703 1111 Fax: 00971 6 740 3000 info@ramadaajman.com www.ramadaajman.com Page 19 of 19
