Building tomorrow today Sustainability Report 2017 | ROCKWOOL Group Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts We release the natural power of stone to enrich modern living This simple statement captures ROCKWOOL’s purpose. We are committed to empowering everyone to rise to the challenges of modern living. We use a natural material – stone – to create products that have a positive impact on the environment and improve people’s lives. Our 2017 Sustainability Report shares our progress in helping to shape a more sustainable world. You can read about the work we are doing to create new solutions and to measure and improve the impact of our products and operations. You’ll find examples of how we are tackling the big issues, from climate change to urbanisation, creating healthier, more resilient places for people to live, work and play. Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Here we are Stone is our core raw material and the bedrock on which our business is based. Since 1937 we have been making stone wool products to enrich modern living. We are the world’s leading manufacturer of stone wool products, and we deliver specialist solutions for the building, horticultural, marine and offshore sectors. Contents Introduction 01 Here we are 11,000+ employees 5  rands with one b Fire safe insulation for all types of buildings and installations › Building insulation › Technical insulation › Core solutions 39 02 Jens’ message common purpose 03 The value of 80 years sustainable thinking 61 04 We ROCK global goals Acoustic ceiling solutions Product impacts since our founding in countries 06 Meeting the challenges Hedehusene, Denmark, of operation of modern living the site of our first stone wool factory and still our Precision Growing for Operational impacts headquarters today nationalities 24 Becoming a more the horticultural industry sustainable business Appendix 33 Key performance Exterior cladding for data and GRI index building facades 40 References 45 manufacturing facilities strengths of stone that make our products unique and versatile Engineered stone wool for composite applications, noise and vibration control, and water management ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 01 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Jens’ message What’s good for our business is good for the world Today more than ever, the world needs businesses that can provide and that’s a great position to be in. Everyone at ROCKWOOL solutions to the challenges of modern living. In order to tackle is passionate about seizing the opportunity to make a positive global challenges such as climate change, urbanisation and resource impact on society. scarcity, businesses like ROCKWOOL that have the solutions and the know-how need to step up. We need to innovate and improve Internally, within our operations, we continued to work towards the positive impacts of our products as well as be vocal and visible our 2030 Group sustainability goals. We have reduced our carbon advocates for meaningful climate action and collaboration. emissions by 3.8 percent per tonne stone wool, and reduced waste to landfill by 4.1 percent compared to the 2015 baseline year. Energy efficiency is key Work carried out in 2017 together with approved investments help Across the C40, which includes almost 100 of the world’s greatest drive us towards our interim 2022 goals. cities, more than 50 percent of greenhouse gas emissions derive from energy use in buildings. By 2050, global building energy demand We launched a new Code of Conduct to articulate our principles is expected to increase by 30 percent if no action is taken. New and policies, and developed a more comprehensive approach to buildings today can achieve as a minimum nearly zero energy levels, sustainable sourcing to improve the transparency of our supply though reaching the Paris Climate Agreement goals requires investing chain. Implementing this new approach will begin in 2018. The in energy renovation of the existing building stock. In the EU, for gender diversity of our management teams also increased in 2017, example, much of this building stock is considered energy-inefficient with women now holding 18 percent of these roles, up from and will still be in use in 2050. Increasing the energy efficiency of 15 percent the previous year. buildings would be the most significant and cost-effective investment Generations to come cities could make to reduce their impact on the climate. 2017 was a milestone year for us as a company, as we proudly Energy efficiency is a common theme in several of the 10 Sustainable celebrated 80 years of the ROCKWOOL Group. I am convinced that Development Goals (SDGs) ROCKWOOL has committed to. And over the next 80 years we will continue to release the natural power as you will read in this report, by far the biggest impact we have is of stone to enable today’s generation and tomorrow’s to rise to the through our products. Whether it’s reducing energy consumption, challenges of modern living. Jens Birgersson, Chief Executive Officer creating healthier indoor environments, or enabling efficient food production, our products play a central role in creating a sustainable future. “We need to innovate and Business making a difference improve the positive impacts Commercially, we had a strong year in 2017, with seven percent of our products and to be organic growth in sales. I firmly believe that this growth is influenced by the close alignment of our purpose with the genuine needs vocal and visible advocates of society. What’s good for our business is good for the world, for meaningful climate action”. 02 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts The value of sustainable thinking We create value for society by increasing the positive impacts of our products and reducing the negative effects of our operations. Operational impacts Product impacts Grodan products save annually land area equal to 11,000 300 jobs across our Central Grodan products Parks** operations save water equal to Suppliers 32m the annual drinking Greenhouse needs of EUR invested in R&D 85,000 people** Business functions ROCKWOOL 3.8% technical insulation saves more than reduction in the annual carbon CO2 per tonne emissions of wool from our Germany* 4.1% factories Industry ROCKWOOL building insulation saves Stone wool is 100% less waste the equivalent of sent to Production landfill 5% of the recyclable annual energy consumption Approx. of EU* 120,000 tonnes used stone wool Cities and ROCKWOOL reclaimed communities insulation withstands temperatures greater than Rockpanel 1,000°C exterior cladding is long-lasting and helps create Recycling attractive spaces Children can miss 25% Rockflow absorbs Infrastructure Data relates to 2017 and impact of products 95% of words spoken sold in 2017 over their lifetime. by their teachers. Rockfon acoustic of its own *See the methodology at www.rockwool group.com/carbon-impact ceilings help volume in **See the methodology at www.rockwool change this rainwater group.com/precision-growing-impact ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 03 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts We ROCK global goals Sustainability is central to our purpose Partnering with the United Nations on the SDGs ROCKWOOL is a participant in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and in 2017, we engaged Thomas Kähler, Senior Vice President, in two UNGC Action Platforms. The Head of Systems Division first – ‘Pathways to Low-Carbon and Resilient Development’ – brings The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) leading businesses together with encompass multiple global challenges, the most critical of which the aim of becoming catalysts for is climate change. Energy efficiency is a key part of the solution. country-level action to fulfil the Paris ROCKWOOL is also among a select group of inaugural companies Working together, business, government, and civil society can Climate Agreement and the SDGs. piloting the SDG Evaluation Tool being developed by Trucost. implement greater efficiency measures, which would contribute The second – ‘Health is Everyone’s Launched in May 2018, this tool will help us and our stakeholders to to ending poverty, protecting the planet and ensuring prosperity Business’ – convenes a broad better understand our quantitative performance against the SDGs. for all. coalition of businesses, academics, It looks across the entire value chain, from raw material inputs, to product use and end-of-life. and civil society partners to set a ROCKWOOL’s approach to sustainability is closely aligned with global business agenda for SDG 3 – the SDGs. We have committed to focusing on 10 of the 17 goals Good Health and Wellbeing. through maximising the positive impacts of our products and Product impacts minimising any negative impacts from our operations. Efforts in 2017 to measure energy and carbon savings confirmed In 2018, we will launch a Group-wide the important role our building and technical insulation products employee engagement campaign Companies should be held accountable for their declared intentions on the SDGs to inspire everyone in have in addressing climate change. For example, over their lifetime, to contribute positively to the SDGs. Over 2017 and 2018 we have ROCKWOOL to take action to increase our technical insulation products save thousands of times more actively participated in a number of collaborations to drive change the scale of impact. energy and CO2 than is consumed or emitted from their raw material within SDG 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities. In addition, extraction, transport and production.1 we are working with expert partners to develop robust, transparent methodologies to measure our progress against the following Read more about our product impacts on pages 06–23 four SDGs: SDG 3 › Good Health and Wellbeing SDG 6 › Clean Water and Sanitation SDG 7 › Affordable and Clean Energy SDG 13 › Climate Action 04 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts What’s good for our business Is good for the world ROCKWOOL insulation is a highly Significantly improving the energy cost-effective way to cut a building’s efficiency of buildings is required if the energy use and CO2 emissions, now Paris climate goals are to be met. and for decades to come. Due to their excellent thermal and acoustic People need comfortable, quiet places properties, our products are often the to live, learn, work, and recover, especially preferred choice when homes, schools, offices, in today’s busy urban environments. or hospitals are being built or renovated. Operational impacts While our products have a significant positive impact on people and society, we recognise that operating as a responsible and With our pioneering product, Rockflow, As extreme weather events like excessive sustainable business is equally important and underpins everything ROCKWOOL enters a new market – one rainfall become more frequent, communities we do. Our six Group sustainability goals reflect key material issues that offers new types of water management will need better defences against within our operations and will drive improvements in our safety solutions for urban environments. urban flooding. and environmental performance to 2030.  ead more about our operational impacts on pages 24–32 R See our material issues on page 33. With a growing population putting traditional Innovative growing solutions enable modern food production under pressure, we need horticulture to increase yields while using Collaborating for change to find ways to feed more people using less water, land and fertilisers. Our work in accelerating the change to a more sustainable fewer natural resources. world is not limited to our products or operations. Through our advocacy work, we engage with customers and a diverse range of stakeholders to influence policy and raise standards. Our circular business model helps us to Embracing circularity will minimise turn waste into new raw materials and to resource consumption and waste recycle used products. going to landfill. ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 05 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Product impacts Meeting the challenges of modern living Harnessing the natural strengths of stone Achieving a balance among fast-paced urban living, human wellbeing, and environmental sustainability presents many challenges – challenges that ROCKWOOL Group is determined to help overcome. We see enormous opportunity to leverage the natural power of stone to create products that accelerate progress towards a safer, healthier, low carbon future. As a raw material, stone is both an abundant and replenishable resource. The earth makes 38,000 times more rock every year through volcanic and oceanic activity than we use to make stone wool.2 Stone wool has many versatile properties. We have broken these down into 7 strengths, which lie at the heart of ROCKWOOL’s products. 06 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Empowering our customers Solutions for modern living We apply stone wool to create diverse and original solutions. That’s why our products touch many aspects of everyday life. The 7 Strengths In cities around the world, ROCKWOOL building insulation is of Stone making homes and offices more fire-resilient and energy-efficient. Better energy efficiency is one of the most important strategies Fire cities can implement to meet their climate change targets.3 Henrik Frank Nielsen, Senior Vice resilience President, Head of Insulation North In industries on land and at sea, ROCKWOOL technical insulation is East Europe helping to save energy, cut costs, and keep people safe from heat, Thermal properties fire, and noise. In schools, workplaces, and hospitals, Rockfon ceilings are enhancing acoustic performance and providing quiet spaces for Acoustic people to learn, work, and recover. Studies show that the cognitive Cities that are safe and resilient capabilities performance of children and adults is affected by noise and that their ability to listen and learn is reduced in noisy environments.4 Robustness In local towns and neighbourhoods, Rockpanel’s adaptable In densely populated urban areas, more and more people are living cladding is helping architects to design spaces that inspire. and working in high-rise buildings. These buildings can be great Grodan’s Precision Growing products are reducing the amount solutions to the challenge of urban population growth, but if a fire Aesthetics of land, water, and fertilisers needed to grow plants and crops, strikes in a high rise, the consequences can be serious. and at the same time increasing yields. Lapinus’ stone wool Water solutions are helping to attenuate ground-borne vibration from ROCKWOOL insulation is made from naturally fire-resilient stone properties trains and subways, and protect communities from urban flooding. wool. Created using the same process that occurs at the heart of a volcano, it withstands temperatures greater than 1,000°C One-third of all global waste is produced in the building sector, much and does not burn.7 It works to contain fire and prevent its spread. Circularity of which ends up in landfill.5 Stone wool is both long lasting6 and fully At the same time, it does not contribute to the emission of recyclable – and it can be recycled endlessly without any reduction in significant quantities of toxic smoke. quality. This inherent circularity, together with ROCKWOOL’s ability to upcycle materials from other industries that would otherwise end up in landfills, positions us well to support the transition to a sustainable, circular economy. Continued ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 07 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts 1.5 million Built into walls and/or facades, ROCKWOOL stone wool products can help prevent fire from spreading through the interior or exterior of the building, which could make the difference between having a fire in a building, and a building on fire. It also gives the people people moving to urban environments inside the building more time to evacuate safely and fire fighters every week.8 more time to extinguish the fire. Urbanisation From apartment blocks to skyscrapers, from industrial facilities With the urban population growing every to schools and hospitals, the natural qualities of stone are helping week, we need to find ways to house us build safe and resilient cities. everyone in our cities in a way that keeps them safe and helps them thrive. Strengthening fire safety regulations: an urgent need The Grenfell Tower disaster in London in June 2017 shocked the world. It shook people’s belief in the authorities’ ability to ensure Case study safe homes and adequate protection for the people living in them. Safety at great heights in Germany ROCKWOOL insulation At 2,962 metres above sea level, the Zugspitze is the highest This tragedy has rightly shone a spotlight on the building Our building insulation is nonmountain in Germany and home to a popular ski resort. industry’s fire safety practices and lack of strong regulations combustible and dimensionally stable, in some markets. For ROCKWOOL, it has made our advocacy and designed for thermal, acoustic, In 2011, planning began for a new, upgraded ‘Zugspitze work more important than ever. In 2017, our expertise as and fire protection applications. Cable Car’, to replace the original, which had been leaders in non-combustible building materials was frequently When properly installed, ROCKWOOL operating since 1963. called upon, as cities, local authorities, and construction building insulation will provide perfect fitting with tight joints, eliminating Fire resilience was a top priority for the engineering companies sought to understand how to prevent a disaster excessive heat loss caused from gaps and construction team. All components of the build, like Grenfell from happening again. in the insulation. including a ceiling made of precast concrete on steel › Non-combustible beams, were insulated with special aluminium-clad › Provides excellent sound reduction, ROCKWOOL fire protection panels, which meet creating a comfortable environment Germany's strict fire safety standards. inside the building › Water repellent, keeps rainwater The new cable car opened in December 2017 and from penetrating the insulation can transport more than 500 people per hour to the › Diffusion open product, enables moisture to pass through the wall Zugspitze summit. 08 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Advocating for a greater focus on safety ROCKWOOL is constantly working to increase the focus on fire Case study safety, through collaboration with groups such as the International S  afety and sustainability at Organization for Standardization (ISO), the European Committee Changi Airport, Singapore for Standardisation (CEN), and Fire Safe Europe, of which we are a founding member. In North America we collaborate with numerous Completed in October 2017, the fire safety associations and councils, including the National new state-of-the-art terminal at Gilles Maria, Senior Vice President, Association of Fire Protection, and ASTM International. Changi Airport will play an integral Head of ROCKWOOL Insulation South West Europe and Asia role in maintaining Singapore’s Our advocacy work in Europe contributed to two important outcomes position as a global air hub. in 2017. Firstly, the EU’s Energy Performance of Buildings Directive was officially amended and included a request to EU Member States to pay “  We need strong leadership from Sustainability was an important consideration in the build, with the “due attention to fire safety”. Secondly, the EU Commission created the ‘Fire Information Exchange Platform’ (FIEP), which brings EU policy makers to require that only airport committed to continually improving its performance through member states and relevant industry associations together to discuss key challenges for fire safety in buildings. The FIEP’s first meeting took non-combustible insulation and energy efficiency and proactive management of water and waste. place in October and five key work streams were agreed, setting the cladding be used on high-rise agenda for the group’s work in 2018 and beyond. ROCKWOOL products used in the and high-risk buildings. building, for example in the roof Fire safety in high-risk environments and ceilings, were selected for Fire safety is crucial not only in high-rise environments but also in “The UK government has already made clear that this is their energy saving and fire safety ‘high-risk’ ones – places like airports and shopping malls where large an obvious option. What is not clear is why it has not been credentials as well as for the thermal numbers of people gather, or specialist infrastructure like power adopted as policy to provide urgent clarity to building and acoustic comfort they provide plants where fire resilience is critical. In 2017, ROCKWOOL products owners and reassurance to residents. to the 16 million passengers a year were used to make high-risk places all around the world more expected to pass through the resilient to fire. “We owe it to the people who lost their lives at Grenfell Tower, and to all residents, to act now to keep their homes new terminal. safe. Let’s get on with it. Why take the risk to do otherwise?” In 2017 Changi Airport was rated the top airport in the world for the sixth T  his is an extract from an article published in February 2018 year in a row by airport customer in the New Statesman: www.newstatesman.com/spotlight/ service rating scheme Skytrax. housing/2018/02/immediate-action-needed-fire-safety Continued ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 09 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Saving energy, protecting the climate Buildings and industries that are energy-efficient Energy savings of products sold in 2017 Building insulation Energy used The Paris Climate Agreement commits the world to keeping from raw materials global temperature rise to less than 2°C above pre-industrial and production levels, so as to avoid the worst impacts of climate change. This is a formidable challenge, which requires global cooperation on an unprecedented scale. Energy savings during 85 times the energy product lifetime used in its Buildings account for 30 percent of global energy use, production and 28 percent of global CO2 emissions.9 According to the International Energy Agency, energy intensity per square metre of the building sector needs to improve 30 percent by 2030 to meet the Paris climate goals.10 This will Technical insulation Energy used require a near-doubling of buildings’ current energy performance from raw materials and means that nearly zero energy buildings need to become and production the standard globally within the next decade. At the same time it becomes even more clear that investment is needed in energy renovation of the existing building stock. Over its lifetime, ROCKWOOL technical and building insulation has the potential to save thousands of terawatt-hours of heating Energy savings energy.11 For building insulation, this is the equivalent of five during product percent of the annual energy consumption of the EU.12 Our products 5,000 lifetime are helping business and building owners save energy and costs and reduce their impact on the climate. Ecofys, a Navigant company, developed methodologies to calculate the energy and carbon emission savings in the lifetime of sold building insulation and technical insulation products. Ecofys endorsed that the 2017 energy and carbon emission savings calculated by ROCKWOOL times the energy used correctly follow these methodologies. in its production The methodologies are available on www.rockwoolgroup.com/carbon-impact 10 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts The case for energy efficiency in buildings Of the range of actions that can be taken to reduce the building Did you know? Case study sector’s energy consumption and CO2 emissions, reducing energy What do we mean by Nearly Insulation put to the test in the Arctic demand in buildings is the most cost-effective strategy. In fact, Zero Energy Buildings buildings have a 70 percent more cost-efficient abatement potential Yamal LNG is one of the world’s first Liquid Natural Gas than any other sector.13 Nearly Zero Energy Buildings are (LNG) plants to be built above the Arctic Circle. It utilises those that have an extremely high the natural gas and liquid hydrocarbon reserves on the Building envelope improvements, including better wall insulation level of energy efficiency built in. Yamal peninsula at Ob Bay, in the Russian Federation. using ROCKWOOL stone wool, offer significant energy-saving The goal is to reduce the amount potential. Governments and local authorities in Europe and around of energy a building consumes The plant is being developed in a phased, modular way. the world are increasingly recognising the need to demonstrate to the greatest degree possible It will include three natural gas liquefaction facilities, each the long-term energy and cost savings to be gained from up-front – and that whatever energy is still one constructed using prefabricated modules containing investment in energy-efficient buildings. required be supplied by the most ROCKWOOL’s high-quality technical stone wool insulation. environmentally beneficial and Our insulation was chosen for its thermal capabilities, which Beyond the positive environmental impacts, energy efficiency has can cope with extreme weather conditions, and for its economically efficient sources many other benefits. It is recognised as one of the most effective superior acoustic and fire safety properties, which help available. long-term measures for reducing ‘energy poverty’, which is protect workers from excessive noise and the risk of fire. when people cannot afford to heat their homes. The EU’s Energy and Climate Commissioner estimates that just a one percent The first Yamal LNG facility was successfully commissioned improvement in energy efficiency could lift seven million people in November 2017 and the first shipment of natural gas left out of energy poverty.14 Ob Bay in December. Continued ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 11 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Renovating today to benefit tomorrow Oliver Rapf, Executive Director of the Buildings Accelerating energy renovation Performance Institute Europe Around 97 percent of the European Union’s building stock, Oliver explains the enormous amounting to more than 30 billion square metres, is considered potential for energy efficiency to be energy-inefficient. Between 75 to 85 percent of this stock in the building sector. will still be in use in 2050.15 If we are to deliver on the Paris Climate Agreement goals, a faster, deeper retrofit rate is crucial. Globally, it needs to increase from 1–2 percent per year today, to more than 2–3 percent in the coming “Buildings are a key piece decade.16 By 2030 the majority of privately owned buildings need to have been retrofitted to high energy efficiency standards, Volker Christmann, Senior Vice of the energy puzzle. if cities are to meet their climate targets.17 President, Head of Insulation Central Europe “To be in line with the Paris Climate Agreement, final energy ROCKWOOL is a strong supporter of RENOVATE Europe, the consumption per square metre needs to decrease by 30% EU-wide political campaign focused on renovating existing building 30% by 2030 globally. Energy efficiency could achieve this target. stock. We are among the founders of the European Alliance of Companies for Energy Efficiency in Buildings (EuroACE) and are “With the right efficiency solutions new buildings today can an active member of the European Council for an Energy Efficient be Nearly Zero Energy Buildings and existing buildings can Economy – a non-profit association looking at evidence-based of global energy use and 28 percent be retrofitted to reduce energy use by 50–90 percent. No other policy analysis. ROCKWOOL is also a partner in Climate-KIC, of global CO2 emissions derive from sector has the potential to achieve such deep cuts through Europe’s largest public-private innovation partnership for climate buildings.18 existing and proven technology. Given the long lifespan of change mitigation and adaptation. buildings, investment and policy change is needed right now Climate change to encourage the sector to realise this potential and avoid the In 2018 we are partnering with C40 Cities – a network of mayors Our climate is changing, which brings new risk of lock-in to a low-efficiency future”. of the world’s great cities committed to addressing climate change challenges as we seek to reduce our carbon – on a project to demonstrate the multiple benefits of accelerated footprint and live more sustainably. retrofit programmes. The project aims to give the world’s largest cities the evidence and know-how they need to implement retrofit programmes at scale. 12 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts  Kevin Austin, C40 Deputy Executive Director ROCKWOOL Group and C40 Did you know? Cities Climate Leadership E  nergy efficiency is a vital part Group have formed a of the solution to climate change 14-month joint research effort. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has developed a multitude of so-called 2 degrees C scenarios – scenarios on how to limit global temperature rises to 2°C. “C40’s research has shown Looking at these, energy efficiency is clearly a prerequisite for mitigating climate change, accounting on average for 42 percent of the total emissions reduction needed.19 precisely what the world’s Case study great cities need to do in the A residential area gets Fossil fuels will dominate the energy system for decades, so any increase in energy efficiency will reduce the demand a new identity years ahead if there is any for fossil fuels.20 hope of delivering on the Paris Square Pastour is 150 social housing units in four buildings located Renewable energy will continue to be an important part of the equation. In fact, as energy efficiency measures reduce Agreement and preventing the in Madeleine, France. In 2017 it overall demand for energy, renewable sources can account was renovated with ROCKWOOL worst effects of climate change. solutions, including a range of for increasingly high percentages of overall consumption. For example, increased energy efficiency in the United States our external facade insulation “Cutting the greenhouse gas emissions generated by could lead to an additional eight percent renewable energy and cladding products. buildings is absolutely crucial and quantifying the economic, share by 2030 on top of what is currently considered to be social and health benefits of these efforts will make it easier Architecturally and socially, the feasible. In India, this grows to 12 percent.21 At the same for C40 mayors to deliver on the bold climate action needed”. aim of the project was to create time energy efficiency is more cost-effective.22 a new identity for the community. Rapid urbanisation and increasing wealth also mean that Helene Richet, Associated Architect, energy demand from the built environment is likely to Atlante Architectes says: “At Square increase two to three times by 2050, based on the current Pastour today, the inhabitants have trajectory.23 a residential area with greater thermal comfort, lower energy bills, and more pleasing aesthetics”. ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 13 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Materials that are sustainable There is a commonly held perception that sustainable buildings are significantly more expensive to design and build than ‘conventional’ Case study buildings, which simply meet minimal regulatory requirements. This Top marks for design and sustainability in Belgium may have been true in the past. Sustainable buildings today, however, have clear environmental benefits and can deliver greater returns Les Trèfles Anderlecht primary school in Belgium combines for investors, reduced operating and maintenance costs for owners, an innovative learning environment with an ambition for a and healthier and more comfortable environments for occupants Passive House-certified sustainable building and beautiful than their less sustainable counterparts.24 architecture. The school, for children aged 4 to 12 years, consists of four overlapping circular-shaped buildings with Sustainable building rating schemes such as LEED®, BREEAM, HQE, an adjacent gymnasium. Passive House, and DGNB go beyond national building codes to set standards for sustainability across the whole lifecycle of a building – from With energy consumption of just 12 kilowatt hours per materials, to construction, to operation, occupancy, and end-of-use. square metre per year, the school is almost a ‘passive’ zero energy building. To achieve this level of efficiency it uses A harmonised approach to sustainable building assessment is being a combination of technologies including a heat recovery developed by the European Commission – the Level(s) framework. system, quadruple window glazing with a built-in sunROCKWOOL is actively involved in evaluating this voluntary, openprotection system, green roofs, and rainwater recycling. source reporting framework advocating for the use of lifecycle criteria that cover the full breadth of sustainability of buildings.25 ROCKWOOL’S products contribute to achieving credits under all the major sustainable building rating schemes. Our stone wool insulation, All of the building’s materials were chosen based on their environmental impact across the whole lifecycle. Rockfon ceiling panels are used throughout the interior, while Doubling Number of global green building projects Rockpanel cladding is used on the exterior. The architects ceiling panels and cladding solutions gain credits for: is doubling every three years.26 were drawn to the reflective colours of Rockpanel as well › creating energy-efficient buildings with high thermal comfort; as its A+ rating in the Building Research Establishment’s › being durable, recyclable and non-toxic; ‘Green Guide’. › contributing to superior acoustic performance; The end result is an attractive campus that has delighted › having Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs). pupils, school management, and local residents alike, By choosing stone wool materials, our customers are future-proofing and that is a shining example of how stunning architecture their buildings – making them more efficient, healthier, robust, and sustainability can go hand-in-hand. and circular. 14 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Pat Sapinsley, Managing Director of Cleantech Initiatives at the Urban Future Lab (UFL), part of New York University Tandon School of Engineering Pat tells us why we need to learn from the past when creating sustainable buildings for the future. “For millennia, we created resilient buildings, which protected people from harsh environments. “In the 20th century, due to the advent of cheap oil, air conditioning, steel frame structures and curtain wall construction, we rapidly ‘unlearned’ thousands of years of ancient, sustainable building practices that largely relied on stone walls and cross ventilation. “It’s time we re-learned how to build sustainable buildings again. It is now possible to use the technological advances of the 20th century combined with thousands of years of accumulated knowledge. We must, once again, use timetested, durable and sustainable materials that contribute to creating resilient and sound built environments”. Pat Sapinsley is a LEED Accredited Professional architect and an active member of the U.S. Green Building Council. ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 15 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Your wellbeing matters Places that enhance wellbeing Rockfon ceiling tile We’re also researching ways to quantify the impact optimal Rockfon Blanka acoustic ceiling has a acoustics have on building occupants. Many of these concepts are smooth, deep matt, super white surface with high being adopted by the U.S. government for design and construction light reflection and light diffusion, which contributes to energy savings and a bright and comfortable standards of federal buildings. With people spending the majority of their time inside, our indoor environment. indoor environment is just as important as the conditions outside. ROCKWOOL also initiated a collaboration with an international › Optimal design freedom thanks to the large Temperature, air quality, and acoustics all affect our wellbeing variety of formats and edges consultancy firm in 2018 to more fully understand the benefits and quality of life. of better acoustic performance in buildings. This will help us › Best sound absorption αw: 1.00 (Class A) in measuring our performance against SDG 3 Good Health The effect of noise on health, wellbeing and productivity › Best reaction to Fire class: Euroclass A1 and Wellbeing. There is clear and documented evidence connecting noise and › Humidity and sag resistance: Up to 100% human health. High noise levels are directly associated with an relative humidity increased risk of hypertension and diabetes.27 Noise control is also vital in schools and workplaces. The cognitive performance of both children and adults is reduced by noise. For example, in schools with no sound absorption, children miss 25 percent of words spoken by their teachers,28 while in offices, 70 percent of employees believe that their productivity would be higher if their environment was less noisy.29 Continuously innovating We’re using sound intensity probes and high-definition acoustic cameras to visualise noise and how it behaves as part of our efforts to improve wellbeing in the built environment through optimal acoustics. Under the “Optimized Acoustics” banner in North America, we’re collaborating with independent laboratories and acoustic engineers to help architects design simple and effective approaches to achieve superior indoor acoustics. 16 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Case study L  earning in the school of the future “The amount of collaboration Sammamish High School’s new campus in Bellevue, Washington, is a three-storey, state-of-the-art educational facility serving that went into this project was nearly 1,000 students in grades 9–12. Designed by Integrus unprecedented. The goal was Architecture, it contains more than 23,000 square metres of Rockfon ceiling systems. to create the high school of the “Creating a good acoustic experience improves learning and future – for sustainability, learning understanding”, explains Rockfon’s acoustic specialist Gary environment, community outreach Madaras. But optimal acoustics was not the only goal of this ambitious project. A healthy indoor climate, natural light, and safety”. and sustainability performance were also paramount. Ben Pedersen, Rockfon district sales manager for the Pacific Northwest Rockfon stone wool ceiling panels, which are used throughout the building, are resistant to mould and humidity, and are GreenGuard® Gold Certified in North America for low VOCs. They are fully recyclable at the end of their useful life. In the classrooms, corridors and common areas, the white surface of Rockfon ceilings reflects up to 86 percent of available light. This better distribution of natural light helps to lower electric lighting loads and reduce cooling costs, saving both energy and money. ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 17 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Spaces that enrich and inspire Case study From eyesore to eye-catching in Liverpool, UK Environments in which people enjoy spending time can improve The Wellington Road affordable housing scheme in South social cohesion and make neighbourhoods safer and healthier. Liverpool, UK underwent a complete renovation in 2017, In order to create inspirational buildings, architects need flexible transforming a neighbourhood ‘eyesore’ into a vibrant, and versatile materials that can make beautiful spaces a reality energy-efficient landmark. for people everywhere. Prior to the renovation, poor insulation left tenants facing With a combination of aesthetics, high product performance, and high fuel bills and excessive street noise. The ageing robust solutions ROCKWOOL helps create these attractive spaces Rockpanel exterior cladding for buildings exterior also acted as a magnet for anti-social behaviour and that also promote fire safety and energy efficiency, enhance acoustic Rockpanel boards are used for ventilated dumping of waste. constructions, for facade cladding, roof detailing, and thermal performance, and provide robustness and circularity. soffits and fascias. The boards are robust and flexible. Our Rockpanel boards come in 144 different colours and shades, Developer HMS chose ROCKWOOL insulation for the They fit perfectly with modern architectural trends giving architects and contractors the freedom to create inspiring exterior and interior of the houses and used brightly such as organic shapes. and bespoke building facades. coloured Rockpanel cladding to enhance kerb appeal. › Available in a wide choice of colours and designs Now, residents of Wellington Road are proud of their We regularly engage with the architecture and design community › Durable, lightweight, easy to install and resistant neighbourhood and have warmer, more comfortable homes to the elements to share knowledge and advance thinking on topics such as urban that are much more energy efficient. design and regeneration. In city apartment blocks, public libraries, schools and stadiums, we are helping to create places that bring The scheme was shortlisted for Best Regeneration Project people joy. in the 2017 Housing Excellence Awards.30 85% In 2018 we will run a project with Climate-KIC looking at international experiences from the successful renovation of run-down urban areas, where energy renovation has contributed to delivering wider socio-economic benefits. “It has become a stunning of people say that architecture affects The aim is to transfer best-practice learning into new projects and into national renovation strategies. landmark and a much nicer the way they feel.31 place to live”. Social cohesion In densely populated cities, well-designed Wellington Road resident neighbourhoods and public spaces have the power to enhance social cohesion and community spirit. 18 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Innovative solutions that protect communities Did you know? The Rockflow system can absorb Climate change has increased the risk of excessive rainfall and urban 95 percent of its volume in water flooding. Communities, especially those in low-lying regions, need Rockflow can buffer large amounts of precipitation in to protect their homes and other valuable assets from the effects urbanised areas quickly and effectively. It can be used of these extreme weather events. under built-up areas such as town squares, roads, Stone wool can be engineered to absorb or repel water as needed. streets and industrial estates, which can suffer from By draining excess water from roofs and other hard surfaces quickly flooding in heavy downpours. It consists of thin, light into underground stone wool basins, we can help minimise the stone wool elements, which absorb rainwater and then impact of heavy rainfall in urban environments. infiltrate it into the soil layer or drain it to the sewer. Lapinus has harnessed these characteristics to develop an innovative Rockflow stone wool elements can absorb 95 percent new water management system called Rockflow. Lapinus is the of their volume in water. That means a cubic metre first producer to use stone wool elements as a water management of Rockflow system can absorb 950 litres of water system and to bring such a product to market. in 8 to 10 minutes. “The system helps protect communities from heavy rainfall and to keep above-ground facilities functional and intact. Vehicles can continue to travel and vegetation can continue to grow on top”, 35% Wintertime extreme rainfall intensity is projected to explains Daan de Kubber, Marketing and Business Development Manager at Lapinus. “Because Rockflow helps prevent local flooding, towns are better able to remain vibrant and future-proof. Water damage increase by up to 35 percent in most parts of Europe during the 21st century.32 to shops, homes and businesses can be substantially reduced, even during the most extreme rainfall”. ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 19 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Growing more with less Growing food sustainably and efficiently Savings of water, land use, fertiliser and yield gain of products sold in 2017 Impact in the use phase of Grodan growing media sold globally in 2017. The global food production system is under pressure. We need to find more sustainable ways of feeding a growing, more urbanised Fertiliser saving 58% population. ROCKWOOL products enable modern horticulture to increase production while using fewer natural resources. less Overall yield gain 76% more During 2017, ROCKWOOL Group collaborated with Wageningen University in the Netherlands to quantify the positive impact of nitrogen growing tomatoes and cucumbers in Grodan horticultural growing media compared to greenhouse-grown, soil-based crops. vegetables The results were significant. For example, Grodan products sold in 2017 resulted in an estimated 90 million litres less water used, equivalent to the drinking water needed to sustain 85,000 people for a year33, and covered 26,000 fewer hectares, the equivalent of 300 Central Parks.34 In places where agricultural land is scarce, new and innovative forms of food production hold the key to feeding city dwelling populations. Grodan hydroponics can be sited anywhere, including in urban areas that would otherwise be completely unsuitable Land use reduction for traditional soil-based production. For growers, horticulture professionals, and keen gardeners, Grodan 80% is providing efficient, sustainable growing solutions for the future. Water saving less land 53% less water Wageningen University & Research developed a methodology and estimation model comparing soil-based and stone wool-based greenhouse cultivation systems in three distinct climate zones for tomato and cucumber crops. The methodology is available on www.rockwoolgroup.com/precision-growing-impact 20 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts 50% Grodan Grotop Master The Grodan concept consists of Case study a plug for seeding and germination. H  igher yield, fewer resources Young seedlings are then transplanted more food will be needed for the world into a block for their remaining time Prolific and award-winning Polish tomato growers, and its growing population by 2050.36 at the propagator. On delivery to the production greenhouse the young the Kazmierczak family adopted Grodan growing Resource scarcity plants are placed onto a slab where media solutions several years ago and haven’t they grow and produce vegetables. looked back since. They have experienced a A growing population demands healthier, tastier fresh produce – grown sustainably › A wide range of plugs and blocks tangible difference in their day-to-day work. to grow uniform plants under and safely. Irrigation is better, easier, and more controllable, various conditions and they are now able to keep their crops › Highly uniform and controllable growing for longer, right into mid-November. Did you know? retention of water What is hydroponic growing? › Crop-specific growing media for The Kazmierczaks can also monitor their operation vegetable growing remotely using the e-Gro app, which gives them Hydroponics is a method of growing › A clean start for a healthy crop real-time information about the water content, plants without soil, in an aquatic-based fertiliser level and temperature of the stone wool environment, using mineral nutrient growing media. And through the Young Grower solutions to feed the plants. Stone Project, they can benefit from advice at seminars, wool is the most widely used growing at the point of installation, and via service from medium in hydroponic systems. It can Grodan professionals throughout the year. be precisely produced to allow the retention and movement of water and air in proportions that are ideal for particular crops, promoting healthy root growth and nutrient uptake. Stone wool’s fibrous nature also creates a stable anchorage for plant roots.35 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 21 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Circularity – the shape of the future Solutions that are circular Production waste to landfill Goal: 85% To build our homes, workplaces, roads and other infrastructure we consume 42 billion tonnes of resources annually.37 As well as being a Construction site heavy consumer of resources, the building sector produces approximately reduction of waste a third of all global waste, much of which ends up in landfill.38 to landﬁll by 2030 Leakage In a circular economy, waste is not waste, but a valuable resource, Use of to landfill which can be regenerated or repurposed and turned into something products new. Stone wool products are long-lasting, easy to dismantle and can also be reused and fully recycled. In fact, stone wool can be recycled again and again without degrading its quality. urce materi In addition to ROCKWOOL products being naturally recyclable, we Extraction of abundant stone r so have developed our technology in a way that allows us to use waste als from other industries as alternative raw material. We repurpose Production Ou of stone wool Long External recycling waste from the likes of the aluminium industry, power plants, and products lifespan and upcycling municipal wastewater treatment. In 2017, our stone wool products Upcycled secondary raw material from had a recycled content of up to 50 percent with a global average of other industries 31 percent. This excludes recycled waste generated in the factory. In 2017, ROCKWOOL ensured that approximately 120,000 tonnes of Leakage used stone wool was collected for reuse and recycling. This includes to landfill stone wool waste from both the construction and horticultural sectors. The majority of the recycled stone wool from greenhouses is used for external clay brick manufacturing and potting mix.39 End of use (renovation/demolition) By recycling our own and other industries’ waste, we minimise the waste going to landfill and reduce our use of virgin raw materials. Recycling service And by making it easy for our customers to dismantle and recycle our products at the end of their useful life, we are taking part in the Goal: 30 countries by 2030 shift to a circular economy. Read more about our recycling services on page 29 22 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Shaping the circular economy In 2018 ROCKWOOL will initiate a number of new, exciting collaborations designed to shape the circular economy agenda and further develop our own circular business models. As highlighted in a recent report by Circle Economy, in the construction sector in Case study particular, there is a need for more collaboration across the supply Circle House, Aarhus, Denmark chain to create shared value and resolve split incentives.40 Circle House is a public housing development of 60 new For example we will be participating in a landmark project in homes in Lisbjerg, just outside Aarhus in Denmark. It is a Did you know? Denmark designed to demonstrate the possibilities for circular scalable demonstration project, where the homes are being O  ur pioneering wall system housing (see case study). designed and built using circular economy principles. Rockzero builds in circularity In the last 10 years the construction industry has relied on Our new, pioneering wall system, efficiency measures to reduce consumption and emissions. €1.8 trillion Rockzero, integrates natural stone But in circular construction, the focus is on total resource wool insulation into the loadbearing use and emissions – both embedded in the building’s fabric, structure of walls, which are and created from its construction and use. could be generated from a circular economy traditionally made with masonry. in Europe.41 With Circle House, any material used must to able to be Light and energy efficient, Rockzero disassembled, priced, and recycled or reused at the end of helps to achieve low and predictable Commercial opportunity its useful life. The goal is for 90 percent of all materials to be energy consumption while still Adopting circular economy principles could providing all of the excellent stone circular in this way. A ‘demonstrator’ of how this is achievable in generate huge economic value as well as social wool benefits, including superior and environmental benefits. practice is to be showcased in Copenhagen, six months ahead of the formal project tender. We are proud that Rockzero, our insulation performance, fire resilience, pioneering new wall system, will be used, as will ROCKWOOL robustness, and recyclability. building insulation. Both fulfil the criteria for circular materials. Rockzero is particularly suited for Circle House will provide invaluable insights on the business circular builds, as it is designed models, value chains, and framework conditions required to for easy mechanical assembly and enable circular construction. It will also be a good investment disassembly. It also reduces the for the developer and the homeowners who will have number of different materials used durable, flexible, reuseable and recyclable buildings. in a build, creating an entire wall system made of stone wool. The project is expected to be complete by 2020. ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 23 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Operational impacts Becoming a more sustainable business The most significant positive impact on sustainable development is through the use of our products. But it is important to us that we achieve this by operating in a responsible and sustainable way. Whether it’s keeping our people safe, continuously reducing the footprint of our operations, making our workplace more inclusive, or respecting human rights, our day-to-day practices and behaviours create the solid foundations on which everything else is built. 24 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Sustainability goals CO2 emissions Energy efficiency Our goal: Reduce CO2 emission Our goal: Reduce energy Mirella Vitale, Senior Vice President, intensity from our factories consumption within own Group Marketing, Communications by 20 percent by 2030. (non-renovated) offices and Public Affairs by 75 percent by 2030. Long-term goals Seizing our opportunity In 2016 we set six ambitious Group Since ROCKWOOL was founded in 1937 Sustainability Goals to drive substantial our people have taken pride in the innovative, improvements in our environmental and high quality products we make and the safety performance by 2030. Five of the benefits they bring to those who use them Safety, health and wellbeing Water consumption goals are based on a baseline of 2015 with – protection from fire; thermally comfortable Our goal: Reduce Lost Time Our goal: Reduce water intermediate goals for 2022 to make sure homes; peace and quiet in a noisy world. Incident (LTI) frequency rate consumption intensity within that we are on the right track. Our safety by 10 percent and ensure our factories by 20 percent We realise just how big an opportunity we have goal baseline is revised annually. 0 fatalities annually. by 2030. to help solve global challenges – from climate Achieving the goals in the long term will change, to urbanisation, to food security require innovation and investment over – and contribute towards the Sustainable the coming decade. To help with this, our Development Goals (SDGs). standard internal payback timeframe on Reclaimed waste Landfill waste sustainabilityrelated investments has been Through our people’s talent, skill and ingenuity Our goal: Increase the number Our goal: Reduce landfill relaxed. ROCKWOOL Group Management we will continue to discover new and exciting of countries to 30 (currently five) waste from our factories recognises that these investments will have ways to harness the natural power of stone to where we offer recycling services by 85 percent by 2030. a lasting, transformative impact on our make the world more sustainable. for our products by 2030. business and its future. Note: The baseline for five of the six Group Sustainability Goals is 2015. Our safety goal baseline is revised annually. ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 25 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts The big picture Carbon emission savings of products sold in 2017 D  id you know? Getting the proportions right Building insulation Carbon emissions The carbon emissions saved in the lifetime from raw materials of ROCKWOOL’s technical insulation sold in and production 2017 exceeds the annual carbon emissions of Germany. Carbon emission savings during 80 times the carbon product lifetime emitted in its production Technical insulation Carbon emissions from raw materials and production Carbon emission savings during product lifetime Ecofys, a Navigant company, developed 4,000 methodologies to calculate the energy and carbon emission savings in the lifetime of sold building insulation and technical insulation products. Ecofys endorsed that the 2017 energy and carbon emission savings calculated by ROCKWOOL correctly follow these methodologies. times the carbon emitted The methodologies are available on in its production www.rockwoolgroup.com/carbon-impact 26 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Introduction Product Product impacts impacts Operational Operational impacts impacts 63 score from CSR Hub, which is 18% of management team External recognition Leadership level (A-) the biggest rating improvement positions and 37% of from CDP for our carbon of any Danish company white-collar positions disclosure and climate between 2015 and 2017 held by women change performance DISCLOSURE INSIGHT ACTION 3.8% reduction in CO2 emission 23% of ROCKWOOL Group Rated ‘Prime’ – the highest rating category – by leading sustainable investment rating One of 50–100 companies selected out of 65,000 screened companies agency Oekom Research intensity within our factories dividend went to the compared to 2015 baseline ROCKWOOL Foundation 2 1 New collaborations with C40 Cities, Trucost and the UNGC Action Platforms 230 new product innovations – wall new Code of Conduct, to accelerate progress on the SDGs system Rockzero and water which sets out our management system Rockflow policies and principles for operating as a responsible, employees from Swiss stone sustainable business wool company Flumroc became full members of the ROCKWOOL family ca.100 2017 jobs created at our new state-of-the-art Rockfon manufacturing facility in Mississippi, United States €2,374m Highlights sales across 100+ markets representing 7.1% organic sales growth ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 27 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Operational update New Rockfon facility in United States In July, a new Rockfon manufacturing facility opened in the U.S. state of Mississippi. The 12,000 square metre state-of-the-art facility is the Group’s fifth stone wool ceiling production site globally. ROCKWOOL Group invested EUR 33 million in the design and construction of the new site. It brings almost 100 new jobs to the local area. A  cquisition of Swiss stone wool company Flumroc Also in November ROCKWOOL acquired Swiss stone wool producer Flumroc AG, which we have had a minority stake in since 1969. The company employs about 230 people and its sales are primarily New facility to be built in Romania in Switzerland, with limited exports In November we announced we will build a new stone wool to France and Italy. Flumroc shares manufacturing facility in Romania. With an initial investment of ROCKWOOL’s strong commitment to €50 million, the new factory will create around 150 direct jobs outstanding quality, excellent customer and another 300 indirect jobs for services and logistics. It will service, sustainability, responsibility, be ROCKWOOL’s first stone wool factory in Romania and is and efficient manufacturing. expected to begin production in 2019. 28 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Goals that improve performance Work carried out in 2017 together with approved investments CO2 Emissions Energy efficiency will help drive us towards our interim 2022 sustainability goals. We have cut CO2 emissions per tonne stone wool from our factories Our goal: Reduce CO2 emission intensity from our factories Our goal: Reduce energy consumption within own by 3.8 percent compared to 2015 through implementing efficiency (tonne CO2 /tonne stone wool) (non-renovated) offices (kWh/m2) measures, such as optimising our compressors and installing LED lighting, and higher utilisation of the factories. In terms of improving 2017 > 3.8% improvement 2017 > No change energy efficiency within our own (non-renovated) offices, we will be 3.8% Target: 10% reduction Target: 20% reduction Target: 35% reduction Target: 75% reduction selecting buildings for renovation in the course of 2018. 2015 2022 2030 2015 2022 2030 Our performance on waste to landfill has improved slightly from 2016 and we have now reduced it by 4.1 percent compared to the 2015 baseline. Specific recycling investments were approved in 2017, e.g. new briquetting equipment at our factories in Malaysia and Russia. Safety, health and wellbeing Water consumption During 2017 we reclaimed 120,000 tonnes of stone wool waste. Our goal: Reduce Lost Time Incident (LTI) frequency rate by Our goal: Reduce water consumption intensity within our factories We developed a clear roadmap for meeting our reclaimed waste goal 10% and ensure 0 fatalities annually (m3/tonne stone wool) and progressed plans for the introduction of new recycling services in three countries in 2018. 2017 > 0 fatalities, LTI +0.3 2017 > 1.6% increase LTI 3.5 Target: LTI 2.9 (10% reduction) 1.6% Target: 10% reduction Target: 20% reduction Disappointingly, while our performance on water efficiency improved 2016 2017 2015 2022 2030 compared to 2016, the performance remains above the baseline level. We will be intensifying our efforts in the coming months and years. Reclaimed waste Landfill waste Our goal: Increase the number of countries where we offer Our goal: Reduce landfill waste from our factories (tonnes) recycling services for our products 2017 > No change 2017 > 4.1% reduction 15 countries 30 countries 4.1% Target: 40% reduction Target: 85% reduction 2015 2022 2030 2015 2022 2030 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 29 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts Safe and responsible business conduct Putting safety first at the workplace More diversity, better results We have zero tolerance when it comes to anything that could Our ambition is to continuously increase diversity across the Group. potentially jeopardise the health and safety of our employees We believe that bringing different experiences, perspectives and or anyone working at our sites or in transit. In April, we held our cultures together will benefit our business in the long run. second Group-wide Global Safety Day, which is part of our ongoing programme of safety awareness. In 2013, we set a goal to have 15–30 percent women on our management teams by 2017. We have achieved that goal, Our Lost Time Injury (LTI) frequency rate increased slightly in 2017, with 18 percent of management teams in 2017 made up from 3.2 to 3.5 (number of lost time incidents per one million work of women (15 percent in 2016). In addition, of all line managers hours). While this reflects a relatively strong performance within our hired during 2017 into our office environment, 34 percent were sector, we will continue striving to improve safety in all aspects of Bjørn Rici Andersen, Senior Vice President, female (31 percent in 2016). We set a new target in 2017 to have work at ROCKWOOL. Group Operations & Technology at least one female Board member by the end of 2020. Currently, all Board members are male. We had zero fatalities across the Group in 2017, but regrettably there were four serious incidents – two in Poland and one each in We have global policies and practices to provide equal opportunities, China and Russia. Three of them involved contractors working at our premises. Investigations and subsequent detailed reports “When you are having promote diversity and prevent discrimination. In 2017, we updated our Compensation & Benefits and Recruitment policies, and resulted in corrective actions being implemented. a busy day at work it published new policies concerning the employment of relatives and hiring of interns and students. During the year we rolled out a new IT tool to help improve safety can be tempting to take beyond our manufacturing facilities, for example in offices and during travel. We are now able to monitor, report, and share learnings on shortcuts when it comes Respecting human rights We oppose any kind of discrimination due to age, gender, race, a broader range of safety metrics across the whole Group. to safety. colour, religion, political opinion, social origin, or any other aspect of human rights. We do not tolerate child labour and do not use forced ROCKWOOL Group’s approach to health and safety is set out “At ROCKWOOL we constantly remind or compulsory labour or knowingly engage with business partners in our Group Code of Conduct and in our Safety, Health, and people not to fall into this trap and to that do so. We respect employees’ right to exercise freedom of Environmental Policy, which was revised in 2017. We assess facilities’ put their personal safety, and that of their association and collective bargaining. compliance with the policy through SHE audits, and we conducted colleagues first, every minute of every eight of these audits at our manufacturing facilities over the year. day. It’s vital to keep the focus and not let In 2017, we worked to enforce these policies through the We also conducted fire safety audits at 18 ROCKWOOL locations. standards slip. Our goal is for everyone to dissemination of our new Code of Conduct in relation to employees get home safe and unhurt after every day and suppliers. We published our annual statement in response of work”. to the Modern Slavery Act. The statement describes the Group’s supply chain and explains what initiatives we have in place and what actions we take to avoid modern slavery. 30 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts 18% A company that acts with integrity The Code of Conduct confirms ROCKWOOL Group’s commitment to the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles and other guidelines for In 2017, women multinational enterprises and is a strengthening of our Business made up 18 percent Ethics Manual that it replaces. All new employees are introduced to of ROCKWOOL the Code of Conduct as part of the onboarding process, which also management teams, includes training in business ethics. and 34 percent of all line manager new hires were women. Camilla Grönholm, Senior Vice President, Group Human Resources  reater awareness, G greater integrity In 2017 we investigated 12 integrity Supporting and engaging our employees cases, nine of which were reported Helping our people progress in their careers is another key part as a result of whistleblowing. Eight of of our strategy. In 2017 we began implementing a new digital these led to corrective action, three cloud-based learning platform to broaden our reach and impact concerning bribery. on people development. We are promoting increased We had high levels of engagement with our employee survey, awareness among employees and with 87 percent of white-collar employees and 77 percent of encourage reporting of suspected blue-collar employees completing it. The survey asks employees Code of Conduct violations. The about numerous topics, including their perceptions of how the Audit Committee is informed about company is behaving in terms of sustainability and integrity as all integrity cases and we communicate well as day-to-day experiences regarding career opportunities, broadly about these to create safe working conditions, fair pay, and leadership. Relative to awareness of unethical behaviour a High-Performance Norm benchmark, employees rate in the Group and to underline our ROCKWOOL very highly on ‘sustainable engagement’ and zero-tolerance policy. ‘trust and empowerment’. Overall results show a slightly positive trend relative to last year. ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 31 Introduction Product impacts Operational impacts 2017 We expect suppliers to comply with all international, national and  aking strides in M local laws and guidelines relating to employment, environmental and sustainable sourcing manufacturing practices as well as ethics and bribery, particularly in We worked to relation to purchasing. We also expect suppliers to enforce these enforce our policies We recognise the importance of guidelines with their own suppliers. through the being responsible and transparent dissemination in our approach to sourcing raw The ROCKWOOL Procurement & Purchasing Manual was updated in of our new Code of 2017 to reflect a new approach to supplier due diligence, selection materials and other products and Conduct in relation and contracting, which is now done through an online tool. to employees. services across our supply chain. To strengthen our approach to Kim Junge Andersen, Senior Vice President, During 2017, we also strengthened our approach to sustainable sustainable sourcing, a cross­Chief Financial Officer (CFO) sourcing (see box-out) and implemented our REACH management -functional project team carried out system for substances of very high concern. The new system means a gap analysis in 2017 of our current all direct suppliers are now required to report on REACH compliance policies and practices. It led to the in order to register. development of a new supplier Tackling corruption due diligence process with a more The purpose of our anti-corruption policy is to create awareness comprehensive and systematic The ROCKWOOL Foundation and avoid instances of corruption, bribery and facilitation approach to sustainable sourcing. The ROCKWOOL Foundation is an impartial, financially selfpayments in our organisation and value chain. The anti-corruption We will start implementing this in supporting institution that engages in activities for the public good. policy is based on the requirements of the UK Bribery Act. It is 2018 with a particular focus on our It carries out independent research on issues relevant to society also available to suppliers, customers and other third parties on stone suppliers. and develops innovative solutions to social problems in the form the Group’s website. of practical interventions. The focus is on five key areas: immigration Six suppliers were selected for and integration; tax and undeclared work; family economics Our whistleblower policy outlines the procedure for handling external, third-party sustainability integrity cases, including corruption and bribery. The policy and the labour market; marginalised groups and risk behaviour; audits in 2017. These audits will and a special area of emphasis: disconnected youths. requires employees to report any suspicion of non-compliance be carried out in 2018 and the to Management, to the Integrity Officer or via the results will help form the new due 23% whistle­blowing procedure. diligence process. Responsible and sustainable sourcing Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out, in detail, expectations of the ROCKWOOL Group dividend of our suppliers. All suppliers must sign up to it as a prerequisite goes to the ROCKWOOL Foundation. for doing business with ROCKWOOL Group. For more information on the Foundation’s activities in 2017, see its annual report at www.rockwoolfonden.dk 32 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Appendix Key performance data and GRI index Sustainability governance Materiality The Group Sustainability function is led by the Director of In 2015 we conducted a materiality assessment to identify our key Group Sustainability who reports to the Senior Vice President for social and environmental impacts. Six topics emerged as being highly Group Marketing, Communications and Public Affairs, a member material and they remained our most material topics in 2017: of Group Management. The Director of Group Sustainability is responsible for driving the sustainability agenda in ROCKWOOL Group, › Energy efficiency and carbon management including coordinating and tracking progress of Group Sustainability › Circular economy Goals, which are reported directly to Group Management. The Audit › Fire resilience Committee is informed about all integrity cases and also reviews › Safety, health and wellbeing progress on key sustainability projects. › Water efficiency and management › Public and private sector collaboration Key sustainability-related decisions are made within the Group Sustainability Steering Group comprising three members We continuously assess the validity of our materiality assessment in of Group Management; a Managing Director; the Director order to determine whether any new or emerging issues need to be of Group Safety, Health, Environment and Quality; and the added to our priority list. Director of Group Sustainability. Stakeholder engagement We regularly engage with stakeholders across our value chain to understand their needs and expectations of us as a business. The key groups we engage with are: › Customers › Employees › Suppliers › Shareholders and investors › NGOs and think tanks Additional COP content can be found at › Sustainability thought leaders www.rockwoolgroup.com/sustainability › Multi-stakeholder organisations (such as the UNGC) › City mayors and local authorities › National, regional and local government › Industry bodies and associations (especially for the construction and fire safety sectors) › Journalists and the media › Local communities near our operations ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 33 Appendix – Key performance data Category Indicator GRI-G4 Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note Anti-corruption Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken SO5 Number 3 1 3 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary SO8 kEUR – – – sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Workplace safety Fatalities LA6 Number – – – Frequency of LTI — employees & contractors (per million hours worked) LA6 no./mill hrs 3.1 3.2 3.5 1 Environmental laws and Factories certified to ISO 14001 and/or OHSAS 18001 and/or ISO 50001 Number 17 17 22 2 regulations – non-compliance Percent of factories certified to ISO 14001 and/or OHSAS 18001 and/ % 63 61 79 2 or ISO 50001 Audits for environment, health, safety Number 123 107 91 3 Fines – monetary value EN29 kEUR 1 2 3 Energy Energy consumption EN3 GWh 4,484 4,466 4,761 4 Energy per tonne stone wool EN5 MWh/t 1.95 1.93 1.87 4 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Mt CO2 e 2.0 5 Total direct and indirect CO2 emissions EN15, EN16 Mt CO2 1.60 1.59 1.70 4, 6, 7 CO2 direct (Scope 1) EN15 Mt CO2 1.25 1.28 1.40 4, 6 CO2 indirect (Scope 2) EN16 Mt CO2 0.31 0.30 0.30 4, 7 CO2 direct (Scope 1) per tonne stone wool EN15 kg CO2 /t 561 548 551 4, 6 CO2 indirect (Scope 2) per tonne stone wool EN16 kg CO2 /t 135 129 119 4, 7 CO2 direct and indirect (Scope 1+2) per tonne stone wool EN15, EN16 kg CO2 /t 696 677 670 4, 6, 7 Air emissions NOx per tonne stone wool EN21 kg/t 0.62 0.77 0.76 8 SO2 per tonne stone wool EN21 kg/t 3.22 3.24 2.82 8 CO per tonne stone wool EN21 kg/t 7.76 2.24 2.52 8 Ammonia per tonne stone wool EN21 kg/t 1.3 1.17 1.13 8 Phenol per tonne stone wool EN21 kg/t 0.16 0.15 0.16 8 Formaldehyde per tonne stone wool EN21 kg/t 0.05 0.05 0.06 8 Particulate matter (PM10) per tonne stone wool EN21 kg/t 0.43 0.63 0.63 8 Water Water consumption total EN8 million m³ 3.14 3.28 3.43 9 Water consumption excl. rain water million m³ 2.92 3.15 3.29 9 Water consumption per tonne stone wool m³/t 1.36 1.41 1.35 9 Water consumption excl. rainwater per tonne stone wool m³/t 1.27 1.35 1.29 9 Water withdrawal by source Groundwater own abstraction EN8 million m³ 0.93 1.0 1.0 9 Municipal water a.o. utilities EN8 million m³ 1.75 1.85 1.95 9 Rainwater own abstraction EN8 million m³ 0.22 0.13 0.15 9 Surface water own abstraction EN8 million m³ 0.29 0.30 0.32 9 Waste water from external source EN8 million m³ – – – Water consumption significantly affecting water resources EN9 million m³ – – – 10 Percent of water consumption with significant effect EN9 % – – – 34 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Appendix – Key performance data Category Indicator GRI-G4 Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note Waste & Recycling Total waste generated EN23 tonnes 189,252 201,531 222,148 9 Total waste per tonne stone wool EN23 kg/t 82 86 88 Total hazardous waste generated EN23 tonnes 26,511 11 Waste landfilled EN23 tonnes 93,327 91,189 89,538 9, 12 Waste to landfill per tonne stone wool kg/t 41 39 35 9 Factories with zero waste to landfill Number 9 13 Waste for external recycling EN23 tonnes 73,550 84,673 96,239 9 Waste for external recovery (energy) EN23 tonnes 8,600 13,160 2,547 Other external waste disposal tonnes 33,824 14 Recycling of residue from other industries tonnes 845,950 740,550 787,240 Average % recycled content (secondary raw materials + reclaimed (EN2) % 36.1 31.6 30.9 15 waste per tonne stone wool) Products and packaging reclaimed EN28 tonnes 14,200 18,110 195,600 16 Notes 10 An international consultancy firm conducted a water scarcity assessment of all ROCKWOOL stone wool production sites in early 1 Lost time incidents (LTI) count begins the day after the accident and 2017. The assessment identified four factories in Malaysia, India and connotes scheduled work days. Minor (first-aid level) injuries are not Russia as being in either highly or extremely highly water stressed areas, included. while two factories in Spain and Hungary were in potentially highly 2 Factories certified to ISO50001 included in 2017. or extremely highly water stressed areas. In each of the six cases, the results indicate that the factories’ overall water consumption is unlikely 3 The number includes external audits related to environment and health to be materially relevant when compared to the overall availability of and safety carried out by authorities, certified bodies etc. together with water in the basin where each factory is located. Nevertheless, we will Group SHE audits carried out at the factories . ensure going forward that the implementing water efficiency measures 4 Baseline 2015 updated with oil consumption. in these factories is prioritised in line with the Group goal of 20 percent improvement by 2030. 5 New indicator including estimated N2O emissions. 11 New indicator for waste classified as hazardous included from 2017. 6 Scope 1 updated to verified data for EU factories. 12 Waste to landfill according to G4-EN23 definition: Deep well injection 7 Scope 2 2016 (updated) and 2017 values based on 2016 emission and on-site not part of landfill. factors. In 2017 the emission factor for UK , Netherlands and Spain was zero (RECs). 13 New indicator included from 2017. 8 Significant emissions are in accordance with G4-EN21. 2017 covers 14 New indicator included from 2017. Other waste disposals, 28 factories; values for 5 factories in South East Asia and China based e.g. composting, deep well injection, incineration. on representative average. 15 Waste generated and recycled in factories excluded. 9 Data corrected for 2015 and 2016. 16 Building insulation and packaging received at our production facilities. Grodan stone wool reclaimed by external partners included from 2017 (175,000 tonnes incl. water used here. This is estimated to equal 120,000 tonnes without water). ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 35 Appendix – GRI index (G4) Indicator Level Description Value Reference Strategy & analysis G4-1 core Statement of CEO about relevance of sustainability SR: p.2 Jens’ message to organisation and strategy G4-3 core Name of the organisation AR: p.99-100 Group Companies G4-4 core Primary brands, products, and services AR: p.18-23 Business Update G4-5 core Location of the organisation’s headquarters AR: p.99-100 Group Companies G4-6 core Number of countries operating AR: p.4 ROCKWOOL Group at a glance AR: p.108-109 Map G4-7 core Report the nature of ownership and legal form AR: p.99-100 Group Companies G4-8 core Markets served AR: p.4 ROCKWOOL Group at a glance AR: p.108-109 Map G4-9 core Scale of the organisation AR: p.4 ROCKWOOL Group at a glance AR: p.6 5 Year overview AR: p.108-109 Map G4-10 core Total number of employees AR: p.4 ROCKWOOL Group at a glance G4-11 core Total employees covered by collective There are collective bargaining agreements in the bargaining agreements majority of the countries where we are active. In the countries where we have collective bargaining agreements in place the majority of employees are covered G4-12 core Describe the organisation’s supply chain. AR: p.32-33 Sustainable sourcing SR: p.32 Operational impacts G4-13 core Significant changes during reporting period None G4-14 core Precautionary approach or principle addressed The ROCKWOOL companies have acceded to by the organisation the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)’s Environmental Charter for Sustainable Development – Principles for Environmental Management G4-15 core Externally developed economic, environmental ROCKWOOL is a participant in the United Nations and social charters, principles or other initiatives Global Compact and would like to express our subscribed to or endorsed continued support for the Global Compact and hereby renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles G4-16 core Memberships of associations and national or SR: p.4-5 We ROCK global goals international advocacy organisations (refers to SR: p.9-10, p.12-14, p.16, p.18, p.20, primarily memberships at organisation level) p.23 Product impacts G4-17 core Entities included and excluded in consolidated AR: p.97-98 Notes 5.8 financial statements G4-18 core Process report content (Materiality SR: p.33 Appendix Assessment, etc.) 36 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Appendix – GRI index (G4) Indicator Level Description Value Reference G4-19 core Material aspects SR: p.33 Appendix G4-20 core Boundary for material aspects within organisation The scope of this report is the ROCKWOOL Group and all our manufacturing facilities in which we hold the majority of shares. This means a total of 71 legal entities including our associated companies in 37 countries and 45 manufacturing facilities in 19 countries G4-21 core Boundary for material aspect outside organisation The scope of this report is the ROCKWOOL Group and all our manufacturing facilities in which we hold the majority of shares. This means a total of 71 legal entities including our associated companies in 37 countries and 45 manufacturing facilities in 19 countries G4-22 core Restatements of information No G4-23 core Significant changes in scope and boundary No G4-24 core List of stakeholder groups engaged by the SR: p.33 Appendix organisation G4-25 core Basis for identification and selection of stakeholder SR: p.5, p.33 Appendix G4-26 core Approach to stakeholder engagement SR: p.5 Collaborating for change SR: p.33 Appendix G4-27 core Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder SR: p.7-23 Product impacts engagement SR: p.33 Appendix G4-28 core Reporting period 1st January 2017 – 31st December 2017 G4-29 core Date of most recent previous report The previous report covered financial year 2016 and was published in May, 2017 G4-30 core Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 core Contact points Director of Group Sustainability Anthony Abbotts: sustainability@rockwool.com G4-32 core GRI indicators The GRI index is part of the Sustainability Report G4-33 core Assurance The report has not been externally verified G4-34 core Governance structure SR: p.33 Appendix G4-56 core Organisation’s values, principles, standards and SR: p.24-25, p.29-33 Operational norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and impacts codes of ethics ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 37 Appendix – GRI index (G4) Indicator Level Description Value Reference Specific Standard Disclosures Economic performance G4-EC1 specific Direct economic value generated and distributed AR. p.54-62 Financial Statement Materials G4-EN2 specific Percentage of recycled input used SR: p.22 Product impacts SR: p.35 Appendix Energy G4-EN3 specific Energy consumption (in factories) SR: p.34-35 Key performance data G4-EN4 specific Energy consumption outside of the organisation SR: p.34-35 Key performance data G4-EN5 specific Energy intensity SR: p.34-35 Key performance data G4-CRE3 specific Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings SR: p.34-35 Key performance data Water G4-EN8 specific Water consumption total SR: p.34-35 Key performance data Emissions G4-EN15, G4-EN16 specific Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR: p.34-35 Key performance data G4-EN17 G4-EN21 specific Significant air emissions SR: p.34-35 Key performance data Waste and Recycling G4-EN23 specific Total weight of hazardous and non-hazardous waste SR: p.34-35 Key performance data by disposal method Products and services G4-EN27 specific Extent of impact mitigation of environmental SR: p.6-23 Product impacts impacts of products and services Supplier environmental assessment G4-EN32, LA14, SO9 specific Percentage of new suppliers that were screened AR: p.32-33 Sustainable sourcing using environmental criteria, labour practices, SR: p.32 Operational impacts society and human rights Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 specific Type of injury and rates of injury SR: p.30 Operational impacts SR: p.34-35 Key performance data Training and education G4-LA9 specific Average hours of training per year per employee by AR: p.30 People gender, and by employee category SR: p.30-31 Sustainability Supplier assessment for labour practices G4-LA14 specific Percentage of new suppliers that were screened AR: p.32-33 Sustainable sourcing using labour practices criteria SR: p.32 Operational impacts 38 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Appendix – GRI index (G4) Indicator Level Description Value Reference Customer health and Safety G4-PR1 specific Percentage of significant product and service SR: p.6-23 Product impacts categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 specific Percentage of new suppliers that were screened AR: p.32-33 Sustainable sourcing using human rights criteria SR: p.32 Operational impacts Anti-corruption and Compliance G4-SO5 specific Confirmed incidents of corruption and SR: p.31 Operational impacts actions taken SR: p.34 Key performance data G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number SR: p.34 Key performance data of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Supplier assessment for impacts on society G4-SO9 specific Percentage of new suppliers that were screened AR: p. 32-33 Sustainable sourcing using criteria for impacts on society SR: p. 32 Operational impacts ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 39 Appendix – References 1 See more details on the methodology for this calculation at 13 IPCC, Climate Change 2017 mitigation of climate change. 30 HMS Building and Maintenance Contractor, UK www.rockwoolgroup.com/about-us/sustainability/a-net14 Friends of the Earth, 2016, Energy Efficiency First, https:// 2018, Wellington Road Refurbishment, https://www. positive-carbon-impact/ www.foeeurope.org/sites/default/files/energy_savings/2016/ housingmaintenancesolutions.org/view-article/ 2 T. W. Dahl, et al. 2011, International Geology Review (Volume foee-2030-efficiency-benefits0916.pdf wellington-road-refurbishment 53 Numbers 7-8, June-July 2011) ‘The human impact 15 Buildings Performance Institute Europe (BPIE), January 2018, 31 CABE Commission for Architecture and the Built on natural rock reserves using basalt, anorthosite, and The Concept of the Individual Building Renovation Roadmap Environment, 2002, Streets of Shame. carbonates as raw materials in insulation products’. An in-depth case study of four frontrunner projects. 32 IPCC, Managing the Risks of Extreme Events and Disasters 3 McKinsey Centre for Business and Environment, November 16 UN Environment and International Energy Agency. Towards to Advance Climate Change Adaptation. Special Report 2017, ‘Focused acceleration: A strategic approach to climate a zero-emission, efficient, and resilient buildings and of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 2012 action in cities to 2030‘. construction sector – Global Status Report 2017. http://ipcc-wg2.gov/SREX/report/ 4 Maria Klatte, Thomas Lachmann, Markus Meis (2010) 17 McKinsey Centre for Business and Environment, November 33 Note: Based on WHO recommendation of 2.9 litres per day ‘Effects of noise and reverberation on speech perception 2017, ‘Focused acceleration: A strategic approach to climate for men. Howard G, Bartram J. Domestic Water Quantity, and listening comprehension of children and adults in a action in cities to 2030’. Service, Level and Health. World Health Organization, 2003. classroom like setting‘, Noise & Health, Issue 49, Volume 12. 18 UN Environment and International Energy Agency. Towards Ref Type: Report. 5 European Commission (DG ENV) (2011): ‘Management of a zero-emission, efficient, and resilient buildings and 34 Literature review and a calculation tool for comparing soil CDW (Construction and Demolition Waste) in the EU’: http:// construction sector – Global Status Report 2017. based cultivation systems to stone wool systems, Dr.ir. E (Ep) ec.europa.eu/environment/waste/pdf/2011_CDW_Report.pdf 19 Material Economics, 2018, Total emission reductions come Heuvelink and Prof.dr.ir. LFM (Leo) Marcelis, Wageningen 6 Studies have shown that if we compare the thermal property from sources including, e.g. nuclear energy. renewable University 2018. See more details on the methodology (lambda value) of our new products with products after more energy, carbon capture and storage, and change from coal for this calculation at www.rockwoolgroup.com/precisionthan 55 years of service we can see the value is still the same. to gas. Only scenarios with a reasonable amount of carbon growing-impact ROCKWOOL products have no aging effect and deliver a capture and storage (less than 15 Gt CO2 in any one year) 35 Government of Canada, 2017, Harrow Research and constant performance without suffering any degradation. have been selected. Development Centre, ‘What is hydroponics?‘ http://www. Source: FIW München (2016): Durability Project Mineral 20 IPCC AR5 Database, IEA World Energy Outlook 2017, IEA agr.gc.ca/eng/science-and-innovation/research-centres/ Wool, Report on findings E3.3-2016/01. Energy Technology Perspective 2017, EIA International ontario/harrow-research-and-development-centre/what-is7 According to the fire reaction test DIN 4102-17. Energy Outlook 2017, Exxon-Mobil Outlook for Energy 2018, hydroponics-/?id=1238524974996 8 PwC analysis of United Nations, Department of Economic BP energy Outlook 2018. 36 FAO, IFAD, UNICEF, WFP and WHO, 2017, ‘The State of Food and Social Affairs, Population Division Report (2014): 21 IRENA, August 2017, ‘Synergies between renewable energy Security and Nutrition in the World 2017. Building resilience https://esa.un.org/unpd/wup/Publications/Files/WUP2014and energy efficiency‘. for peace and food security‘. Highlights.pdf 22 IRENA, August 2017, ‘Synergies between renewable energy 37 Circle Economy, January 2018, ‘The Circularity Gap Report: 9 UN Environment and International Energy Agency. Towards and energy efficiency‘. An analysis of the circular state of the global economy’. a zero-emission, efficient, and resilient buildings and 23 International Energy Agency, World Energy Outlook 2017 38 European Commission (DG ENV) (2011): ‘Management of construction sector – Global Status Report 2017. 24 McGraw Hill Construction, 2012,‘World Green Buildings CDW (Construction and Demolition Waste) in the EU’: http:// 10 UN Environment and International Energy Agency. Towards Trends: Business Benefits Driving New and Retrofit Market ec.europa.eu/environment/waste/pdf/2011_CDW_Report.pdf a zero-emission, efficient, and resilient buildings and Opportunities In Over 60 Countries‘. 39 Note: The recycled Grodan granulate holds a certain amount construction sector – Global Status Report 2017. 25 European Commission, 2017, ‘Level(s) fact sheet‘. of water, making it ideal for brick manufacturing. It also 11 See more details on the methodology for this calculation at 26 Dodge Data & Analytics, World Green Building Trends 2016. contains organic matter, which is separated and processed www.rockwoolgroup.com/carbon-impact 27 For instance Recio et. al. (2016), ‘The short-term association into compost. The plastics (LDPE) around the stone wool is 12 European Commission, Eurostat, 2017, http://ec.europa.eu/ of road traffic noise with cardiovascular, respiratory, and reprocessed into plastic granulate at designated recyclers. eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php?title=File:Gross_ diabetes-related mortality‘, Environmental Research, 40 Circle Economy, January 2018, ‘The Circularity Gap Report: inland_consumption_of_energy,_1990-2015_(million_tonnes_ Volume 150. An analysis of the circular state of the global economy.’ of_oil_equivalent)_YB17.png 28 Acoustic Society, 2018, ‘Classroom Acoustics 1‘. 41 McKinsey and Co, 2015, ‘Europe’s circular economy 29 Julian Treasure, 2007, ‘Sound Business‘. opportunity‘. 40 ROCKWOOL Group Sustainability Report 2017 Appendix ROCKWOOL® – Our trademark The ROCKWOOL trademark was initially registered in Denmark as a logo mark back in 1936. In 1937, it was accompanied with a word mark registration; a registration which is now extended to more than 60 countries around the world. The ROCKWOOL trademark is one of the largest assets in ROCKWOOL Group, and thus well protected and defended by us throughout the world. ROCKWOOL Group’s primary trademarks: ROCKWOOL® Rockfon® Rockpanel® Grodan® Lapinus® Additionally, ROCKWOOL Group owns a large number of other trademarks. Credits Page 2, 4, 7, 8, 12 right, 24, 25, 28 middle, 31 left, 41: Michael Best Page 5: Tim Griffith Page 6: Ola Österling Page 13 right: Atlante Architectes Page 16: Nibe fotograferne Page 19 right: Rob Driessen Page 21 left: Uzytkownik Page 23: Rasmus Daniel Taun Page 26: Zaha Hadid Page 28 right: Roland Korner Page 30: Jon Norddahl ROCKWOOL Group Management team Designed and produced by: SALTERBAXTER An MSL Company ROCKWOOL International A/S Hovedgaden 584 DK-2640 Hedehusene Denmark CVR No. 54879415 Tel: +45 46 56 03 00 www.rockwoolgroup.com twitter.com/ROCKWOOLInt linkedin.com/company/ROCKWOOL-Group facebook.com/ROCKWOOLinternational ROCKWOOLInternational Released 18 May 2018 © ROCKWOOL International A/S 2018 All rights reserved
