MOVING FORWARD TOGETHER Wilmar Inter national Limited SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Contents 01 About This Design / 24 Our Policies And Practices To 63 Social Respecting and Empowering About This Report Sustainability People 25 Our Approach to 64 No Exploitation of People 04 Statement From The Board Sustainability and Local Communities 27 Stakeholder Commentary on 68 Stakeholder Commentary Sustainable Development by Verité 06 Achievements In 2017 Goals (SDGs) 28 Sustainability Management 77 Accidents, Severity Rate and Fatalities and Governance Structure 80 Smallholders Support 07 Our Targets 30 Sustainability Certification 32 Supply Chain and 82 Smallholder Interview – Leo Mensah, BOPP Ghana Traceability 83 Community Relations and 09 About Wilmar 36 Stakeholder Commentary by Procter & Gamble (P&G) Conflict Resolution 83 Supporting Community 37 Engagement and Development 09 A Global Business Empowerment 16 Corporate Governance 39 Aggregator Refinery Transformation (ART) 86 Base Data 17 44 Ethical Policies and Palm Oil Operations 17 Plantations and Mills Grievance Mechanisms 93 45 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 19 Palm Oil Refineries Environmental Protecting Our 20 Environment 46 No Deforestation and Forest 101 Independent Limited Assurance Sugar Operations Conservation Statement 20 Sugar Plantations, Mills and 52 Promoting Zero Burn Refineries 21 Overview Of Sugar Practices In the Oil Palm Industry 103 Glossary Production and Processing 54 Reducing Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions 23 Stakeholder Commentary by Proforest 58 Safeguarding Water Quality 105 Contact Us 61 Reducing Our Use of Chemicals Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 01 Moving Forward Together About This Design As a key player in the global palm oil industry, Wilmar International Limited strives to lead by example and set new benchmarks in our endeavours. Across every aspect of our organisation, we seek to uphold the right practices and policies that govern the way we operate our business, the way we engage our community and the way we protect our environment. “Individually, we are one drop. Together, we are an ocean.” – Ryunosuke Satoro, Japanese poet Inspired by this meaningful quote, the design for this Sustainability Report references the strength of synergy. It illustrates Wilmar’s ability to build on a strong network of MOVING FORWARD TOGETHER partnerships and friendships that enable us to pave the way forward and achieve our Sustainable Development Goals in today’s evolving global landscape. Wilmar Inter national Limited SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Our progress and growth story is not founded on one person but propelled by the concerted efforts of all stakeholder groups. By optimising our collective strengths and Moving Forward Together, we will overcome new challenges and make greater strides towards the sustainable transformation of the agri-commodity industry. About This Report SCOPE AND BOUNDARY presence and over 50% shareholding and operational control. The primary focus of the report is the performance of our Wilmar International Limited (‘Wilmar’ or ‘the Group’) has own plantations, mills and refineries in Indonesia, Malaysia, applied the guidance of Global Reporting Index (GRI) Ghana and Nigeria for palm, and Myanmar, Australia, Sustainability Standards as well as the Singapore Exchange New Zealand and Indonesia for sugarcane. For our palm (SGX) Sustainability Reporting Guide, on setting the oil operations, this includes our crude palm and lauric oil boundaries and identifying the most significant aspects for suppliers as well as fresh fruit bunch (FFB) suppliers. While disclosure in this report. As such, this report will present we now have better insight into the performance of our updates and metrics on Wilmar’s performance in relation key suppliers, we have not included these in our metrics as to our sustainability commitments, placing particular focus such information is subject to confidentiality agreements. on our No Deforestation, No Peat and No Exploitation (NDPE) policy and our contributions to the United Nations The performance data disclosed does not cover: Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs see page 7 for more information). • Downstream and upstream operations in which Wilmar has 50% ownership or less, or operations over In line with our efforts to meet the expectations of our which the Group does not have management control. stakeholders, we have also taken further steps to increase • Other downstream and upstream activities outside the transparency and accountability of our operations by the Group's palm oil and sugarcane operations (i.e. significantly expanding the scope of our annual sustainability does not process exclusively palm oil and cane sugar). reports. The data presented in the report now covers Wilmar’s • Environmental figures for unplanted areas inside global palm oil and sugarcane operations. This includes both Group plantations, although data on conservation upstream and downstream business where we have a major areas and fire incidents are included. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 02 Moving Forward Together REPORTING PERIOD We also held an internal workshop in November 2017, where we undertook a thorough review of our materiality This report covers performance data for the calendar year matrix for our palm oil operations and developed a specific 2017 (unless otherwise stated) as well as five-year historical matrix for our sugar business. For palm oil, new major figures, where available. Due to the fast-moving nature of themes have emerged that have been evaluated to have the issues described, we have also included information on significant importance for both Wilmar’s business and our our progress in 2018 as well as on our planned activities external stakeholders. Especially noteworthy are jurisdictional and targets for 2019. approaches and/or certifications, which also ranked as the highest-priority topic in 2017. IDENTIFICATION AND PRIORITISATION For existing themes, the relative impact on Wilmar’s business We have reviewed the major topics discussed in this report and the interests of stakeholders have also shifted somewhat through various forums and engagements, including email over the past 12 months. For example, labour conditions correspondence and phone interviews with key stakeholder and transparency appear to be of higher concern in 2017, groups. The interviews were conducted with representatives whereas discussions around smallholder inclusiveness have from the finance sector, the non-governmental organisations been less prominent. (NGOs) sector, as well as from our customer base and third-party suppliers. In addition, we reviewed the aspects covered by other palm and sugar-related initiatives, such as the High Carbon Stock (HCS) Approach Steering Group, the Zoological Society of London’s (ZSL) Sustainable Palm Oil Transparency Initiative (SPOTT), CDP (formerly known as Carbon Disclosure Project), Ceres Reporting Guidance for Responsible Palm, the Fair and Free Labour Principles for Palm Oil Production and KnowTheChain. Palm Oil Materiality Matrix Jurisdictional approaches/ certifications Transparency & Supplier/Supply Accountability Labour chain monitoring conditions Corporate governance/ethics Deforestation/High Carbon & Anti-corruption Stock (HCS) forests/High Importance to Wilmar’s external stakeholders Conservation Value (HCV) area Supply chain transformation Sustainability certification Child protection Water impacts Peat development Community relations & Pesticides & Health & Safety Conflict resolution Chemical usage Smallholder Greenhouse Gas inclusiveness emissions Wildlife conservation Investment in community Fire & Haze infrastructure Moderate Significant Priority Importance to Wilmar’s Business Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 03 Moving Forward Together VALIDATION AND REVIEW ASSURANCE We validate our material aspects and ensure balance in our We have engaged Ernst & Young LLP (EY) to perform assurance reporting through the following key processes: work on selected information disclosed in this report. The assurance provided by EY is for use by the Management • Through the reporting process, continuously of Wilmar only. Any use or reliance by a third party on the monitoring stakeholder concerns to ensure that these said assurance is at the third party’s own risk. Please refer are covered by the report. to the section “Independent Limited Assurance Statement • Through advice from our reporting consultant, on page 101 of the report for details. As sustainability Helikonia, based on their in-depth knowledge of the reporting is an ongoing process, we have chosen to disclose palm oil industry and its stakeholders. and to discuss some of the most pertinent material issues • Through reviews and commentaries from various for Wilmar and its stakeholders within the boundaries of stakeholders and experts on critical aspects of our the report. Due to the inherent limitations of the internal disclosure. control structure, it is possible that errors or irregularities in the information presented in this report may occur and not The third process has been expanded from our approach be detected. We endeavour to increase our efforts on the in previous years, from one overall commentary provided reporting process and to present information in the most by an expert in the sustainable palm oil field, to multiple complete and accurate manner possible. commentaries by identified key stakeholders and experts on critical topics. SUGAR OPERATIONS Our sugar operations are subject to significantly less public attention than our palm oil operations and receive very few enquiries from commercial or civil society stakeholders. Our initial materiality matrix is therefore based primarily on our perception of general global themes, sector-specific impacts, and risks linked to the areas in which we operate. Sugar Materiality Matrix Labour conditions Human rights Child protection Forced labour Freedom of association Child labour Traceability Health & Safety Paraquat Water pollution Importance to Wilmar’s external stakeholders Sugar consumption/overconsumption Grievances/remedy Use of fire (cane burning prior to harvest) Water management & Usage Air quality Internal labour migration (Myanmar context) Governance (Myanmar context) Transparent pricing (linked to yields) Land grabbing (Myanmar context) Smallholder issue/fair price for cane payments (Australia context) Moderate Significant Priority Importance to Wilmar’s Business Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 04 Moving Forward Together Statement From The Board F or this, our sixth Sustainability Welcome to Wilmar's Sustainability Report 2017. The following sections present an overview of our performance, which we Report, we have raised the measure against both our long-held sustainability objectives and the targets we set based on key material Environmental, bar further by significantly Social & Governance (ESG) factors identified in the last reporting period. Assessing the various sustainability issues as expanding our reporting scope. part of Wilmar's strategic planning process, we have also set out our priorities for the next reporting period and beyond. Having previously focused only on our upstream palm oil operations, We strive to provide the most accurate and transparent account of our activities and challenges in managing the we will now report on all palm oil material ESG factors, which we believe this document has achieved reasonably. In doing so, we have followed and and sugar operations where Wilmar remain fully supportive of the comply or explain approach to sustainability reporting adopted by SGX, in line with has more than 50% shareholding increasing investor demand for sustainable returns. The report is also prepared in accordance with the GRI Sustainability and operational control. This covers Reporting Standards. all upstream plantation and mill Since 2009, when we published our first Sustainability Report, operations, including those of our we have worked consistently to ensure our disclosures meet the expectations of all our stakeholder groups. For growing sugar cane business, as this, our sixth Sustainability Report, we have raised the bar further by significantly expanding our reporting scope. well as downstream operations such Having previously focused only on our upstream palm oil operations, we will now report on all palm oil and sugar as palm oil-only processing and operations where Wilmar has more than 50% shareholding sugar refining. and operational control. This covers all upstream plantation and mill operations, including those of our growing sugar cane business as well as downstream operations such as palm oil-only processing and sugar refining. Our expanded scope encompasses Wilmar operations in Indonesia, Malaysia, Ghana, Nigeria, Australia, Myanmar and New Zealand. This progress in our reporting is fitting, as this is the first year that SGX has made sustainability reporting mandatory for all listed companies in Singapore. From left to right: 1. Weijian Shan, Independent Director 8. Yeo Teng Yang, Lead Independent Director 2. Lim Siong Guan, Independent Director 9. Kuok Khoon Ean, Non-Executive Director 3. Kuok Khoon Hua, Non-Executive Director 10. Tay Kah Chye, Independent Director 4. Juan Ricardo Luciano, Non-Executive Director 11. Kishore Mahbubani, Independent Director 5. Martua Sitorus, Non-Executive Director 12. Kwah Thiam Hock, Independent Director 6. Pua Seck Guan, Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director 13. Raymond Guy Young, Alternate Director to 7. Kuok Khoon Hong, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr Juan Ricardo Luciano Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 05 Moving Forward Together Vista of replanted areas in a Wilmar plantation To maintain our continuing success, as well as our ability to Our efforts to cement Wilmar's position as a leading producer deliver sustainable returns to our shareholders, we must also and trader of sustainable palm oil continued throughout create value for society. We are confident that our business 2017, with particular focus on the implementation of our can play a vital role in building a better and more sustainable NDPE Policy and our close engagement with suppliers. In world, and have therefore committed to contributing towards line with the Policy, we have set aside 13.3% of our oil palm the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)*. planted area for conservation since 2009. We have also For this report, we have incorporated the five SDGs that invested in technologies that will enable us to progressively are most relevant to our operations in order to showcase reduce the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions footprint of our contributions in these areas. These are: our global operations. • SDG 4 Quality education Our employees remained as always top of mind as we • SDG 8 Decent work & economic growth worked hard to strengthen labour practices in our upstream • SDG 12 Responsible production and consumption operations over the past year. We published a progress report • SDG 15 Life on land in December 2017 detailing the extensive range of actions • SDG 17 Partnerships for the goals. we have taken in areas such as wages and employment, health and safety, and labour relations. One of the most These five SDGs are closely aligned to our identified material significant activities has been the launch of our new Child ESG factors (see page 7 for more information on these SDGs). Protection Policy, which aims to enhance the welfare of children living in and around the oil palm plantations where The theme of this Sustainability Report is Moving Forward their parents work. Despite a number of challenges, we have Together . This reflects the fact that collective, concerted made meaningful progress with support from a number of effort from all stakeholder groups will be required to stakeholder groups, in particular our employees. achieve progress towards the SDGs, as well as toward our overall sustainability objectives. Our world is changing fast, Looking forward, Wilmar's Board of Directors is firmly with consumer expectations, competitive landscape and committed to building on our 2017 achievements and society all evolving at an unprecedented pace. Wilmar is advancing our long-term sustainability agenda for the anticipating and adapting to these changes while focusing benefit of our company, our industries, our shareholders, on our commitment to the sustainable transformation of our communities and our planet. We look forward to the the agri-commodity industry. continued engagement and support of our stakeholders as we work towards our commitments and goals. Support for young people is key to shaping a better future. In 2017, we embarked on school redevelopment programmes in Indonesia and Africa, and these are already enabling our workers' children and children in rural communities to access BOARD OF DIRECTORS quality education. Such programmes will now be expanded Wilmar International Limited across our global operations. Wilmar further supports lifelong 25 May 2018 learning and community growth through our broad range of smallholder and small grower empowerment programmes around the world. * Please refer to the Glossary under the listing Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for more information. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 06 Moving Forward Together Achievements in 2017 Completed assessments for 37 mills. Trained 353 supplier participants on environmental and social best practices. Completed five additional methane capture Achieved a GHG emissions reduction of 515,0271 facilities at palm oil mills; capable of potentially tonnes# of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) reducing the mills’ greenhouse gas emissions through the operation of methane capture by 90%. facilities. Launched a new Child Protection Policy, in order Conducted 426 training sessions for 3,200 to more holistically address issues of children’s independent and associated smallholders in rights and welfare. Honduras and 22 training sessions for 170 independent and associated smallholders in Colombia on Wilmar’s No Deforestation, No Peat and No Exploitation Policy, as well as Good Environmental Practices and Ecosystem Conservation. 1 GHG emissions reduction includes emissions avoided due to fuel replacement of diesel with biogas. # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. Mature oil palms in a Wilmar plantation Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 07 08 Moving Forward Together Our Targets In September 2015, world leaders adopted the 2030 Agenda • SDG 12 Responsible Production and Consumption: for Sustainable Development which comprises 17 Sustainable Ensure sustainable consumption and Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 associated targets that production patterns address the world’s most pressing economic, social and • SDG 15 Life on Land: Protect, restore and promote environmental challenges. Recognising that the private sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sector plays an important role in this global mobilisation, sustainably manage forests, combat To conduct training for 1,000 supplier participants in Indonesia To annually assess at least 32 supplying CPO mills and their we have identified five SDGs that are particularly relevant desertification, and halt and reverse land and Malaysia. compliance to NDPE requirements. to our business, and to which we are contributing. degradation and halt biodiversity loss Timeline Progress as at 31 Dec 2017 Timeline Progress as at 31 Dec 2017 • SDG 17 Partnerships for the Goals: Strengthen the 2018 On track Ongoing Target exceeded The highlighted SDGs are: means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable In 2017, 353 suppliers attended workshops bringing In 2017, Wilmar completed 37 assessments, • SDG 4 Quality Education: Ensure inclusive and development the total number of suppliers trained to 712 by the consisting of mill assessments under our Aggregator equitable quality education and promote close of the year. Refinery Transformation (ART) plan, revisit lifelong learning opportunities for all Aligning our targets around these SDGs, the progress we programme, and Support for Transformation (SFT)6 project. The assessments also included five grievance • SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth: have made to-date towards these five goals are mapped visits, as well as visits to additional mills incorporated Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable out below: into our joint overarching report. economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all To achieve 100% Malaysian Sustainable Palm Oil (MSPO) certification for all our Malaysian mills and estates. Timeline Progress as at 31 Dec 2017 2019 On track For 100% of children living in Wilmar's plantations and of compulsory school-going age to attend full-time education To complete construction of 15 methane capture facilities at To halve the 2011–2015 average incidents of fire in Indonesian Two of our mills are certified against the MSPO programmes. CPO mills. plantations4 and reduce the number of fires occurring in buffer standard#. Timeline Progress as at 31 Dec 2017 Timeline Progress as at 31 Dec 2017 areas 5 km beyond plantation boundaries. Beyond our own certification target, we are also 2030 On track 2017 Behind schedule Timeline Progress as at 31 Dec 2017 working with our suppliers to ensure that they are 2017 Target achieved ready to achieve MSPO certification when this Approximately 88.3% of children at school-going age With five more plants completed in 2017, we are one becomes a legal requirement in 2019. Over 260 mill who are living in Wilmar's plantations attend school. short of meeting the 2015 target due to unforeseen suppliers covering more than 55% of the entirety of soil conditions at one site. It is now expected to be mills in Malaysia are expected to benefit from this done by 2018 with another two in various stages of partnership. construction. When all 25 sites are in full operation, we estimate that we can achieve an annual emissions reduction of more than 500,0002 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e). To complete Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certification for all of our mills. To upgrade and modernise schools in and around our oil palm Timeline Progress as at 31 Dec 2017 estates (15 in Indonesia, 6 in Nigeria, 2 in Ghana). 2018 Behind schedule Timeline Progress as at 31 Dec 2017 To reduce emissions from palm oil mill efﬂuent (POME) by 2020 On track We achieved certification for two additional mills 275,000 tCO2e against the 2013 baseline5. in 2017, both in Kalimantan. We had targeted Timeline Progress as at 31 Dec 2017 In Indonesia, two pilot schools have been completed finalisation of our mill certification by end of 2018. 2020 Target achieved while redevelopment work is underway in another To complete Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) However, four mills in Indonesia are still in the five schools. certification audits for 10 stand-alone mills3 in Indonesia. process of finalising their operations permits (HGU Timeline Progress as at 31 Dec 2017 – Hak Guna Usaha) and are unlikely to achieve Redevelopment work has started for two secondary 2017 Target updated to 2025 certification by year-end. Likewise, a small area in schools and one primary school near our Nigeria Jambi is undergoing preparations for certification estates while one junior high school in Ghana has New regulations introduced in 2017 have revised and may not meet the 2018 timeline. undergone rehabilitation work. the previous directive on which the initial target was based. As ISPO certification for independent mills is only possible if at least one group of their suppliers has been certified, we are liaising with independent FFB supply groups to work towards certification. 5 Baseline for International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) certified sites only. The emissions from POME in 2013 is used as the baseline, which is 308,511.28 tCO2e. 6 SFT is a six to 12-month process of on-site engagement to ensure a mutual understanding of the project objectives and establish 2 From methane gas capture only, excluding the emissions avoided by not using fossil fuels for electricity generation. ownership of the process. By working intensively with the company on-site, TFT aims to facilitate solutions to their labour practice 3 This refers to independent mills as defined under the scope of the ISPO standard requirements. challenges through an understanding of the specific conditions. 4 Threshold is 100 fire incidences. # EY has performed limited audit procedures on this figure. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 09 Moving Forward Together About Wilmar A GLOBAL BUSINESS Wilmar International Limited, founded in 1991 and headquartered in Singapore, is today Asia's leading agribusiness group. Wilmar is ranked amongst the largest listed companies by market capitalisation on the Singapore Exchange. Wilmar's business activities include oil palm cultivation, oilseed crushing, edible oils refining, sugar milling and refining, manufacturing of consumer products, specialty fats, oleochemicals, biodiesel and fertilisers as well as flour and rice milling. At the core of Wilmar's strategy is an integrated agribusiness model that encompasses the entire value chain of the agricultural commodity business, from cultivation, processing, merchandising to manufacturing of a wide range of agricultural products. It has over 500 manufacturing plants and an extensive distribution network covering China, India, Indonesia and some 50 other countries. The Group has a multinational workforce of about 90,000 people. Wilmar's portfolio of high quality processed agricultural products is the preferred choice of consumers and the food manufacturing industry. Its consumer-packed products have a leading share in many Asian and African countries. Through scale, integration and the logistical advantages of its business model, Wilmar is able to extract margins at every step of the value chain, thereby reaping operational synergies and cost efficiencies. Wilmar is a firm advocate of sustainable growth and is committed to its role as a responsible corporate citizen. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 10 11 Moving Forward Together Global Presence Wilmar is the global leader in processing and merchandising of palm and lauric oils, as well as production of oleochemicals, specialty fats, palm biodiesel and Europe Russia & Ukraine China consumer pack oils. Leading supplier of quality Largest manufacturer of consumer pack Largest edible oils refiner and edible oils and fats margarine, mayonnaise and solid soap in Russia specialty fats and oleochemicals manufacturer Largest edible oils refiner and specialty fats producer in Ukraine Leading oilseed crusher, producer of branded consumer pack oils, rice and flour One of the largest flour and rice millers Russia Germany Netherlands Poland Ukraine USA India France Leading branded consumer Italy pack oils and oleochemicals Spain Turkey Japan producer, oilseed crusher and edible oils refiner Morocco Bangladesh China Strategic industrial partner of Mexico the leading sugar company India Myanmar Vietnam Ivory Coast Thailand Djibouti Nigeria Philippines Ethiopia Over Malaysia Uganda Sri Lanka Singapore 500 Ghana Kenya Indonesia Tanzania manufacturing plants Brazil Zambia in 15 countries* Mozambique * Subsidiaries only, not including associates Zimbabwe Mauritius Australia Multinational South Africa workforce of about Africa Indonesia & Malaysia Australia 90,000 New Zealand Leading supplier of edible oils One of the largest oil palm plantation Largest raw sugar producer staff globally owners and the largest palm oil refiner, and refiner Operates oil palm plantations, palm kernel and copra crusher, specialty refineries and produces consumer fats, oleochemicals and biodiesel Leading consumer brands in Extensive distribution pack oils, soaps and detergents manufacturer sugar and sweetener market network covering China, India, Indonesia and some Third largest sugar producer Largest producer of branded consumer Top 10 global raw sugar 50 other pack oils in Indonesia producers countries Owns 50% of Goodman Fielder Australasia’s leading food company Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 12 13 Moving Forward Together Vertically Integrated OLEOCHEMICALS CONSUMER PACK EDIBLE OILS Business Model ORIGINATION BIODIESEL OILSEEDS MEAL PROCESSING At the core of Wilmar’s strategy is a resilient business model encompassing the entire value SPECIALTY FATS RICE AND FLOUR chain of the agricultural commodity business, from processing, to branding, merchandising and distribution. Through scale, integration and the logistical advantages of our business model, RAW AND BULK EDIBLE OILS we are able to extract margins at every step of the value chain, thereby reaping operational REFINED SUGAR synergies and cost efficiencies. SUPERMARKET Tropical Oils Oilseeds and Grains Sugar Others PLANTATION MANUFACTURING MANUFACTURING CONSUMER MILLING, AND PRODUCTS MERCHANDISING, MERCHANDISING MERCHANDISING REFINING AND DISTRIBUTION AND CONSUMER PRODUCTS One of the largest Largest global processor and Leading soybean crusher World’s largest producer of Largest raw sugar producer and Fertiliser listed palm plantation merchandiser of palm and in China and one of the consumer pack edible oils refiner in Australia and leading sugar companies in lauric oils with a distribution largest flour millers globally with leading positions in refiner in Indonesia Shipping the world network across more than many Asian and African 50 countries countries Leading consumer pack sugar manufacturer in Australia and New Zealand Almost 100% of output is supplied Almost 100% of edible oil to the Tropical Oils (Manufacturing is supplied to and Merchandising) segment Consumer Products FFB Volume Volume Volume Volume 3.9m MT 23.2m MT 27.9m MT 5.4m MT 11.9m MT Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ 59.4m 18.00b 13.54b 6.26b 5.05b 2.12b CUSTOMERS RESULTS RESULTS RESULTS RESULTS US$ US$ US$ US$ 426.2m 735.0m (24.6m) 242.0m Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 14 15 Moving Forward Together Financial Highlights Revenue Revenue by Country / Region US$ Million US$ Million 50,000 22,392.0 8,930.4 4,686.8 2,585.7 2,445.2 1,754.3 1,051.8 44,085 43,085 43,846 41,402 40,000 38,777 30,000 20,000 51% 20% 11% 6% 6% 4% 2% 10,000 People's Southeast Others Europe Africa India Australia / Republic of Asia New Zealand China 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Net Profit1 Employees by Country US$ Million 42,952 24,154 11,792 5,130 4,267 1,992 2,000 1,600 1,319 1,219 1,200 1,156 1,023 972 800 47% 27% 13% 6% 5% 2% 400 Indonesia China Malaysia Africa Others Australia (including the European Union and the United States of 0 America) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 FY2015 figures were restated upon adoption of Amendments to FRS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and FRS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants. FY2013 FY2014 figures are not adjusted. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 16 Moving Forward Together Corporate Governance Our Board of Directors is the highest governing body of Wilmar and is responsible for the strategic direction of the Group. The Board is made up of Directors with a wide range of skills and qualifications in areas such as accounting, finance and business management, as well as specific experience in relevant industries. As at 31 December 2017, the Board has been expanded to 12 members, comprising two Executive Directors and ten Non-Executive Directors, of whom six are Independent Directors. Nine hold the citizenship of Singapore, one of Malaysia, one of United States of America and one of Hong Kong SAR. The Board is led by Mr Kuok Khoon Hong, who is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO). A Lead Independent Director, Mr Yeo Teng Yang, has been appointed to ensure adequate accountability and transparency in the decision-making process. The Board is supported by a management team responsible for the execution of the Group’s strategy and operations. Sustainability risk management is incorporated into the Group’s risk management structure under the purview of the Board’s Risk Management Committee, which reviews sustainability reports and issues on a quarterly basis. In 2018, Wilmar will continue to look at enhancing Board-level key performance indicators for sustainability related issues. For more details on our corporate governance structure and processes, please refer to our Annual Report 2017. Oil palm nursery in Wilmar plantation Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 17 Moving Forward Together Palm Oil Operations PLANTATIONS AND MILLS Wilmar operates 44 mills, including nine independent mills that buy fresh fruit bunches (FFB) exclusively from third-party We are one of world’s largest oil palm plantation owners, suppliers. Of these 44 mills, 28 are currently certified to RSPO with a total planted area of 229,456 hectares as at 31 standards, eight mills and their supply bases are certified December 2017. Around 67% of our total planted area is in against the ISPO standard, and two mills are certified against Indonesia, 25% in East Malaysia and 8% in Africa. Through the MSPO standard. In addition, we have 35 sites, covering joint ventures, we own plantations in Uganda and West the biodiesel supply chain, certified against the International Africa of approximately 46,000 hectares. Wilmar also directly Sustainability & Carbon Certification (ISCC) standard. manages 34,524 hectares under smallholder schemes in Indonesia and Africa, and another 149,000 hectares under smallholder and outgrower schemes through joint ventures and associates in Africa. Total planted area of oil palm Hectares 350,000 300,000 241,048 238,287 240,956 241,892 229,456 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000 41,037 31,666 31,428 31,284 34,524 50,000 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total planted area Scheme smallholders area Note: Figures have been updated from data presented in Wilmar’s Annual Report 2017 and are accurate as of 25 May 2018. For this report, total planted area and scheme smallholders area excludes estate areas in Indonesia that have recently been sold and are no longer within our operational control. Total planted area has also been updated in this report due to a revision in Nigeria planted area. Plantations Geographic Locations Plantations Age Profile As at 31 December 2017 As at 31 December 2017 8% 14% 19% 9% 0-3 years 24% Indonesia 4-6 years Malaysia 9% 7-14 years Africa 15-18 years >18 years 68% 49% Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 18 Moving Forward Together Group Yield and Extraction Rate 25 20.4 20.6 20.5 20.0 20.0 20 20.6 21.4 18.8 19.0 19.7 15 10 4.7 4.7 4.9 4.9 4.8 5 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Extraction rate of Crude Palm Oil (CPO) in % Extraction rate of Palm Kernel (PK) in % Fresh Fruit Bunch (FFB) yield in MT FFB/Ha GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION OF OUR UPSTREAM OPERATIONS (PLANTATIONS AND MILLS) IN INDONESIA AND MALAYSIA 12 5 1 Sabah 1 Peninsular Aceh Malaysia 5 2 North Kalimantan North Sarawak Sumatra 2 6 East 2 6 Riau Islands Kalimantan West Riau Kalimantan West Sumatra 9 4 5 3 Central Jambi Kalimantan 1 7 10 South South Kalimantan Sumatra 4 3 Bengkulu 1 Lampung Number of Oil Palm Plantation Management Units Java Number of Palm Oil Mills Indonesia Malaysia Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 19 Moving Forward Together GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION OF OUR UPSTREAM OPERATIONS (PLANTATIONS AND MILLS) IN AFRICA Number of Oil Palm Plantation Management Units Number of Palm Oil Mills Ghana Nigeria 1 1 6 1 PALM OIL REFINERIES Wilmar is the world’s largest processor and merchandiser of palm and lauric oils, processing these into refined palm oil, specialty fats, oleochemicals and palm biodiesel. The crude palm and lauric oils are sourced from our own plantations and third-party suppliers. As at 31 December 2017, the Group has plants located in the following countries: Refinery Oleochemicals Specialty Fats Biodiesel Subsidiaries Indonesia 25 4 4 11 Malaysia 14 3 1 2 China 51 10 6 0 Vietnam 4 0 2 0 Europe 0 2 0 0 Africa 2 0 2 0 Others 4 0 1 0 Total no. of plants 100 19 16 13 Total capacity (million MT p.a) 30 2 2 3 Associates India 39 2 5 0 China 7 2 2 0 Russia 4 0 1 0 Ukraine 2 0 1 0 Malaysia 3 0 0 0 Africa 10 0 4 0 Bangladesh 2 0 0 0 Europe 6 1 1 0 Indonesia 0 0 0 1 Singapore 0 0 1 0 Total no. of plants 73 5 15 1 Total capacity (million MT p.a) 13 <1 1 <1 Note: Refinery capacity includes palm oil and soft oils A map of Wilmar's supply chain is available at http://www.wilmar-international.com/sustainability/supply-chain-map/ Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 20 Moving Forward Together Sugar Operations SUGAR PLANTATIONS, MILLS AND Total planted area of sugarcane (ha) 2017 REFINERIES Total 5,862 ha In 2010, Wilmar expanded into the sugar business through the acquisition of Sucrogen Limited (known today as Wilmar 11% Sugar Australia Limited) in Australia, and we are now one of the world's top 10 raw sugar producers, employing around 4,700 people globally. We are the largest raw sugar producer Australia and refiner in Australia, the leading sugar refiner in Indonesia, Myanmar and the top consumer pack sugar manufacturer in Australia and New Zealand. In April 2014, we established a 55/45 joint venture with Great 89% Wall Food Stuff Industry Company Limited in Myanmar. The joint venture consists of the partners’ existing sugar-related businesses, two sugar mills, a bioethanol plant and an organic compound fertiliser plant. The Great Wall-Wilmar Sugar Mill in Maung Kong, Sagaing Division, is the biggest sugar mill Through a joint venture with Mackay Sugar, we operate one in Myanmar with a market share of nearly 30%. refinery in New Zealand and two refineries in Australia – one at Yarraville in Melbourne, Victoria, and another at the Our plantations are located in Northern Myanmar and in Racecourse Mill in Mackay, Queensland. We also operate two Queensland, Australia. In 20172, our total planted area refineries in Indonesia. All of our refineries and warehouse for sugarcane was 5,862 hectares, producing a combined operations in Australia and New Zealand as well as one sugar 520,485 tonnes of sugarcane. Approximately 89% of this refinery in Indonesia have been certified to the Bonsucro area is in Australia, with the remaining 11% in Myanmar. Chain of Custody Standard. We operate 10 mills: two in Myanmar and eight in Australia. Our total planted area managed by third-parties in Australia, In 2017, our Australian plantations recorded yields of 94 including lessees and independent producers, is 161,664 tonnes of sugarcane per planted hectare, while Myanmar’s hectares. Third-party supply accounted for 15,255,008 tonnes yields were 64.8 tonnes of cane per hectare due to different of sugarcane delivered to our mills in Australia in 2017. In climatic conditions and lower levels of mechanisation. One Myanmar, 28,131 hectares was managed by schemed and of our Australian mills is currently certified to the Bonsucro contracted smallholders during the 2017-2018 season, Production Standard and Bonsucro Chain of Custody supplying the mill under our joint venture, Great Wall-Wilmar Standard (see page 30 for more details), and another two Sugar, with 987,050 tonnes of sugarcane. mills and their supply bases in Australia have completed their certification audits in 2017. GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION 2 OF SUGAR OPERATIONS THAT Myanmar WE MANAGE 2 Indonesia 8 1 Australia 1 1 Number of Sugar Refineries New Zealand Number of Sugar Mills 2 Harvesting season in Myanmar takes place during November to April, therefore Myanmar's financial year runs from 1 April to 31 March each year (not based on calendar year). As a result, planted area, production and yield data for Myanmar has been taken as at 31 March 2018, and Australia data taken as at 31 December 2017. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 21 Moving Forward Together Planting Harvesting Milling Sugar Refining Tops Sugarcane Raw Refined Cutting Sugarcane Sugar Sugar Soil Juice Stalk Bagasse Molasses Tillage Weed Transportation Pressing Evaporation Control OVERVIEW OF SUGAR PRODUCTION AND Planting PROCESSING The most common reproduction method is modern stem cutting. Billets – cane stalk sections cut by a mechanical Sugarcane is one of the world's major agricultural commodities, harvester – are planted by a machine that opens and recloses accounting for 80% of sugar produced globally. Sugarcane the ground. This is known as billet planting and is common is cultivated in the tropics and subtropics in areas that have in the USA and Australia. a plentiful supply of water for a continuous period of more than six to seven months each year, either from natural Harvesting rainfall or through irrigation. Although more than 120 Sugarcane is harvested either manually or mechanically. Our countries produce sugarcane, ten countries dominate global Australian operations adopt the mechanical method which raw sugar exports: Brazil, Thailand, Australia, Guatemala, uses a sugarcane harvester machine to cut the cane at the Mexico, India, Cuba, Swaziland, Argentina and El Salvador base of the stalk, chops the cane into consistent lengths, accounted for 92% of the trade in 2016 (International Sugar removes the cane trash and deposits it into a transporter Organization 2016). India is currently the world's biggest following alongside. The separated cane trash is returned consumer of sugar, followed by the European Union, China, to the field and acts as mulch for the next round of planting. Brazil, the USA and Indonesia. In our Myanmar operations, harvesting is done by hand when Sugarcane is grown under highly diverse climatic conditions the cane stands two to four metres high, cutting the cane and optimum planting and harvesting periods vary across just above ground-level using cane knives or machetes. For different countries. In Australia, sugarcane grows for 12 to 16 the 2017-2018 season, we have started to use sugarcane months before being harvested between June and December harvesters at one of our farms (Tone Lone). each year. In Myanmar, by contrast, the harvesting season takes place between November and April. After each harvest, the cane sends up new stalks. The crop from these new stalks are known as ratoons . Between two and ten harvests are usually made depending on the agricultural practices employed. In countries with mechanical agriculture, sugarcanes are replanted after several harvests (up to five) to avoid a lowering in yields. In countries where more traditional types of agriculture are used, with smaller fields and hand harvesting, sugarcanes are often harvested up to ten years before replanting. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 22 Moving Forward Together Milling Sugar Refining The harvested cane is delivered to the mill with minimal Raw sugar is processed into white refined sugar in local delay to avoid deterioration in sugar content levels. The refineries and then sold to local industries and consumers, sugarcane is crushed by large rollers, and the extracted juice or it is exported and refined in the country of destination. is clarified to remove soil and other impurities. This juice is Sugar refining can take place at a back-end refinery attached concentrated into a syrup by boiling off excess water, seeded to a raw sugar factory, or at a completely separate facility. with raw sugar crystals in a vacuum pan, and then boiled until Whereas most sugar mills only operate during the harvesting sugar crystals have formed and grown. The boiled mixture period, many refineries operate all year round. is centrifuged to separate the molasses from the crystals, which are then tumble dried and placed in large storage bins for transport to bulk sugar terminals or refineries. Raw sugar still contains molasses, which gives it more colour (and impurities) than the white sugar that will be produced in the refining phase. Molasses is one of the by-products of sugar milling, and it is used to produce ethanol and also as an additive in livestock feed. The remaining fibrous solids from the milling process, called bagasse , are burned as fuel for the mill's steam boilers. Sugarcane plantation in Burdekin, Queensland, Australia Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 23 Moving Forward Together STAKEHOLDER COMMENTARY BY PROFOREST By Erin Logan Deputy Director, Responsible Sourcing Whilst there has been significantly less public attention Wilmar have rightly identified issues such as human and scrutiny given to sugar cane production than rights, child and forced labour and water management other commodities, such as palm oil, many of the risks as key priorities for their external stakeholders. But in associated with its production are intrinsically linked to key order to have a real and positive impact in the production commitments made by Wilmar and other agro-industrial supply bases, it will be paramount to consider the wider, companies. These commitments include implementing systemic issues and root causes of these issues, as well and complying with the UN Guiding Principles on Business as how to address them in a collaborative manner with and Human Rights, International Labour Organization’s other significant supply chain actors. For instance, conventions and company-own policies on child labour supporting best agricultural practices, such as access and occupational health and safety. to high yielding varieties, mechanisation and improved irrigation techniques, could help to mitigate the effects Many companies have also made public commitments to of climate instability and improve livelihoods; which the responsible or sustainable sourcing of key ingredients, in turn could potentially go on to reduce the use and including sugar (in some cases, specifically cane sugar) exploitation of child labour and vulnerable groups. by 2020. The definitions behind what is meant by ‘sustainable’ or ‘responsible’ are not always clear and Being open to a holistic and transparent approach to this can lead to confusion and misinterpretation. Indeed, support continuous improvement in sugar cane supply relatively few are disclosing significant details on how bases into the future will put Wilmar at the forefront of a they define what they mean or how these objectives positive and necessary movement. Wilmar should aim to will be met, nor on their progress against these targets. build on what they are already doing in their more direct supply chains and to identify where they can support It is a positive sign, however, that Wilmar is including interventions and activities in their wider supply bases sugar in their sustainability report this year. The report that reflect their own values and commitments. highlights that Wilmar is involved in Bonsucro certification, both at production level and through their supply ABOUT PROFOREST chains. Involvement with sustainability schemes such as Bonsucro is one of the important elements towards Proforest is a unique non-profit group that works through meeting sustainability commitments. However, moving a combination of consultancy services and programmes. forward it is important for Wilmar to increase their Through their consultancy services they work directly transparency on traceability back to origin through their with companies, supporting them in their transition to refinery operations and to build on their support for better practices. Their programmes build the enabling continuous improvement in production practices across environment and address key barriers to better practices their supply base. This is particularly true where there by fostering awareness of the issues and building local are potential risk factors such as manual harvesting and capacity and ownership of sustainability initiatives. By use of migratory labour. Wilmar’s most direct link to this combining these two approaches they are uniquely placed type of scenario is in their operations in Myanmar, but to help bridge the gaps between business, governments through their refinery processes they are also potentially and civil society, and to develop practical approaches exposed to many other supply bases where this could to responsible production and sourcing that can help be the situation. transform commodity sectors. Regarding traceability, Wilmar has a wealth of experience Erin Logan’s work at Proforest focuses on agricultural in this area through their work on palm and should commodities and she has significant experience working capitalise on the learnings from working in this sector. with clients on supply chain management and mapping. It will also be important for Wilmar to be transparent on She is the Proforest lead on sugar and also works on where they have joint ventures, stakes in companies or the sustainable production and responsible sourcing are strategic industrial partners. Although Wilmar may of a range of other agricultural commodities, including not be in a position to support a change in practices in palm oil, rubber and soya. This involves interacting with all locations, it is important for them to be cognisant of sustainability initiatives, NGOs and the private sector. where they may be exposed to risks. Erin has worked on the development of production and chain of custody certification standards for a range of agricultural commodities, including ensuring compliance with EU Renewable Energy Directive (RED) sustainability criteria. Erin represents Proforest on the Bonsucro Members Council. OUR POLICIES AND PRACTICES TO SUSTAINABILITY Working in synergy to work responsibly Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 25 Moving Forward Together OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY From now on, these five SDGs will be incorporated in our approach to sustainability. We will frame and measure our Sustainability is firmly embedded in our core business progress against each goal and its underlying targets where strategy and operations, and we continue to demonstrate applicable. While specific reference to individual targets will our commitment to advancing sustainable agriculture and not always be made, we will highlight where our actions align spearheading collective action to expedite supply chain with or contribute to the five identified SDGs on a broader transformation. In 2013, we were the first player in the palm level throughout this report. oil industry to launch an integrated No Deforestation, No Peat and No Exploitation (NDPE) Policy that extended to all NDPE POLICY IMPLEMENTATION third-party suppliers, which has set the overall direction in our PROGRESS AND EXPANSION journey towards sustainability. Together with international standards and our multi-stakeholder partnerships, our NDPE We maintain our focus on the impact of our oil palm operations Policy guides our efforts to mitigate deforestation, peat and drive compliance with our NDPE Policy at multiple levels. development and exploitation, both in our own operations For Wilmar’s own operations and our scheme smallholders, and in our supply chain. we pursue continuous improvement by strengthening standard operating procedures and participating in relevant In recognition of the private sector’s responsibility to support certification schemes. In our wider supply chain, we use our and build on sustainability efforts being undertaken on a refineries as a central point for engaging, assessing and global scale, we have now identified and are contributing enhancing supplier performance. towards five of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the United Nations (see page 7). The SDGs have been adopted by countries all around the world as part of a new sustainable development agenda to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all. Each goal has specific targets to be achieved over the next 15 years. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 26 Moving Forward Together The aim of our NDPE Policy has always been to achieve profile. Nevertheless, our approach to sustainability in our genuine transformation in the palm oil industry towards the sugar operations will follow the successful precedent set mitigation of deforestation, peat development and exploitation. with palm oil: first ensuring that the best management During the course of our policy implementation process, we practices adopted at our own mills are workable, and only realised that the scope of the challenges extends beyond then partnering with grower organisations to encourage the palm oil industry: they need to be addressed holistically change in practices. through the collaborative effort of governments, civil society organisations, smallholders, suppliers and industry players. To reflect the increased focus on our sugar operations, and to We therefore invest significant resources to support multiensure that our NDPE Policy remains relevant to the current stakeholder partnerships and jurisdictional and landscape stakeholder landscape and latest scientific consensus, we approaches as part of our sustainability strategies. will be refreshing our NDPE Policy in 2018. Although our existing NDPE Policy already extends to our sugar operations, Our sustainability programme, including our NDPE Policy, this refresh will include a specific section that outlines and was initially developed with palm oil in mind. Not only does clarifies this applicability. palm oil constitute a much bigger proportion of Wilmar’s business compared to sugar, it also presents a higher risk BUILDING BLOCKS FOR NDPE POLICY COMPLIANCE AND SDG CONTRIBUTION NO DEFORESTATION, NO PEAT AND NO EXPLOITATION POLICY SUPPLIER PARTNERSHIPS, TRANSPARENCY AND WILMAR INTERNAL COMPLIANCE ENGAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY COMPLIANCE ADVOCACY Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 27 Moving Forward Together SDG 12 Responsible Consumption and • Encouraging companies, especially large and Production transnational companies, to adopt sustainable SDG 12 is concerned with the promotion of sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information consumption and production patterns. It is therefore one into their reporting cycle. of the most relevant sustainable development goals for our • Promoting public procurement practices that are business and broader sustainability efforts. As a leading sustainable, in accordance with national policies and agribusiness group, most of the targets set under SDG 12 priorities. are applicable to our business in some form. However, the • Supporting developing countries to strengthen key relevant targets relate to: their scientific and technological capacities to move towards more sustainable patterns of consumption • Achieving sustainable management and efficient use and production. of natural resources. • Achieving environmentally sound management of As our NDPE framework and overarching strategies greatly chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle overlap with these topics, many of our existing activities – in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and much of what we currently report – already demonstrate and to significantly reduce their release to air, water our progress towards achieving this goal. and soil in order to minimise adverse impacts on human health and the environment. STAKEHOLDER COMMENTARY ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) Taimur Khilji, Economist 2030 Agenda United Nations Development Programme The SDGs provide a comprehensive framework for As an agribusiness company, Wilmar is primarily reporting economic, environmental, and social goals for countries on SDGs linked to Land Use and Biodiversity, and Human to achieve. Businesses are increasingly expected to Rights (at plantations and in the supply chain). Going contribute toward these goals through their core business beyond compliance will be key in ensuring a net positive practices. Over the past several years, we are witnessing contribution toward the relevant SDGs. a shift, where businesses have become more sensitive to environmental and human rights issues. The business ABOUT TAIMUR KHILJI case for SDGs has been highlighted in several flagship reports, both by the development community and the Taimur Khilji is an Economist and Regional Lead for private sector. Urbanization at the UNDP Bangkok Regional Hub. He has previously worked in a variety of roles at UNDP in Having said that, there is still a need to develop clear New York, Colombo and Bangkok. While his focus area is benchmarks and metrics to further cement the business urban development, he has advised over 15 Governments case. Some companies are developing a textual analytics across Asia on a range of development issues including framework to use data and metrics that can advance Economic Inequality, Social Protection, Private Sector the business case for the SDGs. This framework would Development, Entrepreneurship, Social Innovation and help a company transform their SDG practices from Youth Employment. Prior to joining UNDP, he opened a their corporate social responsibility and public relations primary school in Islamabad, Pakistan that continues to departments into an instrumental aspect of their business provide education and basic health services to children. practices. However, the impediment to getting businesses He holds a B.A. in Mathematics and Philosophy from on board with meaningful action on sustainability has Williams College, USA, and an M.A. in Economics from been that it requires a shift in focus from short-term the New School University, USA. goals like quarterly shareholder returns to longer-term corporate responsibility objectives. This shift often presents trade-offs as well. The views expressed are those of the author and do not necessarily represent the views of the United Nations Development Programme or that of the United Nations. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 28 Moving Forward Together Sustainability Management and Governance Structure Wilmar’s Chairman and CEO is responsible for the oversight evaluates our progress against NDPE Policy targets. For of our NDPE Policy while being supported by the Risk suppliers who fail to comply with Wilmar’s NDPE Policy, a Management Committee for management of sustainability Suspension Committee has been appointed to review the risks. The implementation of Wilmar's sustainability trading relationship. Additionally, we have established teams strategies (including the NDPE Policy, the principles of the in Malaysia and Indonesia to provide support to suppliers United Nations Global Compact, certifications, stakeholder to ensure compliance with our NDPE Policy. engagement, corporate governance and reporting) is delegated to the Sustainability Department. This department In addition to this formal structure, we are also engaged in is staffed by more than 60 employees globally, combining a strategic agreements with various implementation partners wide range of relevant local and technical expertise across like The Forest Trust (TFT), Proforest and Daemeter of the Malaysia, Indonesia, Europe, Africa and Singapore. Wilmar’s Consortium of Resource Experts (CORE), as well as Verité Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) spearheads the overall Southeast Asia in 2017, to support our ongoing NDPE Policy strategy of the Group’s global sustainability agenda. The implementation and supply chain compliance work. Group Sustainability General Manager is responsible for the implementation of these policies and strategies in our At the level of operational management, Wilmar’s Technical supply chain, as well as reviewing the progress of execution. Managers have been assessed against the Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) performance of the operations under To support NDPE Policy implementation, Wilmar also has their charge, and EHS assessments have been incorporated operations teams working on site and at regional levels, into their performance appraisals. In addition, a factory-level a communications team, and a Technical Advisory Group key performance indicator (KPI) scorecard for EHS will be comprising NGOs and sustainability partners that advise on introduced for factory managers. Our Human Resources specific issues where broader perspectives are needed. These (HR) department is also in the process of reviewing how a teams provide input to the Joint Steering Committee (JSC) broader range of staff could have sustainability metrics built to deliberate and decide on the more complex NDPE Policy into their performance appraisals. implementation matters. The JSC handles major strategic issues related to the execution of the NDPE Policy. It also SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE TOP LEVEL OVERSIGHT TOP LEVEL Chairman & CEO OVERSIGHT Board of Directors Risk Management Committee • Assess and manage all SUSPENSION JOINT STEERING COMMITTEE sustainability-related risks COMMITTEE (JSC) Chairman & CEO, CSO, Wilmar and The Forest Trust (TFT) Group Sustainability GM, Procurement Head • Resolve policy/implementation major issues Indonesia, • Evaluate progress on Policy commitments Procurement Head Malaysia • Deal with major issues unresolved from Communications & Policy and Operations teams • Assess potential supplier suspensions TECHNICAL OPERATIONS TEAM COMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY GROUP & POLICY TEAM NGOs, Wilmar, Sustainability • Check on activities, prioritisation, efficiency Partners • Working through technical issues that need • Manage and provide advice closure and can be dealt with at operations level on current and emerging • Provide guidance on • Escalate unresolved issues from JSC communications, PR and sustainability strategies • Receive inputs and queries from JSC governance issues related • Seek input from the Technical Advisory Group to sustainability • Manage crisis NB: The governance structure also covers sugar operations, with the exception of involvement communications by The Forest Trust and the Suspension Committee. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 29 Moving Forward Together SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY COMPLIANCE: EXTERNAL SUPPLY CHAIN & GRIEVANCE WILMAR'S OWN ENGAGEMENT DOWNSTREAM MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS • Certification • Sustainability Policy • Sustainable • Conservation • Stakeholder Sourcing • Smallholder Supply Engagement • Third-party • Sustainability Supplier Communications Compliance • Multi-stakeholder partnerships Wilmar management and consultants in the field Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 30 Moving Forward Together Sustainability Certification ROUNDTABLE ON SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL sites are capable of delivering palm oil products under the (RSPO) Segregated and Mass Balance supply chain models. As at year-end 2017, we have achieved RSPO certification for Timebound plan for outstanding mill 28 mills and about 80% of our planted area across Malaysia, certifications Indonesia and Ghana#. In total, we produced about 880,000 We are making some headway on our target to achieve tonnes of certified sustainable crude palm oil and 190,000 RSPO certification for all of our mills and their supply tonnes of certified sustainable palm kernel in 2017. On the bases. In 2017, we achieved certification for two additional plasma smallholder front, production of certified sustainable mills, both in Kalimantan, Indonesia. We had targeted to palm oil and palm kernels in 2017 was 23,752 tonnes and complete all mill certifications by year-end 2018. However, 5,701 tonnes respectively. four mills are still in the process of finalising their operations permits (HGU – Hak Guna Usaha) and are unlikely to achieve Around 5% of all palm oil products handled, traded and certification by year-end. Likewise, a small area in Jambi is processed by Wilmar globally is RSPO certified. For midstream undergoing preparations for certification and may not meet and downstream operations, 56 sites are now certified the 2018 target. against the RSPO Supply Chain Certification Standard. These Location Company Name Target Date Central Kalimantan PT Karunia Kencana Permaisejati Certified since 22 Dec 2017 Central Kalimantan PT Sarana Titian Permata 2 In process of finalising operation permits (HGU) West Kalimantan PT Bumi Pratama Khatulistiwa Certified since 18 Oct 2017 West Kalimantan PT Agronusa Investama Pahauman In process of finalising operation permits (HGU) West Kalimantan PT Agro Palindo Sakti 2 In process of finalising operation permits (HGU) South Sumatra PT Musi Banyuasin Indah In process of finalising operation permits (HGU) Riau PT Sinarsiak Dianpermai In process of finalising operation permits (HGU) Jambi PT Agrindo Indah Persada 2 Undergoing preparations for certification NATIONAL PALM OIL CERTIFICATION INTERNATIONAL SUSTAINABILITY AND SCHEMES CARBON CERTIFICATION (ISCC) The Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) certification Wilmar is a member of the ISCC Association, which seeks system is implemented by Indonesia's Ministry of Agriculture to establish an international, practical and transparent and is a national requirement for companies since 2011. At system for the certification of biomass and bioenergy. The year-end 2017, eight of our mills and their supply bases had certification is oriented towards the reduction of GHG been certified against the ISPO standard#. Our smallholder emissions, sustainable use of land, protection of natural development team in Indonesia has also embarked on a biospheres and social sustainability. programme to support ISPO compliance among smallholders (See page 80). As at year-end 2017, we have 35 sites across the biodiesel supply chain certified against the ISCC standard. We began implementing the Malaysian Sustainable Palm Oil (MSPO) certification programme in our East Malaysia BONSUCRO operations in 2016. As at 31 December 2017, two mills and their supply bases have been certified, and the remaining Formerly known as the Better Sugarcane Initiative (BSI), are scheduled for completion in 2018#. We are also working Bonsucro is a global standard intended to create lasting with suppliers to ensure that they are ready to achieve MSPO value for people, communities, businesses, economies and certification when this becomes a legal requirement. ecosystems in all cane-growing areas. Established in 2008 as a private sustainability certification scheme by sugarcane industry stakeholders, today Bonsucro is a global multistakeholder not-for-profit initiative dedicated to reducing the environmental and social impacts of sugarcane production while recognising the need for economic viability. # EY has performed limited audit procedures on this figure. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 31 Moving Forward Together The Bonsucro Production Standard applies worldwide to As a financial one-off incentive, we offer a rate of 10 cents any sugarcane mill (and its supplying area) that wishes to (AUD) per tonne of cane to growers who are certified to sell Bonsucro certified sugarcane-derived products and the Bonsucro process. make related claims. The Standard evaluates the outcome of practices implemented at mill and farm levels, and audits SMARTCANE BMP are based on assessments of the mill and cane supply area. Smartcane BMP is a world-class best practice system for The Bonsucro Production Standard uses six principles to sugarcane growing in Australia. The standard has been achieve sustainability in the production of sugarcane and developed by industry researchers and sugarcane farmers the products derived from it: based on productivity, profitability and sustainability. Smartcane BMP consists of seven modules covering key 1. Obey the law aspects of sugarcane cultivation. 2. Respect human rights and labour standards 3. Manage efficiency to improve sustainability Smart BMP 4. Manage biodiversity and ecosystem Core modules Non-core modules 5. Continuously improve • Soil health and plant • Crop production and 6. Adhere to EU directives nutrition management harvest management • Pest, disease and weed • Natural systems The Bonsucro Chain of Custody Standard is concerned with management management the traceability of a product and adheres to five fundamental • Drainage and irrigation • Farm business management management • Workplace health and safety principles to ensure high performance and consistency. As management such, all companies beyond mill level handling certified products for the purpose of making a final sustainability claim must be certified to the Chain of Custody Standard Our sugarcane farming operations have been working (e.g. traders, refineries, supermarkets). progressively to achieve Smartcane BMP accreditation. As at end 2017, over 80% of our sugarcane operations are As of 2017, 54% of our sugarcane plantation area and one accredited for the three core modules. raw sugar mill in Australia are certified against the Bonsucro Production Standard and Bonsucro Chain of Custody Standard#. To encourage early Smartcane BMP uptake by our suppliers, Another two mills and their supply bases in Australia had we offer growers a one-off financial incentive of 15 cents completed the certification audit at year-end 2017 and have (AUD) per tonne of cane when they obtain Smartcane BMP been certified in early 2018. Further downstream, we have accreditation for all core modules. also obtained the Bonsucro Chain of Custody certification for all sugar refineries and warehouse operations in Australia and New Zealand, as well as for the Jawamanis sugar refinery in Indonesia and the sugar trading office in Singapore. Irrigation channels in Australia sugarcane plantations # EY has performed limited audit procedures on this figure. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 32 Moving Forward Together Supply Chain and Traceability We recognise that a large part of our footprint lies beyond direct purchase of CPO and/or palm kernels (PK) from mills. our own operations. Our suppliers therefore have a critical Refineries may also procure bulk and/or redistributed oil role to play in forging a path towards sustainable palm oil from third-party refiners or traders, in which case the details production. of the originating mill may be unavailable. We trace supply flows from ports and refineries back to Among Wilmar’s third-party suppliers, there is still a low palm oil sources to map our supply base, evaluate suppliers’ level of willingness from many refiners to share information performance against our NDPE Policy, and engage with our on their supplying mills, despite general support on the suppliers to make improvements where needed. We believe notion of traceability. Anti-competition regulations are often that this is an integral part of providing greater transparency cited, and this can be an issue. We believe that this position in the supply chain, including supplier locations and the is slowly changing, and we are diligently working with our practices being used on the ground. suppliers to obtain information where possible. TRACEABILITY STATUS IN 2017 We have been requesting for traceability information from our third-party suppliers on a quarterly basis which we consider Traceability analyses and summary data continued to be as a self-declaration document. Wilmar's Sustainability team collected across Wilmar’s global operations throughout the continually monitors the lists obtained from suppliers to year. As at 31 December 2017, we have achieved around ensure there is no breach in relation to our NDPE Policy. 97.2% and 99.6% traceability to mills for our operations in Indonesia and Malaysia respectively#. DEFINING AND CALCULATING TRACEABILITY: WILMAR’S APPROACH In Indonesia, about 8.54 million tonnes of crude palm oil (CPO) and 1.16 million tonnes of palm kernel oil (PKO) We focus on traceability in terms of the quantity of oil from processed by our refineries were traceable at least to mills. traceable sources, by identifying the parent company name, About 5.68 million tonnes of CPO and 0.53 million tonnes mill name, address and global positioning system (GPS) coof PKO from our Malaysian refineries were also traceable ordinates of mills supplying CPO and PK to our downstream at least to mills#. facilities. In addition, certification status of the mill is also recorded, where possible. The original goal we set in 2013 was for all palm oil physically handled by Wilmar refineries to be traceable to the mill where We have so far identified over 800 mills supplying each it was processed. However, achieving full traceability has not of our refineries in Indonesia and Malaysia. Each refinery been possible due to the ongoing challenges of commodity typically has 50–100 mills in its supply network, although transportation and trading. In palm oil procurement and not all mills supply products in every quarter. trading, the supply network to refineries is not limited to The chart below illustrates the traceability status of Wilmar's operations globally from January to December 2017 97.2% 99.6% 85.1% 46.1% 70.1% 98.6% 82.0% 99.2% 99.4% 98.8% 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Indonesia Malaysia India, China China Europe Ghana, Vietnam Ukraine United Bangladesh Specialty Oleochemicals Nigeria, States of and Sri Fats South Africa, America Lanka Ivory Coast, Traceable to mill Uganda & Zambia Unknown # EY has performed limited audit procedures on this figure. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 33 Moving Forward Together Our annual traceability values are calculated on volumes in supporting the transformation of mills and their supply supplied during the previous four quarters on a rolling basis bases towards responsible practices through initiatives such for origin and destination refineries. As mill lists are updated as the Aggregator Refinery Transformation (ART) programme. on a quarterly basis, and each update covers four calendar Such initiatives take into account the fact that issues linked quarters, it can therefore take up to four rolling quarters for to sustainability (or NDPE compliance) will be similar within changes at mill-level to be reflected on the mill list. a mill’s supply base (i.e. within a radius of approximately 50 km), such as extensive peat areas, proximity to national parks The traceability data for refineries at origin (Malaysia and and populations of endangered species, and can address Indonesia) is calculated using volumes received from individual these issues as part of mill assessments. mills, Wilmar-owned and third-party refinery transfers, traders and bulking installations. The traceability data for Traceability to plantation primarily serves the purpose of the refineries at destination (all other countries), also known delivering 100% segregated sustainable supply – which as second refiners , is calculated from shipment volumes can also mean the exclusion of vulnerable producers, such received at the respective destinations. as smallholders. We believe it makes more sense to invest resources to raise the floor for sustainability and good practice for all suppliers within a mill's supply base. Nevertheless, we have completed maps of all our own mills in Malaysia and PARENT COMPANY NAME Indonesia, showing all estate boundaries and the location of each smallholder and dealer. MILL NAME For more detail, please visit www.wilmarinternational.com/ sustainability/progress/traceability/. ADDRESS TRACEABILITY FOR SUGAR OPERATIONS About 80% of Wilmar’s raw sugar is sourced from thirdLONGITUDE AND LATITUDE party suppliers. Our NDPE Policy extends across our entire CO-ORDINATES operations, including sugar. We will be updating the Policy to include a specific section that outlines and clarifies the NDPE Policy's applicability to our sugar operations, which will be implemented across our entire supply chain, including VOLUMES joint-ventures and third-party suppliers. Traceability has become an increasingly high profile issue FOCUS ON TRACEABILITY TO MILL as forced labour issues have emerged in several major commodity markets. In August 2017, KnowTheChain (a We focus on traceability to mill because the mill is a good resource developed by Humanity United, the Business & indicator of the approximate location of its suppliers. Pursuing Human Rights Resource Centre, Sustainalytics, and Verité) traceability further upstream is extremely difficult due to the published a case study examining how 10 food and beverage multi-tiered nature of the supply chain. A typical palm oil companies are addressing forced labour in their sugarcane mill may be supplied by hundreds of growers, and also by supply chains. The study came on the heels of their 2016 dealers that source from many more. Refineries are in turn food and beverage benchmark, which revealed a lack of likely to be supplied by thousands of FFB suppliers as they transparency and action on forced labour across commodity source from multiple mills. Mills that do not have integrated supply chains in general. plantations (typical in Sumatra and Peninsular Malaysia) must also contend with a constantly changing supplier In their 2017 findings, KnowTheChain reported that Wilmar base as farmers move from mill to mill for various reasons, has disclosed the names and addresses of its owned mills, which is often associated with commercial incentives. This and is also the only company to have disclosed the names revolving supply situation is further intensified where there and addresses of its sugar suppliers. is an increase of milling capacity in a given area (e.g. with the addition or upgrading of palm oil mills) resulting in a The case study can be accessed at knowthechain.org/ sudden boost in demand for FFB. sugarcane-supply-chains-how-10-food-and-beveragecompanies-are-tackling-forced-labor/ Obtaining traceability to farm or plantation level is therefore resource intensive while offering little return, as traceability The list of Wilmar's sugar suppliers can be downloaded from information, by itself, does not address environmental and business-humanrights.org/sites/default/files/2017-05 Sugar social issues. We believe resources are more effectively utilised suppliers (Wilmar).pdf Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 34 35 Moving Forward Together Overview of Wilmar's Palm Oil and Sugar Supply Chains TRADING OFFICE TRADED (SINGAPORE) PARCELS Fresh Fruit Bunch (FFB) Crude Palm Oil & Palm Kernel (CPO/PK) Crude/Refined Palm & Lauric Products TRADED Raw Sugar PLANTATION AND MILL OPERATION REFINERY OPERATION PARCELS White Sugar Wilmar Own/ BULKING Third Party Plantations TERMINAL Smallholders WILMAR WILMAR ORIGIN TRADING OFFICE ORIGIN Smallgrowers OWN MILLS REFINERIES (SINGAPORE) FFB Collection Centres Palm Supply Indonesia Malaysia Sugar Supply Third Party Plantations Australia Smallholders THIRD PARTY Myanmar THIRD PARTY INTERMEDIATE REFINERIES/ BUYER Smallgrowers MILLS SUPPLIER TRADERS FFB Collection Centres BULKING TERMINAL Wilmar Own/ WILMAR Third Party Plantations OWN MILLS DESTINATION Palm Supply TRADED Rest of The World PARCELS Sugar Supply WILMAR New Zealand THIRD PARTY BULKING DESTINATION Indonesia MILLS TERMINAL PROCESSING PLANT TRADING OFFICE (SINGAPORE) Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 36 Moving Forward Together STAKEHOLDER COMMENTARY BY PROCTER & GAMBLE (P&G) Wilmar supplies P&G with palm oil and palm oil derivatives, Going forward, P&G would like to see Wilmar take a and we value their collaboration and transparency as we continued leadership role in tackling the human and labour work to ensure our palm products are sourced responsibly. rights issues in the industry and increasing awareness and best practices in working wages, gender equality P&G particularly values the supply chain transparency and third-party supply chain verification. that Wilmar provides specifically in the traceability data and the actions that they are undertaking to tackle the Wilmar has been taking actions to ensure it is operating challenges in their plantation operations. We appreciate responsibly, and P&G wants to continue to see advances their investment in their third-party supplier engagement in palm sustainability and how their action plans will programme and also value the deep dive that Verité become reality in the next 12 months. is providing in creating change in Wilmar’s internal management system. Truck delivering oil palm fresh fruit bunches to the mill Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 37 Moving Forward Together Engagement and Empowerment SDG 17 Partnerships for the Goals We continue to play an increasingly active role in certification and assessment organisations, including the RSPO and the HCS The drivers of deforestation are complex and require collective Approach Steering Group, where we are involved in numerous action by the different actors at different levels of society working groups and governance bodies. In 2017, Wilmar to effect real and enduring change. Wilmar therefore works took the role of Co-Chair within the Executive Committee actively to contribute to partnerships to achieve transformation of the HCS Approach Steering Group. We have also joined at the landscape level. the RSPO’s Board of Governors and are participating as a member of the RSPO’s Principle & Criteria Taskforce during Our position and activities on this front align with SDG 17, this critical period of the standard’s review. Wilmar actively which relates to the revitalisation of global partnerships for participates in a variety of other multi-stakeholder platforms sustainable development. SDG 17 is based on the rationale that support the production of sustainable commodities that successful and sustainable global development requires and eliminate deforestation from commodity supply chains. inclusive partnerships between different stakeholders at international, regional, national and local levels. These partnerships should include governments, the private sector and civil society, and should be built upon shared principles and values, a common vision, and aligned goals that place people and the planet at the forefront. Notable stakeholder engagements and partnerships in 2017 Stakeholder Themes Wilmar’s involvement RSPO Sustainable palm oil production • Member of the RSPO’s Board of Governors • Member of the RSPO’s Principles & Criteria Review Taskforce • Member of the RSPO’s Sabah Jurisdictional Approach for Sustainable Palm Oil Production Steering Committee • Chair of the RSPO Smallholder Support Fund Panel • Co-Chair of: i) The RSPO Smallholder Working Group (SHWG) ii) The Biodiversity and High Conservation Value Working Group (BHCVWG) iii) The FFB Legality & Traceability Taskforce • Member of: i) The Human Rights Working Group ii) The Emissions Reduction Working Group iii) The Trade and Traceability Standing Committee High Carbon Stock (HCS) No deforestation Co-chair of the Executive Committee Approach Steering Group Member Smallholder Working Group Member Africa Taskforce Business for Social Labour rights and working conditions Partner – taking collective action to improve working Responsibility (BSR) conditions and livelihoods of workers across the wider palm oil supply chain in Indonesia Fire Free Alliance (FFA) Fire and haze Founding member – seeking to prevent and reduce incidences of fires up to a 5-km radius of our plantations through community-based initiatives Tropical Forest Alliance (TFA) Responsible growth without depleting Member of the Steering Committee and Africa Regional 2020 natural capital Committee Grow Asia Sustainable and inclusive agricultural Member of Grow Asia Business Council development in Southeast Asia, focusing on smallholder development and the environmental sustainability of agriculture Barratta Creek Action Group Water quality monitoring in Queensland, Founding Member (BCAG) Australia, focusing on improving the quality of water flowing to the Great Barrier Reef Australian Packaging Covenant Sustainable packaging with a focus on Signatory through Sugar Australia Pty Ltd actively working (APC) encouraging resource efficiency through with key suppliers to identify opportunities in packaging and sustainable design while reducing disposal supply chain efficiencies and, where those changes make wastages and increasing recycling good business sense, implement them Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 38 Moving Forward Together Wilmar representatives at the TFA2020 Southeast Asia Implementation Dialogue We are expanding our support for communities all along in the process of being refreshed to provide a better user our sugar and palm oil supply chains. Training programmes experience. The new Dashboard will be available by Q3 2018. have been conducted in Myanmar for smallholder farmers who supply our joint venture, the Great Wall-Wilmar Sugar Looking forward, our sustainability reports now comply with Mill. We also piloted a training programme in 2017 to help the requirements set out by the Singapore Stock Exchange smallholders in Riau achieve ISPO certification (see page 80 (SGX). Effective as of 2018, all publicly listed companies for more information). are required to prepare an annual sustainability report that describes their practices with reference to a set of primary components on a “comply or explain” basis. Having aligned with the SGX rules and guidelines, we will publish reports Linking finance and sustainability annually in May on both the SGX and Wilmar websites. In a first for the palm oil industry, we announced on 27th November 2017 our collaboration with Wilmar submits an Annual Communication of Progress ING Bank on a banking programme that pegs the (ACOP) to the RSPO. We also provide disclosures in interest rate on the financing of existing facilities support of various benchmarking and ranking initiatives, to our sustainability performance. We believe that including the Forest, Climate Change, Water and Supply incorporating sustainability metrics into various Chain programmes coordinated by CDP (formerly the aspects of our business, from daily operations to Carbon Disclosure Project). Our most notable efforts to corporate financing, is key to creating value for our improve transparency in our sugar operations have been stakeholders the KnowTheChain disclosures (see page 33). Our efforts to increase transparency and accountability Transparency continue to be recognised, in particular by the Zoological For broader audiences, including our financial stakeholders, Society of London's (ZSL) Sustainable Palm Oil Transparency we produce annual reports, quarterly updates and an annual Initiative (SPOTT) and the Forest Heroes’ Green Cats Index Sustainability Report. We also organise regular market Rankings for Palm Oil and Soy Companies on Forest Policies update sessions that cover key sustainability topics relating and Transparency. According to SPOTT, our Group score to our business. In previous years, we had only conducted has improved from 57% in 2014 to 84.5% at year-end 2017, single session briefings to all our stakeholders. Last year, we which placed Wilmar as the top scorer among our peers in decided on a different approach and had a few meetings Indonesia and Malaysia. SPOTT ranks palm oil companies with different stakeholders. This enabled us to provide based on a number of indicators relating to policy, scope, more in-depth quality of discussions with each stakeholder. certification progress, improvement targets and transparency. In the Green Cats Index Ranking for palm oil companies, we We have maintained an online Sustainability Dashboard achieved a score of 74.5 placing us third highest among 21 on the Wilmar corporate website since 2015. To ensure companies. Being the only company that was transparent with we are responsive to stakeholder concerns, the Dashboard the names/addresses of our sugar suppliers, KnowTheChain carries updates on grievances, traceability, certification, reported Wilmar's disclosure as a good practice example policies and statements on issues raised by stakeholders for sugar supply chain transparency. or in the media. The Dashboard can be accessed at www. wilmar-international.com/sustainability/. The Dashboard is Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 39 Moving Forward Together Aggregator Refinery Transformation (ART) ART is a programme built to strengthen every actor in nine key refineries covering six key landscapes in Malaysia the supply chain to promote transformation, providing a and Indonesia#. In addition, we are also implementing parts collaborative framework for refiners, millers and growers of the programme with selected suppliers in Latin America with an opportunity to work closely to overcome challenges and West Africa. faced on the ground. Through ART, our refineries provide a central point for growers and millers to progress on HCV; HCS At year-end 2017, we have conducted 69 assessments in these and peat protection; environmental impact management; areas*. These assessments are compiled into anonymised labour standards; Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC); overarching reports by landscape, and each report summarises and traceability. representative issues that may be prevalent in that landscape. Through Broad-Level Engagement (BLE) workshops, we Typically, 50 to 200 mills supply one refinery and it is impossible socialise the common issues to all suppliers operating in to carry out assessments at every mill. With over 20 palm that region and share learnings and recommendations on refineries in Indonesia and Malaysia, and many hundreds improvement. of mills in our supply shed¹, we have adopted a risk-based approach to due diligence. Focus is first placed on identifying Topics include findings from mill assessments, guidance on and creating transformation in areas with commercial land-use planning, and respecting the rights of workers and importance, as well as higher risk in terms of environmental indigenous and local communities. and social impact, before progressing to medium and low risk areas. Based on these initial criteria, we have chosen MILL MILL PRIORITISATION DEEP ENGAGEMENT TRANSPARENCY PROCESS (MPP) Site visits and follow up MONITORING/ BOARD ENGAGEMENT VERIFICATION Capacity building and workshops 1 Mills supplying to our refineries, as well as their respective FFB sources are commonly referred to as a ‘supply shed’. # EY has performed limited audit procedures on this figure. * 62 assessments are conducted in Indonesia and Malaysia. EY has conducted the limited assurance procedures for number of assessments conducted in Indonesia and Malaysia. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 40 Moving Forward Together Truck transporting crude palm oil from the mill to the refinery MILL MAPPING AND TRACEABILITY For a mill to be considered traceable, we need to be able to record all critical information, including parent company ART is dependent on mapping all the mills supplying name, mill name, address, GPS coordinates, and volumes the refinery, as well as their FFB sources where possible. supplied to Wilmar refineries #. A minority of mills are Currently, the ART programme only focuses on Wilmar's own categorised as untraceable. Untraceable does not imply we refineries and all direct mills supplying our refineries. This do not know who we buy from; it means the supplier does programme is being implemented across key landscapes at not fully meet our traceability criteria, for example where full origin, encompassing three Wilmar refineries in Sabah, two data is not available (e.g. parent company/group affiliation refineries in Riau, and one in Peninsular Malaysia, Sarawak, or GPS coordinates). North Sumatra and East Java respectively#. Workers grading fresh fruit bunches delivered to the mill # EY has performed limited audit procedures on this claim. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 41 Moving Forward Together Wilmar's oil palm plantation in Padang, Indonesia MILL PRIORITISATION PROCESS (MPP) Non-spatial factors focus on the known sustainability policy and performance of the mills, and include: The ART programme does not seek to equally engage all mills in the supply shed simultaneously. Instead it adopts Dataset Details a Mill Prioritisation Process using spatial and non-spatial No Deforestation, No Peat, No Companies that have their information to prioritise and target higher risk mills in a vast Exploitation (NDPE) policy own NDPE Policy and supply shed for deep engagement#. implementation plan RSPO certification While certification is not on its own enough, it does provide Spatial data is captured using GIS data overlaid with information some indication for better from Global Forest Watch and Forest Monitoring for Action practices in a number of areas (FORMA) alerts and include: Volumes A mill that is identified as higher priority from the spatial and nonDataset Details spatial process and provides a significant volume to the refinery Legally protected areas Includes all national and is considered a mill of highest international protected areas priority such as national parks, forest reserves, protected wetlands, Publicly reported information Review of international NGO etc. campaign reports, local NGO reports in local languages, and Key biodiversity areas Includes sites identified as a cases under the RSPO grievance conservation priority for a variety process among others of species based on quantitative criteria pulled from global data TFT’s assessment register If a mill has previously been sets assessed by TFT, and the assessment team is confident Peat Peat soil areas as documented that the mill and FFB sources are by an international body acting on the action plan from the assessment, then the mill is considered lower priority Based on the above factors, supplying mills are ranked and 10% of the high priority mills for each refinery will be selected for further engagement. More details on the MPP can be accessed at wilmar-international.com/wp-content/ uploads/2016/01/Prioritizing-Mill-Visits.pdf # EY has performed limited audit procedures on this claim. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 42 Moving Forward Together HEADQUARTER LEVEL MILL VISITS ASSESSMENT REPORT DISCUSSION (3 5 DAYS) FINALISING DEEP ENGAGEMENT AND MILL VISITS BROAD LEVEL ENGAGEMENT AND SHARING OF FINDINGS Following the mill prioritisation process, field visits are undertaken and practices are assessed against Wilmar’s Wilmar wants to reach out as broadly as possible to ensure NDPE Policy requirements. Importantly, these field visits that our entire supply chain is included in the ART process are not driven by a certification agenda or an audit, rather and can find support for ongoing improvement. This is done the visits seek to build trust and engagement for mills by through broad-level engagement workshops and training providing practical recommendations for the mill and their FFB which all the suppliers of a particular refinery are invited suppliers to improve practices. The site visits are supported to attend#. by Wilmar’s consultants together with our internal teams. Workshops share the work that has been done in that An initial discussion at headquarter level with key management landscape and provide an overview of what common issues is followed up by an assessment, which includes samples were found, as well as recommendations for addressing the of the mill’s third-party FFB suppliers such as commercial issues. The workshops seek to build capacity and create a plantations, smallholders, as well as fruit collection centres. A forum where common issues can be addressed. typical visit will take three to five days, and prior to finalising the assessment report, the assessment team will meet with The workshop is also complemented by a series of training the mill to discuss findings. At year-end 2017, Wilmar had sessions open to all our suppliers, as well as to their FFB completed a total of 69 visits, including two in Africa and suppliers#. Key stakeholders, including industry experts, five in Latin America*. government agencies and our customers have actively participated in the workshop and training sessions to directly Following these three steps, an overarching report is engage with our suppliers. developed, summarising issues and recommendations without identifying particular mills or growers. This report serves as a medium to provide important information about trends of issues that require attention across the region/landscape#. * 62 assessments are conducted in Indonesia and Malaysia. EY has conducted the limited assurance procedure for number of assessments conducted in Indonesia and Malaysia. # EY has performed limited audit procedures on this claim. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 43 Moving Forward Together Training sessions are issue-specific and include conservation, labour rights, environmental impact management and SUPPORT FOR TRANSFORMATION OF health and safety. Training is conducted in the form of panel discussions, classroom lectures and interactive discussions. LABOUR PRACTICES AT PT ABDI BUDI Sessions also provide space for the discussion of issues and MULIA examples of best practice, and serve as a forum for dialogue with government representatives, such as those from the In December 2016, Amnesty International published a labour and environment departments#. Two training sessions report highlighting labour rights violations in Indonesia’s were conducted in Malaysia in 2016 that were attended palm oil industry relating to child labour, minimum by 50 participants. Six training sessions were conducted wage, health and safety, gender discrimination and in Indonesia in 2017 for close to 200 participants from the high production targets. One of the companies palm milling and plantation industry. The workshops and named in the report, PT Abdi Budi Mulia (ABM), is training sessions are documented in public reports, and are a Wilmar supplier. available on Wilmar’s website. After the release of the report, our implementation As part of our progress towards covering a larger part of partner TFT undertook an assessment visit in December our supply shed, in 2017 Wilmar began a process to also 2016 to assess labour practices at PT ABM. cover additional medium and low risk mills, beyond those identified as the 10% high priority mills. Known as the This initial engagement with PT ABM led to a longerSupplier Reporting Tool (SRT), the tool is designed to aid term project to support PT ABM in improving their and align supplier operations along NDPE commitments of practices, referred to as the Support For Transformation producers and consumers. The outcome of the questionnaire (SFT) project. may result in a visit to specific suppliers#. The SFT project involved a six to 12-month process of on-site engagement to ensure a mutual understanding ONGOING MONITORING PROGRAMME of the project objectives and establish ownership of AND VERIFICATION the process. By working intensively with the company on-site, TFT aims to facilitate solutions to their labour Through the mill assessment, Wilmar has developed a practice challenges through an understanding of the timebound action plan together with the mills and we specific conditions. follow up on progress through repeat visits and/or ongoing contact. As part of this follow-up, Wilmar also seeks to With support from RB (Reckitt Benckiser Group provide assistance where the suppliers are finding barriers PLC), a TFT brand member, the project was formally to progress#. As of end 2017, we have conducted nine launched in April 2017 at a pre-engagement meeting follow-up visits in Malaysia and six in Indonesia respectively. with TFT, PT ABM and Wilmar. TFT and Wilmar visited PT ABM on three separate occasions in 2017 to NEXT STEPS AND FUTURE PRIORITIES FOR undertake workers’ consultations, build the capacity ART of management to improve practices, and verify changes on the ground. PT ABM worked to improve It is a key priority for Wilmar that the wider market is engaged its practices through the creation of appropriate in the mapping, assessment and monitoring of the palm oil policies and implementation of agreed action plans. supply chain. We have been encouraged by the significant support we have received from our customers, who have These steps taken are positive developments on the assisted in funding assessments, and taken an active interest longer journey of transformation that PT ABM has and role in our mill engagements. It is critical to the message committed to implement. Through further support that the market is behind the transformation, and that the to PT ABM, Wilmar can ensure that these promising requirements in the NDPE Policy are not Wilmar-specific. initial efforts towards transformation will be carried forward. Wilmar and TFT will continue to support PT In addition, we are pleased to see that some of our peers ABM in a technical and advisory capacity through in the industry are developing programmes parallel to ART, 2018 to this end. and are starting to publish information on their assessments and findings publicly. Together, we can reach much wider TFT has provided an update on our joint work with parts of the supply chains and stretch our resources further, PT ABM which can be accessed at www.tft-earth. and at the same time avoid the onset of assessment fatigue org/stories/blog/abm/. among mills, which is likely to occur if separate refineries require assessments of the same mills. # EY has performed limited audit procedures on this claim. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 44 Moving Forward Together Ethical Policies and Grievance Mechanisms In 2017, Wilmar's Board of Directors approved a revised and There were 35 grievance cases related to our supply chain enhanced ethical policy framework. This expands on our in 2017, compared to 30 in 2016. ethics commitments through the publication of our Code of Ethics, our Anti-Fraud Policy, our Privacy Policy and our Nature of grievance New cases Total cases listed updated Code of Conduct. The policies address a range of cases in 2017 on grievance (as at ethical concerns, and include the prohibition of giving and December 2017) receiving of any type of bribe. Bribes may be defined as Deforestation 2 20 gifts, entertainment, or other benefits that may affect our Social conflict 0 4 employees’ ability to carry out their duties legally and/or Human rights 1 3 in line with company interests. violations Deforestation/Social 2 6 Our Whistleblowing Policy sets out guarantees for confidentiality conflict and freedom from reprisals. It also identifies several contact Deforestation/Human 0 1 points for reporting fraud, corruption and non-compliance with rights legal requirements and company policies. The Policy ensures Deforestation/Human 0 1 that a process is in place for independent investigations of rights violations/Social conflict alleged improprieties and for appropriate follow-up actions, Total 5# 35 including providing assurance that the complainant will be protected from reprisals for whistleblowing in good faith Note: and without malice. The Policy provides assurance that Grievances relating to HCS, HCV, peatland and burning issues are classified as deforestation; labour issues as human rights violations; any employee who raises a genuine concern and makes a and land disputes with local communities as social conflicts. disclosure in good faith will not be at risk of losing his or her The table does not include grievance cases managed directly by local teams job, nor suffer adverse treatment or harassment for doing # EY has performed limited audit procedures on this figure. so. We strictly adhere to the spirit of the Policy, and do not penalise employees for raising concerns to ensure that Wilmar’s business conduct meets its policies on compliance. We understand that input from our stakeholders is valuable This includes when they choose to raise the issues through because it helps to enhance transparency in our supply chain. third parties. The implementation of the Policy has been The Grievance Procedure is useful in this respect because communicated to employees and the Policy is posted on it favours open and inclusive dialogue with stakeholders. the Group’s website. Wilmar has conducted a preliminary feedback round with Wilmar has an established Grievance Procedure for our a range of stakeholders on the Grievance Procedure. We management and staff to refer to when handling any grievance recognise that the Procedure will need to be further adapted from external parties concerning the implementation of as it gets operationalised and that not all feedback provided Wilmar’s policies. Our operating sites have a standard has yet been incorporated. As such it represents a base operating procedure (SOP) in place for handling external on which we plan to build a stronger Grievance Procedure stakeholder’s concerns, and this is directly coordinated by over time. the local HR Department. Such grievances raised at a local level which are handled directly by local teams are generally The Grievance Procedure can be accessed at not registered in the grievance list published on Wilmar’s www.wilmar-international.com/sustainability/grievanceSustainability Dashboard, unless the complainant submits procedure/ their grievance officially through our Grievance Procedure, or the grievance is published by an NGO and is in the PROACTIVE SUPPLY CHAIN MONITORING public domain. Besides having a grievance mechanism in place, which allows Nevertheless, the complainant is free to submit the us to respond to complaints and issues raised, we also firmly grievance through our Grievance Procedure. For external believe in taking a proactive approach towards identifying stakeholders who utilise the Grievance Procedure, we will and addressing non-compliances that could potentially be evaluate the case following the decision tree stipulated in linked to our supply chain. This proactive monitoring of palm the SOP. Grievance cases that lack supporting information, oil mills and plantation company groups is undertaken each or are undergoing legal procedure, will not be registered month by an international NGO on the ground. We also have or investigated concurrently. access to a direct repository of monitoring maps and data that support these efforts. As of 2017, we are monitoring 60 supplier groups covering just over eight million hectares of oil palm plantations. We have initiated engagements with companies where issues were identified, and recommended the necessary corrective actions or improvements, where relevant. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTING OUR ENVIRONMENT Collaborating to conserve our land Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 46 Moving Forward Together NO DEFORESTATION AND FOREST CONSERVATION One of our primary focuses for our business over the last four For our sugar operations in Australia, we have identified years has been to ensure that neither our own operations nor and manage 675 hectares of conservation area, covering those in our supply chain are contributing to deforestation. the vegetation classes Not of Concern , Of Concern and Our NDPE Policy commits us to the use of the HCS Approach Endangered . These are based on criteria provided under and the HCV framework as primary tools for identifying areas the Vegetation Management Act 1999 of the Queensland suitable or unsuitable for planting – both for our own palm Government. oil operations and our suppliers' operations. Through HCS and HCV assessments, Wilmar has identified Since the launch of the HCV Assessor Licencing Scheme in 29,742 hectares in Indonesia, Malaysia and Africa to be set 2015, we have exclusively appointed licensed HCV assessors aside and managed for conservation within our oil palm to undertake HCV assessments. Prior to 2015, we have also plantation operations#. appointed RSPO-Approved Assessors to undertake HCV assessments in our own operations. Following the release of the HCV-HCS Assessment Manual in November 2017, which requires all HCS Approach assessments to be conducted as integrated HCV-HCS Assessments, we will also only appoint licensed HCV assessors and HCS registered assessors for future joint assessments. # EY has performed limited audit procedures on this figure. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 47 Moving Forward Together Conservation Area 2017 15,083 TOTAL 30,417HECTARES 16,000 14,000 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,063 6,000 4,000 3,114 1,705 2,041 1,653 2,000 675 83 0 Sabah Sarawak Central West Sumatra Ghana Nigeria Australia Kalimantan Kalimantan (sugar) 1 Conservation area for oil palm covers HCS, HCV and riparian areas. Conservation area for sugarcane covers areas set aside for conservation under the Australian vegetation classification system. 2 All data for Sumatra presented in this report covers all of Wilmar’s plantations in Sumatra. The HCS Approach was launched in 2013 to categorise SDG 15 LIFE ON LAND forests and define a better landscape-level methodology for preventing deforestation. In 2014, a broad group of SDG 15 is concerned with the sustainable management of stakeholders established the HCS Approach Steering forests, combating desertification, halting and reversing land Group to strengthen and evolve the methodology, as well degradation, and halting biodiversity loss. Forests cover as to provide a governance body for its use. We have to approximately 30% of the Earth’s surface and provide food date undertaken one such HCS process in our Nigerian security and shelter to a host of important species. These operations. The assessment was completed in 2015, and in species in turn contribute to the survival of ecosystems that 2016 we were among the first oil palm companies to submit play a crucial role in the fight against climate change. For an assessment to the HCS Approach Peer Review Process. this reason, there are specific components under SDG 15 that target the protection of biodiversity and wildlife. This HCS Assessment summary report is available for downloading at highcarbonstock.org/registered-hcsIn accordance with these targets, and as part of our assessments/. commitment to our NDPE Policy, we place special emphasis on the protection of threatened and endangered species and JURISDICTIONAL APPROACHES TO NO wildlife conservation. We do not operate in internationally or DEFORESTATION nationally designated protected areas. If high conservation values are present on our operational sites, we implement Wilmar is part of the Sabah Jurisdictional Approach Steering a number of measures, including: Committee, which works to support the Sabah Government in achieving its vision of 100% RSPO-certified sustainable palm • Formulating conservation management plans to oil in the state by 2025. The Steering Committee has enlisted protect endemic and endangered species or habitats. the support of the HCS Approach Executive Committee in • Avoiding damage and deterioration of applicable funding a pilot project to assist in the development of an areas. HCS assessment at the jurisdictional level. This will in turn • Protecting these areas from potential illegal or support the jurisdictional certification initiative. inappropriate threats such as poaching. • Enhancing the identified natural and biological values. The HCS assessment will seek to provide a revised approach that fulfils the HCS decision tree (a tool for identifying and Wilmar's conservation areas are managed by a group of prioritising forest areas for conservation or development regional conservation specialists who are overseen by our within a landscape), and which can then be applied at the global Conservation Lead. Specialists in Sabah, Sarawak, state level. The funds will also allow for some involvement Indonesia and Africa work in partnership with plantation from the HCV Resource Network (HCVRN) to help guide managers to ensure that conservation areas are monitored the Sabah jurisdictional process. An important output of this and protected, and Conservation Management Plans are process will be a state-level HCV and HCS map that can be implemented. We appoint biodiversity and conservation used to inform sustainable development and conservation managers to develop and implement these plans, which strategies at a jurisdictional level. serve to maintain and enhance the biodiversity values of Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 48 Moving Forward Together Wilmar's Honorary Wildlife Wardens protected areas within our oil palm plantations, and we partner with local and international research bodies to THE CHALLENGES OF PROTECTING continually improve them. FOREST AREAS FROM DEVELOPMENT To ensure vigilance and responsiveness, we employ a As of 2017, more than 6 million hectares of forest combination of strategies which include both manual is estimated to have been spared from oil palm patrolling and technology to monitor our conservation areas. development in Indonesia1. This is largely attributed The use of technology includes the mobilisation of drones, to the individual NDPE commitments of key the Spatial Monitoring and Reporting Tool (SMART) and companies within the sector, alongside government group messaging mobile application for communication policies. However, ensuring that these areas are purposes. But we also believe that education goes a long not converted in the future remains a challenge. way to conserving biodiversity. As such, we also conduct The pressure for further land use change by other regular awareness briefing to our workers and community producers and sectors that have not subscribed to members to identify and report encroachment and other global sustainability standards continues to grow. threats to our conservation areas. Companies with NDPE commitments currently account for only 74%2 of the combined refining capacities of Wilmar is one of the few oil palm companies who have Indonesia and Malaysia, which still leaves a leakage government-appointed Honorary Wildlife Rangers and Wildlife market of approximately 19 million tonnes annually. Wardens deployed in both Sabah and Sarawak. Having Stakeholders from the private sector, industries, completed our specialised training programme conducted civil society, markets and the public must continue by the Wildlife Departments of the respective states, Rangers working together to close this gap. and Wardens are empowered with authority similar to the State-appointed Wildlife Rangers and Wardens to stop any illegal activity related to wildlife found within our plantation boundaries. In late 2017, Wilmar staff from the Sustainability and EHS departments received training as Honorary Wildlife Wardens in Sabah. All participants were detailed on the responsibilities and powers of Honorary Wildlife Wardens as set out in the Sabah Wildlife Conservation Enactment 1997. As of January 2018, a total of 32 new Wildlife Wardens, including eight women, have been appointed and 12 of the existing Wardens have been reappointed. 1 https://chainreactionresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/ palm-oil-stranded-land-size-equals-ten-million-football-fieldscrr-170407.pdf 2 https://chainreactionresearch.files.wordpress.com/2017/11/ unsustainable-palm-oil-faces-increasing-market-access-risksfinal-2.pdf Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 49 Moving Forward Together CONSERVATION PARTNERSHIPS Wilmar supports a wide range of initiatives set up to protect iconic wildlife species, both in our set-aside areas as well as in areas adjoining our plantations. PARTNERS PARTNER PONGO Alliance Business in Environmental Stewardship Network (BESNet) Musim Mas, Sime Darby, PT Austindo Nusantara Jaya Agri, United Plantation Bhd, Borneo Futures, Orangutan Information Centre, Orangutan Land Trust, Fauna & Flora International, INITIATIVE HUTAN (Kinabatangan Orangutan Conservation Programme), A nexus of businesses committed to SOS (Sumatran Orangutan Society), International Animal Rescue, promoting and supporting natural Borneo Rhino Alliance, Copenhagen Zoo capital inclusion and security in business development and company production value chains. BESNet was initially established to champion the active participation and contribution of the private sector in the sustainable management of Atewa Range Forest Reserve and the river basins it feeds. The Atewa Forest Reserve is one of the Guinean Forest's biodiversity hotspots, one of Ghana’s high biodiversity significant areas, and is home to a large diversity of plants and animals. The forest also serves as a watershed for three main rivers. INITIATIVE A multi-stakeholder collaboration focused on supporting the Wilmar’s subsidiary Benso Oil Palm management of orangutans and other wildlife within plantations. Plantation is a member of the Atewa Living Waters’ private sector working group, The PONGO Alliance is a new initiative launched in June 2017. which facilitated the establishment of a Wilmar is a founding member alongside leading palm oil companies, conservation plan for the Atewa Forest. non-government organisations (including the Orangutan Land Following the project's completion Trust), and wildlife conservation experts. in March 2017, the working group formed BESNet to continue advocating The PONGO Alliance’s approach is to engage with all stakeholders the conservation of the Atewa Forest. on the ground, including palm oil companies, local governments Benso Oil Palm Plantation is currently and local communities, to implement best management practices a BESNet member. for the protection of orangutans and wildlife in oil palm landscapes. BESNet sucessfully collaborated with civil society organisations to engage with the government to crack down on illegal mining activities in the Atewa Range Forest Reserve, resulting in a significant improvement of surface water quality. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 50 Moving Forward Together PARTNERS PARTNER Provincial Government of Central Kalimantan South East Asia Rainforest Research Partnership and Borneo Orangutan Survival Foundation (SEARRP) (BOSF) INITIATIVE A collaboration to safeguard almost 4,000 hectares of High Conservation Value areas in our PT Mentaya Sawit Mas (MSM) estate in Central Kalimantan. The BOSF partnership was initiated in 2011 to ensure that orangutan populations identified in Wilmar’s concession could continue to thrive. In May 2016, the partnership commissioned an external evaluation to review the progress and outcomes of the conservation programme INITIATIVE against its initial objectives set five years A memorandum of understanding (MOU) to advance previously. Three independent conservation the knowledge and application of sustainable plantation experts conducted the evaluation, all of whom practices in Malaysia, Indonesia and the wider tropics have more than 25 years of experience in through a five-year research and training programme. conservation and orangutan-related work in the palm oil industry. Both parties commit to support and facilitate research by academics from leading universities, including the UK Key findings from the external evaluation universities of York, Oxford, Cambridge, Leeds, Nottingham include: (i) that the tripartite partnership has and Aberdeen, and Universiti Malaysia Sabah, with a strong succeeded in increasing community awareness focus on biodiversity conservation and the management of and understanding on the importance of conservation areas within oil palm plantation landscapes. orangutans and conservation; (ii) that there is a need for greater coordination among all Wilmar and SEARRP will work together to develop simplified partners in order to resolve outstanding issues methods for environmental assessment and monitoring. with local communities; and (iii) that there is By deepening the partnership between a leading palm oil potential for the programme to contribute processor and one of the foremost research programmes significantly to the conservation of orangutan in the tropics, Wilmar and SEARRP aim to make a major populations in Central Kalimantan, as the contribution to science that is critical to underpinning HCV area in PT MSM remains connected to conservation, sustainability and environmental best practices a larger forest landscape extending beyond for the palm oil industry. the concession's borders. Since 2011, Wilmar has been working with SEARRP in studying BOSF completed a community participative our conservation areas, particularly in our plantations in the mapping exercise for five of the villages Telupid and Lahad Datu districts in Sabah. adjacent to Wilmar’s PT MSM estate. This mapping exercise provided the basis for joint SEARRP’s findings and recommendations for plantation agreements between village communities, the management were presented to a workshop of producers, provincial government, BOSF and Wilmar to consumers, NGOs and academics in June 2015 at the RSPO manage and conserve the 3,979 hectares of roundtable conference in Europe. HCV orangutan habitat in Wilmar’s concessions. Best management practices for orangutan An MOU has been signed for the research partnership to conservation were also developed for the be extended for another five years, to initiate more projects estate and used as a guide for stakeholders. related to the sustainable management of oil palm plantations and their embedded forest patches and riparian reserves. The tripartite partnership ended in November 2017. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 51 Moving Forward Together PARTNER Kalaweit Foundation INITIATIVE An NGO collaboration on gibbon rehabilitation. We have extended our partnership with the Kalaweit Foundation, a rehabilitation programme that returns rescued siamangs to the wild, for an additional five years. This ensures that we can monitor and sustain the achievements made so far. Six pairs of siamangs were released into the HCV area in a Wilmar plantation in Sumatra in March 2015. Unfortunately, the three initial pairs had to be replaced, as they were not able to adapt to their surroundings. Subsequent replacement pairs were introduced with infants to encourage them to establish their territories and protect their young. One pair have successfully established their territory and have reproduced. Kalaweit Foundation intends to re-introduce another four pairs of siamangs into a different section of the HCV area. If successful, this would be the first siamang re-introduction programme in the world. PARTNER INITIATIVE Sabah Forestry Department Riparian Rehabilitation Project with the objective to enrich and enlarge riparian areas on state and company land, and restore habitats for the populations of endangered Proboscis Monkeys and Silvered Langurs. The collaboration with Sabah Forestry Department has to date achieved: The conservation and expansion (from 20 m to 50m) of riparian areas along the Segama River. The planting of more than 55,000 trees along a 47km stretch of riparian area to increase the availability and variety of food for proboscis monkeys, and support with natural regeneration of trees. The extension of the partnership to include a new 110 ha site, the Sapi-Sapa Payau Riparian Project, where more than 13,000 trees have been planted since 2015. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 52 Moving Forward Together Promoting Zero Burn Practices in the Oil Palm Industry Our oil palm concessions are equipped with firefighting Central to the FFA is the Fire-Free Village Programme (FFVP), infrastructure and equipment and have on-site fire brigades. a community-based incentive scheme to help reduce the We operate a dual fire monitoring system to alert us of fires incidence of fires. Under this programme, we engage with inside and within a 5-km radius of our concessions, and a local communities, building capacity and providing fire fire prevention and suppression programme to minimise the suppression equipment and training to the villages operating incidence and impact of fires and haze. Personnel in our oil around our concession area. palm concessions are trained to be vigilant and to respond proficiently if fires occur. All our suppliers are aware that A member review undertaken in March 2017 showed that the any deliberate breach of our No Burn policy will result in an FFA has already expanded fire prevention outreach to 218 immediate termination of business relations. villages in various parts of Indonesia. Of these, 77 villages signed up with FFA members for training programmes in Wilmar became a founding member of the Fire Free Alliance 2016. As a founding member of the FFA, Wilmar has actively (FFA) in 2016, a voluntary multi-stakeholder platform which socialised the FFVP to villages in the vicinity of our estates pursues a broad approach to preventing land and forest in Indonesia, reaching 96 villages in South Sumatra and fires in Indonesia. Under this initiative, we expanded on our Central Kalimantan since February 2016. strict No Burn policy for our palm operations and our use of mechanical methods in land development. Some 1.39 hectares of planted area and 82.88 hectares of unplanted area were burnt in 2016. In some cases, FFA The FFA is a platform where members share experiences, members have reported reductions in the incidence of fires tools and approaches with regards to addressing the incidence between 50% and 90% from 2015 to 2016. In 2017, the of fires in the areas where they operate. Members include number of fire incidents and the affected hectarage within APRIL, Asian Agri, IDH, IOI Group, Musim Mas, PM Haze, our palm operations remained relatively low due to favourable Sime Darby and Wilmar. Among the tools that is jointly used weather conditions. We achieved our 2017 goal to halve the by all members is a methodology for the production of a mean average incidence of fires recorded between 2011 and fire risk map of the operational area with the 5-km radius 2015 in Indonesian plantations, and reduce fires in buffer outside of the plantation boundaries. areas 5-km beyond our plantation boundaries. Number of fire incidences and area affected in Indonesia Region 2016 2017 No. of fires Affected No. of fires within 5km No. of fires Affected No. of fires within 5km within concession area (ha) radius of concession within concession area (ha) radius of concession Central Kalimantan 17 82.88 25 20 307.91 20 West Kalimantan 5 1.37 0 1 2.25 6 Sumatra 1 0.02 0 2 0.91 2 Total 23 84.27 25 23 311.07 28 Note: Affected area covers area within the boundary of Wilmar’s concessions. Area affected outside of the concession boundaries amounted to 253.43 hectares in 2017. The 2017 fire figures have been updated from data presented in Wilmar's Annual Report 2017 after further verification conducted by site operations and are accurate as of 25 May 2018. Annual Fires Recorded In Wilmar's Concessions 500 400 300 200 100 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Sumatra 5 26 82 1 2 West Kalimantan 8 82 9 5 1 Central Kalimantan 33 245 323 17 20 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 53 Moving Forward Together Specific Uses Of Fire in Cane Production Fire-fighting tractor ready for a burn on a Burdekin cane farm Photo: Cameron Laird While modern palm oil production does not entail the use The Burdekin area has a very dry climate and a flat landscape of fire, there are two different methods of fire use commonly that requires flood irrigation for production to be possible. employed in sugarcane production. The first involves the use Coupled with the climatic conditions, the result is that this of fire in preparing land for replanting. The second involves area produces extremely high tonnages of sugarcane. With the use of fire during the harvesting phase. such large harvests, cutting the cane green would result in a blanket of cane trash that would be too thick for water The use of fire in harvesting is common, especially where to move along the furrows. The obstruction of water flow manual harvesting is practiced, as the burning of leaves is could lead to water percolating into the soil, which would required to enable a clean cut to the cane. Replacing the use cause an increase in the water table and subsequently a of fire in harvesting is primarily done where mechanisation number of production and environmental issues. Burning has replaced manual harvesting, and where environmental is therefore required to mitigate these impacts. conditions and local circumstances permit. Prescribed, controlled burning was used in our Myanmar Specific uses of fire in Wilmar’s sugarcane operations in previous years during the post-harvesting operations phase of production to reduce the risk of accidental fires. In Australia, fire use is still practiced in Wilmar’s own operations, In 2017, we have discontinued this practice since the setup but only in the Burdekin district in North Queensland, where of an overhead irrigation system, which has created wetter the terrain and climate require the use of fire in harvest to conditions and removed this risk of accidental fires. achieve the best environmental outcome. The method used is a clean and controlled burning, which involves stressing In 2017, a total of 2,919 hectares was burnt in our sugar the cane prior to burning by cutting off irrigation for a short operations in Australia, as a result of prescribed, controlled period. This reduces the water content in the foliage, and burning and one accidental fire which was not planned. with drier foliage, burns quickly, which in turn reduces smoke. WILMAR'S POSITION ON FIRE USE IN SUGAR OPERATIONS As part of Wilmar’s NDPE Policy refresh and expansion In all operations where burning is necessary, Wilmar of reporting coverage to include our sugar division, we employs the clean and controlled burn method in a recognise that we have an opportunity to clarify further confined and predetermined area. Wilmar also commits under what contexts the use of fire will not be permitted to abiding by all applicable local regulations and having within our directly owned cane production operations, robust SOPs in place to govern prescribed burning. as well as within the operations of our suppliers. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 54 Moving Forward Together Reducing Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions In line with our NDPE Policy, we are committed to progressively PALM OIL OPERATIONS: EMISSION reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by identifying SOURCES AND SINKS significant pollutants and emissions and preparing and implementing plans to mitigate or minimise them. The most significant source of our emissions in 2017 is historical land use change after November 2005 (41.7%), We have continued to map emissions for our palm oil followed by peat oxidation (30.4%) and palm oil mill effluent operations throughout 2017 using the latest RSPO PalmGHG (13.2%). Although we are unable to undo historical land calculator and the GHG Protocol accounting standard. conversions, we remain committed to expansion only in The data collected will help us to monitor our progress in low carbon landscapes. This commitment will continue to reducing the carbon footprint of our plantation and industrial ensure that all future developments have a significantly operations. lower carbon footprint. With the expansion of the reporting scope to include Wilmar’s In 2017, two additional sites from our Indonesian operations sugar business, we will be covering GHG emissions data for were added to our RSPO PalmGHG emissions calculations, our sugar operations in both Australia and Myanmar moving which is why overall PalmGHG net emissions have significantly forward. The data will also be collected and calculated in increased since 2016. Without these two additional sites, accordance with the GHG Protocol accounting standard. our net emissions would have shown an overall increase of 8%, as opposed to an increase of 40%. RSPO PALMGHG CALCULATOR GHG emission by source We use the RSPO PalmGHG calculator to measure the GHG emissions of our RSPO-certified palm oil mills on a yearly basis, 0.5% in accordance with the requirements of the RSPO standards. As there have been substantial changes made across the 13.2% Historical land-use change allocation different versions of the calculator, historical data cannot CO2 emissions from fertiliser be used as a definitive indicator of year-on-year reductions N2O emissions and/or increases in carbon dioxide emissions prior to 2016. Fuel consumption (field) In 2013, we tested the RSPO PalmGHG version 1 calculator. 41.7% Peat oxidation Version 2.1.1 was used to calculate emissions for 2014 and 30.4% Palm Oil Mill Effluent (POME) 2015. For 2016 and 2017, we have used the latest version, Fuel consumption (mill) PalmGHG 3.0.1. The major changes between versions 2 and Grid electricity utilisation 3 are summarised on the RSPO PalmGHG website. 8.4% 1.5% 4.4% Methane Capture Facility Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 55 Moving Forward Together Emission Sources and Sinks 2017 MT CO2e 4,033,437 4,000,000 3,000,000 1,733,027 2,000,000 1,261,404 1,000,000 546,262 183,310 349,525 60,822 18,866 125 0 -58,718 -109,959 1,000,000 2,000,000 -1,867,78 3,000,000 H i ch sto an ricge al CO Cr a an op lloc d-u L Se atio se 2 E m iss io qu es tra n tio ns fro m Fe n Fu el Co N 2 O Em rti lis er ns um pt iss io ns Pe io n on (fi el Co S at O xi d a tiod) Pa ns eqer ue va st tio ra n Fu el lm O il M n tio ill Ar nea ins G Co ns um M nt E (P fflu O e M rid El ec tri pt E) io n (m ill Ke lli rn Cre el d Bu Sh ts i c ity Ut ili s ) nc ell (Sa h , E le & m o El pt f P at io n (in ec y a cl N icity it ud e tr Fru lm ) es t E ou m em tg iss iss row ion io e s ns r) RSPO PalmGHG Calculator – Carbon Intensity (tCO2e/MT CPO) SUGARCANE OPERATIONS IN AUSTRALIA 2016 2017 Sabah 0.56 0.81 For our operations in Australia, we calculate GHG emissions Sarawak 0.86 0.75 as part of our reporting obligations towards the Australian Government Clean Energy Regulator, under the National Malaysia 0.63 0.79 Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Scheme (NGER). The Central Kalimantan 1.46 1.17 National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (Measurement) West Kalimantan 7.50 16.04 Determination 2008 provides methods, criteria and measurement Sumatra 4.08 4.66 standards for calculating GHG emissions and energy data Indonesia 3.03 3.83 under the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act Ghana 1.04 0.98 2007 (NGER Act). It covers scope 1 and scope 2 emissions, Wilmar overall 2.23 2.88 as well as energy production and consumption. Scope 1 GHG emissions are emissions released to the atmosphere as a direct result of an activity, or series of activities at a facility level. Scope 2 GHG emissions are those released to the atmosphere from the indirect consumption of an Net Emission By Country energy commodity. For our three Bonsucro certified mills in (MT CO2e) Australia, we also report net GHG emissions data for both mills and farms (e.g. per tonne of sugarcane/sugar) as part 27,346 324,651 of the certification process. Wilmar is the largest producer of renewable energy from biomass in Australia. Our eight sugar mills are powered Malaysia by renewable steam and electricity generated onsite by Indonesia burning bagasse (a by-product of sugar milling), with a total Ghana generation capacity of about 199 megawatts. This process is called cogeneration. A significant portion of the electricity produced is exported into the Queensland power grid, 3,681,437 thereby reducing the region’s overall GHG emissions. Three of our mills Invicta, Pioneer and Victoria – have upgraded cogeneration facilities to increase their export capacities and further drive the efficient use of biomass. Surplus bagasse produced is stockpiled on specially designed pads to ensure a ready source of renewable energy outside the crushing season. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 56 Moving Forward Together Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions breakdown by country and business activities Malaysia Indonesia Africa Australia Myanmar Emissions by country Scope 1 (tCO2e) 454,858 3,238,653 25,997 212,970 4,884 Scope 2 (tCO2e) 203,578 333,809 111 56,435 0 Oil Palm Palm Oil Mills Palm Refineries Sugar Farms Sugar Mills Sugar Refineries Plantations & Others Emissions by business activity/division Scope 1 (tCO2e) 319,143 1,256,680 1,813,146 14,694 135,122 398,576 Scope 2 (tCO2e) 5,980 774 530,151 1,332 23,022 32,675 Note: In 2016, we started to trial a new Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) data collation and reporting system (Enablon). Since 2016, this platform is being used to collect our GHG emissions and other relevant environmental performance data. GHG PROTOCOL AND CDP REPORTING AVOIDING PEAT Wilmar participated in three of CDP programmes in 2017, Around 8% of our planted area is currently on peat, with including annual reporting for the Climate Change module. the vast majority in our older estates in Sumatra. For our With the support of more than 800 institutional investors, existing plantations on peat, Wilmar is working with expert CDP encourages corporations and cities to measure and stakeholders to ensure that best management practices, as disclose their carbon emissions information, which provides defined by the RSPO and peat experts, are adopted and opportunities for better management of environmental risk. implemented. These practices include maintaining water tables at an appropriate level. For the 2018 CDP report, the scope of reporting will cover all upstream and downstream palm/sugar processing entities In line with our NDPE Policy, we are sharing best practices where we have a major presence and over 50% shareholding with third-party suppliers to ensure that they have access to and operational control. This includes operations in Indonesia, the latest knowledge and insights on responsible peatland Malaysia, Africa, Myanmar and Australia, and covers various management. Through our collaboration with Tropical Forest processing units in the supply chain. The report will be publicly Alliance 2020, we are also engaging with other companies available and discloses Wilmar’s carbon footprint as per the in the palm oil and pulp and paper sectors to exchange reporting scope, in accordance with the standards defined by knowledge on best practices in peatland conservation the GHG Protocol. The report also presents our assessment and restoration. In addition, we are cooperating with the of the business risks associated with climate change, as well Indonesian Peatland Restoration Agency (BRG) and sharing as information on our emission reduction efforts. information with them that helps progress their peatland conservation targets. The latest details on the implementation of our peat commitments are provided on the Sustainability Dashboard on our website. Restoring degraded forest areas Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 57 Moving Forward Together Planted and conserved peat 2017 Hectares 14,000 12,109 12,000 10,000 7,633 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,318 2,152 2,000 43 0 84 0 23 111 0 Sabah Sarawak Central Kalimantan West Kalimantan Sumatra Peat Area Planted (ha) Peat Area Conserved (ha) Notes: 1 No peat areas are found in Ghana and Nigeria. 2 Our methodology and coverage on soil analysis has resulted in incremental increases in peat areas in our existing plantations. Our reporting based on the new soil analysis started in 2016. To avoid misunderstandings, we have decided not to report peat figures from previous years, as they are not comparable. Previously reported figures can be found in our Sustainability Report 2015. METHANE RECOVERY TO MITIGATE GHG provide alternative sources of electricity for our operations, EMISSIONS and help to reduce our overall fossil fuel consumption. An operational methane capture facility can potentially reduce Wilmar constantly strives to adopt best practices to reduce a palm oil mill’s GHG emissions by 90%. the carbon footprint of our palm oil mill operations. These best practices include the building of methane capture and Based on data collected from 213 of the operational sites power generation facilities to reduce GHG emissions from in Malaysia and Indonesia, in 2017, we have achieved palm oil mill effluent (POME). Methane from POME is one a POME GHG emissions reduction of 515,027 tCO2e#. of our largest sources of avoidable GHG emissions and has Through this initiative, we estimated that we can achieve therefore been a major strategic focus for our emissions an annual emissions reduction (from methane gas capture reduction efforts in Indonesia and Malaysia. only, excluding the emissions avoided by not using fossil fuels for electricity generation) of about 500,000 tonnes of As of 2017, we have 22 commissioned and operational carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) when all 25 sites are in full methane capture-power generation facilities, with another operation. However, based on current progress, we should three in various stages of construction. These facilities be able to comfortably exceed this estimate. capture biogas for either flaring or electricity generation, 3 Emissions reduction calculation covers 21 out of the 22 operational facilities due to one site only being commissioned near the end of 2017. Data for this site was therefore not readily available and will be included in our Sustainability Report 2018. # EY has performed limited audit procedures on this figure. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 58 Moving Forward Together Safeguarding Water Quality Clean, accessible water is critical for the well-being of PALM OIL OPERATIONS communities, wildlife and aquatic ecosystems. This is reflected under two of the Sustainable Development Goals, Wastewater from FFB processing at our mills (POME) is either SDG 14 on Life Under Water, and SDG 6 on Clean Water applied to land as a fertiliser (land application) or released and Sanitation. In line with these goals, we continuously into local rivers (river discharge). When applied to land as monitor the impact that our palm oil and sugar operations fertiliser, POME provides moisture, nutrients and organic have on waterways. This enables us to safeguard water matter to the soil and reduces the need for commercial availability and quality, and to drive efforts to mitigate any fertilisers. When wastewater is released into local waterways, potential negative impacts. We also seek to minimise the it is treated before discharge. In both cases we comply with use of potable water in all our operations. local environmental limits in order to minimise the risk of disturbance to the aquatic environment and the pollution of ground water. All of our operations were in compliance with all relevant local thresholds in 2017. BOD levels by region and discharge destination* Palm oil mills (mg/L) RIVER DISCHARGE LAND APPLICATION 140 1400 1,171 120 1200 1,065 100 90 94 94 1000 80 800 60 52 600 506 40 400 271 317 25 26 251 17 19 20 200 134 60 0 0 Sabah Sarawak West Sumatra Central West Sumatra Ghana (land irrigation) Kalimantan Kalimantan Kalimantan 2016 2017 Notes: 1 In Nigeria, there was sufficient pond capacity to contain all effluent without land discharge. 2 As reported in Wilmar's Annual Report 2016, the 2016 BOD data has been restated following EY's limited assurance procedure. 3 The 2017 BOD data for Sumatra have been updated from data presented in Wilmar's Annual Report 2017 after the December data for four mills were subsequently made available and are accurate as of 25 May 2018 (excludes data from one mill for the month of December 2017). * BOD level legal limits of the respective regions for river discharge: • Sabah: 20/50/100 mg/l, depending on the year the mill is built • Sarawak: 50 mg/l • Indonesia: 100 mg/l BOD level legal limits of the respective regions for land application: • Indonesia: 5,000 mg/l • Ghana: Not applicable SUGARCANE OPERATIONS Declining water quality and climate change have had a devastating impact on the health of the Great Barrier One of the targets under SDG 14, Life Under Water, aims Reef, which has lost half of its coral cover since 1985. If this to prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution of all trend continues, what coral is left could be halved again by kinds, and in particular from land-based activities, by 2025. 2022. Fertilisers have been identified as one of the sources In Australia, sugarcane is the major agricultural crop grown of nutrients entering the Reef, with nitrogen being a key within the vicinity of the Great Barrier Reef's catchments. concern. Nitrogen in fertilisers not taken up by sugar crops Approximately 4,400 farms are spread out over 380,000 pose a risk of entering waterways through run off. An increase hectares. of nitrogen in water run off contributes to the risk of algal blooms and in turn, to the population growth of species Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 59 Moving Forward Together that multiply to plague proportions and become harmful for In 2017, the BCAG provided advice to a number of sugarcane the reef. Fine sediments and the pesticides used on coastal farmers in Burdekin region and has seen an improvement in floodplains could also negatively impact water quality. the quality of water leaving these farms. A large number of participant farmers expressed interest in trialling different For our raw sugar mills in Australia, surplus water or ‘effluent’ methods and products on their properties, supported by may be processed through detention ponds, activated sludge water quality monitoring to establish which practices and plants or treated in constructed wetlands. The treated water products might be the most effective in reducing losses on is then either recycled back to the mill, directed to a joint their farm. In response to this, funding is being sought for a local government and mill facility for further treatment, follow-up project to enable farmers to undertake agronomistused for irrigation (either for sugarcane or for pastures), or endorsed, on-farm trials and comparisons, supported by ondischarged to local water courses. In some cases, effluent farm water quality monitoring undertaken by independent is discharged from the mill to be used directly for irrigation third parties. This second stage of the project is considered for agricultural land. critical, as it will enable farmers to establish the connection between their farming practices and the amount of water For mill effluent discharged to local waterways, Wilmar lost to the receiving environment. complies with local regulatory4 water quality and discharge limit requirements. In cases where water surplus is used for Outside of the BCAG, Wilmar is also trialling a number irrigation, and there are no regulatory discharge requirements, of approaches and methods as part of our Cane Supply we follow good practice guidelines for monitoring water Improvement Programme. These include a nitrogen fertiliser quality to ensure it is suitable for irrigation and that there rate trial in Burdekin, which looks at optimising nitrogen is no long-term detriment to the soil. fertiliser application while maximising sugarcane crop growth. We have also been looking into whether using low rates Water runoff initiatives of mill mud and ash could still have a positive impact on Water quality in the Barratta Creek catchment has come under productivity, while improving runoff water quality compared scrutiny with the increased government focus on the quality to the broadcast application at higher rates. Mill mud and of water entering the Great Barrier Reef lagoon. Through ash are widely recognised as soil ameliorants that improve Wilmar Sugar Australia, Wilmar is a founding member of soil water holding capacity and act as a valuable source of the Barratta Creek Action Group (BCAG), a partnership nutrients. The broadcast application of these products at between sugarcane farmers, the government and providers high rates has been seen as a concern in terms of impact of research, development and agricultural extension. Since on runoff water quality. 2016, the BCAG has been monitoring the water quality of four Barratta Creek sub-catchments located in the Burdekin WATER USAGE region of Queensland. These sub-catchments collect farm runoff from close to 4,000 hectares of land predominantly Our mills account for the majority of our water use in our palm cultivated for sugarcane. oil operations, drawing supplies from local waterways and wells in order to process FFB. In addition to mill water, we The BCAG captures baseline data about nutrient and pesticide also draw some water for nursery irrigation and household loads in runoff water from sugarcane farms and uses this use. In 2017, the amount of water used by our mills have data to influence on-farm activities to improve the quality remained in line with normal industry levels, with decreases of water flowing to the Great Barrier Reef. More specifically, in water use per tonne of FFB processed for mills in Sumatra, the BCAG has worked to identify where in the catchment West Kalimantan, Sarawak and Nigeria. nutrient, herbicide and pesticide loads are originating, as well as which products are contributing the highest loads. For our sugar mills in Australia, water is either sourced from This has led to increased awareness of the potential loss nearby surface water bodies or artesian bores. For almost pathways of fertilisers and pesticides that producers are all cases, government approval is required to access and applying to their farms. use water from these sources. 4 Mill effluent discharged to local waterways are subject to regulation by the Queensland State Government. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 60 Moving Forward Together Lower Barratta Creek The Bonsucro standard requires that sugarcane plantations and Efficient use of water Net water consumed mills monitor net water consumed per unit mass of product, (kg/ha)/mm per unit mass product which is defined as water used less water returned from mill (kg of water/kg of mass to the environment. For plantations with fully irrigated cane, product) there is an additional requirement towards ensuring irrigated Australia 95.90 97.89 plantations water is used efficiently, which relies on a direct measure of all waters applied to the fields (including extracted waters, Australia Not Applicable 0.636 mills recycled waters, diluted vinasse, diluted effluents). Notes: Sugarcane being a water intensive crop, water consumption 1 For net water consumed per unit mass product, Bonsucro’s limits are: in the production of sugarcane is considered to be a focus Farms: < 130 kg of water/kg of mass product area within the industry. Although not all of Wilmar’s sugar Mill: <20 kg of water/kg mass product (sugar only) operations have undergone the Bonsucro certification 2 For efficient use of water, Bonsucro has set the limit at >90 (kg/ ha)/mm. process, we have calculated net water consumed per unit 3 Efficient use of water is only applicable to fully irrigated mass product for our mills and plantations (where this data sugarcane, and therefore data is only representative of one farm in the Burdekin district, where flood irrigation is used. is available), as well as efficient water use for our plantations with fully irrigated cane according to Bonsucro’s definition. Based on these measurements, in 2017, all of our mills and plantations in Australia were within the limits set out in the Bonsucro standard. Water Use per Tonne of FFB Processed palm oil mills (m3/MT FFB) 2.0 1.64 1.65 1.55 1.53 1.55 1.52 1.46 1.43 1.5 1.33 1.26 1.27 1.25 1.20 1.12 1.0 0.5 0 Sabah Sarawak Central West Sumatra Ghana Nigeria Kalimantan Kalimantan 2016 2017 Notes: 1 Sumatra 2016 data is missing data from one mill. 2 Sarawak 2016 data excludes data from one mill due to incomplete data collection resulting from a broken flow meter. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 61 Moving Forward Together Reducing Our Use of Chemicals The use of chemicals to enhance production and manage Paraquat is widely used in the sugarcane industry due to the pests and diseases is a key aspect of good agricultural absence of viable alternatives. We currently use paraquat at practice. On the other hand, ineffective and improper our sugarcane plantations in Myanmar and Australia. The application and handling of chemicals can pose significant use of paraquat is necessary in cane planting because it risks to workers and the environment. At Wilmar, we work kills weeds while allowing for the regeneration of ratoons towards optimising the use of pesticides and ensure that (cane roots), which can regenerate for three cycles after the appropriate measures are in place to minimise potential harvesting. Suitable alternatives have not yet been identified hazards for workers, communities and ecosystems. for sugarcane. For example, the use of glyphosate, a common replacement in oil palm production, is not appropriate CHEMICALS POLICY AND BEST PRACTICES for cane as it kills ratoons. To replace paraquat, a residual would need to be used. In our operations in the Burdekin, We monitor toxicity at all of our palm operations. We also North Queensland, this type of replacement is seen as more undertake strict, detailed risk assessments on a regular basis environmentally damaging than paraquat due to run off into for any substances that put our workers and the environment the Great Barrier Reef while these chemicals remain active. in which we operate at risk, and the use of a number of chemicals of concern is restricted. With the exception of We have banned the application of paraquat via knapsack specific urgent situations, we do not permit the use of class spraying and have taken measures to limit all potential 1A or 1B pesticides as categorised by the World Health exposure. Where paraquat is used in our sugar operations, Organization (WHO), or those listed under the Stockholm it is applied strictly in a mechanised manner using booms or Rotterdam Conventions5. by highly trained operators. The booms are equipped with legs to ensure precise application and reduce the likelihood To minimise our reliance on chemicals, we have adopted of spray drift, and air filters for the operator’s cabin to an integrated pest management system that applies a minimise risk of contact with the chemical. Boom sprayer combination of natural and mechanical pest reduction workers are also required to have appropriate personal strategies, including the introduction of natural predators. protective equipment (PPE) and undergo regular and frequent We also use precision application. Our R&D laboratory in medical evaluations to ensure chemical exposure is avoided Indonesia has identified beneficial microbes that are being or minimised. Further, the application of all hazardous used to develop environmentally friendly approaches to chemicals follows robust risk management, health & safety, controlling or preventing oil palm diseases. These may also and environmental protection SOPs. reduce our reliance on synthetic fertilisers and improve plant growth. With the refresh of our NDPE Policy later this year, we will be incorporating specific commitments for sugarcane The use of paraquat has been banned in Wilmar’s own oil operations. These will outline the strict conditions and palm operations since 2011; this has been expanded to cases under which paraquat use may be permitted. We will include our joint-ventures and third-party suppliers since also work with our suppliers to ensure that the health and the launch of our NDPE Policy in 2013. safety risks associated with paraquat are managed beyond Wilmar’s own operations. Mechanised spraying of paraquat using booms 5 Wilmar uses some pesticides in the form of pre-formulated mixtures. In these instances, the final classification that we adopt is based on the classification set by the manufacturer for the actual formulation. This is explained on page 7 in the document The WHO Recommended Classification of Pesticides by Hazard and Guidelines for Classification 2009 available here http://www.who.int/foodsafety/publications/ classification-pesticides/en/ Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 62 Moving Forward Together Toxicity Per Hectare by Region 1000 800 600 400 200 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Sabah 330 452 508 801 737 647 598 Sarawak 542 471 694 718 534 541 684 Central Kalimantan 411 367 318 337 328 253 283 West Kalimantan 398 327 296 416 464 256 271 Sumatra 275 258 519 231 257 317 563 Ghana 259 316 Nigeria 629 111 Notes: 1 With the exceptions of Ghana and Nigeria, historical data for 2012-2015 were incorrectly stated in Wilmar’s 2016 Sustainability Report for all other locations. The data for 2012-2015 have therefore been restated in this report. 2 The significant decrease in toxicity units per hectare for Nigeria between 2016 and 2017 is due to the estate not having access to all herbicides used in 2016. Only one herbicide was applied in 2017. as new plantings and young crops require greater amounts than mature crops. Herbicide usage is also determined by local climatic conditions, such as heavy rainfall, as well as pest profiles and agricultural and soil conditions. We also monitor toxicity, which enables us to more accurately assess our performance against peers over time, as well as ensure that changes to the type or volume of herbicides used do not adversely affect our environmental footprint. Although only a few oil palm plantation companies disclose toxicity levels – making comparison difficult – we believe that our current range of 100–700 toxicity units per hectare Guiding workers on the correct usage of PPE for our palm oil operations is largely in line with industry best practice. PROTECTING WORKERS Sugar operations Across all of Wilmar’s operations, workers who handle For our sugar operations, we monitor active ingredient chemicals are required to undergo extensive and ongoing per hectare as this measurement is a core requirement training. It is mandatory that they wear PPE on site – including of the Bonsucro Production Standard, as it functions as protective eyewear, facial masks, gloves and boots – and a measure of potential toxic effects on aquatic life. Our showering is compulsory after each shift. These workers measurement includes quantities of active ingredients of are subject to regular check-ups to detect any presence all agro-chemicals applied including pesticides, herbicides, of residual chemicals. All chemicals are stored in locked insecticides, fungicides, nematicides, and ripeners. Annual facilities to which only authorised personnel have access. monitoring of active ingredient per hectare will allow us to Containers used for storing chemicals are collected, stored benchmark our performance year on year and compare our and disposed of in accordance with the legal requirements agro-chemical use with our peers. In 2017, our chemical usage for hazardous waste. for both Myanmar and Australia plantations were within the limits indicated by Bonsucro (< 5 kg per hectare per year). MONITORING PESTICIDE USAGE AND In terms of toxicity levels, our sugarcane farms range from TOXICITY 1,900-3,400 toxicity units per hectare and information on the types of herbicides currently used in Wilmar plantations Palm oil operations can be found on page 89. We monitor pesticide usage, placing specific focus on tracking the use of herbicides as these are applied as part of good Country Total active ingredient per hectare in 2017 agricultural practice. Fungicides, rodenticides and insecticides (kg/ha) are used only to contain outbreaks and attacks, and yearAustralia 4.98 on-year comparisons would not be meaningful. The amount Myanmar 2.65 of herbicide used is largely determined by planting cycle, SOCIAL RESPECTING AND EMPOWERING PEOPLE Forging friendships through partnerships Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 64 Moving Forward Together NO EXPLOITATION OF PEOPLE Wilmar is a member of the RSPO Human Rights Working AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES Group (HRWG), which was established in 2014 and is now a part of the RSPO structure. The work of the HRWG is Wilmar is committed to respecting and protecting the directly linked to the globally accepted UN Guidelines on human rights of workers who are part of our business, and Business and Human rights (the Ruggie Framework ). Wilmar we have policies in place that make our position clear. We is actively participating in the HRWG Labour Taskforce, are guided by international standards as set out in the UN addressing the rights of plantation workers and vulnerable Global Compact, the Guiding Principles on Business and groups such as migrant workers and casual workers, as well Human Rights, International Labour Organization (ILO) as issues including the promotion of living wages, health and conventions, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights safety conditions at plantations and freedom of association. and its covenants, and the UK Modern Slavery Act. In accordance with Section 54 of the UK Modern Slavery Act, Since August 2017, through the Labour Taskforce, we have we have developed a transparency statement for the 2017 also strongly supported the RSPO's development of a financial year. This highlights our risk-based approach to definition and methodology for a sector-specific living wage due diligence in our supply chain and our proactive and standard, for public consultation and consideration by the collaborative strategy towards monitoring and identifying RSPO/P&C Taskforce. issues that could be linked to our suppliers at plantation, mill or Group level. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 65 Moving Forward Together SDG 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC External due diligence audits also took place in these GROWTH operations via the RSPO and ISCC certification processes in 2016 and 2017. A compilation of all external findings and SDG 8, which relates to decent work and economic growth, our action plan has been published on the Grievance List is underpinned by the rationale that sustainable economic on our Sustainability Dashboard, which can be accessed growth will require societies to create conditions that allow from our website. people to have quality jobs that stimulate the economy while not harming the environment. With over 51,000 people We have strengthened labour practices in our upstream employed in our palm oil operations, and with nearly 4,700 palm oil operations over the past year. In December 2017, employees in our sugar operations, we understand that we we published a 12-Month Progress Report detailing the have a great opportunity to provide good livelihoods and extensive range of actions we have taken in this area. Though development opportunities to all our workers and their families. the road to improvement has been challenging, we have made meaningful progress with the support of a variety of In addition to our NDPE Policy, we have established the stakeholders, especially our employees. following labour and human rights policies: Human Rights, Child Protection, Occupational Health and Safety, Equal We conducted internal reviews while regular assessments Opportunity and Sexual Harassment, Violence & Abuse, and were undertaken by external parties, including the ISCC, Reproductive Rights. We expect all of our own operations RSPO, BSR and Verité Southeast Asia. Improvements were to adhere to all of these policies. For our sugar operations, made in three main areas: we have additional policies covering Environment Health & Safety, and Injury Management. All of our policies are set 1. Wages and employment out to ensure that our business is conducted in an ethical • Reduced the dependency on temporary workers manner, that our employees’ human rights are respected, in our plantations by converting temporary that they are treated equally and work in a safe environment, contract holders to permanent contract workers. and that they return home to their family and friends as • Improved and standardised payslips to provide healthy as they were when they arrived at work. greater clarity to workers on their pay, incentives, and deductions (e.g. social security payments). Although we are committed to ensuring that people working • Abolished informal volunteer work arrangements in any operation covered under our NDPE Policy are not and established a policy for formal application for subject to exploitation, we acknowledge that labour risks overtime work on official rest days. exist in global supply chains. In late 2016, civil society groups, 2. Caring for the children in our plantations including Amnesty International, drew attention to concerns • Launched our Child Protection Policy, which about labour practices at our North Sumatra operations, PT supersedes our longstanding No Child Labour Perkebunan Milano (Milano) and PT Daya Labuhan Indah Policy, to more holistically address issues of (DLI). By the end of 2017, a total of two internal and five children’s rights and welfare. external assessments had been successively undertaken to • Improved access to quality education for the investigate the matter. children of our workers and local communities through our school redevelopment programme. One of the external reviews was conducted by Business for 3. Health and safety Social Responsibility (BSR) in December 2016. The assessment • Improved the allocation and efficacy of PPE. methodology involved visual observations, interviews, • Better communication of workers’ health focus group discussions and documentation reviews. More screening results by doctors at our estate clinics. than 100 Wilmar employees, almost all non-management workers, were interviewed by BSR, and the findings have been made public. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 66 Moving Forward Together To complement the Progress Report, we also held two took place in Medan in November 2017, where more than stakeholder engagement events with our partners, Verité 60 representatives from 30 different supplier companies and TFT, to socialise our progress updates with our key participated. The second was held in January 2018, where customers and bankers and respond to their concerns. more than 50 representatives from 33 different supplier companies took part. Recognising that individual companies in the private sector cannot resolve entrenched labour challenges alone, we are Wilmar met with Amnesty International on 13 June 2017 working with four other palm oil companies to improve the to further discuss labour progress. We provided updates protection of human and labour rights in the agriculture on our labour programme, including the internal audit sector, by delivering practical and realistic recommendations process, as well as on our collaborations with BSR and to help rural workers and secure their long-term ability to Verité. We are committed to providing regular updates thrive, through the Decent Rural Living Initiative. Launched to all our stakeholders, including Amnesty International, in March 2018, the Initiative is convened by Forum for on our progress in implementing our labour action plan. the Future and will seek to engage and collaborate with To give stakeholders a better understanding of Wilmar’s external stakeholders from the public and Civil Society labour-related practices and efforts on the ground, we have Organization sector for the benefit of rural communities in also produced a short video documenting the lives of our developing nations, starting in Indonesia, where all parties plantation workers in North Sumatra and West Sumatra. The have operations. The first consultative workshops have taken video includes interviews with workers and their children, place in May 2018, with intended clear work streams to be union representatives, and an estate doctor. announced before the end of 2018. The full video is available on our Sustainability Dashboard Through our collaboration with BSR and our buyers, we have at www.wilmar-international.com/sustainability/wp-content/ organised two training sessions for our suppliers entitled uploads/2017/06/WilmarSustainabilityVideoLowresFINAL.mp4 Human Resources and Labour in Indonesia. The sessions involved government, union and civil society speakers, and covered key issues such as wages, employment contract status and grievance mechanisms. The first workshop Plantation workers' housing complex Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 67 Moving Forward Together Briefing session for oil palm harvesters Collaboration with Verité To ensure the development of robust and sustainable solutions The intent of the review was to examine how all the various to labour issues, both in our own operations and industrypolicies, procedures and practices align at an overall level, as wide, we have initiated a collaboration with the global fair well as how they are put into practice on the ground. While labour non-profit organisation Verité. Launched in 2017, this we will continue to proceed with improving conditions in PT 12-month collaboration began with a problem analysis phase. DLI and PT Milano, the next phase in our work with Verité The objectives of this phase have been to identify why issues will be to focus on integrating new and current procedures occur despite continuous efforts to improve practices, and into a working framework to support and implement social to establish lasting solutions to their root causes. standards, identify critical success factors, and build a strategy map to achieve social responsibility goals and objectives. In the first phase, the Verité team conducted ground This is a significant challenge, and we will be working to verification at PT DLI and PT Milano from 19 to 25 August progress these next steps to the fullest extent possible 2017. The scope of the verification included assessments of throughout 2018. current labour and occupational health and safety policies, procedures and practices. The assessments were conducted using internationally recognised standards, including: • RSPO Principles and Criteria • Palm Oil Innovation Group (POIG) Indicators • Wilmar’s No Exploitation Policy • Free and Fair Labour Principles • Occupational Safety & Health standards used by the International Labour Organization (ILO), the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), and the World Health Organisation (WHO) Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 68 Moving Forward Together Decision Making (PSDM) workshop that will be specially designed to work through specific labour issues brought up by NGO stakeholders. Strengthening Wilmar’s social compliance management system will be Verité’s focus in the succeeding months. The management system will STAKEHOLDER COMMENTARY BY be piloted in PT Milano and PT DLI, with the intention VERITÉ to roll it out to their entire Indonesian operations. Melizel Asuncion, Research and Stakeholder Engagement Manager, Verité Reflecting on Wilmar’s Sustainability Report 2017, our Southeast Asia recommendation is that moving forward, Wilmar collects feedback from workers to measure the effectiveness In 2017, Verité began working with Wilmar on a 12-month of the implemented changes. Currently, the only programme that held the following key objectives: (a) measure of progress is based on what Wilmar reports, To build internal processes and competencies necessary but whether those changes significantly and positively to implement robust management and due diligence impact the supposed and intended beneficiaries of those systems that are aligned to international and customer improvements is not known. requirements, and informed by key stakeholders, and (b) To formulate sustainable solutions to egregious, recurring In general, there is also much to be improved in terms and/or systemic labour problems in its Indonesian palm of occupational health and safety, which should be more oil operations, and ensure sustained company-wide straightforward than systemic social and labour issues conformance to social standards, and to legal and like tenure rights or child labour. As agriculture is a customer requirements. gendered sector, more focus must be given to women workers. While they are fewer than male workers, women We initiated the programme with ground verification in workers have specific needs that gender-neutral policies PT Daya Labuhan Indah (DLI) and PT Perkebunan Milano will invariably miss. (Milano) on 19-25 August 2017, where we sought to understand the risk sources at both the micro and macro Finally, the next challenge for Wilmar relates to evolving a levels, and to identify what is driving the recurrence of due diligence and monitoring mechanism for their suppliers issues even when policies and procedures are in place. that will assure the survival of subsistence farmers while One of the most critical aspects we identified was ensuring compliance with legal and Wilmar’s policies. related to process gaps in the management system for social compliance—i.e. the lack of reflexivity in terms of ABOUT VERITÉ intent and implementation and effectiveness of labour policies and procedures. For example, while Wilmar has Verité, headquartered in Amherst, Massachusetts, is an articulated grievance mechanism, the process for a global, independent, non-profit organisation which anonymous reporting is not very clear, there are no key provides consulting, training, research, and assessment performance indicators for effective grievance mechanism, services with a vision to ensure that people worldwide work and the non-reprisal policy is not linked to the process. under safe, fair, and legal conditions. Since its inception in 1995, Verité has partnered with hundreds of multinational The absence of a well-coordinated plan can result in nonbrands, suppliers, and international institutions across conformance to any of the social compliance standards. multiple industry sectors to improve working conditions Moreover, it can lead to difficulty in monitoring and and overall social and environmental performance measuring progress, inconsistencies in the effective within global supply chains. Verité’s programmes have communication and focused implementation of key been conducted in more than 70 countries and across activities, and failure to meet documentation requirements multiple sectors, including electronics, apparel, footwear, of some social compliance (SC) audits. This gap is by agriculture, food, hard goods, and toys. no means unique to Wilmar. In our work with other palm oil companies, we found that their environment A lawyer by profession, Melizel Asuncion is a Research compliance system is much more advanced than their and Stakeholder Engagement Programs Manager in social compliance system, which is generally characterised Verité Southeast Asia and as such, she has been managing by internal systems and structures that are not adequate research projects and multi-stakeholder initiatives on to support and/or enable social sustainability goals. seafood, electronics, garments and palm oil, among others, including the Verité-Wilmar Programme and the In response to our management system findings, we Nestlé-Verité programmes on palm oil and seafood. She organised a strategic planning workshop in January 2018 is also currently involved in engaging various stakeholders with the operations and sustainability teams of PT Milano in government, labour, industries and multinational and PT DLI to integrate new and current procedures into companies on critical and emerging labour issues across a working framework to support and implement social Southeast Asia and the Middle East. She is part of the standards, identify critical success factors, and build a Verité global research team working on trafficking and strategy map to achieve social responsibility goals and forced labour in formal manufacturing and agriculture, objectives. We are currently in the process of reviewing focusing mainly on Southeast Asia. She is part of the the draft 3-year strategy map (2018-2020), which we complaints panel of the RSPO. hope to refine and finalise through a Problem Solving Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 69 Moving Forward Together FAIR WAGES AND BENEFITS We have also been working over the past year to improve workers' understanding of the Terms and Conditions of We are committed to paying fair wages to all employees, their employment, as is stated within the Collective Labour and to ensuring that our lowest wage paid always meets at Agreement (CLA). This includes understanding the difference least the applicable legal minimum wage. This also applies between the KPIs and the basic work code. We will continue to workers subject to key performance indicators, such as to make clear that base wages will not be reduced, regardless harvesters who will always earn at least the daily minimum of whether harvesters achieve the base KPI within a working wage as long as a full work day is completed. day, and that the premiums and penalties related to the achievement of KPIs will not affect their basic wages or Palm oil operations family allowance. We will also continue to make clear that In 2017, the wages1 paid to all workers employed in our palm harvesters are not required to pick up loose fruits during oil operations met at least the applicable minimum wage peak fruit periods, as there are separate teams tasked for in the various regions where we operate, across Indonesia, that purpose during those periods. Malaysia, Nigeria and Ghana. Sugar operations In addition to wages, every permanent worker in our palm Both Australia and New Zealand have minimum wage oil operations receives free housing for themselves and their legislation overseen by their respective governments. immediate family. They also receive other benefits, including Industrial legislation in Australia is stipulated by the Fair access to facilities such as playgrounds and daycare centres Work Act 2009, which provides an absolute minimum wage for babies, toddlers, and children of pre-school age. We for adult, non-trainee workers. Under the Act, employees also provide access to education for the children of our covered under instruments such as Awards and Enterprise employees who are of school going age. Agreements may have higher minimum wages defined in their agreements. In 2017, we addressed a key issue regarding the lack of clarity and details on workers' payslips within our Indonesian operations. The Sugar Industry Award 2010 underpins the minimum Based on a review, our payslip format has been improved wage for both milling and farming workers, predominantly to provide greater clarity and reduce misinterpretation. Our in the sugar sector in Australia. Wilmar also has an Enterprise payslips are now worded entirely in Bahasa Indonesia, and Agreement that provides over-award pay-rates for Wilmar's mill provide a clear salary breakdown including pay, incentives employees. Farm employees are provided wage information and statutory deductions. The slips now also show how many through common law contracts. These contracts are tested days the employees have worked each month, details on against the National Employment Standards (NES) payrates ledgers of individual harvesters’ productivity, and different to ensure that Wilmar’s contract rates (inclusive of overtime) premiums to show that every worker is paid at least the exceed the NES rates. minimum wage. Following a thorough system integration test, and several trial runs at an operational level, the new We comply with the rules and regulations of labour law in standardised payslip was implemented across Indonesia in the countries where we operate with regards to working April 2017. hours, overtime and break times. In addition, our employees in Myanmar are provided with staff housing and meal Concerns have been raised in previous years that workers allowances, and we ensure our cane field farm workers have are being given high targets and quotas. Our harvester access to purified drinking water distributed in bottles from wage system pays a minimum wage regardless of whether the factory. Workers in planting, harvesting, and application these targets and quotas, also known as Key Performance of fertilisers and herbicides are sub-contracted through an Indicators (KPIs), are met. The KPIs are now used to calculate independent agency, while all other types of labour are paid premium payments as an incentive for the harvesters, directly by Wilmar based on a daily rate. specifically for the collection of quality fruit bunches. The practice of premiums and penalties for quality fruit harvest is common among the industry, and in working through this issue with our partner Verité, we have understood that this could be seen as a form of exploitation. Based on their experience in other industries, we are now working with Verité to develop an improved incentive mechanism that is easier to understand and that mitigate the concerns of labour exploitations. In January 2017, we also collaborated with labour union leaders in PT Milano and PT DLI in our North Sumatra operations, to develop an updated SOP and to conduct a revised calibration process to determine proper KPIs for the 2017 harvesting. 1 Wages includes basic pay, fixed allowances and variable allowances. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 70 Moving Forward Together TEMPORARY WORKERS We have been working in 2017 to reduce the proportion of temporary workers in our plantations in North Sumatra. Temporary workers are hired to perform seasonal work, and We have been doing this by converting temporary contract to allow for employment flexibility for our workers. holders to permanent contract holders. As at October 2017, PT DLI and PT Milano (North Sumatra region) has a Palm oil operations total of 2,050 workers of which less than 5% are temporary In Central Kalimantan, where there is a lack of workers – compared to 47% a year ago. From April to November among the resident population (Central Kalimantan is one 2017, we have appointed a total of 826 temporary workers of the least populous provinces in Indonesia), the number into permanent positions in the estate. of workers with temporary status is actually lower than in other regions precisely because there are not enough Our efforts in North Sumatra are consistent with Wilmar’s workers to do the plantation work required. Although most overall efforts countrywide, as reflected by the year-on-year of the workers in Central Kalimantan originate from other increase in the average number of permanent workers in our parts of Indonesia, they tend to reside in company housing Indonesian operations from 2015 to 2017. Between 2015 in our plantations and stay longer than the required threeand the end of October 2017, we achieved an 11% reduction month period. Hence, they are categorised as permanent in the total number of temporary workers in our Indonesian employees. In other regions, many of our employees are estates. The total number of temporary workers across all of locals who live in communities near our plantations. Most our oil palm plantations decreased by 24% between 2016 of these workers have alternative sources of income, such and 2017 (financial years). as their own oil palm, rubber or paddy fields, and prefer to work on a casual basis to supplement their regular source of income. Employees By Contract Type 2017 (Palm Oil Operations mills and plantations) 14,000 13,152 12,057 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,310 6,000 3,809 4,000 2,629 1,949 1,898 2,254 2,000 1,436 0 0 557 9 0 0 Sabah Sarawak Central West Sumatra Ghana Nigeria Kalimantan Kalimantan Permanent Temporary Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 71 Moving Forward Together Sugar Operations Sugarcane is a seasonal crop, and a large proportion of our Employees By Contract Type 2017 workforce is temporary, comprising of seasonal workers. In (Sugar Operations mills and plantations) our Australia operations, many of the seasonal workers are locals, and foreigners are mostly from New Zealand. All of our incoming staff must provide evidence that they are 1,400 1,269 residents and permitted to work in Australia. In recent years, 1,200 1,098 cases of exploitation of foreign seasonal workers have been reported publicly in Australia, which has raised concerns in 1,000 790 the Australian media and among the public, government 800 and civil society stakeholders. To our knowledge, this does 600 not relate to the sugar industry. 378 400 Non-discrimination 200 Wilmar has non-discrimination and equality policies in place 0 that are published on our Sustainability Dashboard. We are Australia Myanmar committed to providing equal employment opportunities, Permanent regardless of gender. Temporary Given the vast cultural differences between the countries Note: Data for temporary workers in Myanmar is only applicable for and regions in which we operate, gender distribution varies sugar mills. greatly. In Malaysia, where a high proportion of women are part of the formal labour force, the share of female employees is largely proportionate to the working population. In other requests from the women, as many of the temporary female regions where women are often outside the formal labour workers are spouses of permanent workers. In these cases, market, the share is much lower. In other countries, such as when provided the option for permanent employment, Australia, agriculture tends to be a male-dominated industry their preference is for employment on a casual basis as the and our operations reflect this trend. Wilmar does not flexible working hours also enables them to manage domestic discriminate between male or female workers for any role. and childcare responsibilities. Workers on permanent work contracts are generally not permitted flexible working hours. While we seek to ensure that pay and conditions are equal We continue to have dialogues with our workers to improve for men and women, we recognise that many women in our their contract terms, work conditions and work-life balance. oil palm plantations are on temporary work contracts, rather than permanent employee contracts. This is often based on Percent of women in our operations 37.7% 39.1% 33.9% 27.3% 22.2% 24.1% 23.2% 16.6% 7.2% Sabah Sarawak Central West Sumatra Ghana Nigeria Australia Myanmar Kalimantan Kalimantan (sugar) (sugar) Note: Data for Myanmar (sugar operations) and Ghana exclude number of women in temporary workforce as gender data is not available for temporary workers. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 72 Moving Forward Together Student marching band at a newly redeveloped school in Indonesia PROTECTING AND SUPPORTING UNICEF was one of the key stakeholders consulted in the CHILDREN’S WELFARE development of this Policy. Our next steps will include building on UNICEF’s Child Safeguarding Toolkit, which To date, the oil palm industry has largely focused on the will be incorporated in Wilmar’s internal SOPs. We will also issue of child labour and its eradication within plantations. be rolling out training on the Child Protection Policy for all Increasingly, however, there is a call for the industry to expand relevant staff and workers, and we will explore possibilities this scope to the rights and well-being of the children living to do the same for our suppliers and contractors. We will in oil palm estates. While we remain committed to keeping be working closely with Verité on the development and children out of plantation operations, we are also taking implementation of the SOPs. action to address the wider issue of safeguarding children and their rights, using guidance from organisations such as In specific regard to the allegations made about children ILO and UNICEF. working on Wilmar’s North Sumatran estates, we have found no evidence that this had been taking place. Independent Since 2010 Wilmar has had in place a clear No Child Labour interviews with teachers from nearby schools, and comparisons Policy, which forbids the employment of anyone below the between Wilmar’s census data and school attendance records, age of 18. As part of our commitment to more fully address found that 327 children were attending school daily, and the issues of children’s rights and welfare, we launched our that the few who were not accounted for were not likely to new Child Protection Policy in November 2017. The Policy be missing school to work with their parents. Interviews with underlines a wider commitment to ensure that all children union representatives undertaken by independent assessors in our plantations, schools and facilities, as well as those also indicated that children were not present on the plantation under the care of our third-party suppliers and contractors, to help their parents, and that the rule that children cannot are provided with safeguards and protection from abuse accompany parents is well understood by workers. and exploitation. The Policy also now contains specific remediation actions for any instances where child labour is found. The new policy is applicable across our global operations, including joint ventures, third-party suppliers, and contractors. This is the first Policy of its kind to be applied explicitly to external parties. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 73 Moving Forward Together School library in a newly redeveloped school in Indonesia However, we did find that a handful of our workers were Percentage of children who live in Wilmar coming into the estate and bringing their children with plantations that attend school them, in some cases asking their children to do errands for them around the workplace (e.g. fetching lunch boxes). In total, there are 10,888 children of compulsory schoolAfter speaking with these workers, we have found that the going age living in Wilmar’s palm plantations in Indonesia, primary reason for their children's presence was a lack of Malaysia, Nigeria and Ghana. In our efforts to provide access to schooling. Some of the children had developmental access to quality education to these children, Wilmar has challenges and were not accepted in schools, while some were embarked on a school redevelopment programme in our considered “problematic” and had been expelled. In other estates. 44.9% of children attend Wilmar operated schools#, cases, there were children who were simply not interested and approximately 46.8% of children attend government in attending school, and rather than risk them getting into schools in the vicinity (within or outside) of our estates. For trouble elsewhere, employees brought them into work. our Myanmar sugar farms, about 93% of children of school going age attend schools operated by the government. We remain committed to finding solutions together with these parents, and we continue to monitor their children. Solutions In September 2017, Wilmar together with TFT and the we have put in place include sending the children to non-formal Malaysian Palm Oil Certification Council (MPOCC) held education programmes (Depdiknas), vocational training or a workshop in Sabah titled “Children in Plantations”. The to special needs schools. While we have been successful in workshop was attended by representatives from 25 supplying getting some of the children back to school, we continue to companies and was focused on sharing best practices in work with the remaining 15 children as of December 2017, preventing children working in plantations. Speakers at the and their parents, on pathways to reintegration. workshop included representatives from the Indonesian Consulate, MPOCC, UNICEF, ILO and the Humana Child Aid Society. This workshop was a good platform to raise awareness about the issue among Wilmar suppliers. It also enabled us to better understand the challenges they face in their plantations and provided a forum to discuss potential next steps and strategies. # The percentage only refers to the number of children living in Indonesia, Malaysia and Ghana, because there are no Wilmar operated schools in Nigeria. EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 74 Moving Forward Together BONDED LABOUR Our mills in Australia only buy sugarcane from farms within the country. These farms operate in a heavily unionised and In line with our commitments and the requirements of the legislated environment, where there is strong trade union RSPO and our NDPE Policy, we do not permit any forced, involvement that ensures all labour is voluntary, and that all trafficked or bonded labour, either in our own operations employees are able to terminate their employment of their or in our supply chain. own free will at any time. We also subscribe to sources that advise on labour-related legislation changes, and conduct Forced labour often affects migrant workers or other regular reviews of our environmental and social standards, vulnerable groups who lack means, language skills, and including labour practices. access to information. In the oil palm sector, the highest risk of force or coercion occurs when workers are recruited Furthermore, we are also pursuing Bonsucro certification for through employment agencies. our Australian mills and farms. One of the core criteria of Bonsucro standards is compliance with ILO labour conventions For our plantation and mill operations in Malaysia and governing child labour, forced labour, discrimination and Indonesia, we ensure that we recruit all workers directly freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. and therefore our workers do not pay fees to recruitment For our Bonsucro certified Australian operations, we have agencies. We only use agents to assist with the processing of not identified any major forced labour issues in either our recruitment documents, such as work permits and passports, own mills and farms or those of third parties. and to help arrange transport for workers to the plantations. In these cases, we take full responsibility for payment and no cost is charged to the workers. In some cases, team leaders (mandores) are requested to assist in the recruitment of local workers and they are paid an incentive to do so. In countries like Ghana and Nigeria, agents are used in the recruitment process, however we do not permit the agent to request the lodging of monetary deposits or other collateral as a condition of employment. We also seek to ensure that employees are never subject to the unlawful withholding of wages, identification cards, passports or other travel documents, or other personal belongings, without their consent. Recognising that passport retention is a particularly important issue in Malaysia, we have taken steps to ensure that all employees have access to a secure place to store their personal belongings through the installation of lockers for our workers. Workers retain their locker keys and they can access their passport without restriction. When workers remove their passports from their locker, they are requested to enter a record into a log book. This initiative is being rolled out to all our plantations in Malaysia. Some 750 lockers were installed in 2016 during the initial trial period, and 10,000 lockers were successfully installed in 2017. With this installation, Wilmar became one of the first oil palm plantation companies in Malaysia to return passports to all of our migrant workers. An official passport handover event was organised in March 2018, and attended by the Chief of the Indonesian Consul-General’s Office in Tawau, Bapak Sulistijo Djati Ismojo. In sugarcane production, a number of countries have been identified by the United States Department of Labor, Verité and KnowTheChain as having a high-risk of forced labour. These countries include Bolivia, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Myanmar, and Pakistan. In our sugarcane operations in Bapak Karim, Head of the Wilmar Indonesian Workers Myanmar, we contact the labour head (agent) to subcontract Representative Committee in Sabahmas estate, showing the workers for daily operations. Labour conditions for our passport lockers provided for foreign workers in Wilmar's workers in Myanmar will be reviewed in more detail in 2018. plantations in Malaysia Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 75 Moving Forward Together EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND UNION COMPLAINTS MECHANISMS RELATIONS We are committed to ensuring that workers have access to Wilmar supports the rights of employees to form and join an appropriate complaints mechanism and a process for trade unions of their choice and to bargain collectively. addressing grievances. Where the rights to freedom of association and to collective bargaining are restricted under law, parallel means of In Indonesia, all employees (including temporary workers) independent and free association and bargaining are made can make complaints verbally or in writing to their supervisor. available for all personnel. If the complaint concerns a direct supervisor, the employee may also go to a union representative, or make use of onUnions are our key stakeholders in ensuring that we site feedback boxes to make an anonymous complaint. If a understand and appropriately address the concerns and complaint cannot be settled satisfactorily, the matter may grievances of our employees. We recognise that they play be first escalated to the Human Resources Department and a significant role in helping our workers understand their subsequently to senior management (general manager level). rights, as well as in providing input for improvements to If a complaint is not resolved in a manner that is satisfactory working conditions. Workers can also utilise the union as to the employee, he or she may seek the assistance of a a grievance channel or for collective bargaining purposes, mediator from the Department of Manpower, or may ultimately such as to negotiate with the company on issues related to resort to legal action. Confidentiality and the anonymity of wages and premium incentives. the complainant may be requested and will be guaranteed. Indonesia Our mill and farm operations in Australia and Myanmar In 2017 we have taken a very proactive approach to also have grievance processes in place for all employees. working with labour unions in Indonesia and have built Employees are made aware of these processes at the point good working relationships with key union organisations. of employment and are given an employee handbook that We have also engaged with our suppliers on the need for outlines the details of the grievance mechanism. Employees labour improvements, and conducted training sessions also receive regular reminders about the grievance processes, involving speakers from the government, unions and civil including updates on company notice boards and our intranet, society organisations. as well as in team briefings. Our workers are free to approach their supervisors, members of the HR Department, or their In our North Sumatra operations, we are working closely with trade union representatives to raise any issues or complaints. Serbundo (a North Sumatra–based union affiliated with the International Union of Food Workers). Together, we have In addition to our general grievance mechanism, complaints developed a Collective Labour Agreement (CLA) for both mechanism and workers’ unions, we have gender committees PT DLI and PT Milano since 2015. We have recently renewed in place in our oil palm plantations to ensure that women can and finalised the CLA covering years 2018 – 2020. CLAs are access support and raise concerns. An assessment conducted developed jointly with workers’ union representatives to with BSR in Indonesia in 2016 found that workers had a low provide clarity and assurance on the rights and responsibilities level of awareness about grievance mechanisms, and that it of both plantations/mills and workers, as well as on workers' was unclear whether temporary workers were covered by benefit entitlements. These agreements are negotiated existing mechanisms. We are now reviewing ways to raise between the plantation/mill management and workers, awareness among our employees about the complaints who are represented by the respective labour union, and options available to them. are valid for workers who are members of the union. Our permanent worker’s contract refers to the CLA that has been accepted by the workers’ union representatives. This CLA is reviewed every two years. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 76 Moving Forward Together Workers' training session Our positive and ongoing engagements with Serbundo Malaysia, Ghana, Nigeria and Myanmar resulted in the appointment of five union leaders from our In Ghana and Nigeria, the majority of our workers are North Sumatran plantations in August 2017. Recognising unionised. Unions also play a significant role in our Myanmar the progress we have made in the province, Serbundo operations, particularly in securing legislated protection and conducted a field visit to both PT DLI and PT Milano in rights for workers. Wilmar has in place a robust framework October 2017 to gain better insight into our practices. During and process for determining rates of pay, including regular the visit, Serbundo’s team spoke to our workers and union negotiations with trade unions. representatives to learn more about working conditions at Wilmar. Based on these experiences, we have involved Our Malaysian operations are not unionised, but we have Serbundo in our supplier training workshops, so they can ongoing engagements with workers on conditions and engage directly with our third-party suppliers and help them pay. For collective bargaining purposes, we have a Social improve their own labour practices. & Welfare Committee in place to discuss related matters, including wages. The Committee meets three times a year Apart from Serbundo, we have also recently started working and is chaired by the manager of the estate or mill and more closely with KSBSI-HUKATAN, a national union affiliated represented by both management and worker representatives. to the Dutch federation CNV. We have so far conducted three co-training sessions on workers’ rights and improving Australia and New Zealand industrial relations in Riau. On 31 October 2017, we adopted Union rights and collective bargaining rights are well embedded the KSBSI-HUKATAN multiple site work agreement template in Australia and New Zealand. A large percentage of our for our mill in West Sumatra, PT Bumi Pratama Khatulistiwa workforce is unionised, and there are collective bargaining (PT BPK), as the new CLA for the workers there. agreements in place. Some of our sugar suppliers are Bonsucro certified and we are therefore confident that they Workers at our sugar refinery PT Refined Jawamanis in also have such practices in place, as it is a core requirement Indonesia are also fully unionised and we have a CLA in place. under indicator 2.1.4 (Respect the right of all workers to form and join trade unions and/or to bargain collectively). Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 77 Moving Forward Together Accidents, Severity Rate and Fatalities PALM OIL OPERATIONS appropriate for any haze occurrence. We have consulted a range of stakeholders, including medical professionals, in Improving health and safety at our plantations and mills the development of this specific SOP, which was finalised has been one of our key workplans throughout 2017. This in early 2018. includes better allocation, efficacy and training on use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and improved We are also looking to address certain non-work-related communication of workers’ health screening results by behaviours that put workers at risk. For example, to stop doctors in our estate clinics. workers using herbicide containers for storing drinking water we are providing drinking containers and potable water in the Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) training will continue field. We have also implemented a triple-rinsing process for to be conducted on a regular basis for all workers. This is to empty herbicide containers. We maintain our focus on safety ensure that workers fully understand PPE use and our safe work and are following through with our efforts to strengthen our practices. We have also drafted a comprehensive standard safety culture. Key indicators that link employees’ remuneration operating procedure (SOP) in Malaysia and Indonesia on the to their health and safety performance are now being set to issue of working during haze events based on governmentinstil a behaviour-based safety culture, support increased issued guidelines in each country. We have included in this safety awareness and improve safety practices. specification the identification and provision of PPE that is Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) per 200,000 Working Hours (Oil Palm Plantations) 7 6.10 5.90 6 5.40 5.00 5 4.18 4 3.21 2.96 2.82 3 2 1.54 1.01 1.06 1 0.54 0.47 0.23 0 Sabah Sarawak Central West Sumatra Ghana Nigeria Kalimantan Kalimantan 2016 2017 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate per 200,000 Working Hours (Palm Oil Mills) 3.50 2.90 3.00 2.66 2.50 2.15 1.99 2.00 1.55 1.50 1.18 1.00 0.70 0.67 0.78 0.53 0.50 0.32 0.16 0.00 Sabah Sarawak Central West Kalimantan Sumatra Ghana Kalimantan 2016 2017 Note: Robust systems for accident reporting for our Nigeria mills is still being established. We expect to include accident reporting in our Sustainability Report 2018. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 78 Moving Forward Together Provision of healthcare To ensure that health and safety is properly addressed, we We provide free healthcare from the Wilmar-funded estate have a specific Sugar Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) clinics to all workers in our oil palm plantations, both Policy in place. This EHS Policy outlines our commitments permanent and temporary as well as their families. The terms towards promoting awareness, identifying and communicating and conditions related to healthcare and health benefits for hazards and risks, and providing training for our employees. permanent workers are stipulated in the workers’ contract In addition, the EHS Policy commits us to conducting our which is negotiated and accepted by the workers’ union operations in compliance with all applicable legislation, representatives and the estate. In addition to free on-site licences, codes of practice and industry standards, and healthcare, our permanent workers are covered by medical providing and maintaining safe and healthy working areas insurance, which allows them to claim for reimbursement and methods of work, while minimising our environmental of medical fees on outpatient treatment sought outside impact. of Wilmar’s clinics. Permanent workers are also entitled to dental care benefits and subsidies on spectacles, dentures For our operations in Australia and New Zealand, we also and hearing aids. Regular hearing checks are conducted for have a dedicated EHS management system that outlines our mill employees that work in areas where exposure to our EHS framework, and explains the policies, standards elevated noise levels is a risk. and procedures within our sugar operations. The focus of the management system is compliance with legislative All employees working with chemicals are provided with regular requirements and ensuring activities are carried out in a medical check-ups and a biannual blood test to ensure that manner that complies with the system’s guiding requirements. they are not adversely affected. In certain instances, where These include: medical evaluations demonstrate high blood chemical levels, we reassign chemical workers to non-chemical handling jobs • Wilmar’s Integrated Management System and continue to monitor their health every three months. • National Workers Compensation Self-Insurance Licence We recognise that it is also important for our workers to • Australian and New Zealand Environmental understand the process through which medical feedback Authorities is provided to them. Since 2017, we have instructed our • Bonsucro Certification doctors to clearly explain the health screening process and • Smart Cane Best Management Practice Accreditation to directly communicate any abnormal results (and their implications) to affected workers. All workers that have Country Lost time injury frequency rate per 200,000 undergone a screening now receive feedback on their results working hours from the appointed doctor. Sugarcane plantations Sugar mills Australia 2.3 1.09 SUGAR OPERATIONS Note: Robust systems for accident reporting for our Myanmar mills and Where sugarcane is cultivated manually there is a high risk plantations is still being established. We expect to include accident reporting in our Sustainability Report 2018. of accidents and injuries, especially during the cane-cutting process. The use of heavy machetes can cause musculoskeletal In Myanmar, our joint venture Great Wall-Wilmar Holdings injuries, and the protection of eyes is crucial as cutting can has a Safety Committee which oversees the company’s leave workers vulnerable to cuts and injuries from cane production safety management and employee safety and stalks. These specific risks are not present in our Australian health. The Safety Committee is responsible for ensuring sugarcane operations where machines are used to plant, that practices are in line with the relevant national safety harvest and apply any chemicals. laws and regulations, as well as with Wilmar’s requirements. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 79 Moving Forward Together Safety briefing for palm oil mill workers FATALITIES In both of the vehicle related cases, the incidents occurred as a result of a lack of training, and in one case, specifically also Every fatality is followed by a thorough review of its cause because the vehicle was being operated by an unlicensed and actions are defined to prevent recurrence. The reviews operator. The three incidents related to electrocution occurred are reinforced with continued efforts in training and PPE use as a result of lack of training, awareness and management, to minimise, if not eliminate, risks. malfunctioning equipment, and because procedures were not followed. In 2017, it is with regret that we report five work-related employees fatalities in Malaysia and Indonesia. There All incidents were thoroughly investigated, and a range of were two fatalities in our plantation in Sumatra, one in our steps have been taken with regards to improving training plantation in Sabah, and two in the mills of Sumatra and and awareness, ensuring that appropriate risk assessments Central Kalimantan. Three of these fatalities were as a result are conducted, fixing faulty equipment, ensuring appropriate of electrocution and two from vehicle related accidents. tools and PPE are provided, and ensuring that all personnel are licensed and trained to operate assigned vehicles and equipment. Number of fatalities across Wilmar’s operations 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Australia 0 0 0 Myanmar 0 1 0 Nigeria 0 0 0 0 0 Ghana 0 0 0 0 0 Indonesia 0 1 3 0 4 Malaysia 1 1 1 1 1 Total 1 2 4 2 5 Note: Fatality data covers all Wilmar employees only. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 80 Moving Forward Together Smallholders Support Smallholders are an integral part of the palm oil industry and Independent smallholder FFB volume facilitating their inclusivity in the supply chain is a priority purchased for Wilmar. Smallholder inclusivity is not only important for as at 31 December 2017 securing our social license to operate, but also for securing Country FFB volume purchased (MT) our future fruit supply and maintaining our relations with Malaysia 79,497 local communities. The RSPO estimates that sustainable Indonesia 3,511,931 methods and best agricultural practices will boost smallholder productivity by up to 85%, thereby enhancing many incomes Ghana 29,202 and livelihoods. We therefore strongly support certification Total 3,620,630 as a component in incentivising smallholders to implement sustainable practices. However, we also believe that this Our joint venture Great Wall-Wilmar Sugar Mill in Maung incentive requires that smallholders understand the direct Kong, Yangon, is the biggest sugar mill in Myanmar with value of sustainability as an integral part of producing a market share of nearly 30%. Since 2016, we have been quality FFB. conducting training programmes for smallholder farmers who account for a significant supply of sugarcane to this While our formal programmes with smallholders and mill. By improving technical capacity and knowledge in external partners have a strong focus on certification, we best management practices, the farmers have benefited also engage in ongoing consultations with our oil palm from higher yields and incomes. In 2017, we conducted 10 and sugar smallholder suppliers and provide them with farmers’ meetings in various locations for 425 attendees technical assistance to support their compliance with in total to share knowledge of advanced farming systems. our NDPE Policy. These smallholders benefit from better The training workshops are also a platform for farmers to yields with the application of good agronomic inputs and share their experiences and seek help in overcoming specific practices, as well as improved market access. To address challenges on their farms. a vast diversity of cultures, traditions, land tenure models and local development needs, the format and focus of our Schemed and contracted smallholders in smallholder work is shaped locally and in partnership and Myanmar for 2017-18 season dialogue with communities and local government bodies. Country Smallholders Sugarcane volume planted area (ha) purchased (MT) Wilmar sources from both plasma and independent smallholders. Myanmar 28,131 987,050 We are committed to helping our own scheme smallholders Note: achieve certification under the RSPO Smallholder Principles Harvesting season in Myanmar takes place during November to April, & Criteria. We have also continued to grow our independent and therefore, financial year runs from 1 April to 31 March each year (not based on calendar year). As a result, smallholders planted area, smallholder base. In 2017, we bought a total of 3,620,630 and sugarcane volume purchased is taken as at 31 March 2018. tonnes of FFB from independent smallholders, of which about 97% was from Indonesia, about 2% was from Malaysia SMALLHOLDER SUPPORT INITIATIVES and the remainder from Ghana. Wilmar also works with a variety of partners on smallholder Scheme smallholders empowerment projects. These projects focus on improving as at 31 December 2017 yields through technical support and improved practices, Country Smallholders RSPO-certified as well as on meeting national requirements and obtaining planted area smallholder area certification. (ha) (ha) Indonesia (plasma) 32,874* 3,876 Supporting independent smallholders and Ghana 1,650 1,650 outgrowers in Asia to achieve certification Total 34,524 5,526 In 2017, Wilmar’s smallholder development team in Indonesia * Excludes plasma planted area for PT Tritunggal Sentra Buana embarked on a programme to train and facilitate smallholders (TSB). in obtaining the Indonesia Sustainable Palm Oil certification (ISPO). The programme was piloted in the Riau province in August 2017 with 225 smallholders (covering 450 hectares) from the Sekato Jaya Lestari cooperative. This programme has the potential to scale up to benefit 4,300 smallholders covering a total land area of 8,600 hectares. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 81 Moving Forward Together We have also established a partnership with the Malaysian Wilmar Smallholders Support in Honduras Palm Oil Certification Council (MPOCC) to assist all of our (WISSH) Malaysian suppliers in achieving certification against the Smallholders own more than 40% of the total planted area Malaysian Sustainable Palm Oil (MSPO) standard by the end of oil palm in Honduras – Latin America’s third largest palm of 2019. Over 260 supplier mills covering more than 55% of oil producer and a key player in the supply of palm oil to the mills in Malaysia are expected to benefit from through Europe. In 2016, we initiated Wilmar Smallholders Support this collaboration. Underpinned by mutual sustainability in Honduras (WISSH) in partnership with the Industrial interests, three areas of collaboration have been identified to Association of Palm Oil Producers in Honduras (AIPAH). generate the biggest impact within the two-year timeframe. WISSH aims to enhance smallholders’ technical capacities They have been conceptualised to engage, share knowledge on best agricultural management practices in order to bring and lend support to the suppliers in preparing them for about better environmental outcomes as well as increasing MSPO certification. yields and income. By the end of the programme's first year, it had achieved its first training target: 86% of the 4,000 AIPAH The three areas include: smallholders were trained on Wilmar’s NDPE Policy. By the close of 2017, 426 training sessions had been conducted for Supplier Reporting Tool 3,200 independent and associated smallholders. A survey of The tool enables suppliers to measure their performance the associated smallholders showed that 97% were satisfied against the MSPO requirements and Wilmar's NDPE Policy. with the WISSH programme and 99% applied the knowledge Wilmar and MPOCC will in turn be able to identify gaps and they had acquired on their plantations. deploy resources (e.g. audit assistance) more effectively. The tool was successfully rolled out at the end of March 2018 The last two WISSH training topics for independent for suppliers of Wilmar’s PGEO refinery in Johor Bahru. It smallholders and assessments for associated smallholders will be extended to all of Wilmar’s suppliers in Malaysia by were completed in February 2018. Following this, a series of the end of 2018. assessments has commenced to review the implementation of best practices. The assessments are targeting around Group certification for small and medium 170 smallholders to verify implementation and identify suppliers in Sabah instances of non-compliance with Wilmar NDPE Policy. The Wilmar has identified several small and medium growers in outcome of the assessments will be an action plan to close the Sapi region who are facing challenges in meeting MSPO any identified gaps. requirements. These suppliers will be linked to specific mills and will have access to training and assistance for group A short video that showcases the impact of WISSH over last certification under the MSPO Certification Scheme. two years can be accessed at https://youtu.be/HGR0_EP1Ym4 Sustainable best practices training for suppliers Wilmar small growers support in Colombia in Sarawak (WISSCo) A roadshow is planned in collaboration with MPOCC to build Modelling the success of the WISSH programme, we have capacity among Sarawak suppliers towards the adoption of partnered with the Sustainable Trade Platform, Solidaridad sustainable practices, including good agriculture practices, and NES Naturaleza to launch WISSCo in Colombia. This which forms part of MSPO requirements. programme reaches independent smallholders and small growers supplying up to 10 mills on less than 500 hectares Launch of pilot outgrower scheme at Biase of land. Launched in August 2017, the programme will Plantations, Nigeria comprise a series of eight training sessions. A total of 235 We have continued supporting independent FFB suppliers in small growers, owning a total area of 28,715 hectares, are Nigeria. In October 2017, Biase Plantations Ltd (BPL) launched expected to benefit. Like the WISSH programme, WISSCo its Pilot Outgrower Scheme for outgrowers in the Biase Local also aims to enhance smallholders' capacity to implement Government Area. The project, which is fully funded by BPL, good environmental and social practices in accordance with covers four smallholder groups and is expected to benefit Wilmar's NDPE Policy. 43 individual smallholders. The programme is designed to empower local farmers by demonstrating best practices for sustainable smallholder oil palm development. BPL is implementing the Pilot Outgrower Scheme in partnership with the Heritage Bank of Nigeria. Heritage Bank received special recognition from the Central Bank of Nigeria in December 2017, as the BPL Pilot Outgrower Programme won second place in the Sustainability Transaction of the Year in Agriculture Award. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 82 Moving Forward Together SMALLHOLDER INTERVIEW – LEO MENSAH, BOPP GHANA I have been a smallholder with Benso Oil Palm Plantation Another issue we have raised is the necessity of leaving (BOPP) since 1998. I can say that the benefits of this harvested crops in the field overnight – which can impair association have improved since Wilmar took over in FFB quality – when the mill reaches capacity in busy 2011. I have gained practical knowledge in oil palm periods. BOPP has recently upgraded the mill capacity management and this has increased both my yields from 20 to 30 tonnes per hour, and I believe this will and my earnings. speed up crop reception at the mill and ensure our crops are collected in a timely manner. In terms of specific training organised by BOPP, I have participated in RSPO programmes on buffer zone Repaying the cost of fertilisers is another ongoing concern. management, health and safety and conservation. These This is a substantial outlay for a smallholder to cover up programmes have helped me focus on building safe and front, and has seen some of us get into arrears. BOPP more sustainable practices into my daily work. management could do more to support smallholders by helping us pay outstanding arrears and subsidising It also helps to have regular contact with BOPP future fertiliser purchases. management. As part of a group of farmers, I meet with BOPP's Smallholder Management Team every quarter to But beyond these challenges, my association with BOPP discuss any issues that have arisen. I also have access to has brought many benefits. The most significant was a BOPP Smallholder Manager if there is an immediate being able to contribute towards RSPO certification, concern that needs to be resolved. which the company received in 2014. I was part of the entire process, from preparations to the audits, and I Of course, being a smallholder has its challenges. Access am proud to say that I was personally interviewed by is limited by poor road conditions, so improvements the auditors. Participating in this way gives me a lot of to the road network are always on the wish list. The satisfaction and a sense of recognition. company does perform occasional grading on roads, but it would be a significant benefit if this happened The smallholder programme has so far had positive on a more regular basis. outcomes. I hope that BOPP's top management expands the project so that more people will benefit. This will help to alleviate poverty in our communities. PETER LEO MENSAH BOPP, Ghana Leo Mensah (left), a smallholder with BOPP Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 83 Moving Forward Together COMMUNITY RELATIONS AND CONFLICT Our standard practice involves negotiating with individual RESOLUTION landowners and local community leaders, or the government, depending on the country. With respect to compensation, we Wilmar works to obtain the free, prior and informed consent strive for a fair compensation to the local community leaders (FPIC) of local communities for all development projects. for existing crops, with statutory levels of compensation The principle of FPIC is recognised in the United Nations as a minimum. We also implement progressive community Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP), development programmes through employment opportunities and upholds that local communities have the right to give or and smallholder schemes, making every effort to ensure that withhold their consent to proposed projects that may affect communities are satisfied with the socioeconomic benefits the lands they customarily own, occupy or otherwise use. that development will bring. We continually strive to improve When carried out properly, FPIC is a participatory process and strengthen our land claims resolution system through that empowers local communities to negotiate the conditions an inclusive, multi-stakeholder approach, and by working under which a project will be designed, implemented, closely with local civil society groups and social experts. monitored and evaluated. SUPPORTING COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Land use and land ownership are inherently complex matters in most of the countries we operate in, with overlapping Given the nature of our business, many of our operations or undelineated land rights in land concessions. Shaped are located in remote parts of developing countries, and by a nation’s development policies and projects, these can often close to local communities. Our business activities have sometimes have an unintentional impact on local communities a direct impact on the livelihoods and quality of living of and result in disagreements and conflicts. We endeavour to both our employees and individuals in these neighbouring be respectful of local communities whenever such disputes communities. Our approach is therefore to ensure that we arise and are committed to building long-term relationships bring meaningful and lasting benefits to communities, and as part of our goal of achieving harmonious relations with build open, honest and mutually beneficial relationships. all our stakeholders. In accordance with this approach, we are committed to Making reference to the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation's addressing the needs of locals, but also to facilitating selfVoluntary Guidelines on the Responsible Governance of reliance, particularly through the provision and support of Tenure, Wilmar’s policy guidelines are: education, healthcare and infrastructure. In some of the areas we operate in, we also facilitate basic services. In rural • Wilmar will respect the resource (e.g. land, forests Sabah, for example, we are supporting the communities and fisheries) and tenure rights of local communities. to retrospectively register births and apply for national This is done in cognisance of the national obligations, identification. This gives them access to public services. constitutions, local laws and regulations of the country we are operating in. We diligently strive to ensure SDG 4 Quality Education that we use land to which we have a legal right, and In line with SDG 4, which concerns improving access to in which the country’s government recognises us as inclusive and quality education for all, we strongly believe that the rightful entity to manage the land in question. education is a cornerstone for empowering individuals and • If there are land disputes, Wilmar seeks to resolve communities to break out of poverty and build meaningful them in an open and consensual manner. In the event lives in the long term. We provide a range of services in our of loss or damage affecting legal or customary rights, oil palm plantations, including childcare, kindergartens and property, resources or livelihoods, we endeavour schools, to ensure that all our workers’ children have access to undertake all measures to remedy such loss or to daycare and education while their parents are at work. damage. We have 15 schools in our Indonesian plantations, which Wilmar pledges to recognise and respect the long-term together cover kindergarten, primary and secondary-level customary and individual rights of indigenous and local curricula. We also support the education of more than communities. We also commit to ensuring legal compliance 5,000 children in our local communities, including our and that international best practices on FPIC are implemented, employees' children. A short video was made about our in accordance with the full scope of our NDPE Policy, prior school redevelopment programme in Indonesia in 2017, to commencing any new operations. which can be accessed here www.wilmar-international.com/ sustainability/wp-content/uploads/2017/11/School%20 Redevelopment%20video%20(1).mp4 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 84 Moving Forward Together WILMAR'S FREE, PRIOR AND INFORMED CONSENT PROCESS Negotiation Participatory with community Participatory Stakeholder mapping and representatives monitoring and identification and impact asessment and external grievance mechanism engagement with community stakeholders, i.e. in place representatives NGOs, if neccesary Continuous Feedback RSPO COMPLAINTS CASE – UPDATE 2017 Ongoing social issue at PT Permata Hijau Pasaman I In 2015, we were made aware of a case that was filed settlements (Nagari), the complainants and the local with the RSPO regarding our subsidiary PT Permata authority. PT PHP I would be required to assign an Hijau Pasaman I (PHP I), in which the community of independent expert to conduct the participatory Nagari Kapa requested clarity on the extent of PT PHP mapping and the result of the participatory mapping I's nucleus estate and requested that PT PHP I's land would need to be submitted by the involved parties use right application to the National Land Agency over to the National Land Agency (BPN). the customary land of Nagari Kapa not be accepted. • In April 2017, Wilmar was compelled to file an appeal after our review found possible breaches in the • Following a review of the case, in March 2015, the complaint handling process within the RSPO. Along RSPO Complaints Panel made a preliminary decision with the appeal, Wilmar requested to postpone that PT PHP I was in compliance with the RSPO the participatory mapping activities as the exercise Principle and Criteria No. 2 on Compliance with would require the direct involvement of Indonesian Applicable Laws and Regulations, and that the HGU government regulatory bodies. Proceeding with the was issued properly in accordance with the law. The exercise would therefore not be appropriate until Complaints Panel sent a letter to the community of the completion of the appeal process. Nagari Kapa informing them of this decision and the • In November 2017, Wilmar withdrew the appeal, case was initially dismissed. based on the view that the appeals process was • The complainant objected the Complaints Panel’s impeding the resolution process with the complainant. decision. All parties agreed to move forward with a The withdrawal of the appeal was granted by the ground-checking in order to have a clear understanding RSPO. This reinstated the initial decision made by of the case. the Complaints Panel on 1 February 2017. • In February 2017, the RSPO Complaints Panel decided that the land in dispute would be measured through Status as at December 2017/January 2018: Wilmar and participatory mapping. This would entail the participation the complainant have jointly appointed an independent of the community of Nagari Kapa and surrounding party to carry out the decision made by RSPO. In our estates in Malaysia we have a total of 17 primary Through our joint venture, Great Wall-Wilmar Sugar Mill schools that benefit a total of 747 children. In addition, (GWWH), we are providing donations for school redevelopment we are working with the non-profit organisation Humana programmes in the vicinity of the mill. Further, there are Child Aid Society of Sabah to provide for the children of kindergartens in the factory compound, and 80 students immigrant workers in our operations in Malaysian Borneo. are children of employees. The educational syllabus is designed based on the Malaysian curriculum, but also integrates Indonesia-centric subjects to With our strong support in providing access to quality education help ease the Indonesian children’s transition into mainstream for children in our plantations, an estimate of about 88% of societies whether they choose to stay in Malaysia or return children living in our plantations of compulsory school-going to Indonesia. As well as providing free education, we also age attend school (see page 73 for more information). subsidise uniforms, books and food every year. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 85 Moving Forward Together Kindergarten students at a newly redeveloped school in Indonesia School redevelopment programmes improve the quality of school infrastructure and facilities, As part of our endeavour to ensure that the children of teaching standard and extra-curricular activities offered to our plantation workers and in our local communities have students. Another batch of scholarships were awarded in access to quality education, we have embarked on school 2017 to outstanding students from local communities to redevelopment programmes in Indonesia, Nigeria and Ghana. support their tertiary education. So far, Wilmar has awarded In addition to upgrading and providing new facilities, we 115 university scholarships. We plan to redevelop all schools have also made provision for students to participate in extrain the vicinity of our estates in Nigeria. curricular activities ranging from music and arts to sports and uniformed groups. Outstanding students are offered In Ghana, one junior high school has been redeveloped and scholarships to pursue further education at provincial and there are plans to expand the programme to more schools. national universities. Provision of healthcare We are aiming to upgrade and modernise 15 schools in Goal 3 of the Sustainable Development Goals concerns and around our Indonesian oil palm estates by 2020. Two ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for all, at pilot schools have been completed, and the process will be all ages. At Wilmar, we also consider health and well-being replicated across the 15 schools in Wilmar’s plantation estates. to be essential components of sustainable development. In Redevelopment work is underway in five schools. Following addition to providing healthcare to workers and their families, redevelopment, students will have access to computer and our clinics in the oil palm plantations are also open to local science labs, a library, as well as a range of extracurricular communities and provide them with basic healthcare services. activities. This will benefit between 6,500 and 7,000 children Our employees are also highly supportive of our healthcare from pre-primary school age through to secondary school programmes. For example, our Malaysian operations organise age annually. Our aim is to ensure that these children have annual blood donation drives to support local hospitals. the opportunity to excel and succeed, just like their peers in urban areas. We are working closely with the Indonesian Education Ministry to ensure that our privately-run schools are in compliance with all government standards. Where there are already existing government schools close to our estates, we have also planned for their improvement. Two government schools in North Sumatra have benefited from this redevelopment programme. One located in PT DLI is scheduled for completion in December 2017, while a second school at PT Milano is budgeted for redevelopment in 2018. Wilmar’s team in Cross River State, Nigeria, has kickstarted a project to rebuild schools in surrounding communities that contributed land for plantation development. Redevelopment work has commenced at two secondary schools and one primary school near our estates. Besides overseeing the construction and renovation of schools, Wilmar’s staff volunteers will also support the management of schools. The aim is to Clinic in one of Wilmar's oil palm plantations in East Malaysia Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 86 Moving Forward Together Base Data Income Statement1 US$ Million FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 Revenue 43,846 41,402 38,777 43,085 44,085 Profit before tax 1,598 1,300 1,379 1,538 1,775 Net Profit 1,219 972 1,023 1,156 1,319 Balance Sheet US$ Million FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 Total assets 40,933 37,032 36,926 43,558 46,632 Total liabilities 23,947 21,653 21,625 27,147 30,745 Shareholders' funds 15,964 14,435 14,394 15,495 15,005 Segmental Sales Volume2 MT ‘000 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 Tropical oils3 23,163 23,368 23,500 24,607 Oilseeds & Grains 33,295 29,529 28,706 25,081 Sugar 11,882 13,544 13,118 9,714 Segmental Profit Before Tax Breakdown US$ Million FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 Tropical oils 426.2 689.2 491.5 969.2 1,125.4 Oilseeds & Grains 735.0 251.1 689.8 348.5 451.1 Sugar -24.6 125.3 84.3 134.4 126.6 Others 242.0 100.6 17.4 20.0 -21.3 Geographical Revenue Breakdown US$ Million FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 Southeast Asia 8,930 8,633 7,661 10,024 9,645 People's Republic of China 22,392 19,983 19,371 19,622 22,000 India 1,754 1,317 1,338 1,463 1,245 Europe 2,586 2,711 2,485 3,390 3,479 Australia / New Zealand 1,052 1,501 1,411 1,724 1,800 Africa 2,445 2,352 2,024 2,036 1,503 Others 4,687 4,904 4,488 4,826 4,413 Production Palm oil FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FFB Production (MT) 3,922,904 3,817,969 4,481,022 4,323,960 4,040,785 FFB yield (MT FFB/ha) 19.7 19.0 21.4 20.6 18.8 CPO (MT) 1,742,618 1,740,298 1,995,800 1,909,355 1,848,148 PK (MT) 421,574 424,913 472,968 437,776 423,481 CPO Extraction Rate (%) 20.0 20.0 20.5 20.6 20.4 PK Extraction Rate (%) 4.8 4.9 4.9 4.7 4.7 1 FY2015 figures were restated upon adoption of Amendments to FRS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and FRS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants. FY2013 – FY2014 figures are not adjusted. 2 Due to the segmental reclassification with effect from FY2015, sales volume information for FY2013 is not available. 3 Excludes plantation volume. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 87 Moving Forward Together Production Sugarcane FY2017 FY2016 Sugarcane Production (MT) Australia 491,340 521,777 Sugarcane Production (MT) Myanmar4 29,146 13,979 Sugarcane Yield (MT/ha) Australia 94.0 102.0 Sugarcane Yield (MT/ha) Myanmar4 64.8 73.1 Conservation Area (ha) Hectares FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 Sabah 6,063 6,060 6,083 6,083 6,083 Sarawak 1,705 1,721 1,658 1,658 1,658 Central Kalimantan 15,083 15,088 15,087 15,098 15,098 West Kalimantan 2,041 2,036 2,033 2,168 3,255 Sumatra 3,114 3,128 3,043 3,352 4,631 Ghana 83 83 83 57 Nigeria 1,653 1,635 1,635 Australia 675 675 Myanmar 0 0 Total 30,417 30,426 29,622 28,416 30,725 Fire Incidents Year Item Central West Sumatra Australia Myanmar Kalimantan Kalimantan 2013 Planted hectares burnt 15.00 7.09 9.25 Unplanted hectares burnt 113.87 0.40 0.00 Total number of fires 33 8 5 2014 Planted hectares burnt 448.10 711.93 115.18 Unplanted hectares burnt 386.74 0.00 2.10 Total number of fires 245 82 26 2015 Planted hectares burnt 504.30 9.11 428.30 2,808 119 Unplanted hectares burnt 1,028.40 2.00 205.10 0 0 Total number of fires 323 9 82 0 0 2016 Planted hectares burnt 0 1.37 0.02 2,807 312 Unplanted hectares burnt 82.88 0 0 0 0 Total number of fires 17 5 1 0 0 2017 Planted hectares burnt5 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Unplanted hectares burnt5 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Total number of fires 20 1 2 1 0 4 Harvesting season in Myanmar takes place during November to April, and therefore, financial year runs from 1 April to 31 March each year (not based on calendar year). As a result, production and yield data for Myanmar for the 2017 financial year is taken as at 31 March 2018. 5 From year 2017, reporting will be based on area burnt within concession boundaries and area burnt outside concession boundaries (within 5km radius). Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 88 Moving Forward Together BOD Levels By Region And Discharge Destination – Palm oil (mg/L) FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 BOD Level – River discharge Sabah 26 25 32 25 24 Sarawak 19 17 16 13 14 West Kalimantan 94 90 83 74 63 Sumatra 94 52 79 57 84 BOD Level – Land application Central Kalimantan 506 271 363 448 636 West Kalimantan 317 251 169 241 236 Sumatra 1,171 1,065 928 898 768 Ghana 134 60 77 93 Water Usage – Palm oil FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 Water use (m³) per tonne of FFB (Palm Oil Mills) Sabah 1.64 1.55 1.68 1.59 1.59 Sarawak 1.26 1.65 1.55 1.13 0.98 Central Kalimantan 1.46 1.33 1.61 1.46 1.68 West Kalimantan 1.27 1.53 1.49 1.50 1.66 Sumatra 1.12 1.55 1.40 1.74 1.47 Ghana 1.52 1.43 1.63 1.52 Nigeria 1.20 1.25 1.00 0.97 Herbicide Usage6 – Palm oil FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 Herbicide usage toxicity units per ha Sabah 598 647 737 801 508 Sarawak 684 541 534 718 694 Central Kalimantan 283 253 328 337 318 West Kalimantan 271 256 464 416 296 Sumatra 563 317 257 231 219 Ghana 316 259 Nigeria 111 629 6 With the exception of Ghana and Nigeria, historical data for 2013-2015 were incorrectly stated in Wilmar’s 2016 Sustainability Report for all other locations. The data for 2013-2015 have therefore been restated in this report. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 89 Moving Forward Together Herbicide Types Herbicides currently used in Usage Palm Sugar Wilmar plantations Glyphosate Systemic and non-selective herbicide to control Imperata cylindrical, Paspalum X X7 (isopropylamine/ conjugatum and Ottochloa nodosa. isopropylammonium) Paraquat Non-selective contact herbicide used to control a wide range of annual grasses and X broad-leaved weeds and the tips of established perennial weeds. Paraquat is not systemic so it can be applied up to the four-leaf stage of sugarcane without lasting damage. Pendimethalin Herbicide used in pre-mergence and post-emergence applications to control annual X grasses and certain broadleaf weeds. It inhibits cell division and cell elongation. Metsulfuron-methyl Systemic herbicide used to control both narrow and broad leaf weeds when mixed X X with glyphosate isopropylamine. Isoxaflutole Selective herbicide used to control certain broad leaf and grass weeds. X S-metolachlor Isomer herbicide mixture used to control grasses and some broad-leaved weeds in a X wide range of crops. Haloxyfop Selective herbicide for the control of grass weeds in broad-leaf crops. X Originally it was produced as a racemic mixture. Flumioxazin Broad-spectrum contact herbicide, which works by interfering with the plants’ X production of chlorophyll. MCPA Herbicide used in sugarcane production to control: Blue Top, Chinese Burr, Flannel X Weed, Gambia Pea, Bell Vine, Streaked Rattle Pod, Bindweed, Pink Convolvulus, Cupids Flower, Merremia Vine, Morning Glory. Triclopyr butotyl Systemic and selective broad leaf weeds used to control Asystasia intrusa, Mikania X (triclopyr butoxy ethyl ester) micrantha, Clidemia hirta and Melostoma malabathricum. Glufosinate ammonium Used as a general narrow leaf weed control such as Paspalum conjugatum, Ottochloa X X nodosa, Fimbristylis miliacea and Borreria latifolia. 2,4-D2,4-D(dimethylamine/dimethylammonium) is a systemic and selective herbicide X X (dimethylamine/ from the group of aryloxyalkanoic acids. This herbicide is used to control Mikania dimethylammonium) micrantha, Borreria latifolia, Ageratum conyzoides, Paspalum conjagatum, Ottochloa nodosa and Nephrolipis bisserata. Fluroxypyr-meptyl Used to control broad leaf and common weeds such as Asystasia intrusa, Mikania X X micrantha, Melostoma malabathricum, Ottochloa nodosa, Paspalum conjagatum and Axonopus compressus Sodium chlorate Non-organic and selective herbicide used for general weeds control, such as X Ottochloa nodosa, Paspalum conjagatum, Axonopus compressus, Mikania micrantha and Gingantochloa levi. Clethodim Selective post-emergence herbicide. Systemic, rapidly absorbed and translocated X from treated foliage to the root system and growing parts of the plant. Mostly used to control Eleusine indica. Monosodium Broad-spectrum herbicide used to control grasses and broad leaf weeds. X Methanearsonate (MSMA) Fluazifop-p-butyl Selective phenoxy herbicide used for post-emergence control of annual and perennial X grass weeds. Indaziflam Preand post-emergence herbicide. Often mixed with Glyphosate X isopropylammonium to prevent or control common and major weeds in plantation such as Paspalum conjagatum, Axonopus compressus, Ottochloa nodosa, Hedyotis verticillata, Asystasia intrusa, Ageratum conyzoides, Cyperus rotundus and Digitaria ciliaris. Imazapic Selective herbicide for both the pre and post-emergent control of some annual and X perennial grasses and some broad leaf weeds. Imazethapyr Non-selective herbicide used for the control of a broad range of weeds including X (ammonium/ terrestrial annual and perennial grasses and broad leaf weeds. isopropylammonium) 7 For our sugarcane operations, Glyphosate is only used for managing weeds in fallow, end of row and headlands areas. Glyphosate is not applied in sugarcane crop. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 90 Moving Forward Together Herbicides currently used in Usage Palm Sugar Wilmar plantations Diuron8 Selective systemic herbicide used to control broad leaf weeds and grasses. X X Metribuzin Herbicide used to control certain broadleaf weeds and grassy weed species. X Ametryn Herbicide which inhibits photosynthesis and other enzymatic processes. It is used to X control broad leaf weeds and annual grasses in pineapple, sugarcane and bananas. Acifluorfen Contact diphenolic ether herbicide used to control broad leaf weeds and grasses, X which can be applied before or after crop emergence. Atrazine8 Herbicide of the triazine class, used to prevent preand post-emergence broad leaf X weeds in crops such as maize (corn) and sugarcane. Asulam Broad-spectrum herbicide used for post-emergent weed control in sugarcane. X Wilmar’s Lowest Wage Rates and Legal Minimum Wage By Country Wilmar lowest monthly wage (excl. piece-rate) Legal minimum wage Palm oil operations Indonesia (Rupiah)9 1,882,900 1,882,90010 Malaysia (Ringgit)11 920 920 Nigeria (Naira) 23,400 18,000 Ghana (Cedi)12 632.88 237.60 Wilmar lowest wage (excl. piece-rate) Legal minimum wage Sugar operations (excluding Australia) Myanmar (Burmese Kyat) 108,000 / month 108,000 / month Indonesia (Rupiah) 3,258,900 / month 3,258,866 / month – PT Duta Sugar International Refinery Indonesia (Rupiah) 3,500,000 / month 3,331,998 / month – PT Jawamanis Refinery New Zealand (NZD) 15.75 / hour 15.75 / hour Wilmar’s Lowest Wage Rates and Legal Minimum Wage – Australia13 Legal minimum wage/ Sugar Industry Award Wilmar Enterprise Wilmar’s employee hour (Australia) minimum wage/hour Agreement rate/hour rate/hour (Effective from 1 July (Effective from 1 July (Effective from 6 Dec 2016 30 June 2017) 2016 30 June 2017) 2015 3 Dec 2016) 2016 2017 Milling general operator level 2 17.70 (AUD) 17.70 (AUD) 24.47 (AUD) 24.47 (AUD)* Distilling and services operator level 2 17.70 (AUD) 17.70 (AUD) 24.47 (AUD) 24.47 (AUD)* Cultivation/cane production level 1 17.70 (AUD) 19.21 (AUD) Not Applicable 21.12 (AUD)** Legal minimum wage/ Sugar Industry Award Wilmar Enterprise Wilmar’s employee hour (Australia) minimum wage/hour Agreement rate/hour rate/hour (Effective from 1 July (Effective from 1 July (Effective from 4 Dec 2017 2018 2017 30 June 2018) 2017 30 June 2018) 2016 2 Dec 2017) Milling general operator level 2 18.29 (AUD) 18.29 (AUD) 25.08 (AUD) 25.08 (AUD)*** Distilling and services operator level 2 18.29 (AUD) 18.29 (AUD) 25.08 (AUD) 25.08 (AUD)*** Cultivation/cane production level 1 18.29 (AUD) 19.84 (AUD) Not Applicable 21.12 (AUD)**** 8 Strict controls in place for when and how much can be applied for Australia operations. 9 Indonesia’s 2017 list of legal minimum wages in different provinces can be accessed at wageindicator.org 10 This refers to the lowest legal minimum wage listed among the provinces where Wilmar has oil palm operations. 11 For Sabah and Sarawak. 12 Ghana’s minimum wage is based on a daily wage of 8 Cedi. To calculate the monthly national minimum wage, we have multiplied this daily wage by 27 working days. 13 Minimum wage is updated by Fairwork annually, taking effect from 1 July each year. The Sugar Industry Award is updated at the same time. * Effective from 6 Dec 2015 3 Dec 2016. ** Effective from 1 July 2016 30 June 2017. *** Effective from 6 Dec 2016 3 Dec 2017. **** Effective from 6 Dec 2017 3 Dec 2018. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 91 Moving Forward Together Breakdown of Wilmar Employees by Gender Plantations, Mills, Refineries FY2017 Males Females Number of male and female employees (palm oil operations) Sabah 3,932 2,378 Sarawak 1,601 1,028 Central Kalimantan 10,604 3,984 West Kalimantan 4,478 1,280 Sumatra 10,590 3,365 Ghana14 517 40 Nigeria 1,604 821 Total 33,326 12,896 Number of male and female employees (sugar operations) Australia 1,928 426 New Zealand 185 39 Indonesia 621 24 Myanmar14 843 255 Total 3,577 744 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (Plantations) FY2017 FY2016 FY201515 FY2014 FY2013 LTIFR palm oil plantations (per 200,000 working hours) Sabah 0.54 1.01 1.37 2.33 Sarawak 3.21 2.96 7.82 8.60 Central Kalimantan 2.82 4.18 5.27 6.56 West Kalimantan 1.54 1.06 0.79 0.09 Sumatra 5.90 6.10 7.06 4.12 Ghana 0.23 0.47 0.26 Nigeria 5.00 5.40 LTIFR palm oil plantations (per 200,000 working hours) Australia 2.3 0 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (Mills) FY2017 FY2016 FY201515 FY2014 FY2013 LTIFR palm oil mills (per 200,000 working hours) Sabah 1.99 2.66 3.99 3.44 Sarawak 2.15 2.15 0.84 4.01 Central Kalimantan 1.55 1.18 1.01 3.62 West Kalimantan 0.70 0.16 0.51 0.75 Sumatra 0.67 0.67 0.84 0.33 Ghana 0.78 0.53 0.18 LTIFR sugar mills (per 200,000 working hours) Australia 1.09 14 Figures exclude number of women and men in temporary workforce as gender data was not available for temporary workers. 15 In the course of compiling data for our Sustainability Report 2015, we discovered that methodology for collating incidents differed across our sites, with some sites using national or regional thresholds for reporting, and others using international Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards. Due to these inconsistencies, we have excluded LTIFR reporting in our 2015 report. We resumed LTIFR reporting in our Sustainability Report 2016 after setting a more consistent reporting standard across the Group. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 92 Moving Forward Together Fatalities FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 Fatalities – Plantations (Palm oil and sugarcane) Sabah 1 1 1 1 0 1 Sarawak 0 0 0 0 1 0 Central Kalimantan 0 0 1 1 0 0 West Kalimantan 0 0 0 0 0 0 Sumatra 2 0 0 0 0 1 Ghana 0 0 0 0 Nigeria 0 0 0 Australia 0 0 0 Myanmar 0 0 0 Fatalities – Mills (Palm oil and sugar) Sabah 0 0 0 0 0 1 Sarawak 0 0 0 0 0 1 Central Kalimantan 1 0 0 0 0 0 West Kalimantan 0 0 0 0 0 0 Sumatra 1 0 2 0 0 1 Ghana 0 0 0 0 Nigeria 0 0 0 Australia 0 0 0 Myanmar 0 1 0 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 93 Moving Forward Together Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a multi-stakeholder standard for sustainability reporting, providing guidance on determining report content and indicators. GRI is the first and most widely adopted global standard for sustainability reporting and has been designed to enhance the global comparability and quality of information on environmental and social impacts, thereby enabling greater transparency and accountability of organisations. Sustainability reporting based on the GRI Standards should provide a balanced and reasonable representation of an organisation’s positive and negative contributions towards the goal of sustainable development. There are two options for preparing a report in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core and Comprehensive. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Disclosure Page or reason for omission Organisational Profile 102-1 Name of organisation About Wilmar 9 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About Wilmar 9-13 Annual Report 2017 26-33 102-3 Location of headquarters About Wilmar 9 102-4 Location of operations About Wilmar 9-11 Palm oil operations 17-19 Sugar operations 20 102-5 Ownership and legal form About Wilmar 9 102-6 Markets served About Wilmar 9-13 Annual Report 2017 26-33 102-7 Scale of the organisation About Wilmar 9-15 Palm oil operations 17-19 Sugar operations 20 Annual Report 2017 inside front cover and 120-185 102-8 Information on employees and other workers About Wilmar 9-11, 15 No exploitation of people and local communities 69-71, 74 Base data 91 102-9 Supply chain Palm oil operations 17-19 Sugar operations 20-22 Supply chain and traceability 32-35 Smallholders support 80-82 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain Annual Report 2017 6-9 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our approach to sustainability 24-44 Note: The HCS Approach and RSPO require a precautionary approach 102-12 External initiatives Our approach to sustainability 24-44 Environment Protecting our environment 45-60 No exploitation of people and local communities 64-68 102-13 Membership of associations Sustainability certification 30-31 Engagement and empowerment 37-38 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Statement from the Board 4-5 Annual Report 2017 6-9 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Scope and boundary 1-3 Our approach to sustainability 24-44 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Ethical policies and grievance mechanisms 44 Our approach to sustainability 24-44 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Ethical policies and grievance mechanisms 44 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 94 Moving Forward Together GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Disclosure Page or reason for omission Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate governance 16 Sustainability management and governance structure 28-29 102-19 Delegating authority Sustainability management and governance structure 28-29 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and Sustainability management and governance social topics structure 28-29 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and Our approach to sustainability 24-44 social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its Corporate governance 16 committees Annual Report 2017 16-25, 53-72 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate governance 16 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Annual Report 2017 60 102-25 Conflicts of interest Annual Report 2017 53-72 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, Corporate governance 16 and strategy Annual Report 2017 53-72 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Annual Report 2017 60 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Annual Report 2017 51-52 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Corporate governance 16 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Corporate governance 16 102-35 Remuneration policies Annual Report 2017 61-64 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Annual Report 2017 61-64 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Scope and boundary 1-3 Sustainability management and governance structure 28-29 Supply chain and traceability 32-36 Engagement and empowerment 37-38 Aggregator Refinery Transformation 39-43 Environment Protecting our environment 47-51 No exploitation of people and local communities 64-68, 80-85 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Freedom of association and union relations 75-76 Note: Percentage of employees covered not currently available. We will review whether to proceed with collection of this data in 2018. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Scope and boundary 1-3 Supply chain and traceability 32-36 Engagement and empowerment 37-38 Aggregator Refinery Transformation 39-43 Environment Protecting our environment 47-51 No exploitation of people and local communities 64-68, 80-85 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Scope and boundary 1-3 Supply chain and traceability 32-36 Engagement and empowerment 37-38 Aggregator Refinery Transformation 39-43 Environment Protecting our environment 47-51 No exploitation of people and local communities 64-68, 80-85 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Scope and boundary 1-3 Supply chain and traceability 32-36 Engagement and empowerment 37-38 Aggregator Refinery Transformation 39-43 Environment Protecting our environment 47-51 No exploitation of people and local communities 64-68, 80-85 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 95 Moving Forward Together GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Disclosure Page or reason for omission Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual Report 2017 182-185 Scope and boundary 1-3 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Scope and boundary 1-3 102-47 List of material topics Scope and boundary 1-3 102-48 Restatements of information No restatements were made in this report 102-49 Changes in reporting Scope and boundary 1-3 102-50 Reporting period Scope and boundary 1-3 102-51 Date of most recent report Scope and boundary 1-3 Statement of the Board 4-5 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contact Us 105 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Scope and boundary 1-3 GRI Index 93 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index 93-100 102-56 External assurance EY Assurance Statement 101-102 Material Topics GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reason for omission ECONOMIC Economic Performance GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary About Wilmar 9-16 Approach 2016 Annual Report 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components About Wilmar 9-16 Annual Report 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach About Wilmar 9-16 Annual Report 2017 GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed About Wilmar 9-16 Performance 2016 Annual Report 2017 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 54-57 opportunities due to climate change CDP submission 2017 Market Presence GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary No exploitation of people and local Approach 2016 communities 64-76 103-2 The management approach and its components No exploitation of people and local communities 64-76 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach No exploitation of people and local communities 64-76 GRI 202: Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Scope and boundary 1 2016 compared to local minimum wage No exploitation of people and local communities 64-76 Base data 90 Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Smallholders support 80-82 Approach 2016 Supporting community development 83-85 103-2 The management approach and its components Our targets 7-8 Engagement and empowerment 37-38 Ethical policies and grievance mechanisms 44 Smallholders support 80-82 Community relations and conflict resolution 83 Supporting community development 83-85 Annual Report 2017 43 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Smallholders support 80-82 Supporting community development 83-85 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 96 Moving Forward Together Material Topics GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reason for omission GRI 203: Indirect Economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Smallholders support 80-82 Impacts 2016 Supporting community development 83-85 Annual Report 2017 43 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Our approach to sustainability 24-27 Smallholders support 80-82 Procurement Practices GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Smallholders support 80-82 Approach 2016 Aggregator Refinery Transformation 46-51 103-2 The management approach and its components Smallholders support 80-82 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Smallholders support 80-82 Aggregator Refinery Transformation 39-43 GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Smallholders support 80-82 Practices 2016 Aggregator Refinery Transformation 39-43 Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Ethical policies and grievance mechanisms 44 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Ethical policies and grievance mechanisms 44 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Ethical policies and grievance mechanisms 44 ENVIRONMENTAL Materials GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary About Wilmar 9-16 Approach 2016 Palm oil operations 17-19 Sugar operations 20-22 103-2 The management approach and its components About Wilmar 9-16 Palm oil operations 17-19 Sugar operations 20-22 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach About Wilmar 9-16 Palm oil operations 17-19 Sugar operations 20-22 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume About Wilmar 9-16 Palm oil operations 17-19 Sugar operations 20-22 Water GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Safeguarding water quality 58-60 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Safeguarding water quality 58-60 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Safeguarding water quality 58-60 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Safeguarding water quality 58-60 Biodiversity GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our approach to sustainability 24-31 Approach 2016 Environment Protecting our environment 45-62 103-2 The management approach and its components Our approach to sustainability 24-31 Environment Protecting our environment 45-62 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our approach to sustainability 24-31 Environment Protecting our environment 45-62 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or Environment Protecting our environment adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 45-62 biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and Environment Protecting our environment services on biodiversity 45-62 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Environment Protecting our environment 45-62 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation Refer to Sustainability Report 2011 46 list species with habitats in areas affected by operations Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 97 Moving Forward Together Material Topics GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reason for omission Emissions GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 54-57 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Our targets 7-8 Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 54-57 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 54-57 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Promoting zero burn practices in the oil palm industry 52-53 Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 54-57 CDP submission 2017 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 54-57 CDP submission 2017 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 54-57 CDP submission 2017 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 54-57 CDP submission 2017 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions 54-57 CDP submission 2017 Effluents and Waste GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Safeguarding water quality 58-60 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Safeguarding water quality 58-60 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Safeguarding water quality 58-60 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Safeguarding water quality 58-60 Waste 2016 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/ Safeguarding water quality 58-60 or runoff Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our approach to sustainability 24-44 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Our targets 7-8 Our approach to sustainability 24-44 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our approach to sustainability 24-44 GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Our targets 7-8 Environmental Assessment environmental criteria Achievements in 2017 6 2016 Sustainability certification 30-31 Supply chain and traceability 32-36 Aggregator Refinery Transformation 39-43 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply Our targets 7-8 chain and actions taken Achievements in 2017 6 Sustainability certification 30-31 Supply chain and traceability 32-36 Aggregator Refinery Transformation 39-43 Ethical policies and grievance mechanisms 44 No Deforestation and forest conservation 46-51 No exploitation of people and local communities 64-85 SOCIAL Employment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary No exploitation of people and local Approach 2016 communities 64-79 103-2 The management approach and its components Our approach to sustainability 25 No exploitation of people and local communities 64-79 Annual Report 2017 48-49 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach No exploitation of people and local communities 64-79 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 98 Moving Forward Together Material Topics GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reason for omission GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Scope and boundary 1-3 not provided to temporary or part-time employees No exploitation of people and local communities 64-79 Supporting community development 83-85 Annual Report 2017 48-49 Labour/Management Relations GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary No exploitation of people and local Approach 2016 communities 64-79 103-2 The management approach and its components No exploitation of people and local communities 64-79 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach No exploitation of people and local communities 64-79 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary No exploitation of people and local Approach 2016 communities 64-68 Accidents, Severity Rate and Fatalities 77-79 103-2 The management approach and its components No exploitation of people and local communities 64-68 Accidents, Severity Rate and Fatalities 77-79 Occupational Health & Safety Policy Wilmar Sugar Environment, Health & Safety Policy Wilmar Sugar Injury Management Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach No exploitation of people and local communities 64-68 Accidents, Severity Rate and Fatalities 77-79 GRI 403: Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Reducing our use of chemicals 61-62 Health and Safety 2016 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number Accidents, Severity Rate and Fatalities 77-79 of work-related fatalities Base data 91-92 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of Reducing our use of chemicals 61-62 diseases related to their occupation Accidents, Severity Rate and Fatalities 77-79 Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary No exploitation of people and local Approach 2016 communities 65 Non-discrimination 71 Annual Report 2017 48 103-2 The management approach and its components No exploitation of people and local communities 65 Non-discrimination 71 Annual Report 2017 48 Equal Opportunity Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach No exploitation of people and local communities 65 Non-discrimination 71 GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees No exploitation of people and local Equal Opportunity 2016 communities 65 Non-discrimination 71 Annual Report 2017 48 Non-discrimination GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary No exploitation of people and local Approach 2016 communities 65 Non-discrimination 71 Annual Report 2017 48 103-2 The management approach and its components No exploitation of people and local communities 65 Non-discrimination 71 Annual Report 2017 48 Equal Opportunity Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach No exploitation of people and local communities 65 Non-discrimination 71 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 99 Moving Forward Together Material Topics GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reason for omission Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary No exploitation of people and local Approach 2016 communities 64-67 Bonded labour 74 Employee engagement and complaints mechanisms 75 Freedom of association and union relations 75-76 103-2 The management approach and its components No exploitation of people and local communities 64-67 Bonded labour 74 Employee engagement and complaints mechanisms 75 Freedom of association and union relations 75-76 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach No exploitation of people and local communities 64-67 Freedom of association and union relations 75-76 GRI 407: Freedom of 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to Freedom of association and union relations Association and Collective freedom of association and collective bargaining 75-76 Bargaining may be at risk Child Labour GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary No exploitation of people and local Approach 2016 communities 64-67 Protecting and supporting children’s welfare 72-73 103-2 The management approach and its components No exploitation of people and local communities 64-67 Protecting and supporting children’s welfare 72-73 Child Protection Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach No exploitation of people and local communities 64-67 Protecting and supporting children’s welfare 72-73 GRI 408: Child Labour 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Scope and boundary 1-3 incidents of child labour Protecting and supporting children’s welfare 72-73 Forced or Compulsory Labour GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary No exploitation of people and local Approach 2016 communities 64-67 Bonded labour 74 103-2 The management approach and its components No exploitation of people and local communities 64-67 Bonded labour 74 Human Rights Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach No exploitation of people and local communities 64-67 Bonded labour 74 GRI 409: Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Bonded labour 74 Compulsory Labour 2016 incidents of forced or compulsory labour Rights of Indigenous Peoples GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Community relations and conflict resolution 83 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Community relations and conflict resolution 83 NDPE Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Community relations and conflict resolution 83 GRI 411: Rights of 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of Community relations and conflict resolution 83 Indigenous Peoples indigenous peoples Ethical policies and grievance mechanisms 44 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 100 Moving Forward Together Material Topics GRI Standard Disclosure Page or reason for omission Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary No exploitation of people and local Approach 2016 communities 64-68 103-2 The management approach and its components No exploitation of people and local communities 64-68 Human Rights Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach No exploitation of people and local communities 64-68 GRI 412: Human Rights 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights No exploitation of people and local Assessment 2016 reviews or impact assessments communities 64-68 Ethical policies and grievance mechanisms 44 Local Communities GRI 413: Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Smallholders support 80-82 2016 impact assessments, and development Community relations and conflict resolution 83 programmes Supporting community development 83-85 Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our approach to sustainability 24-29 Approach 2016 Aggregator Refinery Transformation 39-43 No exploitation of people and local communities 64-68 103-2 The management approach and its components Aggregator Refinery Transformation 39-43 No exploitation of people and local communities 64-68 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Aggregator Refinery Transformation 39-43 No exploitation of people and local communities 64-68 GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and Aggregator Refinery Transformation 39-43 Assessment 2016 actions taken Ethical policies and grievance mechanisms 44 No exploitation of people and local communities 64-68 Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 101 Moving Forward Together Independent Limited Assurance Statement INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT IN CONNECTION WITH THE SUBJECT MATTERS INCLUDED IN THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OF WILMAR INTERNATIONAL LIMITED We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the Subject Matters set out in the Subject Matters section below. These Subject Matters are included in the attached Sustainability Report of Wilmar International Limited (‘Wilmar’) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 (‘the Sustainability Report’). Subject Matters Our limited assurance engagement covers the following Subject Matters: No Material Matter Information for Assurance Scope for Palm Oil segment Scope for Sugar segment 1 Access to education & % of compulsory school going age Plantations Indonesia, Malaysia, Plantations Australia, Myanmar schooling facilities children living in Wilmar’s plantations Ghana, Nigeria who attend Wilmar school 2 Supplier / supply chain Process undertaken for the Mills Indonesia, Malaysia N.A. N.A. monitoring; Aggregator Refinery Transformation (ART) programme and Mill Supply chain Prioritisation Process (MPP) 3 transformation % traceability back to mills Mill: Origin Indonesia, Malaysia N.A. N.A. facilities 4 Deforestation/HCS/ Size of HCV and HCS areas Plantations Indonesia, Malaysia, N.A. N.A. HCV (in 2017 as compared to 2009) Ghana, Nigeria 5 GHG Emissions Annual emission reduction from Mills Indonesia, Malaysia, N.A. N.A. methane gas capture from POME Ghana, Nigeria 6 Corporate No. of grievance incidences registered Plantations Indonesia, Malaysia, Plantations Australia, Myanmar governance, ethics per nature and actions taken & Mills Ghana, Nigeria & Mills and anti-corruption; Refineries Indonesia, Malaysia Refineries Australia, New Transparency and Zealand, Indonesia accountability 7 Community relations & No. of social conflicts* under Plantations Indonesia, Malaysia, Plantations Australia, Myanmar conflict resolution grievance incidents and actions taken & Mills Ghana, Nigeria & Mills Refineries Indonesia, Malaysia Refineries Australia, New (part of selected disclosure no. 6) Zealand, Indonesia *Social conflicts are defined by Wilmar as relating to land disputes with local communities. 8 Sustainability No. of mills and % of planted areas Plantations Indonesia, Malaysia, Plantations Australia, Myanmar certification certified under RSPO and national & Mills Ghana, Nigeria & Mills standards (such as ISPO standards and MSPO standards) A hash symbol (#) in the Sustainability Report denotes statements and Auditor’s Independence and Quality Control claims on which we have performed limited assurance procedures. We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority Management’s and Board of Directors’ (ACRA) Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for Public responsibility Accountants and Accounting Entities (ACRA Code), which is founded The Management is responsible for the preparation of the Subject on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional Matters in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Sustainability Reporting Standards. The Board has ultimate responsibility for the company’s sustainability reporting. Our firm applies Singapore Standards on Quality Control 1 of the Institute of Singapore Chartered Accountants and, accordingly, The Management is responsible for the collection and presentation maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including of the information and for maintaining adequate records and internal documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with controls that are designed to support the sustainability reporting ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and process. For the purpose of the Sustainability Report 2017, there regulatory requirements. are no legally prescribed requirements relating to the verification of sustainability reports. We have the required competencies and experience to conduct this assurance engagement. Our professionals have both the required assurance skills and experience in the applicable subject matters including environmental, social and financial aspects. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 102 Moving Forward Together Auditor’s responsibility 2. Undertake multiple visits to: Our responsibility is to form a conclusion on Wilmar’s preparation of a. Wilmar’s headquarters in Singapore and the Subject Matters based on our work. We performed our work in b. Wilmar’s selected plantations and mills in West Sumatra. accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) (Revised) – Assurance Engagements other than 3. Interviews with and clarifications sought from employees and Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (the “Standard”). Management in Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Ghana and This Standard requires that we plan and perform our work to form Nigeria (e.g. Sustainability team, Human Resources, Estate the conclusion. The extent of our work performed depends on our Managers) to understand key sustainability issues related to professional judgment and our assessment of the engagement risk. the selected indicators, collection processes and accuracy of reporting. For Myanmar, Australia and New Zealand, clarifications Our review was limited to the information on the select indicators set were secured through emails. out within the Report from 01 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 and our responsibility does not include: 4. Conduct process walk-through of systems and processes for data aggregation and reporting, with relevant personnel to understand • Any work in respect of sustainability information published the quality of checks and control mechanisms, assessing and elsewhere in Wilmar’s annual report, website and other testing the controls in relation to the concerned subject matters. publications, • Sustainability information prior to 01 January 2017 and 5. Obtain documentation through sampling methods to subsequent to 31 December 2017, and verify assumptions, estimations and computations made by • Management’s forward looking statements such as targets, plans Management in relation to the concerned subject matters. and intentions. 6. Conduct general media research (including reports from reputable NGOs) on the concerned subject matters. Reporting criteria As a basis for the assurance engagement, we have used the criterion 7. Checking that data and statements had been correctly of “Accuracy” as defined by GRI and specific criteria determined transcribed from corporate systems and / or supporting evidence, by Wilmar as being relevant for its sustainability performance. We in relation to concerned subject matters. consider these reporting criteria to be relevant and appropriate to review the Report. Observations and areas for improvement Our observations and areas for improvement will be raised in a Assurance standard used and level of separate report to Wilmar’s Board of Directors and Management. assurance These observations and areas for improvement do not affect our Our limited assurance engagement has been planned and performed conclusion on the aforementioned Subject Matters included in the in accordance with the ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagement Other Than Sustainability Report. Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Other matters A limited assurance engagement consists of making enquiries and Our responsibility in performing our limited assurance activities applying analytical and other review procedures. Our procedures is to the Management of Wilmar only and in accordance with the were designed to provide a limited level of assurance and as such terms of reference agreed with them. We do not accept or assume do not provide all the evidence that would be required to provide a any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or reasonable level of assurance. organisation. Any reliance any such third party may place on the Report is entirely at their own risk. The procedures performed depend on our judgement including the risk of material misstatement of the specific activity data, whether due to fraud or error. While we considered the effectiveness of Conclusion Management’s internal controls when determining the nature and Based on the procedures performed and evidence obtained, extent of our procedures, our review was not designed to provide nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the assurance on internal controls. We believe that the evidence we information in the Report was not presented fairly, and calculated in have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our all material respects in accordance with the reporting criteria detailed conclusion. above. What we did to form our conclusions We designed our procedures in order to state whether anything has come to our attention to suggest that the Subject Matters detailed above has not been reported in accordance with the reporting criteria cited earlier. In order to form our conclusions, we undertook the steps below: Ernst & Young LLP Signed for Ernst & Young LLP by 1. Inquiries with Wilmar’s Sustainability team to: a. Understand principal business operations, K Sadashiv b. Appreciate key sustainability issues and developments, Managing Director, Climate Change and Sustainability Services c. Map out information flow for sustainability reporting and the relevant controls, Singapore, 30 April 2018 d. Identify data providers with their responsibilities, and e. Recognise the likelihood of fraud on the sustainability information. 1 International Federation of Accountants’ International Standard on Assurance Engagements for Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000) Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 103 Moving Forward Together Glossary Bagasse The dry, fibrous matter that remains after the extraction of juice from sugarcane. Biodiversity The diversity (number and variety of species) of plant and animal life. Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) The amount of oxygen used when organic matter undergoes decomposition by micro-organisms. Testing for BOD is done to assess the amount of organic matter in water. Bonsucro A global standard for responsible sugarcane production aimed at creating lasting value for people, communities, businesses, economies and eco-systems in all cane-growing areas. CO2 Equivalents Carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2 eq) provide a universal standard of measurement against which the impacts of releasing (or avoiding the release of) different greenhouse gases can be evaluated. Effluents Water discharged from one source into a separate body of water, such as mill process water. Extraction rate The amount of oil extracted from oil palm fruit at a mill. Crude palm oil (CPO) is extracted from the flesh; palm kernel oil (PKO) from the nut. Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) FPIC is the principle that a community has the right to give or withhold its consent to proposed projects that may affect the lands they customarily own, occupy or otherwise use. Fresh fruit bunch (FFB) Bunch harvested from the oil palm tree. The weight of the fruit bunch ranges between 10 kg to 40 kg depends on the size and age. High Conservation Values (HCVs) HCVs are biological, ecological, social or cultural values which are considered outstandingly significant or critically important, at the national, regional or global level. High Carbon Stock Approach (HCS Approach) The HCS Approach is a methodology to avoid deforestation in land development, initially developed in a partnership between Greenpeace, TFT and Golden Agri-Resources. The approach stratifies the vegetation on an area of land into different classes using analyses of satellite images and field plot measurements. Each vegetation class is validated through calibrating it with carbon stock estimates in the above-ground tree biomass. Independent Director According to the Listing Manual of SGX, an independent director is one who has no relationship with the company, its related corporations (i.e. a corporation that is the company’s holding company, subsidiary or fellow subsidiary), its 10% shareholders or its officers that could interfere, or be reasonably perceived to interfere, with the exercise of the director’s independent business judgement with a view to the best interests of the company. Independent smallholder Small growers with less than 50 hectares, which are self-financed, managed, and equipped and are not bound to any one mill. They may deal directly with local mill operators of their choice or process their own palm oil using personal or community manual palm oil presses (more common in Africa). Integrated Pest Management (IPM) IPM is the careful consideration of all available pest control techniques and subsequent integration of appropriate measures that discourage the development of pest populations and keep pesticides and other interventions to levels that are economically justified and reduce or minimise risks to human health and the environment. IPM emphasises the growth of a healthy crop with the least possible disruption to agro-ecosystems and encourages natural pest control mechanisms. Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 104 Moving Forward Together International Labour Organization (ILO) Is a tripartite world body representative of labour, management and government, and is an agency of the United Nations. It disseminates labour information and sets minimum international labour standards called “conventions”, offered to member nations for adoption. Land application In the context of Wilmar’s palm oil operations, land application refers to wastewater from FFB processing at Wilmar’s mills (POME) applied to land as a fertiliser. Mass Balance The Mass Balance system allows for mixing of RSPO certified and non-certified palm oil at any stage in the supply chain provided that overall company quantities are controlled. The mass balance model is constructed in such a way that volumes of RSPO certified product shipped will never exceed volumes received by the end-user. Non-executive director A board director who does not currently hold other employment with the company. Unlike an independent director, a non-executive can have significant financial interests or close personal ties to the company. Non-governmental organisation (NGO) Is used in this report to refer to grassroots and campaigning organisations focused on environmental or social issues. Palm oil mill effluent (POME) By-product of processed fresh fruit bunch (FFB). Peat and Peatland Peat is an accumulation of partially decayed vegetation matter. Peat forms in wetlands or peat lands, variously called bogs, moors, muskegs, pocosins, mires, and peat swamp forests. Land with soil having more than 65% organic matter is considered peatland. Plasma schemes A programme initiated by the Indonesian government to encourage the development of smallholders’ plantations with the assistance and cooperation of plantation companies (the nucleus) which assist and support the surrounding community plantations (the plasma). Raw Sugar Sugar that still contains molasses, giving it more colour (and impurities) than white sugar. Mills produce raw sugar, and white sugar is produced during the refining phase. River discharge In the context of Wilmar’s palm oil operations, river discharge refers to wastewater from FFB processing at Wilmar’s mills (POME) released into local rivers. Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) A multi-stakeholder organisation based in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The organisation has developed a certification scheme for sustainable palm oil. Segregation The Segregation supply chain model assures that RSPO-certified palm oil and its derivatives delivered to the end-user come only from RSPO-certified sources. It permits the mixing of RSPO-certified palm oil from a variety of sources. Singapore Exchange (SGX) The Singapore Exchange is Asia’s leading market infrastructure, operating equity, fixed income and derivatives markets to the highest regulatory standards. SGX is a member of the World Federation of Exchanges and the Asian and Oceanian Stock Exchanges Federation. Stakeholders Any group or individual who are affected by or can affect a company’s operations. Sustainability A term expressing a long-term balance between social, economic and environmental objectives. Often linked to sustainable development, which is defined as “development that meets the need of current generations without compromising the needs of future generations”. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) A set of 17 global goals with the aim to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. Each goal has specific targets to be achieved over the next 15 years. The goals build on the Millennium Development Goals, while including new areas such as climate change, economic inequality, innovation, sustainable consumption, peace and justice, among other priorities. For more information, please see https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/ Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2017 105 Moving Forward Together Contact Us We welcome suggestions on improvements to ensure that we remain cognisant, responsive and inclusive. If you have any comments or questions on the contents of this report or on our sustainability performance, we welcome your contribution. Please contact us: by email: csr@wilmar.com.sg by post: Wilmar International Limited 56 Neil Road, Singapore 088830 Attention to: Sustainability Department To report a grievance or complaint regarding our sustainability commitments, please refer to www.wilmar-international.com/sustainability/grievance-procedure/ WILMAR INTERNATIONAL LIMITED Co. Reg. No. 199904785Z 56 Neil Road Singapore 088830 t. (65) 6216 0244 www.wilmar-international.com
