CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 We are aware of the many challenges facing our society. But we also see the many encouraging initiatives and steps through which we are increasingly developing into a sustainable company. In our videos, we introduce people who get things moving because they inspire others, because they make a valuable contribution to securing our planet, because they actively promote local value creation, and because they build and maintain partnerships. This is more than a challenge it is a great opportunity! When Bilal Nasir plans shopping, he usually thinks in big dimensions. As the person responsible for the international procurement of frozen products of METRO’s own brands, he is responsible for the selection of goods and works closely with producers, manufacturers and partner companies. Bilal quickly realised that this interface was perfectly suited to becoming active on a sustainable basis but not at first what his commitment should look like in concrete terms. The impetus came from the METRO Sustainable Leadership Program, which Bilal joined in 2017: “My goal is to strengthen the sustainability network and to inspire more and more people to take on responsibility also in their daily work”. In Farm Frites, a specialist for potato products, he has found a committed partner for his project. Together with the family business from Oudenhoorn, Bilal has set himself the goal of making the value chain of frozen fries from the field to production Food waste is a pressing problem in many countries. In Turkey, and packaging more sustainable. “French fries are an internamoreover, it is still relatively unnoticed even though the losses tionally sought-after product. They are distributed by us in 23 can be quantified in very concrete terms: Up to 80% of the food countries that is an enormous lever! As said: Big dimensions. that can no longer be sold ends up in the garbage without any View video online further benefit an alarming amount. METRO Turkey wants to put an end to this waste. Tülay Özel is one of the protagonists in the commitment to the responsible use of valuable resources. As Head of Quality Assurance at METRO Istanbul, she sees her responsibility in ensuring not only the safety of food but also the availability of sustainable products and thus contributing to the protection of the environment. The start-up Whole Surplus, with which the Turkish wholesale stores have been cooperating since 2018, offers more than just professional support but also genuine partnership. Among other things, the young company has developed a digital platform that helps, food easily being distributed to food bank organisations and other social institutions as well as to resellers shortly before the expiration date. First results? More than promising! View video online METRO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 / 18 The “Nurtured with care in Bulgaria” programme is tailor-made for regional, independent entrepreneurs: It combines demand from the gastronomy sector with supply from the agricultural sector. Georgi Garnevski, responsible for food sourcing at METRO Bulgaria, is rightly proud of the programme, which he and his team have been supporting and developing since 2016. More than 200 farmers are already participating in “Nurtured with care in Bulgaria” and the trend is rising. They supply METRO wholesale stores in 11 cities with around 113 different types of fruit and vegetables. Cheese and honey are now also part of the regional portfolio, which is clearly marked with its own logo for customers to see. The undisputed star of the programme is the “Pink Tomato” a type of tomato that thrives exclusively in Bulgaria and particularly splendidly in the fields of farmer Krasimir Uchitelski. The fact that he can sell his entire annual harvest speaks both for the quality of his fruit and for that of the programme. Local added value at its best. View video online Benjamin Gelats, Division Manager at METRO in Bobigny, and François Dechy, Managing Director of the catering and social enterprise Baluchon, are far more than mere business partners. The two are united by the firm conviction that cooperation in a spirit of partnership is essential if social challenges are to be met sustainably. Their commitment is as diverse as it is networking: Baluchon is not only active in catering, but is also committed to the training and integration of people without employment in areas such as kitchen and logistics a model on which François Dechy also advises other companies. Together with METRO, Baluchon is also involved in food donations. However, Benjamin Gelats and François Dechy do not only maintain the regular exchange bilaterally. In order to inspire others, to come up with new ideas and to further expand the network of retailers, the two are also active at the annual colloquium “My restaurant goes green” organized by METRO France. Because they know that the industry can only change if many contribute together. View video online WHAT MOVES OUR CUSTOMERS DRIVES US. IN OUR CONSTANTLY CHANGING WORLD, WE ALSO NEVER STAND STILL. THIS YEAR’S CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT THEREFORE BEARS THE TITLE WE ARE ON THE MOMOVE. VE. 1 LETTER FROM THE 45 RESPONSIBILITY @ REAL MANA MANAGEMENT GEMENT BO BOARDARD 45 Sus Sustainability tainability appr approach oach RReal eal 2 METRO SUS SUST TAINABLE 46 Pr Product oduct rrange ange field of action 50 Emplo Employ yees field of action 2 Busines Businesss model 52 En Envir vironment onment field of action 3 Global challenges 55 Cus Custtomers and society field of action 4 Our fr frame amew work 6 20 matteriality analy 18 ma 2018 analysis sis 9 Sus Sustainable tainable V alue Cr Value Crea tion model eation 57 KEY PERFORMANCE 10 Sus tainability appr Sustainability oach approach INDICAT INDICA TORS 11 Embedding sus sustainability tainability 58 Compan ompany y 12 Sus Sustainability tainability management 59 Empo Empow wer PPeople eople 13 Stak takeholder eholder rrela elations tions 65 Secur Securee Planet 14 Sus indices tainability indic Sustainability es and rrankings ankings 69 Unf Unfold old Pr Prosperity osperity 69 Enhanc Enhance eP Partnership artnership 15 RESPONSIBILITY @ METRO 15 Empo Empow wer P eople People 70 GRI AND UN GL GLOBAL OBAL 24 Secur Secure e Planet OMPA COMP ACT 32 Unf Unfold Prosperity old Pr osperity 70 GRI SStandar tandards ds C Cont ontent ent inde index x 39 Enhanc Enhance ePPartnership artnership 91 Unit United ed Na Nations tions Global CCompact ompact 97 ABOUT THIS REPORT 99 As Assur ance suranc eRReport eport 1 Letter from the Management Board DEAR READER, We herewith publish the first comprehensive Corpowe intensified our commitment to sustainability, rate Responsibility Report of the new METRO. At the successfully continued existing activities and same time, we look back on an eventful year in which launched new initiatives We used the new beginning of our company to ship Program are platforms for lively dialogue – also sharpen our sustainability approach METRO Sustainwith customers and partners. able and to interlink it even more closely with our This once again shows that our business thrives on group strategy. In our areas of responsibility the people who work for and with us – as does our Empower People, Secure Planet, Unfold Prosperity commitment to sustainability. The fact that we have and Enhance Partnership we contribute through taken the right direction on this common path is also numerous activities to making trade more sustainable confirmed by external sources: in 2018, METRO AG along the value chain. This is because we are aware was awarded for the fourth consecutive time as best that we can only secure the core of our business and in its industry in the internationally renowned Dow that of our customers in the long term if we treat Jones Sustainability Index World as well as in the resources with respect, protect our planet and European comparative ranking. assume responsibility together with our partners In the year under review, we again conducted a along the entire value chain. materiality analysis in order to determine which The 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the topics we will continue to focus on in the future in the United Nations and the 10 principles of the United interests of our stakeholders. For the first time, we Nations Global Compact form our framework for also quantified in monetary terms the economic, action. ecological and social effects of the activities along In the past financial year, however, we made the value chain of our wholesale business. The results important progress not only in strategic terms, but are not only a valuable basis and a benchmark for our also at operational level for instance with our actions, they also make clear that sustainability is a customer solutions against food waste and plastic necessity and an important lever to make our core waste. As these are critical challenges for the busibusiness and that of our customers successful and fit ness success of our customers we center these at the for the future. With METRO Sustainable inside we core of our doing. That said, we are particularly proud are making sustainability a matter of course – and at of the fact that our commitment to sustainability and the same time something quite extraordinary. the search for solutions to pressing social challenges We are on the move. This is more than just a chalhas long since ceased to be the preserve of just a few. lenge – it is a great opportunity! Our sustainability community is growing: in 2018 we celebrated our 4th Sustainability Day by and for Let us inspire you! employees in almost all countries in which METRO operates. Events such as our Food4Future Summit as The Management Board of METRO AG well as our established METRO Sustainable LeaderMETRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 2 METRO Sustainable Business model METRO SUS SUST TAINABLE BUSINES BUSINESS S MODEL group with 279 hypermarkets across Germany. Real forms the principal element of the discontinued business segment in the context of the decision of the METRO is a leading international specialist company Management Board of METRO AG to dispose of the in the wholesale and modern food retail sector. The department store business. group is headed by METRO AG, which acts as the The group has pooled its digitalisation initiatives central management holding company. It performs in the Others segment. This primarily refers to the group management functions, particularly in the activities of the Hospitality Digital (formerly HoReCa areas of finance, controlling, legal and compliance. Digital) business unit, which was established in 2015. Central management and administrative functions for The unit develops digital solutions for customers in METRO Wholesale are anchored within METRO AG. the hospitality industry and creates interfaces for the The group essentially consists of the 2 sales lines digital products conventionally used by wholesale METRO Wholesale and Real. The wholesale company traders. METRO Wholesale operates more than 769 wholesale The Others segment further includes the service stores across 25 countries. The delivery business companies METRO PROPERTIES, METRO LOGISTICS, (Food Service Distribution, FSD) is also part of this METRO-NOM (formerly METRO SYSTEMS), METRO sales line, with companies like METRO Delivery ADVERTISING and METRO SOURCING. These compaService and the delivery specialists Classic Fine nies provide real estate, logistics, IT, advertising and Foods, Pro à Pro and Rungis Express. The retail procurement services within the group. company Real constitutes the second sales line of the OVER VERVIEW VIEW OF METRO METRO METRO Real1 Others2 Wholesale METRO METRO METRO Wholesale Wholesale METRO METRO METRO Wholesale Hospitality Digital Western Eastern Wholesale Wholesale Wholesale Others/ METRO PROPERTIES Europe Europe Germany Russia Asia consoliOther service companies (excluding (excluding dations Germany) Russia) 1 Primarily includes discontinued operations. 2 Includes both continuing and discontinued operations. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 201717 / 18 3 METRO Sustainable Global challenges GL GLOBAL OBAL CHALLENGES 50% more food, animal feed and biofuels in 2050 than in 2012. Because with increasing prosperity, eating habits change as well. There will be an increase The global challenges which our society is facing also in the need for meat, for example, the production of have an impact on METRO and its segments. After all, which is particularly resource-intensive. our core business is providing high-quality products and services to customers the world over. The basis for this is an intact environment and the availability of resources. 9.7 billion people in 2050 (Source: United Nations) Gr Groowing global popula population tion Global population growth is one of the biggest challenges as it impacts resource consumption, the climate and the food situation. According to forecasts by the United Nations, approximately 9.7 billion 82 Annual increase of people in millions (Source: United Nations) people will live on earth by 2050. In order to meet their needs, agriculture would have to produce nearly INCREA INCREASE SE IN THE GL OBAL POPULA GLOBAL POPULATION TION B BY Y 2050 REQUIRED RE QUIRED INCREA INCREASE SE IN HAR HARVES T YIELD VEST YIELDS SBBY Y 2050 +35% +100% Due to growing prosperity and hence a rising need for animal proteins and energy (University of Minnesota) GRO GROWING WING C CONSUMPTION ONSUMPTION OF RESOURCES 1.7 EARTHS would be required to cover our resource consumption. (WWF) If the current development continues unabated, we would already need 3 planets like the earth by 2050. (Sources: Global Footprint Network, WWF) We already consume considerably more resources we would need 3 planets like the earth to meet the per annum than our planet can provide sustainably. If demand for resources. The pressure on the earth’s this consumption rate continued unabated, by 2050 sustainability is mounting. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 202017 17 / 18 4 METRO Sustainable Global challenges In the long run, METRO can only safeguard the raising awareness of these interrelationships foundations of its business if it manages to separate among our employees (e.g. sustainability day), growth from the resource requirements. Sustainable business partners (e.g. CDP supply chain business for us therefore means improving our ‘foodprogramme water) and customers (e.g. roundtable print’ while minimising our footprint. METRO France). We are working towards this by: In this manner, we generate added value for our improving our procurement processes in terms of customers and help master global challenges in socienvironmental and social criteria, ety as a whole. METRO offers the framework for this making our products and services more with its corporate strategy and its sustainability sustainable and offering efficient solutions to approach METRO Sustainable. The sales lines implesimplify our customers’ business activities, ment their specific approaches at the operational optimising our own processes to use natural level. resources efficiently and responsibly in line with the ‘reduce, reuse, recycle’ principle, and to avoid (food) waste, and METRO C ORPOR ORPORAATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 5 METRO Sustainable Our framework OUR FRAMEWORK of activities and the interrelationships between individual projects and between the individual SDGs mean that our sustainaWe are guided by the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals bility activities contribute to the 17 goals of the global agenda. (SDGs). These form the global framework for our corporate In addition, as a member of the UN Global Compact Initiative, strategy, which is shaped by the sustainability principle. We we integrate the 10 UNGC principles into our work, strategy and have honed our sustainability approach based on the SDGs. Our corporate culture. areas of responsibility – (Empower) People, (Secure) Planet, By taking these frameworks into account, we emphasise our (Unfold) Prosperity and (Enhance) Partnership – support the conduct as a responsible company with global and local operSDGs, particularly Goal 2 (Zero Hunger), Goal 8 (Decent Work ations. We see ourselves as a value-generating part of society and Economic Growth), Goal 12 (Responsible Consumption and and play our part in achieving sustainable development on an Production), Goal 13 (Climate Action) and Goal 17 (Partnerships economic, social and environmental level. for the Goals) and play a part in achieving them. Our wide range METRO PURPOSE It is our purpose to do more for business passionate people – in a responsible way Click to explore METRO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 / 18 6 METRO Sustainable 2018 materiality analysis 2018 20 18 MATERIALITY ANAL MATERIALITY ANALY YSIS Sustainable Development Goals Requirements for various rating systems, including the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) In order to recognise and prioritise early on any mateCompetitors’ materiality analyses rial issues that might constitute opportunities or risks for our business, we performed a materiality analysis The wide range of issues was summarised in a list of in financial year 2017/18, including an extensive survey 27 issues, making sure that each aspect from the of internal stakeholders. complete list appeared in the content of the The material issues for METRO were selected in a condensed list. The issues on this shortlist formed the process that consisted of several steps. The first step basis for the survey. Respondents assessed them in was the generation of a list of non-financial issues relation to 3 aspects: that are relevant to our company or our stakeholder groups. Key sources for this included: What influence the issue has on METRO’s business, financial result or economic situation The standards of the Global Reporting Initiative What influence METRO’s business operations have (GRI) on the issue in question Existing strategies, commitments and guidelines How relevant the issue is for the stakeholders of METRO and its sales lines affected by it EU CSR directive requirements concerning nonfinancial and diversity-related information Fundamental principles and rights at work Human Rights (own operations) Impact of METRO Employment Diversity and Equal Opportunity Human rights and fair working conditions in the supply chain Human Capital Development Supplier development Food Waste (own operations) Marketing and Labeling Environmental impact in the supply chain Sustainable product choices Compliance Packaging Corporate Citizenship, Customer Relationship and Philanthropy and Innovation Management Community Involvement Occupational Health and Safety Customer Privacy Emissions (own operations) Sustainable Economic Performance Water (own operations) Energy (own operations) Solid waste (own operations) Corporate Governance Stakeholder engagement Responsible Public Policy Biodiversity Sustainability impacts management Stakeholder Relevance People Planet Prosperity Partnership Sustainability approach Impact on METRO Our survey was conducted online and via in-person ing partners, the group directors and national sustainand telephone interviews. More than 100 internal ability officers. In order to include the external stakeholders took part and identified and evaluated perspective, participants were also asked to state the issues that were relevant to them. They included which stakeholder group they thought was most representatives of the Supervisory Board, the affected by the issues in question and to give an Management Board, the national boards, the operatimpact level. METRO C ORPOR ORPORAATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 7 METRO Sustainable 2018 materiality analysis Lastly, the results of the assessments and surveys The issues identified as having the highest priority were compiled in a materiality matrix that classifies all were: fundamental principles and rights in the workthe sustainability issues. This matrix combines and place, compliance with human rights in our own busiprioritises all 3 aspects. Issues count as material if ness and human rights and fair working conditions they along the value chain, employability, human capital development, compliance, customer relationship and have a positive or negative effect on METRO’s innovation management, diversity and equal opportubusiness, financial result or situation – for example nities, health and safety at work, data protection, impacts on sales, investments, costs or the supplier development, sustainable economic developcompany’s reputation ment, energy consumption in our own business and are impacted in a positive or negative way by food waste in our own business. These issues can be METRO’s business activities – for example in the allocated to METRO’s sustainability approach and the event of non-compliance with certain laws or corresponding areas of responsibility as follows: environmental or social standards are very important to our stakeholders – for example in relation to purchase or investment decisions Ar Area ea of rresponsibility esponsibility Ma Matterial is issues sues People – we empower people to live a better life Fundamental principles and rights in the workplace Compliance with human rights in our own business and human rights and fair working conditions along the value chain Employability Human capital development Diversity and equal opportunities Health and safety at work Planet – we care about the future of our planet Food waste in our own business Energy consumption in our own business Prosperity – we build a sustainable and prosperous Customer relationship and innovation future management Supplier development Partnership – we leverage the power of communities The materiality analysis did not yield any issues that and partnership were highly relevant to our Partnership area of responsibility. Since we regard collaborative relationships and engaging with external experts to be essential, we continue reporting on our stakeholder engagement. Sustainability approach and responsible corporate Compliance governance Data protection Sustainable economic development The materiality analysis did not yield any issues that to be worth reporting on because of our sustainability were highly relevant to our Partnership area of approach, the updating of goals or interests. These responsibility. However, since we regard collaborative include topics like a sustainable product range relationships and engaging with external experts to composition, packaging, water use and our social be essential for working on our core areas and implecommitment. In addition, we asked the survey particimenting measures, we have decided to continue pants which product categories and product-related reporting on our stakeholder engagement. issues were most important for METRO in terms of This is also how we will proceed with other issues sustainability. The results reveal that the important and aspects which have been identified as less materissues are local products, product safety and certified ial in the materiality analysis, but which we consider products, as well as the fish and seafood, meat and METRO C ORPOR ORPORAATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 202017 17 / 18 8 METRO Sustainable 2018 materiality analysis palm oil categories. We will examine these aspects in vation management, compliance and data protection. greater detail under the Secure Planet and Unfold METRO will continue to conduct stakeholder Prosperity areas of responsibility. surveys as the basis of the materiality analysis. We Some aspects of the material issues are dealt with will also continue the exchange with our stakeholder in the METRO Annual Report 2017/18, so they are not groups at the level of the sales lines and are available presented in depth here. They include issues in the for dialogue via the options provided on our website areas of employees, customer relationship and innoand via our e-mail address CR@metro.de. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 9 METRO Sustainable Sustainable Value Creation model SUST SUS TAINABLE VALUE VAL UE CREA CREATION TION The results of the sustainability balance show us where MODEL negative impacts can be mitigated and positive impacts enhanced. This approach therefore supports our sustainability strategy, creates a nuanced basis for strategic At METRO we aim to measure and understand the decisions and helps secure our company’s long-term impact our business activities have on the value chain. competitiveness. For years, as part of our materiality analysis, and in Our sustainability balance is based on the guidelines consultation with our stakeholders, we have been investiof the Natural Capital Protocol and the Social Capital gating to what extent we are working on the issues that Protocol and encompasses our internal and external stakeholders view as material, that impact our business the most and that we can influupstream processes, such as agricultural ence. production, In order to obtain a complete overview of the impacts METRO Wholesale’s own operations in stores, of our business activities and to be able to keep improvlogistics and warehouses and ing the value we bring to society, we are now going a the downstream operations of METRO Wholesale’s step further. In 2018 for the first time, we conducted a wholesale customers. sustainability balance for financial year 2016/17, adding a new approach to our concepts for analysing risks and The results of the analysis illustrate the key importance of opportunities. Using our Sustainable Value Creation METRO’s supply chain and customer relations. In future, model, we examined the economic, environmental and we will therefore be increasing our focus on these areas social impacts of METRO Wholesale’s business along the without losing sight of our commitment to our employvalue chain and gave them a monetary value. This allows ees and our own business. us to compare the significance of the impacts directly Our next step is to carry out a detailed analysis of the and to point up interrelationships. supply chain. The aim is to identify specific weak points By conducting such a holistic analysis we go beyond and areas for improvement in order to facilitate concrete looking at standard key financial indicators as METRO. measures. ACTIVITIES AND OUT OUTC COME VALUE CHAIN VALUE CHAIN SOURCING LOGISTICS OPERATIONS SALES SUPPLIER TRANSPORT EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT SALES FORCE ACTIVITIES ACTIVITIES PRODUCT RANGE FLEET MANAGEMENT MARKETING PRACTICES E-COMMERCE DEVELOPMENT FOOD SERVICE IT CUSTOMER SERVICE OFFER/ASSORTMENT DISTRIBUTION (FSD) STORES AND WAREHOUSES FOOD SERVICE DISTRIBUTION (FSD) 50,000 Delivery by e-trucks in Paris, Vienna and 50% reduction of 21 m greenhouse gas customers suppliers all over Florence the world emissions by 2030 €29,000 m sales volume 750 stores and warehouses 19% OUTCOME OUTCOME in 25 countries CO2 FSD share 108,000 Sustainable sourcing policies for fish, meat, soy, Reduced value chain emissions due Cooperation with palm oil, paper and wood employees to delivery services food banks in 16 countries 89% >150 €1 m 50% share of none-chargers for food own-brand electric vehicles of food waste invested into producers with worldwide reduction in community valid social own operations development standards audit by 2025 projects Figures are based on financial year 2016/17, which was the base for the impact assessment too, and only refer to the business of METRO Wholesale. METRO C ORPOR ORPORAATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 10 METRO Sustainable Sustainability approach SUS SUST TAINABILITY APPRO APPROA ACH minimising our footprint. Specifically, this means: we intend to have a positive influence on food availability, quality and safety in terms of health, society and the We expect that society is facing unprecedented environment, prevent food waste and make our range economic, environmental, social and cultural chalof products and services more sustainable generally, lenges. But we are also convinced that sustainability as well as offering efficient solutions that simplify our is the key to transforming these challenges into customers’ business activities. At the same time, we opportunities. want to minimise our environmental and social footprint by dealing responsibly with people and resources, and generally creating positive impacts for society. Our vision is to make retail and wholesale more sustainable along the value chain, in our work with small and medium-sized independent businesses on the supplier and customer side and in our contact with consumers. By bringing our needs and ambitions in line with the needs of nature, people and future We renew our dedication to our customers’ success generations, we can provide METRO with long-term and satisfaction each day – in a responsible manner, prospects for prosperity and overcome the convenand as a partner for independent businesses along tional limits to growth. By informing, inspiring, motithe entire value chain. This reflects the core of our vating and supporting our employees, customers and business and our METRO Sustainable approach. partners, we can ensure this visionary approach has Since our focus is on the food and hospitality the potential to reach millions of people. sector, this means improving our ‘foodprint’, while Countless consumers Almost 25 million customers 146,000 employees 1,048 stores 1 company METRO C ORPOR ORPORAATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 11 METRO Sustainable Embedding sustainability EMBEDDING SUS SUST TAINABILITY Sustainability means more to us than concentrating on ecological and social issues: sustainability is a question of attitude and a way of working. It drives what we do and is an integral part of our corporate strategy. We embed sustainability aspects in relevant business processes and decision paths – for instance via guidelines, like the guideline for sustainable sourcing – and involve our employees, for example through our Sustainability Day and through information on our social network platform. Our goal is for individuals to be able to recognise the significance of sustainability for themselves and for their work environment so that they can steer their own actions accordingly. METRO can drive the topic from the top, but every one of our more than 150,000 employees needs to internalise it, so that they can help us achieve an impact in the area of sustainability. SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY TRAINING PROCESSES BEHAVIOUR PROGRAMMES Integration of sustainability Consideration of Integration of sustainability into training sessions and sustainability at work into standard processes materials on management and in daily life and employee level RESULT Norm in daily business and in decision-making processes METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 12 METRO Sustainable Sustainability management Our company has various measures and tools availsustainability targets, in other words to manage risks able for advancing the sustainability embedding and opportunities. process: For more information about risk and opportunity management, see chapter risk and opportunity report Approaches to responsible company management in the METRO Annual Report 2017/18. and acting with integrity, including our The Sustainability Committee provides the stratesustainability approach, our Guiding Principles, gic framework and defines targets that apply to the our Code of Conduct and our corporate group as a whole. Within this framework, the METRO governance and compliance structures companies manage the operational implementation Principles, commitments and positions which offer of sustainability so as to meet their specific market guidance for people’s actions and ensure both and customer requirements. They are responsible for compliance with laws and adherence to standards working on relevant sustainability issues, defining that exceed these guidelines. One example is our specific aims and measures and monitoring their overarching Policy for Human Rights. We are success.They report to the Sustainability Committee committed to complying with internationally on their progress. recognised human rights – not just within our own The committee is chaired by 2 representatives operations, but also along our entire value chain. from METRO’s top management who alternate on a Guidelines such as the 10 principles of the United regular basis. Other members of the committee are: Nations Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals Corporate responsibility officers of METRO AG Linking the remuneration paid to the Management Representatives of key functions – Purchasing, Board and the global senior management with the Own Brands, Communications and Expansion & assessment of the sustainability performance of Operations METRO in the rating of the Dow Jones Representatives of Real Sustainability Index (DJSI) Representatives of the METRO Wholesale national Definition of group-wide sustainability-related subsidiaries targets within our areas of responsibility METRO Sustainable Leadership Programme for Ad hoc expert groups prepare specific issues at opermanagement development ational level and present them to the Sustainability Memberships in associations and initiatives as well Committee for a decision. The participants include as committee work; the most important experts from Real, METRO Wholesale national memberships are listed here subsidiaries and the head office, depending on the Collaboration and dialogue with decision-makers topic under discussion. in politics and society The round table on corporate responsibility with members representing the sustainability areas of METRO AG, the METRO Wholesale and Real sales SUS SUST TAINABILITY MANA MANAGEMENTGEMENT lines as well as the cross-divisional service companies METRO-NOM, METRO LOGISTICS and METRO PROPERTIES constitutes another interface for sustainability The purpose of sustainability management is to between the strategic and the operational level. The systematically embed sustainability in our core busiround table is for discussion and, along with the ad ness and organisation, taking into account reciprocal hoc expert groups, helps implement decisions taken effects between economic, environmental and social by the Sustainability Committee. Individual measures aspects in an efficient and solution-oriented manner. employed by the sales lines to help achieve METRO’s Through the formal notification and assessment of overarching sustainability targets are synchronised sustainability-related risks and opportunities, sustainduring round table discussions. Synergies are ability management is closely linked to our risk and revealed, for example when the participants discuss opportunity management system. This means that the how they view certain topics and deal with them. Management Board is in a position to systematically These can help the operating divisions to manage identify, analyse and manage any deviations from our their specific issues. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 13 METRO Sustainable Stakeholder relations STAKEHOLDER RELA RELATIONSTIONS climate protection measures and targets, so that, together, they can promote compliance with national and international objectives. Not only external stakeholders such as customers, Additionally, we foster dialogue with our stakesuppliers and business partners, NGOs, political holder groups through our membership in various representatives, investors, competitors and commitinitiatives. Among other things, METRO has committees, but also internal stakeholder groups such as the ted itself to complying with their guidelines. These employees of METRO place various demands on our initiatives include: company at the local and international levels. By taking part in economic and sociopolitical discourse UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and working with our stakeholder groups, we are in a UN Global Compact position to identify their requirements concerning our Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI) activities early on, to address relevant issues, and Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) continuously check the goals we are pursuing. The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) regular exchange with our stakeholders serves to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) strengthen trust in our company and at the same International Labour Organization (ILO) time, to increase the chances of our activities succeeding. . We can achieve many of our sustainability targets only in cooperation with partners from politics, science, society and industry, therefore we engage ourselves in several different industry initiatives. After all, the impact of our actions is greater if many stakeholders tackle social challenges jointly and systematically. METRO is also committed to dialogue with stakeholders in its own event formats: together with the German Retail Federation (HDE) and the Federation of German Wholesale, Foreign Trade and Services (BGA), METRO AG has organised the Berlin Wednesday Society of the Retail Industry several times a year We employ various dialogue activities and formats, since 2010. The goal is to bring people from politics, including, for example, our multifaceted work with business and society together for them to exchange associations and with The Consumer Goods Forum, different viewpoints and learn from one another. Its an international industry body currently co-chaired by equivalent at the European level are the Brussels Olaf Koch, Chairman of the Management Board of Wednesday Socials, which the retail company METRO AG. In addition, we are involved in ‘Climatelaunched in cooperation with EuroCommerce, the friendly supply chains’ and ‘Business-related climate European umbrella organisation for retail and wholeprotection targets’. These are working groups of sale, and the association European Movement InternaWirtschaft macht Klimaschutz (Business takes climate tional (EMI). action), a cross-industry forum initiated by the We also cultivate dialogue on sustainabilityFederal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conserrelated issues by discussing and answering enquiries vation and Nuclear Safety (BMU). The aim of this from NGOs, rating agencies and investors. forum is to connect German businesses via their METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 14 METRO Sustainable Sustainability indices and rankings SUS SUST TAINABILITY INDICES AND important source of motivation for us and also serve RANKINGS as a management tool as they indicate the progress we have made as well as room for improvement in our activities. An example of this is linking the remuneraThe measures that we implement in the field of tion paid to the Management Board and the global sustainability are evaluated among other things by senior management with the assessment of the our stakeholder groups in the form of ratings. These sustainability performance of METRO in the rating of assessments of independent third parties are an the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). EVAL EV ALUUATION IN RELEV ANT SUS RELEVANT SUSTTAINABILITY INDICES AND R RANKINGS ANKINGS Publication Index/ranking Ra Rating/sc ore ting/scor e Scale date 76 Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Indus Industry Group try Gr oup LLeader eader World/Europe Food & S Staples taples RRetailing etailing 0 to 100 09/2018 C+ ISS-oekom Corporate Rating Prime S tus tatus Sta D– to A+ 08/2018 CDP Climate Scoring A– F to A 10/2017 CDP Water Scoring A– F to A 10/2017 FTSE4Good Global/Europe Index Inde Indexx member 07/2018 Explana Explanation tion: As part of our stakeholder dialogue, we time in financial year 2017/18 in the internationally inform the capital market about our sustainability important sustainability indices Dow Jones Sustainmanagement activities. This means our sustainability ability World and Europe. METRO is also listed in the performance is rated by independent third parties. FTSE4Good index. METRO has been issuing public Oekom Research (now called ISS-oekom) awarded statements on climate protection and water for many the prime status C+ (on a scale from Dto A+) to years through CDP. METRO achieved a rating of AMETRO in August 2018. In addition, we topped the (on a scale from F to A) for both subject areas. Food & Staple Retailing group for the 4th consecutive METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 15 Responsibility @ METRO Empower People RESPONSIBILITY @ METRO Our aim is to act responsibly and sustainably in our EMPO EMPOWER WER PE PEOPLE OPLE own business operations and along the entire value chain. On the basis of our strategic approach and with a view to the issues considered material by our stakeholders, we have defined 4 areas of responsibilEMPOWER ity for our company: Two aspects form the umbrella for our areas of EOPLE responsibility. Firstly, we focus on people. With our commitment, WE EMPOWER PEOPLE projects and measures, we pursue the goal of estabTO LIVE A BETTER LIFE lishing sustainable relationships with our employees, partners, suppliers and customers in all areas of our value chain and finding solutions for sustainable busiPeople are at the heart of what we do. Thus, in our ness success. Policy for Human Rights published in July 2018, we Second: As a wholesaler our focus is on the food summarised in a company-wide document that we and hospitality sector. We therefore give high priority are committed to respecting all human rights as to the availability and quality of food as well as those formulated in the Universal Declaration of Human being healthy, socially compliant and ecologically Rights of the United Nations (UN) and in the Declarasound. This goes hand in hand with our focus on tion on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of issues such as reducing food waste and sustainable the International Labour Organization (ILO). This product assortment and services. obligation refers to both our own employees and our Based on examples from the various divisions of business partners in our value chain. Our measures our company as well as from METRO countries, the aim at establishing sustainable relationships with our following chapters show how we deal with these and employees, suppliers and customers. By ensuring other topics within our areas of responsibility, what decent living and working conditions, we demongoals we have set ourselves and what progress we strate responsibility in the supply chain. In this way, have already achieved. The design of specific we also contribute to meeting SDG 8 and promote approaches and the operational implementation of sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, initiatives lie in the individual responsibility of the full and productive employment and decent work for sales lines and national subsidiaries. This decenall. We respect, protect and support our employees. tralised approach reflects the diversity of our We enable them to integrate sustainability systematicompany and in the concrete design of goals and cally into their everyday work and decisions. This is measures makes it possible to take into account how we create a sustainable, attractive working envidifferent national and regional circumstances and ronment that enables our employees to develop good stakeholder demands right down to the country level. working relationships with suppliers and offer our customers optimum, sustainable solutions that meet their needs. Commitment tto o our emplo employ yees More than 146,000 employees in 35 countries exemplify the success of METRO. Their dedication and the decisions they take in their everyday work generate added value for our customers and for society. Additionally, they are valuable ambassadors for our sustainability approach, METRO SUSTAINABLE. In keeping with our sustainable approach to corporate management, we therefore see it as our duty to create and maintain an attractive, fair and safe working environment. We strive to appreciate the individuality of our employees, foster their diversity through inclusion and strengthen their personal responsibility. In addition, we care for their personal and professional development and encourage creativity and METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 16 Responsibility @ METRO Empower People innovation. In this way, we help them to implement With initiatives such as METRO Sustainability Day, our corporate strategy successfully and sustainably, which was conducted for the fourth time on the and can be a preferred employer for existing and METRO Campus and in numerous METRO countries in future employees. 2018, we provide our employees with inspiration for all kinds of sustainability issues in workshops, presenPromo Pr omoting ting and embedding sus tainability a sustainability awwar arenes enesss tations and exhibitions, and motivate them to take We encourage our employees to apply our corporate action themselves. principles on a day-to-day basis. This also includes to In addition, the International Days officially think ahead, develop sustainable solutions and to act declared by the United Nations such as World Water responsibly. Our shared values are embedded in our 5 Day, World Environment Day, World Oceans Day and guiding principles: Word Food Day make it possible to draw attention to specific sustainability issues. Customer success In this respect, METRO’s internal social media platPower of relationships form United is a suitable tool for communicating Sustainable business sustainability-related content and knowledge. Entrepreneurship Leadership by example The employees’ individual performances are also assessed every year as part of the Results & Growth process with respect to how these principles were complied with. Ex Examples amples fr from om the c countries ountries METRO Italy: activ active ood w againstt ffood e agains was astte Conscientious food handling and the fight against food waste is a core theme of METRO. At the occasion of Italy’s national day against food waste on 5 February, the employees of METRO Italy worked out practical tips on how leftovers can be avoided during daily meal preparation and consumption. METRO ambassadors and executives especially appointed for the occasion have made them available to all colleagues –in the wholesale stores and via social media. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 17 Responsibility @ METRO Empower People World W Wa ater Da Dayy 21 METRO countries participated in the METRO Water Initiative 2018 as part of World Water Day on 22 March. Countries like Ukraine and Serbia made employees and retail customers equally aware of global water scarcity concerns, and through their activities and information contribute to a responsible handling of water resources. METRO Ukr Ukraine: aine: Int ernational Interna tional Da Day y of Charity 5 September is International Day of Charity of the UN – and for us a soon-to-be global METRO Volunteer Day. In 2018, the first actions started in various venues, including at the Düsseldorf Campus and in Austria, Portugal and Pakistan. Together with a local food bank, METRO Ukraine initiated an aid programme for the elderly in need. To fit the occasion, employees distributed care packages and organised a flash mob under #letshelpbabushkas. In addition, girls and boys from large families were invited to an event at the wholesale store. The METRO Volunteer Day is to be expanded to a Volunteer Week in 2019. Ambas Ambassadors sadors of sus sustainability tainability time in financial year 2017/18. 29 participants from various sales brands as well as METRO AG and its cross-divisional service companies develop sustainability-related projects which are to be implemented within the next 18 months. Through their work, the employees thus become ambassadors of sustainability, highlighting the relevance of this issue to the various business divisions. In addition, the network of participants inspires people to collaborate and exchange knowledge across the various sales lines. To better embed social and ecological concerns with all our employees around the world, the METRO national subsidiaries are setting up their own sustainability committees. These lay down strategic directions and stake out major goals to be met. The first national bodies were set up in China and France. Meanwhile, regular events are also being staged in Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The METRO Sustainable Leadership Program (MSLP) The latest countries to officially set up a domestic lets young executives experience the close connecsustainability committee are Spain and Japan. tion between sustainability and leadership responsibility – vis-a-vis themselves and their colleagues as well as other partners. This programme encourages them to integrate sustainability into their day-to-day work. The programme was conducted for the fourth METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 18 Responsibility @ METRO Empower People The objective is to guarantee sustainably good working conditions for the employees, in so doing contributing to the growth of the company. To ensure that our sales lines and national subsidiaries comply with our guidelines on fair working conditions, we keep an eye on our head offices, markets and logistics centres. To improve working conditions in the national subsidiaries, concrete plans are worked out with local colleagues in which measures with clear responsibilities and timetables are laid down and followed up. Since financial year 2016/17, lengthy checks on compliance with METRO principles were conducted in 11 national subsidiaries (Pakistan, Bulgaria, China, Japan, Hungary, Italy, Serbia, India, Slovakia, Moldova and Spain). In many On a local level, so-called Sustainability Ambassadors respects, the results were encouraging although are frequently available as a first contact point for potential for improvements was found, especially in employees. Among other things, they organise the field of occupational safety. The checks in situ measures and events in wholesale stores and/or at were supplemented by comprehensive management head offices. In May 2018, for example, all Czech and training sessions on the METRO guidelines on fair Slovak Sustainability Ambassadors congregated in working conditions in which responsible executives Brno. Inspired by the sustainably built meeting site, were given more profound training on awareness they kicked off new ideas, with a focus on the topics creation, risk background and concrete risk cateof food waste and plastic waste prevention. gories. In addition, in financial year 2015/16, e-learning In Hungary, 1 participant of the METRO Sustainwas introduced in the company to make employees ability Leadership Program, László Baltás, raised the more sensitive to fair working conditions and social initiative to a new level in 2018: as the Store Sustainpartnership, and to underpin and communicate the ability Ambassador 2.0, he focused particularly on basic position of our company. By 30 September environmental issues and has already kicked off a 2018, no less than 6,834 employees had already series of concrete steps, including on waste prevenundergone this training. tion and energy-saving. Since October 2016, the handling of data protection-relevant information, the participation of and Fair and safsafeewworking conditions orking c onditions ffor or our emplo employ yees communication with employees, and the possibilities of creating remedial measures are also being assessed. Moreover, the guidelines on fair working conditions and social partnership also provide for the integration of interest groups such as the works councils and employees of service providers who operate in our stores and office premises. For financial year 2018/19, checks in 6 further national subsidiaries are scheduled. METRO has set itself the goal to complete the inspection of all METRO Wholesale national subsidiaries up to 2020 and shift to a sustainable self-controlling process in these countries thereafter. To ensure the transnational social involvement of the employees and safeguard their right to collective labour wage agreements and organising in unions, To meet its corporate diligence under the UN Guiding the Euro Forum performs the function of the EuroPrinciples on Business and Human Rights, in 2012 pean works council of METRO. In addition, METRO METRO created its own guidelines on fair working collaborates with the international union umbrella conditions and social partnership. They are based on organisation UNI Global Union. the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, on the key labour standards of the InternaOc Occupa tional saf cupational safety ety and health management tional Labour Organization (ILO) and on the 3 main The demographic development, the profound principles of the Consumer Goods Forum’s Resolution changes in the working environment and the increason Forced Labour. These include the principles of ingly acute competition over qualified human freedom of association, the right to collective resources require from us promising and far-sighted bargaining, the ban on forced labour, child labour and concepts for occupational safety and a viable health discrimination, structured working hours and wages, management. Hence, we have laid down unambiguoccupational health and safety management. ous guidelines and support a safe and healthy working environment for our employees and business partners. In this way, we intend to further reduce accident METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 19 Responsibility @ METRO Empower People rates and occupational illnesses and selectively health in our sales lines and service companies. In our promote performance and motivation among our METRO Wholesale national subsidiaries, employees employees in the long term. who are responsible for occupational safety and In order to identify areas with high accident rates health management cooperate increasingly in an or especially vulnerable groups of people, evaluate international network broken down into 4 working causes of accidents and define targeted countermeagroups on different topics, in order to discuss and sures, the German METRO companies have impleimprove health protection and industrial safety mented appropriate reporting which covers 97% of measures and achieve near-term benefits for employthe employees at the German METRO companies in ees. In financial year 2017/18, we made progress in financial year 2017/18. For the above companies, it various areas. Thus, we were able among other things was possible to reduce the number of accidents to set up a structured test process for high-rise racks compared to financial year 2016/17. and produce first drafts for a standard process for What is important to us is to raise the awareness forklift drivers and maintenance. A unified standard of our employees that occupational safety is the for basic industrial safety equipment was also develresponsibility of everyone. For this reason, we organoped, along with initial approaches to a uniform ised many programmes and events on the topics of concept for the safe handling and storage of nutrition, sport, preventive medical care and psychic hazardous substances. Measur Measures es and guidelines For financial year 2018/19, we have set ourselves the goal to implement accident reporting throughout the group up to the end of the financial year and to continuously improve data quality. METRO AG pushes these general issues in a targeted manner – in close coordination with the occupational health and safety officers, who effect their own measures in their respective areas of responsibility. Regular project development status reports are generated and checks are performed to make sure the projects can be applied internationally. More in-depth information concerning our efforts for our employees and our company’s personnel policy is provided in the ‘employees’ chapter in the METRO Annual Report 2017/18. In addition, we are publishing employee figures relating to sustainability online in the chapter on key performance indicators of this METRO Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18. Div Diversity ersity and inclusion oping and challenging itself. Through our diversity METRO reflects the diversity of its customers and approach we also support SDG 5, that is, the goal of business partners by means of its individuality and achieving gender equality and empowering all women diversity as well as respect for and recognition of all and girls, as well as SDG 10: by way of our approach visible and invisible differences, and creates a fair and to inclusion, we help reduce all forms of inequality. efficient corporate culture which is constantly develOur activities Women in T Trrade This is also the objective of the METRO employee network Women in Trade (WiT). WiT regards itself as a catalyst for change in gender diversity. The network offers men and women the chance to contribute their specific knowledge and expertise – for example, at the annual conference in March 2018 on the topic of passion and business owners. WiT functions equally as a discussion forum and initiator for the company and thus contributes to promoting gender equality. In financial year 2017/18, WiT grew further: in 6 METRO countries (Germany, Portugal, France, Pakistan, Japan and China), local Women in Trade networks have meanwhile been established. Thanks to numerous activities such as monthly network luncheons, exchanges on business issues as well as mentoring and training offers, WiT was able to win many new members in the reporting period. There are currently some 600 employees within the network. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 20 Responsibility @ METRO Empower People METRO PRIDE Sexual preferences or identity should not constitute a restriction, neither at home nor at work. Everybody should be able to profess their orientation without fear, also at work. That is why METRO PRIDE provides a forum for this topic – for greater openness, exchange and public visibility. The employee-created network offers information, support and draws attention to the subject. METRO P Pakis akistan tan and UN W Women empow omen empo wer wwomen omen aatt w work ork To improve the economic position of women, the national subsidiary in Pakistan will in future cooperate with UN Women. On 28 June 2018, METRO Pakistan signed the 7-stage ‘Women’s Empowerment Principles to promote Women in Trade (WiT)’. Among the first actions in 2018 were job training measures for women as well as training sessions on preventing sexual harassment. In March, there were round-table discussions and workshops on the topic ‘Be Bold – Beyond Boundaries’ as part of Women’s Week. In 2019, the focus is to be on homework, livestock management and hygiene. LEAD NetwNetwork ork LEAD (Leading Executives Advancing Diversity) pursues objectives similar to those of WiT. The network, which METRO joined in 2016, promotes the empowerment of women in the retail and food industries in Europe. 120 METRO employees are already active members of the network. Since 2016, our company is represented in the management body of the LEAD Network Germany Chapter. One of the regular events of the network took place in September 2018 under the motto ‘Doing not Trying’ at the METRO Campus in Düsseldorf. MAKRO Spain in support of inclusion Better integrating people with physical or mental disabilities into the job market and giving them new prospects as a result: that was the objective of 2 trade fairs held in Barcelona and Madrid in 2018. MAKRO Spain was represented at both fairs for the first time to signal its approval of inclusion. Attendance is also planned for 2019. MAKRO Spain also grants scholarships for disabled people in conjunction with the Adecco Foundation. METRO-NOM can canv ses IT talents and engages in div asses vas diversity ersity With a campaign for the recruitment of technical talent at the Berlin site, METRO-NOM drew lots of publicity in 2018. Since May, the IT section of METRO has been operating under this name from, among other sites, a central hub in the German capital. The new location and new profile are intended to raise its attractiveness for IT specialists. METRO-NOM is setting an example of greater variety, among other things. At the occasion of Girls’ Day, for example, hub employees introduced girl students to the construction and coding of robots. Women in L Leadership eadership METRO AG has set itself the objective to further expand the proportion of women in executive positions. By June 2022, this share is to reach 20% at the first level and 35% at the second level below the Management Board. In addition, the Supervisory Board set itself the target to appoint one woman to the Management Board by 2022. At the current occupancy rate of 4 persons, this translates into a ratio of 25%. A Diversity and Inclusion Committee established in 2017 was entrusted with elaborating a long-term strategy to emphasise the importance of variety in and for our company. Together with the Management Board of METRO AG, individual targets were laid down for the national subsidiaries and cross-divisional service companies. Progress to reach these goals is monitored by means of defined key performance indicators. Furthermore, METRO has inaugurated the Women Leadership Program (WLP) in 2018, which was specially designed to foster female talent and aims at supporting the development of competence and to master major leadership challenges which female executives are faced with in our industry day after day. This programme contributes to increase the visibility of top talent among women and to build up a strong talent pipeline for women, especially in an operative business environment. WLP is expected to continuMETRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 202017 17 / 18 21 Responsibility @ METRO Empower People ously increase the ratio of women in executive positions, among other things. Since June 2018, 11 participants from 7 METRO countries have worked on 4 modules of the pilot project: 1. Strengthening personal leadership profiles 2. Developing and demonstrating strategic thinking 3. Negotiating and including stakeholders 4. Communicating effectively The programme is to be introduced internationally in early 2019. Own Busines Businesss Girls The innovative Own Business Girls campaign at the company headquarters in Düsseldorf doesn’t wait for women to enter the workforce, but takes up the cause at an earlier phase of life. The international METRO Own Business Study showed that the interest in entrepreneurial independence is great: almost every second woman polled (45%) dreams of founding her own company. But only 12% of these women consider it ‘very likely’ that they will actually put this intention into practice. For this reason, METRO set a motivating example for female entrepreneurism on the occasion of International Women’s Day on 8 March 2018 and started the Own Business Girls campaign: all 11 girls who were born in Düsseldorf on this day received their first business card, along with starting capital of €2,000, as a time deposit at an interest rate of 2% per annum, for their future start in professional independence. HypoVereinsbank, a member of UniCredit, is METRO’s partner in this campaign. As of their 18th birthday, the girls can draw on the funds and lay an additional foundation stone for their future. Fair and socially equitable w working orking conditions in the v value alue chain As an international wholesale business, METRO works with a large number of suppliers, growers and producers. Our objective is to ensure socially equitable working conditions throughout our procurement channels. As we expect our business partners to assume and observe similar values to ours, the METRO Code of Conduct for Business Partners is a fixed component of every business relationship. This code of conduct includes the observance of human rights as per UN and ILO standards, labour and social security issues based on the principles of the 4 key labour standards of the ILO, protection of the environment as well as regulations on corporate ethics, in particular on combatting corruption and bribery, on METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 22 Responsibility @ METRO Empower People cartel and competition laws as well as on data protecAuditing prproduc oducers ers tion. The 3 main principles of the Consumer Goods To demonstrate our fair and socially equitable workForum Resolution on Forced Labour are also decisive ing conditions, we endeavour to have our producers for us. All our own-brand agreements further include audited as per the supply chain management of a clause on social standards that gives us a legal tool amfori BSCI or an equivalent standard. This concerns to enforce our demands. In addition, the application all the producers1 in defined risk countries (based on of standard social systems is an essential part of the the assessment of amfori BSCI) in which METRO process and at the same time an important tool. They SOURCING has import goods manufactured, and nonhelp us protect against possible risks from violations. food producers that manufacture own brands or own After all, irresponsible practices along the supply imports for our sales lines. 1,274 producers were chain undermine people’s trust in what we do and audited as of 30 September 2018. Of these, 92% (1,173 therefore also in our business. producers) passed the audit. Producers that do not pass the audit must demonstrate improvement through a follow-up audit within 12 months. Since 1 January 2017, METRO Wholesale and Real are imposing more stringent requirements on suppliers: new suppliers are accepted only if they can show at least one passing audit result (amfori BSCI A−, B− or C or an approved audit equivalent). For current suppliers, a transition period of 2 years applies. In addition, we As one of the founding members of the amfori Businow stipulate more stringent requirements for all our ness Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), we have suppliers in the field of application: all of our producbeen involved for years in systematically establishing ers must prove at least acceptable audit results by 1 socially fair working conditions in the manufacturing January 2019. of our own-brand products. Our approach is to assist our suppliers and production facilities in setting up a suitable management process. SOCIAL A AUDIT UDITS RELATING S RELA TING T TOOO OWN WN IMPORT IMPORTS SB Y METRO SOURCING AND NON-FOOD O BY OWN-BR WN-BRAND AND PRODUCT PRODUCTS S OF THE METRO S SALES ALES LINES Producers with valid audit1 Thereof with passed audit (number) (in %) 1,557 216 1,218 1,274 86 89 92 101 138 1,341 1,173 1,080 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 ther thereof eof with pas passedsed audit ther thereof eof with ffailed ailed audit 1 This includes producers of commercial goods (non-food own brands and own imports) who carry out the last decisive and value-giving production step. Deal-break Deal-br eaker proc er pr ocesesss follow-up orders will be stalled until the findings of As a measure contributing to ensuring socially the deal-breaker process have been rectified. acceptable work conditions, we defined so-called As of 30 September 2018, 62 non-food producers deal-breaker processes in 2016, in addition to the were reported with deal-breaker findings. This amfori BSCI standard processes. The assessment equates to 4.8% of all the producers audited. Among criteria comprise the aspects of child labour, forced the deal-breaker findings as at the reporting date, 54 labour, occupational safety (in particular fire prevenproducers showed a heightened risk in the category tion) and unethical behaviour. The deal-breaker of occupational safety, in particular concerning fire process ensures that suppliers and their producers prevention, and 14 producers presented a heightened who identify a deal-breaker develop short-term and risk concerning discrimination/unethical behaviour. long-term solutions to remedy the critical findings. To There were no reports in the child labour or forced make sure our suppliers and producers comply with labour categories. During the reporting period, 39 of these requirements, orders which are already in the producers with deal-breaker findings were able to production may be completed, but new orders or METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 201717 / 18 23 Responsibility @ METRO Empower People document short-term improvements and resume Pakistan piloted 1-day training sessions for employees cooperation. in key positions along the supply chain. The objective is to train employees to identify potential and/or Training sessessions sions actual forced labour incidents, to respond appropriately and to prevent them. The training sessions are designed and held in cooperation with amfori BSCI. By 30 September 2020, all METRO national subsidiaries are expected to have completed this training. Our import company METRO SOURCING has been working with our local producers for years and accompanying them through training sessions designed to help them understand and comply with social standards. Following a focus on fire and occupational safety measures in recent years, it is conducting targeted corporate responsibility training sessions with our cooperation partners for the first time in 2018. In the financial year 2017/18, we were In order to contribute not only to claiming and imposable to train 218 participants from 160 producers from ing, but to actually improving social demands on Bangladesh, China, India and Turkey in 13 3-hour suppliers, we introduced during the reporting period workshops. In future, the courses will take place annuthe first training sessions with special emphasis on ally in order to raise awareness for sustainability the topic of forced labour. METRO Turkey and METRO issues among METRO's partners as well. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 24 Responsibility @ METRO Secure Planet SE SECURE CURE PLANET improving energy efficiency and making energy savings, optimising resource consumption and reducing and preventing waste. SECURE LANET Experience in handling these issues can also be factored into solutions for METRO customers in the future, for example when offering advice to indepenWE CARE ABOUT THE dent entrepreneurs regarding energy-efficient kitchen FUTURE OF OUR PLANET fittings. Consequently, the customer can also save money and environmental impacts can be mitigated. METRO’ss clima METRO’ pro climatte pr otection tar target get In our business operations, we use resources such as Our operations are associated with emissions that fossil fuels responsibly and do not allow waste to affect the climate. METRO has set its sights on reducarise in the first place. This gives us leeway for investing its specific greenhouse gas emissions by 50% per ments to come up with attractive solutions for our square metre of selling and delivery space by 2030 customers and for new business areas. Apart from compared to 2011. that, we minimise our effect on the climate and To achieve this, we have resolved to protect the environment. Through sustainable procurement and sustainable product choices we also consume 35% less electricity compared to the help ensure that resources will continue to be availreference year 2011, able in the long term. This is how we help to create a reduce climate-damaging refrigerant emissions by sound foundation for the retail sector of tomorrow. 90% by 2030 compared to the reference year 2011 by using natural refrigerants, generate significant amounts of emission-free We car care e about the futur future e of our planet in renewable energy ourselves, for instance by using our busines businesss oper operaations photovoltaic systems in wholesale stores and hypermarkets, and The extent of global climate change is already noticeintroduce certified energy management systems able today. It includes weather extremes like according to ISO 50001 or energy audits droughts, floods and storms, rising sea levels and according to EN 16247 at all locations in the EU. mounting economic effects such as reduced harvests. Many of the current social tensions and conflicts are tatus Sta tus of clima prot climatte pr otection ection tar target get also associated with the consequences of climate Between October 2017 and September 2018, METRO change. generated 276 kilograms of CO2 equivalents per As a retail company with international operations square metre of selling and delivery space. In the we are conscious of our shared responsibility when it same period of the previous year, it was still 288 kilocomes to finding answers to these challenges. To grams. make sure we conduct our core business successfully In financial year 2017/18, we switched to different and satisfy the needs of our customers, we need software for sustainability data management. This energy and natural resources today as well as tomoralso entailed changes to methodology and new emisrow – so that we can transport and store products sions factors for calculating greenhouse gas emisproperly, refrigerate fresh produce and also maintain sions. In addition, we have extended the scope of our our stores and administrative offices. By taking a climate protection target to cover space used for responsible approach to our use of finite resources delivery as well as selling space, in order to reflect the such as fossil fuels and other raw materials, we can fact that delivery now accounts for a rapidly increasdirectly influence the cost of our business activities, ing proportion of our business. Overall, there has anticipate environmental regulations and make a been a positive effect of 2.5 percentage points contribution to the protection of the climate and towards reaching this target. resources. Within our operations, our measures for lowering greenhouse gas emissions and consequently helping to protect the planet are focused on 3 main areas: METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 25 Responsibility @ METRO Secure Planet Greenhouse Gr eenhouse gas emis sions in k emissions kg gCCOO2 (CO2 equiv alents)) per m2 of selling spac equivalents space e METRO Germany 374 370 292 288 276 267 250 248 187 174 2011 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2030 2011 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2030 (Reference year) (Target year) (Reference year) (Target year) More in-depth information on METRO’s carbon footMETRO stores (8 out of 12) now have charging print is available in the chapter on key performance stations that allow our customers to charge their elecindicators. tric cars while shopping. More than 1,000 charging points are to be installed at METRO stores by 2030. Added v value alue thr ough electr through electromobility omobility We will achieve this target with the help of 5-year strategy plans submitted to the EV100 initiative. Energy Ener pro gy pr ovider ffor or our cus custtomers METRO is going one step further for its customers, while also helping to reduce greenhouse gases, by becoming an electricity provider to our customers or helping them switch to a low-cost, environmentally friendly electricity provider. Through various METRO Added value through electromobility For us, electricity and gas partnerships we are already helpincreased use of electric vehicles is not just an imporing participating businesses in 3 countries to reduce tant step towards achieving our climate protection their energy consumption and energy costs simply target, but also towards offering our customers all and effectively. At the same time, partnerships of this over the world an additional service and added value. kind relieve our customers of the bureaucracy of When we joined the international Electric Vehicle 100 having to deal with their own energy contracts. (EV100) initiative in October 2017, we therefore The energy experts at METRO Germany’s partner signed up to actively promote electromobility. Ampere have been analysing the individual situation of participating customers since February 2018 and finding them better offers. METRO’s customers in Austria have been offered contracts for sustainably generated hydropower and smart-home energy management solutions since May 2018 through our partner VERBUND. In June 2018, the offer was also extended to employees at METRO Austria. To accompany this offer, information material was made available in all stores during an ‘energy week’. In France, METRO offers natural gas contracts through its partner TOTAL. To improve our customers’ energy contracts, we also worked with our partner Economie d’Energie and offered 700 professional customers the opportunity to obtain their electricity requirements from renewable energy sources. METRO In Austria, the Netherlands and France we already use then offered bundled contract negotiations for this 12 electric vans, 2 hybrid trucks and 3 electric buses purpose. In addition, HoReCa customers can find out to deliver to our customers. In addition, one fully elechow to reduce their water and energy consumption tric 28-tonne truck delivers goods to METRO stores in on a website designed in collaboration with Economie the Vienna area. Our detailed road map also includes d’Energie. plans to expand effective infrastructure at METRO locations. METRO already has 239 charging points in Impr Impro oving ener energy gy efficienc efficiency y and making ener energy gy 11 countries, which means we have already considersa savings vings ably exceeded our original EV100 target for 2018 of To improve energy efficiency at our locations, we are installing more than 181 charging points. In some focusing on behavioural changes (Energy Awareness countries, like Bulgaria for example, nearly all the METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 26 Responsibility @ METRO Secure Planet Programme) and investments (Energy-Saving Programme). These are reducing our energy requirements and cutting costs. Some of our buildings are certified according to standards for sustainable construction and building management. For instance, the green stores in Dongguan and Shanghai’s Putuo district are certified to the LEED Gold standard and a building at the group’s headquarters in Düsseldorf is certified to BREEAM. Wherever technically feasible, we switch to natural refrigerants for our stores’ cooling systems, as these are considerably less harmful to the climate. In financial year 2017/18, we started using more transcritical refrigeration systems, including in Bulgaria, Russia and China. Transcritical systems use CO2 as a natural refrigerant for both deep-freezing and normal cooling functions. The transcritical cooling system in store IV In financial year 2017/18, our investments included €10 in Beijing is the first system of this kind in China’s million in METRO Wholesale’s Energy-Saving commercial retail sector. Programme, which will save us around €2.8 million Even supposedly simple things like using each year in energy costs. Examples of measures resource-saving paper can have an impact: the paper carried out in the reporting period include: we use for our promotional materials comes exclusively from sustainably managed forests. The FSC®Opening our third green store in China with much certified proportion is over 90%, and more than 95% lower energy requirements than conventional of the paper we use has a recycled fibre content of up METRO stores to 100%. We intend to increase the proportion of Installing additional photovoltaic systems and recycled fibres further where possible. For instance, expanding our total solar capacity to more than back in 2015, we switched to paper certified with the 19,000 kWp; our photovoltaic systems in China, Blue Angel environmental label for all photocopying Germany, Pakistan, India and Japan are cuttingat our headquarters in Düsseldorf. edge Heat recovery measures in a number of stores Switching from diesel to compressed natural gas (CNG) in some Bulgarian stores In addition, in October 2017, METRO opened a zeroenergy wholesale store in St Pölten, Austria – the first store to generate all its own energy and zero greenhouse gas emissions. Optimisa Op timisation tion o esourc off rresour ce c consump onsumption tion As part of our corporate and climate protection strategy, we also pay attention to responsible resource management. This is based on the METRO environment guideline. With this, we have made a commitment to taking a responsible approach to the environment and to natural resources. The fields of application are numerous and include logistics fleets and sustainable building management, but also the use of refrigerants, paper and conventional plastic in our own business operations. We are systematically switching the logistics fleet of METRO LOGISTICS Germany GmbH to lower-emission vehicles. The vast majority of vehicles already meet the Euro 6 emissions standard. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 202017 17 / 18 27 Responsibility @ METRO Secure Planet information and tips to customers, including advice to reuse plastic bags, to use them only when necessary and to use the tongs available rather than disposable gloves when packing products in-store. Our mission is to replace disposable solutions with reusable systems in our company canteens by 2019. Reducing and a av voiding w was astte To cut plastic waste, METRO Austria developed a sustainable solution for the Food Service Distribution (FSD) division. Usually, the roll containers used to deliver products to customers are covered with disposable plastic wrap before transport. In October 2018, following a successful 1-year test phase, METRO Austria switched to a reusable METRO tarpaulin instead. This solution will be introduced in all our wholesale stores in Austria by the end of December 2018. As well as the cost benefit, the focus is on the considerable reduction in waste as a result of no We see anything that lands in the rubbish bin as a longer using the plastic wrap. waste of resources. This is why it is important to us to promote innovative manufacturing and recycling technologies and create closed cycles. As our products and packaging are in our customers’ possession when they reach the end of their useful life, we advise our customers on the best way to dispose of them: at selected stores, we raise our customers’ awareness of resources, inform them about ways to avoid waste and create incentives and options for disposing of products properly, e.g. in China, France, Romania and Ukraine, by installing recycling containers in the car parks of our stores. In this way, we help ensure that resources are turned back into raw materials. More and more METRO country organisations are starting to address the issue of proper waste disposal also in the offices: The installation of separate recycling containers not only provides employees with casually informative knowledge, but also encourages them to separate waste properly. In order to raise awareness among customers about sustainable plastics use, METRO Ukraine introduced an environmentally friendly bag in all its wholesale stores in June 2018. As part of the accompanying ‘Become a hero: save the world from plastic’ campaign, the wholesale stores are also distributing METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 28 Responsibility @ METRO Secure Planet Avoiding ffood ood w was astte and los losss not only saves costs associated with waste, but also means that edible food is put to good use. From January to the end of September 2018, –50% 3,860 tonnes of food waste was recorded in 21 METRO wholesale stores in Turkey. Just under 912 tonnes of this was sent as animal feed to animal shelters and 2,948 tonnes was disposed of in landfill sites. Over the same period, the partnership with 30 Turkish food bank organisations made it possible to donate 104 tonnes of food. Because of the successful pilot project in Turkey, Whole Surplus is already in discussion with other METRO countries, including Germany, Italy, Spain and 2016 2025 Pakistan, with a view to extending the project to these countries. Food rrececo overy Since 2017, to reduce food waste and as a meaningful addition to our work with the food banks, METRO Germany has been working with SIRPLUS in Berlin. The Berlin start-up collects surplus food and drink from our wholesale stores that can no longer be sold Reducing food loss is of particular importance to us. or passed on to organisations like the food banks, and Every food item that is not consumed but rejected or sells it cheaply online and in the 3 SIRPLUS stores in discarded constitutes economic, social and ecological Berlin. The young company’s mission is to increase waste, for example disposal costs, hunger or the people’s respect for food and to work with the entire greenhouse gases produced during incineration. For food industry to revolutionise food recovery. this reason, METRO has committed itself to a 50% reduction in food loss at its stores by 2025 in accorDetailed analy analysis sis – minimum wwas astte dance with The Consumer Goods Forum’s Resolution In the fight against food waste, METRO is also offeron Food Waste. ing its customers, especially professionals in the HoReCa sector, access to solutions to reduce their Whole Surplus own food waste. KITRO, another start-up and a participant in the third round of the METRO Accelerator powered by Techstars, is on a mission to minimise food waste. The young business targets food service operations. KITRO offers restaurants and canteens a fully automated solution for managing food waste, using hardware and software to track and analyse discarded food. The data give users a detailed overview of the weight and cost of food waste and help them identify sources of waste, remedy operational inefficiencies and use resources more efficiently. Mercure Hotel Berlin City, a METRO customer, has already tested the KITRO solution and was able to cut catering waste by 22% over a 3-month pilot As of January 2018, METRO has a partner in Turkey phase. that approaches the issue of food waste reduction holistically, like an ecosystem: Whole Surplus, a participant in the first round of the METRO Accelerator for Retail 2017 powered by Techstars. The starting situation in Turkey calls for urgent action because up to 80% of food that cannot be sold ends up in landfill, which means it leaves the food chain and cannot be put to any other use consistent with the food recovery hierarchy. Through METRO’s partnership with Whole Surplus and making use of the digital marketplace, our stores can easily give edible food to food banks, social institutions or animal shelters. In addition, the data analysis function lets us quantify and monitor food waste transparently in real time, enabling us to implement targeted measures to further improve processes in our own operations. This METRO C ORPOR ORPORAATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 29 Responsibility @ METRO Secure Planet Mea Meatt ffor or charitable soup kit kitchens chens sourcing products, METRO systematically takes account of sustainability criteria like resource conservation, social impact and transparency. In this way, we strengthen our procurement channels and contribute to improving the sustainability of our range of products. More information on METRO’s buying policies can be found on our website. or rresponsible Goals ffor esponsible pr oduct rrange product ange c compo omposition sition With the revision of its Fish & Seafood Procurement Policy in 2016, METRO Wholesale has set itself a new goal: by 2020, 80% of the 12 best-selling types of fish and seafood are to have sustainability certification which is recognised by the company. As part of the Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI), METRO is lobbying to make the various international certification schemes for sustainable fish comparable with the help of a standard global benchmark tool. Not all food can be given to social initiatives like food METRO is committed to only using palm oil from banks without restrictions. Donations of meat and fish sustainable sources for its own-brand products by products, for instance, are subject to special health 2020. In this respect, the company is guided by regulations the criteria of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm In France, METRO is supporting the establishment Oil (RSPO). of charitable soup kitchens that meet these requireBy 2020, a full 100% of the wood and paper used ments and can therefore accept meat products. In for own-brand products is to come from 2018, METRO France entered into 8 new partnerships. sustainable forestry. There are now 37 of these partnerships in France and METRO intends to stop using eggs from caged meat donations have increased to 16% since the start hens – including egg as an ingredient in liquid egg of the campaign in 2015. The aim of METRO France is products – in its own-brand products in Southern to establish similar partnerships for all French METRO and Western Europe by 2022, and in Eastern stores. Europe by 2025, and to further improve conditions for laying hens by supporting alternative forms of poultry farming like cage-free and free-range. We carcare e about the futur futuree of our planet through thr esponsible pr ough rresponsible procur ocurement ement and Fish fr from om sussustainable tainable fishery pr product oduct rrangeange c composition omposition in the supply Fish is becoming ever more significant with regard to chain the safeguarding of food supplies. Already, billions of people are dependent on the seas as their primary As a retail company, we depend on resources being food source. However, fish is not a resource that is available in the long term. This also means that the available in infinite amounts. Nearly a third of the diversity of species and their habitats must be oceans’ commercially used fish stocks is overfished preserved, especially as food production depends on and about 85% of the commercially used fish stocks is a large number of contributions from animals and deemed to be used to the maximum degree possible. plants. METRO therefore supports the goals of the Stocks are further decimated by illegal fishing and international Convention on Biological Diversity and high by-catch rates. As one of Europe’s leading fish contributes to the protection of biodiversity. Because wholesalers, METRO assumes a special responsibility on the one hand the resources are directly the prodand has taken action in various ways: uct we sell, on the other hand the raw materials are needed for the production of the products we offer METRO offers fish caught using eco-friendly and their packaging. Therefore we pay attention to fishing practices which preserve stocks and fish responsible procurement and product range compofrom certified aquaculture. Customers recognise sition. this by the labels of the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) and the Aquaculture Stewardship policy Buying polic y ffor sustainable or sus tainable sour sourcing cing Council (ASC). In financial year 2017/18, our Our group-wide buying policy for sustainable sourcsustainable fish assortment in Germany comprised ing of all products defines basic requirements for 110 MSC-certified, 12 ASC-certified and 3 certified sustainable supply chain and sourcing management. organic own-brand products, and 1,085 MSCAt the same time, this policy brings together various certified, 48 ASC-certified and 45 certified organic guidelines that address specific questions relating to brand-name products. individual product and raw material categories. When METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 30 Responsibility @ METRO Secure Planet 90% of our aquaculture fish and seafood articles En onmentally friendly pack vironmentally Envir packaging aging sourced in Asia via our International Trading Office In everyday retail business, packaging is not only used are certified by GlobalG.A.P., ASC and/or Best for transporting, preserving and protecting goods. Aquaculture Practices (BAP). Product packaging also contains information and METRO fosters direct contact with small-scale usage instructions for customers. But packaging also fishermen and supports them in applying represents a major challenge both in terms of its sustainable fishing practices. For example, we quantity and the materials used. purchase fish caught in the Netherlands using the We pursue the goal of reducing the environmental so-called fly-shooting method. This is a more impact of the packaging of our own-brand products gentle catching method which has no negative during the entire life cycle while also meeting the impact on the seabed. The nets also remain in the high quality and hygiene standards our customers water for a shorter period, which prevents injuries expect. To do this, we adopted a Packaging Policy in to the fish. 2013 and revised it in financial year 2017/18. The policy applies to all own-brand product packaging sourced by METRO. We want to develop innovative solutions to improve resource efficiency, for instance by reducing packaging material, increasing the proportion of recycled material used in our packaging, and designing our packaging to improve stacking on pallets and reduce costs for customers. From September 2014 to September 2018, we checked the packaging of 10,949 own-brand products regarding their impact on the environment and – if possible – improved it, switched 100% of our SIG Combibloc and Tetra Pak drinks cartons to FSC®-certified packaging (for globally sourced products and in participating countries) and replaced 81% of our PVC packaging with more Our International Trading Office in Concarneau, a sustainable alternatives (for globally sourced seaport town in Brittany, which is also responsible products and in participating countries). for purchasing fresh fish directly, cooperates closely with fishermen on small fishing boats The plas plastic tic challenge (‘petits bateaux’). Petits bateaux must not be In order to make further significant reductions in plasmore than 24 metres long and are often used by tic volumes and therefore in plastic waste, and to use small family-run fishing operations. The team at resources as efficiently as possible, we have set new the Concarneau Trading Office (CTO) selects the targets: from October 2018 to September 2023, we best local fish early each morning at 15 fish intend to auctions. The most important buying criterion besides excellent quality is whether the fishing method is sustainable: the fish has to have been caught from small fishing boats. The demand for fish is particularly high in Japan. At the same time, pressure on stocks is mounting. Aquaculture can offer an alternative when there is no danger of overfishing due to the catching of fry from the seas which are then raised in fish farms. To deal with this problem, METRO Japan works with Kindai University on raising fish from fertilised fish eggs in aquaculture and making the entire process from rearing to selling traceable. Cir Circular cular ec econom onomy y As a matter of principle, we support the further utiliobtain FSC® or PEFC certification for all card, sation of resources and their recovery through recypaper and wood content in primary, secondary cling. Here, the focus is on the issues of packaging and tertiary packaging, and our approach to using conventional plastic. We stop using expanded polystyrene (EPS) in all support closed-loop recycling management to reduce packaging areas (primary, secondary and tertiary) our environmental footprint. and save 300 tonnes of plastic overall. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 31 Responsibility @ METRO Secure Planet In addition, in September 2018, as part of the METRO Plastics Initiative, we and our national subsidiaries committed ourselves to replacing conventional disposable plastics with reusable, recyclable or compostable alternatives by 2025, and to promoting the transition to closed-loop plastics recycling. Many customers in the hotel, restaurant and catering sector use disposable products made from plastic every day, such as disposable tableware and takeaway boxes. Our aim is to offer more sustainable alternatives to these items. One example is the METRO Professional biodegradable disposable tableware that all MAKRO stores in Portugal have been stocking since mid-2018. Another 14 METRO countries have also added these items to their range and they are available in 36 different packs. The products are made from Our International Trading Offices and the local high-quality raw materials like wood, plant fibres, purchasing departments in our METRO Wholesale sugar cane and corn starch. We take care to use national subsidiaries help us achieve these targets in a resources that do not have a negative impact on number of different ways. They include the various food production. measures and activities that we grouped under the umbrella of our international#METROPlasticFighter Water management along the v value alue chain initiative in 2018: We tackle the issue of water management both with our suppliers and our customers, and of course at our own locations. In order to obtain an overview of water use in our supply chain, we conducted a survey in 2016 and 2017 of a selection of strategic suppliers and producers of METRO’s own-brand products on the risks and opportunities and their management practices and targets. In 2017, we launched the METRO Water Initiative with the aim of raising awareness of the issue of global water scarcity and contamination among our customers worldwide. We are collaborating on this initiative with reputable brands and manufacturers. From 2019 onwards, we will be taking this work to a new level and cooperating with an NGO called One Drop to give people in India permanent access to clean water. We raise awareness at our own locations and METRO Italy developed new packaging in 2018 for share good practice. its own-brand METRO Chef mussels: a net made from biodegradable, compostable material now Local sour sourcing cing replaces the previous conventional plastic Sourcing products from local suppliers has benefits packaging. Leaflets in the wholesale store inform for the environment. The CO2 balance of products customers about the sustainable packaging. improves when transport distances are shorter. The procurement costs are also lower. In addition, postharvest losses can be reduced and food waste prevented at this stage in the value chain if suppliers are trained to comply with certain standards and make their products marketable, or if products which do not comply with the trade standards are marketed. Examples can be found in the chapter ‘Unfold Prosperity’. An overview of all key figures and targets in the Planet area of responsibility can be found in the chapter ‘Key Performance Indicators’. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 32 Responsibility @ METRO Unfold Prosperity UNFOLD PRO PROSPERITY SPERITY able to supply our customers around the world with affordable, healthy, safe, high-quality products and suitable services. And with products that are produced in a socially responsible, environmentally UNFOLD sound and resource-friendly manner. In doing so, we ROSPERITY are also strengthening local producer structures and regional development. Additionally, we pass our expertise in the fields of resource management, WE BUILD A SUSTAINABLE procurement and product range composition on to AND PROSPEROUS FUTURE our partners, independent entrepreneurs, in order to generate long-term business perspectives and a competitive edge for them and for us. This is how we secure our future and promote sustainable procureWe shape our procurement and product range ment processes and responsible consumption. This responsibly and create a high level of transparency contributes to the Sustainable Development Goals, along the entire value chain, with the aim of generatsuch as SDG 12. ing added value for our customers. In this way, we are To build a futur futuree in the c countries ountries ‘Ugly but tastasty‘ ty‘ in Bulgaria Around a fifth of the Bulgarian fruit and vegetable harvest does not reach the shops because it does not meet trade standards in terms of shape, colour or size – even though there is nothing wrong with the flavour. METRO is tackling food waste caused by post-harvest losses through its new ‘Ugly but tasty’ initiative. For a low set price, METRO customers can fill a plastic-free bag with their choice of ‘imperfect’ fruit and vegetables. We also pay visits to farmers and provide them with information and training on this topic. The campaign is part of the wider ‘Nurtured with care in Bulgaria’ initiative. It helps increase the marketability of these ‘imperfect’ products and, as a result, the earnings potential of the participating producers. There are plans to extend the campaign to the rest of the product range. Star FFarm arm in China and P Pakis akistan tan Since 2007, our Star Farm activities have been helping farmers and suppliers in China meet internationally recognised quality standards, such as GlobalG.A.P., HACCP and the International Food Standard (IFS), and improve traceability and transparency in the supply chain. Star Farm is an agricultural consultancy that belongs to METRO and specialises in quality assurance systems and traceability solutions for agricultural produce. The company was set up in 2007 by METRO Wholesale in cooperation with the Chinese Ministry of Commerce and local authorities. The aim of Star Farm’s activities is to increase the proportion of goods sourced directly from producers, advance productivity and effectiveness in agricultural production, and improve food safety by modernising the supply chain. An integrated traceability solution for food products was introduced for this purpose in 2009. Customers can use the system to trace the origin of agricultural products in detail. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 33 Responsibility @ METRO Unfold Prosperity In 2011, a similar partnership was set up in Pakistan, which is now also helping to obtain the best products from the farmers and to pass on a high degree of transparency to the customers through the direct supplier relationship. As a sister organisation of METRO Pakistan, Star Farm is working on the same challenges to enhance the food supply chain through sustainable and innovative methods. In 2018, the Punjab Skills Development Fund (financed by DFID, UKaid) launched a special programme called ‘Big Push for Rural Economy – Agriculture Sector’. Over 12,000 people from 60 selected villages in 4 districts of southern Punjab (Bahawalpur, Bahawalnagar, Lodhran and Muzaffargarh) were trained in a number of agricultural skills. Star Farm pledged 150 agricultural specialists to teach comprehensive theoretical and practical aspects of preand post-harvest techniques, plant protection, best crop management practices, ideal irrigation practices and fertiliser recommendations. Another primary objective was to mobilise the farming community and large numbers of unemployed young people. For this purpose, Star Farm Pakistan set up 110 fully equipped training centres in the villages and demonstration plots for growing wheat and cotton, where the farmers can try out their newly acquired skills and apply best practices. Knowing that women are an integral part of the community and that involving them in such projects can have a significant impact on the economy, the organisers also arranged for 1,800 women (30 from each village) to receive training in skills such as kitchen gardening and food preparation techniques in their homes. Overall, over the past 2 financial years, we have trained over 20,000 farmers in China and Pakistan, including 5,000 women in Pakistan. Sustainable Sus tainable Pr ocurement Procur ement Meeting in FrFranc ance e The first Sirha Green trade fair in Lyon in 2018 was all about sustainability in the food industry. To mark the occasion, we organised a Sustainable Procurement Meeting with over 60 of our own-brand suppliers. The aim of the meeting was to work with our suppliers to identify distinguishing features of sustainable business so as to help equip our joint business operations for the future. During the meeting, we introduced 15 fact sheets containing sustainability commitments relating to 5 areas. These are intended to serve as guidelines for suppliers concerning METRO’s requirements, but also support their own business activities. The 5 areas are: health, environment and biodiversity, compliance, animal welfare, and taste and culinary know-how. In various roundtable discussions, suppliers have shared their experiences of how they have tackled and overcome practical challenges in implementing sustainability in their business. Sus Sustainable tainable prprocur ocurement ement in India In India, METRO works closely with the Food Chain Partnership, a Bayer Crop Science initiative. It brings together farmers, wholesalers, retailers and other stakeholders in the value chain to promote sustainable farming in emerging and developing countries and the supply of safe food. Local structures are strengthened, particularly in weaker economic regions. A key component of the partnership in India involves training the farmers on quality and environmental aspects. The current focus is on growing vegetables, especially tomatoes, lettuce, cauliflower and cucumbers. We aspire to organise 80% of our procurement through central collection points and platforms that follow the initiative’s guidelines. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 34 Responsibility @ METRO Unfold Prosperity Pilot prproject oject with small and medium suppliers in Rus Russia sia A pilot project in the Moscow and Krasnodar areas aims to support small and medium-sized food businesses. METRO is collaborating on this project with local authorities, Sberbank, the biggest Russian financial services company, and the International Finance Corporation (IFC). The aim is to use best practice to promote the development of competitive small businesses. Retailers with 50 to 150 square metres of store area are given the opportunity to run an efficient, sustainable Fasol franchise outlet – with METRO as a strategic partner. 47 Fasol branches have already opened in the Krasnodar area and 108 in Moscow. The aim is to have up to 120 in Krasnodar and up to 590 in Moscow by the end of 2020. In addition, recognised industry experts train commercial customers from the hotel and food service industry on strategy, marketing and HR topics. 20 restaurants have already taken part in the training programme. Another part of the programme is aimed directly at local suppliers, specifically small and medium-sized food producers. Training sessions and advice help the participants comply with the criteria of the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI). The multi-stage programme includes audits, 3-day courses, on-site advice, and certification for suppliers that want it. 6 suppliers in the Moscow area have already completed audits and training courses. There are plans to extend the programme to other regions. Trac aceability eability suppliers, for instance – electronically and merge it via a software platform. This makes access to this information considerably easier and more reliable for customers and other users. It also ensures that our commercial customers can in turn provide their customers with information about the origin and nature of the goods they sell. Approximately 800 fish products and around 2,000 meat products can currently be traced in Germany with the PRO TRACE app. Various other METRO national subsidiaries and our International Trading Offices have also joined the scheme since it launched in 2015. We champion product traceability in order to guaranFollowing regional expansion in the fish and meat tee product safety and quality and to help customers product ranges, in financial year 2017/18 we successand suppliers comply with legal requirements. We fully tested an improved solution for recording interalso help ensure that resources are protected and illenal processes as well. In addition, we created a gal activities avoided. Therefore, together with other compact in-house solution that offers a special retailers, renowned partners and the standardisation service, particularly to METRO’s own-brand producorganisation GS1 Germany, we have developed our ers. cross-industry international traceability solution which allows products to be traced all the way from their origins to the customer’s purchase. It allows us to collect relevant data – regarding products and METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 35 Responsibility @ METRO Unfold Prosperity Working with our suppliers ships with the suppliers: good conditions for healthy economic growth. We also ensure transparency with respect to the resources used and the procurement of products by means of direct relations with our business partners. Regional pr products oducts In order to offer our customers in all markets an attractive, unique and responsible product range When composing and putting together our product characterised by careful choices, variety, freshness ranges, we make a point of including regional goods. and quality, we stay in close contact with our suppliBy buying products such as fruit, vegetables, meat ers – not only at the local level in our METRO counand dairy produce from local growers and producers, tries, but also via our International Trading Offices, we not only meet our customers’ growing demand for which manage centralised procurement for the regional products. We also assist and support the METRO Wholesale national subsidiaries. We operate 6 local production structures, thus contributing to the International Trading Offices for the sourcing of food economic growth of the regions together with our items in Boston, Concarneau, Rotterdam, Valencia, customers. In many cases, regional products also Düsseldorf and Hong Kong and another office in have a better environmental balance, which is seen as Hong Kong for the sourcing of non-food supplies. an additional benefit. Products are sourced directly from the place of origin One challenge in the area of regional products, and we make specific use of market potential and however, is how we define regional. This applies in procurement synergies. The concept of direct sourcparticular to communications with our customers and ing from the growers and producers makes for optithe resulting expectations. Since a standard definition mised supply chains and enables the company to is not available and does not make sense on an intermaintain a high level of product quality, freshness and national level, some of METRO’s national subsidiaries safety, and build up long-term, transparent relationare using a list of criteria to help them define regional products for their territory. Ex Examples amples fr from om the ccountries ountries Local pr products oducts in Bulgaria The EU-label ‘protected geographical indications‘ (GIs) offer consumers a guarantee of authentic, regional specialities. METRO Bulgaria supports farmers by helping them obtain this label for their products – whether for fruit, vegetables or meat. 2 PGI applications are currently being prepared: by producers of a type of bean grown in the Smiliyan region, and by farmers who grow Reseleshki onions – a variety grown only in the Cherven Bryag region. METRO also collaborates with NGOs for this project. Local pr products oducts fr om T from Turkish urkish rregions egions With the Local Seed project, METRO Turkey advocates the protection of natural and original seeds. Our national subsidiary works closely with local growers and producers and guarantees that it will purchase the complete harvest of agricultural products which are characteristic of the region and are grown using local seeds. These are 10 different tomato varieties, 4 pepper varieties and 1 specific cucumber variety. In addition, METRO Turkey organises GlobalG.A.P. training for farmers and helps them meet international hygiene and working standards. Depending on the season 15 products which are marked with a special logo are already exclusively available at the Turkish wholesale stores. METRO Turkey is also committed to creating greater public awareness of products with the GI label. Customers can already find more than 130 of these products in Turkish wholesale stores. The national subsidiary supports local suppliers with the registration processes and has helped raise awareness of the issue through its activities at government level. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 36 Responsibility @ METRO Unfold Prosperity Supporting the culinary heritage of Bulgaria and P Poland oland METRO Bulgaria has launched a competition to celebrate the country’s culinary heritage. The aim is to collect old recipes – some of them dating back centuries – that have shaped the taste and culture of Bulgaria. Professional chefs and amateur cooks are all eligible to take part and send in recipes. The European Commission has included the project in its European Year of Cultural Heritage 2018. To raise awareness for local culinary traditions among commercial customers in Poland, MAKRO Poland launched its Polish Culinary Treasures programme in 2018. The programme imparts knowledge and builds up a network around the issue. In the first 10 training sessions, 200 participants were introduced to around 30 historical Polish recipes – interpreted by famous chefs. To mark the 100th anniversary of Polish independence, MAKRO Poland also published a book of 100 traditional recipes. Regional mea meatt specialities fr Aus om A from ustria tria METRO Austria is gradually expanding its meat range, adding regional and sustainably produced specialities. For instance, meat from cows in the Reine Lungau biosphere park has been available exclusively from our wholesale store in Salzburg since October 2018. Together with small-scale farmers in the park area, METRO developed the idea of marketing beef from the cattle as well as milk. The cows are fed almost exclusively on natural green fodder from high pastures at an altitude of over 1,000 metres. METRO has also added Triestingtal beef to its product range in Lower Austria. And in January 2019, it will start selling Styrian and Lower Austrian Duroc pork with the AMA (Agrarmarkt Austria) quality label. METRO Ukr Ukraine aine e expands xpands its F Fermo ermovve pr project oject Since 2016, METRO has been collaborating with the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food in the Ukraine and with seed suppliers to support local farmers. The partners distribute seed and fertilisers to the local farmers, who then supply the harvested produce to METRO. By committing to buy their produce, METRO is able to offer security to small producers in particular, and strengthen their development. In our wholesale stores, responsibly grown, healthy, local products are marketed under our Fermove own brand, which lets our customers support local production structures through their buying choices. Since 2017, METRO has been using the same principle to raise seedlings, for example for tomato, pepper and aubergine plants, which are then sold in the stores. It is a way of motivating our commercial customers to become growers themselves. In a next step, we plan to expand Fermove into a global platform selling fresh produce from the Ukraine locally and across the EU. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 202017 17 / 18 37 Responsibility @ METRO Unfold Prosperity Sus Sustainable tainable pr product oduct rrange ange over €115 million in Germany with this sustainable fish range. Real generated sales of €394 million with regional products in the past financial year. Both sales lines are increasingly offering its customers products from sustainably managed forestry. Revenues generated with products bearing the label of the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) or the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) was around €42 million. Due to our customers’ increased interest in more sustainable products and the potential this offers for our business, we keep working on enlarging the proportion of more sustainable products in our portfolio. Real has already met its overall target of generating 30% of turnover in its food and near-food ranges from sustainable products by 2019. To keep moving in the same direction, the company has set a new target: by 2030, Real plans to stock a 100% sustainable range of food and near-food prodBy supporting customers and helping them make ucts. Adapted targets have been set for the individual buying decisions in favour of sustainable products, we product groups to help the company achieve its overare also promoting a sustainable lifestyle. In order to all goal. The focus is being placed on regional prodprovide better customer guidance, we use labels that ucts, fruit and vegetables from permaculture produccertify products according to specific sustainability tion and projects in the area of animal welfare. standards. Our own brands are likewise labelled We are constantly working on collecting similar accordingly. We additionally provide information in figures for all the other countries in which METRO is our stores and talk to our customers. We are active. Although the differences between the data convinced that by expanding our range of responsible systems in the various countries make this a challengproducts, we are stimulating demand and consumping process, we made significant progress in financial tion of these products and helping – in a circularyear 2017/18. 16 of 25 METRO countries have provided economy kind of way – to shape a responsible future their data, e.g. on products certified according to the along the entire value chain. EU Organic Regulation or with the seal of the MSC, Our sales lines’ product ranges include fair-trade the ASC, the EU Organic Label and GlobalG.A.P. articles and food products that bear the European However, due to a lack of uniform methodology and organic symbol. In financial year 2017/18, sales of fairdata quality, the data on sales outside Germany trade products at METRO Wholesale and Real in cannot yet be reported in a form suitable for testing. Germany totalled more than €13 million. This figure Looking at METRO Wholesale’s 2020 commitment includes items featuring the Fairtrade or the GEPA regarding sustainable palm oil, in financial year 2017/ label. During the same period, our sales lines achieved 18, the company has made great progress thanks to Germany-wide sales totalling nearly €146 million with our International Trading Offices: over 50,000 tonnes products which are certified in accordance with the of French fries and other potato products have been EU regulation on organic farming. Our range also sourced with sustainable palm oil (Mass Balance certiincludes products from sustainable fisheries and fication) and delivered to 24 METRO Wholesale counaquaculture. We define these as products bearing the tries. Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) logo, the AquaculMore key performance indicators for the Prosperture Stewardship Council (ASC) logo or the EU ity area of responsibility can be found in the chapter organic and GlobalG.A.P. labels. In financial year 2017/ 'Key Performance Indicators'. 18, METRO Wholesale and Real generated sales of Activities in the c countries ountries Sus Sustainable tainable Fish Initia Initiativ tive e in Japan Quality standards for fresh fish are higher in Japan than in any other country. To increase sustainability standards in procurement as well, our Japanese subsidiary launched the Sustainable Fish Initiative in April 2018. The project is based on partnerships with suppliers, and providing more information for commercial customers to promote environmentally friendly, economical solutions. There have been preparatory meetings with the ASC, MSC and Chefs for the Blue – a new project involving top chefs from Tokyo – as well as government authorities, ministries, marine scientists and NGOs. METRO Japan will continue to expand the proportion of ASCand MSC-certified products in its assortment between now and 2020 and introduce MSC and ASC Chain of Custody certification in its stores. As a fish expert, METRO Japan hopes to be selected as a preferred supplier for the 2020 Olympic Games in Japan. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 38 Responsibility @ METRO Unfold Prosperity Healthy Health y pr oduct rrange product ange in German Germany y We aim to enable traders and their customers to eat a healthy diet and, in so doing, to promote sustainable lifestyles. Therefore, we not only carry a comprehensive range of fruit, vegetables and fresh products, but are also expanding our selection with the addition of vegan and special products such as lactoseand gluten-free items for consumers with food intolerances. Customers in German METRO wholesale stores can now find a range of 210 vegan products, including numerous cheese and meat alternatives, and lactoseand gluten-free products. Interna Int ernational custtomer surv tional cus surveey on health and w well-being ell-being Between August and October 2018, the Corporate Quality Assurance Team at METRO AG conducted a customer survey in our 25 METRO countries to evaluate our healthy eating strategy and develop new measures. What do our commercial customers regard as a healthy product? What role do such products play in the success of their business? And how can we support them? The aim of the questionnaire, which comprised each 10 questions for our 3 customer groups (HoReCa, Traders and SCO), is to enable our customers to benefit more fully in future from the trend towards healthy lifestyles. In total, 20,225 customers completed all or part of the online survey. The top 3 findings are: the importance of 1) ultrafresh, local produce, especially fruit and vegetables, 2) reformulated products identified by the phrase ‘less ...’ and 3) ‘free from’ foods, for example gluten-free products. Vegan and vegetarian products also fall into this last category. Sharing e expertise xpertise out by METRO Turkey in collaboration with the TÜBİTAK Scientific and Technological Research Council in As a retail company with global operations, we can 2016. play a key role in sharing expertise, particularly in the area of sustainable sourcing and sustainable product ranges. We are a knowledgeable point of contact, supporting our commercial partners at all our locations through activities with a regional focus. This is another way in which we help ensure that sustainable projects are effective. As an example, MAKRO Poland’s Chef for Chefs programme is a communications platform for commercial customers in the hotel, restaurant and catering sector. The aim is to intensify discussions with our partners and experts and to pass on knowledge about trends such as culinary innovations in the industry. Since the project started, we have already organised 24 events in 12 cities with around 2,500 participants. Fighting ffood ood w was through astte thr ough da data ta tr transpar ansparenc ency y One of the most important and effective fields of activity for securing our future is the fight against food waste. This is an area where METRO can make a In order to create a broader awareness of this probreal difference – in our own business operations, but lem and to reduce food waste and food loss, METRO especially through our suppliers and customers and Turkey launched a comprehensive communications through their customers in private households. Data campaign in 2017, along with a large number of activicollection and customer communications aimed at ties. These include the METRO Food Initiative, which changing consumer behaviour are important tools in was set up as part of Restaurant Week 2017: together the fight against food waste. METRO Turkey is active with 50 top chefs and more than 100 restaurant in this area: around 25% to 40% of the 49 million owners, the project raised awareness of the issue of tonnes of fruit and vegetables produced in Turkey food loss and food waste through a number of chaneach year are lost in the production and delivery nels, including via social media and videos. chain. This is the finding of an investigation carried METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 39 Responsibility @ METRO Enhance Partnership ENHANCE P PARTNERSHIP ARTNERSHIP ENHANCE ARTNERSHIP WE LEVERAGE THE POWER OF COMMUNITIES AND PARTNERSHIP We encourage others to act sustainably by assuming responsibility ourselves and by inspiring customers and partners with our new ways of thinking. This makes us an attractive employer for (future) employWe believe that technology can also help achieve ees and a trustworthy partner for our customers, sustainability goals. Together with our IT company business partners and representatives from the fields METRO-NOM, we are therefore gradually making of politics and science and of associations. We the search engine Ecosia available to our engage with our internal and external stakeholders to employees. The ‘green’ search engine from Berlin align our corporate actions with the needs of society. with currently over 1 million users a day invests We support local communities at our locations and 80% of its profit in forestation projects around the via our business relationships. This is how we work on world. Nearly 45 million trees have already been solutions to global challenges and contribute to planted in this way – and as Ecosia’s home page sustainable development by engaging with economic, tells us, this number keeps growing by the second. social and ecological issues. In June 2018, the METRO Campus in Düsseldorf In our social and ecological engagement we became the first location to use the search engine frequently collaborate with partner or organisa ganisations tions. In as a pre-installed default setting. As a result, 5,500 this way, we boost the effectiveness and scope of the trees were planted within just a few weeks thanks initiatives: to METRO searches. In the future, Ecosia is also to be available in other METRO countries, such as Austria, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and Portugal. We also work in concert with partners in the battle against food waste. As a participant in the METRO Accelerator, the start-up Whole Surplus developed an IT solution that helps companies in the collection of data and the optimum distribution of surplus food. The SIRPLUS initiative is aimed directly at consumers. METRO has supported this start-up, which sells surplus food at low prices in In 2017, we launched the METRO Water Initiative stores and online, since 2017. Moreover, METRO with the goal of raising awareness of water has collaborated with the ‘Tafel’ (food bank) shortage and water pollution worldwide. In this movement for more than 2 decades to provide effort we work with renowned manufacturers. people in need with food that is still of impeccable From 2019, we will raise our engagement to a new quality despite an approaching best-before date. level and collaborate with the NGO One Drop. It is We are also steadily expanding the collaboration specialised in implementing sustainably effective on an international scale. water projects. Together, we will help make an aid project in India a reality – in a region that suffers particularly severely from the lack of clean water. In a 2-week promotion campaign in our stores we want to collect enough donation money to fund the project for 3 years. METRO has contractually guaranteed a donation amount of €1.2 million. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 40 Responsibility @ METRO Enhance Partnership To achieve continuous progress towards an efficient and sustainable use of resources, we are actively involved in the Retailers’ Environmental Action Programme (REAP), along with other large European retail companies and the European Commission (Directorate-General for Environment). The purpose of this joint platform is METRO supports a number of international to advance sustainable consumption, to promote environment and climate initiatives that rely on the exchange of experience and to present the power of partnership: in 2017, for instance, we exemplary projects in the field of environmental signed a voluntary commitment to protect the and resource management. Our sales lines are particularly endangered tuna fish, the Tuna 20 2020 20 involved in the current REAP mandate, running Trac aceability eability Declar Declara tion. METRO is moreover an ation from 2016 until 2018, which seeks to contribute to active member of the Global Sus Sustainable tainable Seaf Seafood ood the achievement of a circular economy through Initia Initiativ tivee ((GS GSSI) SI). various goals and measures. METRO has made a In 2018, we assumed a major role in the Consumer total of 7 commitments under the mandate. Goods F Forum orum ((C CGF) – METRO’s Chairman of the Amongst these are: Management Board Olaf Koch currently holds the Establishing collection points for used cooking position of co-chair for the retail sector at the fats and oils for reuse as energy sources: in CGF. The joint platform of manufacturers and 2017, METRO France, in close collaboration retailers is trying to find solutions to issues that with 5,183 HoReCa customers, was able to are central to the industry, specifically also collect 693 tonnes of cooking fats and oils and including the area of provide it for biogas generation. sustainability. The forum Not providing free plastic bags, in order to deals with such topics as reduce the use of resources: this goal has health, human rights and already been achieved in all Real stores. Since resource protection, for 2016, no disposable plastic bags have been instance the protection of handed out any longer in the checkout areas at the rainforests against Real. Instead, the company offers its customers deforestation. Back on 25 reusable PET bags or FSC®-certified paper October 2017, METRO was the first German retail bags. company to sign the so-called Cerr errado ado Manif Manifes estto. Reviewing own-brand product packaging with It is a call to action in order to end deforestation respect to improvement potential: since 2017, and thus the irreversible loss of the original additional METRO countries and areas have vegetation in the Cerrado region in Brazil. 23 joined this initiative, among them Turkey, global companies participated. China, Bulgaria, Austria and the International Trading Office for fresh meat in Rotterdam. The complete switch from SIG and Tetra Pak beverage cartons to FSC® certification (for globally procured products and in participating countries) and replacement of PVC packaging by more sustainable alternatives. Other memberships include the Roundtable on Sus Sustainable tainable P Palm alm Oil (RSPO (RSPO)) and, since early 2018, the Roundtable on R Responsible esponsible SoSoyy (RTRS) (RTRS). METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 41 Responsibility @ METRO Enhance Partnership Dealing with plastic waste is becoming a growing challenge. For this reason, METRO has launched the round table ‘Unser Unser AAus uswweg aus dem Ein Einw weg eg’ (Our way out of the one-way) initiative. Representatives from the entire value chain were invited to the kick-off event on 20 September 2018 – because sustainable solutions can only be developed in concert. METRO is taking the lead by replacing disposable with returnable solutions in all company cafeterias in Germany by the end of 2019. This switch is scheduled to be rolled out at all METRO locations by the end of 2020. Moreover, we have committed ourselves to gradually replacing standard disposable plastics with reusable, recyclable or compostable materials in our product ranges by 2025. Examples Ex amples fr om v from various arious c countries ountries Cus Custtomer dialogue in Fr Franc ancee For the second time already since 2017, METRO France invited its customers and other experts in sustainability in the food industry to a dialogue on the theme ‘My restaurant goes green’. The purpose of the conference was an exchange in a spirit of partnership and the insight that to bring about actual change, it is best to follow the path towards more sustainability together. A good example of this is the cooperation between METRO and Baluchon. METRO was one of the first to understand that Baluchon is not a conventional food company. In addition to the development, production and marketing of ready meals and catering services, the aim is to use production as an opportunity to train and integrate people without employment in the kitchen and logistics sector. The owners of Baluchon are not only interested in the financial profitability of their capital, but also in ensuring that their business activities are sustainable and achieve maximum added value in social, societal and ecological terms. They can only achieve this in cooperation with other players, especially with well-established companies such as METRO, who engage in positive ways. METRO Hungary supports sus sustainability tainability leadership pr progr ogramme amme The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) has developed a programme for future executives. Called ‘Future Leaders’, it deals with issues around sustainable business practices in companies. In 2017, METRO Hungary supported the WBCSD subsidiary Business Council for Sustainable Development in Hungary (BCSDH) as a mentor company and in the organisation of an entrepreneur day by setting up a training station in its Gastro Academy. In 2018, a young employee of METRO Hungary participated for the first time in the national adaption of the WBCSD management programme. In 2019, another employee will participate in the programme. Social engagement with our partners raise awareness of METRO’s close ties with society. This is crucial for our long-term market viability. It As a retail company, METRO is highly integrated in its also helps our employees to identify more strongly social environment. Every day we cultivate relationwith the company. ships with many millions of people: people who work More key performance indicators for the Partnerwith or for us, who shop at our stores or with whom ship area of responsibility can be found in the chapter we have some other relationship. Our social and envi'Key Performance Indicators'. ronmental responsibility in the places where we are based and interact with people is another thing that we see as a means of adding value, as it goes towards tackling social challenges. Our diverse activities aim to foster intercultural dialogue, to lend support to our locations and their local communities, and to provide direct assistance to those in need. At the same time, we support employees who actively participate in our activities by helping them to hone their social skills and allowing them to work on their own initiative. By enabling them to address social issues at work, we METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 42 Responsibility @ METRO Enhance Partnership Int Interna ernational tional Car Care e & Shar Share e initia initiativ tive e CHEF FOR Y YOUNG OUNG T TALENT ALENTS S pr progr ogramme amme in P Poland oland In order to support future chefs early on, MAKRO Poland launched the ‘CHEF FOR YOUNG TALENTS’ programme. It provides young employees with the Since 2008, METRO has been organising its voluntary opportunity to learn from experts in the sector, get to work and social responsibility projects under the know new products and grapple with sustainability umbrella of Care & Share. The goal of the global issues. More than 3,000 trainees from all over Poland initiative is to support voluntary social and ecological have participated in the programme on 18 dates at activities by employees as well as customers. In this our stores so far. The best 20 participants moreover way, we can give something back to the communities were offered internships at leading Polish restaurants. in which we work. The various local activities of the METRO Wholesale national subsidiaries demonstrate Voca ocational tional c ounselling ffor counselling or y young oung people fr from om how this international initiative is implemented at the orphanages in RusRussia sia local level. Employees of METRO Russia help teenagers from orphanages find a profession. What are each individ‘Res ‘R estaur ants agains taurants againstt hunger hunger’’ in Spain ual’s fortes and interests? To find that out, they accompany the young people during visits with large companies and educational institutions, among other activities. UN WWorld orld F ood Pr Food Progr ogramme amme The ‘Action Against Hunger’ organisation has fought against malnutrition and undernourishment, especially amongst children, for more than 40 years. MAKRO supports the NGO together with the Spanish hospitality association FEHR in the industry’s largest In June 2016, in close association with its own core donation campaign in Spain: the ‘Restaurantes Contra business, METRO embarked on a global, long-term el Hambre’ (Restaurants against hunger) campaign. partnership with the UN World Food Programme For 2 months the participating restaurants – by now (WFP), the largest humanitarian organisation working numbering about 1,500 – include ‘Dishes of solidarity’ to end hunger worldwide. In this partnership, which is on their menus. When guests order these, part of the implemented at the local level by the METRO Wholeearnings go to ‘Action Against Hunger’. MAKRO sale national subsidiaries, the company and its promotes the campaign in its stores and offers its employees and customers collect donations in a customers information material. number of campaigns in order to help people in need. Additionally, the partnership serves as a platform for the exchange of expertise and the targeted development of initiatives. It arose from the highly successful collaboration that was established in 2012 between WFP Italia and METRO Italy, which has helped to provide approximately 1.5 million schoolchildren with school meals. With the launch of this global partnerMETRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 43 Responsibility @ METRO Enhance Partnership ship, we firmly believe that thanks to the activities at strong partner of WFP in the years to come, working the holding and country level we will continue to be a together to end world hunger. Examples Ex amples fr om v from various arious ccountries ountries Dona Donation tion campaigns in Italy and P Pakis akistan tan In 2017/18, METRO Italy again organised a number of donation campaigns for WFP. The national subsidiary guaranteed a minimum amount of €33.500. Among other things, employees were able to donate part of their salary. In addition, part of the sales proceeds from own brand campaigns at Christmas and Easter were donated to the WFP. On International Women's Day 2018, there was a direct donation and through the Punti METRO bonus campaign, customers could use their loyalty points for humanitarian purposes. In total, the actual donations exceeded the guaranteed amount: A sum of € 56,500 was collected. This corresponds to 282,500 donated meals. In Pakis akistan tan, the national subsidiary also launched a programme where the employees can donate part of their salary each month. The collected amount is announced on 16 October – World Food Day – every year. METRO Pakistan guarantees a donation amount of at least €2,500 with this campaign. In addition, METRO Pakistan donates 1% of its sales from own-brand chips, olive oil and olives to WFP. With this campaign, too, METRO Pakistan guarantees a donation amount of at least €2,500. METRO-NOM helps with IT c consulta onsultation tion In the strategy of WFP, the retail sector plays a special part. In many countries, strengthening the sector is one of the most important levers to boost buying power, improve supply chains and retain profits locally. As part of our partnership, METRO supports this strategy by providing consulting by experts from METRO-NOM to WFP on issues of data processing in retail. After all, transparency and effectiveness of the WFP programmes can be significantly improved in this way. One WFP employee and one METRO-NOM employee each collaborate in 7 sub-projects. The topics include how to deal with product master data, databases and checkout solutions. Counselling and dona donations y METRO A by tions b AGG We also help at the group level: experts of METRO AG advise WFP regarding its retail engagement strategy. The employees’ expert knowledge in the field of retail franchise helps WFP in its transformation from not just actually helping people in areas of conflict but also rebuilding and improving the local economy. Moreover, an option to donate one’s bottle deposit has been permanently set up at both company cafeterias at the METRO Campus in Düsseldorf. Additional donation campaigns take place every year on the occasion of the World Food Day on 16 October, such as the distribution of a special charity meal in our cafeterias, where the higher price employees pay for their lunch is matched by the company and donated to WFP. Interna Int ernational tional ‘T ‘Taf el’ and ffood afel’ ood bank initia initiativ tives es tions, external circumstances make collaboration diffiMETRO is one of the earliest and most committed cult – but even there we talk to aid organisations and supporters of the international food bank movement. political representatives to further advance the For more than 10 years, we have been the main sponcollaboration. sor of Tafel Deutschland e. V. and prematurely Italy is one of the countries in which we regularly extended our partnership until 2020. Moreover, we donate food. Donations are distributed almost support the European Food Banks Federation (FEBA) throughout the entire country: 95% of the METRO financially. The principle is the same at all locations: stores in Italy collaborate with the local institutions of Our stores donate food items whose best-before date the ‘Banco Alimentare’. is approaching but which are still perfectly consumIn 2016, the ‘Banca pentru Alimente’ initiative able. Local organisations then distribute the food to started in Romania omania. The initiative works on the basis people in need. Currently, we collaborate with ‘Tafel’ of the FEBA principles. In this spirit, METRO Romania and food bank initiatives in 19 of 25 countries. We are initiated the establishment of a nationwide food bank planning to expand this to 21 countries. At some locain 2018. 4 additional international retail companies METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 44 Responsibility @ METRO Enhance Partnership have already pledged their support. A pilot project in Pr Premier emiere or the METRO V e ffor Volunt olunteer eer Da Day y in 5 Bucharest is to check general parameters for the new countries organisation. Parallel to this, the first METRO stores will start with the distribution of food to the ‘Banca pentru Alimente’ in 2019. All METRO employees are to be given the chance to perform volunteer work and participate in the company’s community involvement programme. For In German Germany y, METRO helped develop a concept for a this reason, METRO celebrated the first METRO travelling exhibition on the occasion of the 25th Volunteer Day in 2018, on 5 September. The METRO anniversary of the ‘Tafel’ food banks. Entitled ‘Love Campus in Düs Düsseldorf seldorf organised 2 aid projects in the The Waste: don’t waste – distribute’, it provides tips first year, and other campaigns, for instance in on food rescue. In addition, portrait photos honour support of disadvantaged people or against food the volunteers who tirelessly work for the initiative. waste, started in Aus ustria tria, Pakis akistan tan, Portugal and The exhibition will be on tour through METRO and Ukr Ukraine aine. Our goal is to expand the METRO Volunteer Real stores in Hamburg, Berlin, Nuremberg and Day 2019 into a METRO Volunteer Week in all 25 Krefeld until the end of 2018. It was also shown at the METRO Wholesale national subsidiaries. future congress of the ‘Tafel’ food banks in Berlin and at the METRO Campus in Düsseldorf. Dona Donations tions and sponsorship orpora Corpor ate v volunt eering: unbur olunteering: unbureaucr eaucra atic aid aatt the local le lev vel METRO actively promotes an intact and attractive To provide unbureaucratic assistance and acute emersocial environment by means of donations and spongency relief and to contribute to the integration of sorship. The donations and sponsorship guidelines refugees, METRO launched the ‘We Help’ programme define the way in which measures are to be implein 2015. Each group employee had the opportunity to mented to generate a positive public image and apply once for funds to support local projects for prevent the misuse of donations and sponsorship. For which they personally performed volunteer work. Due example, METRO was the title sponsor at the Düsselto the great success of ‘We Help’, since 2017 the dorf Marathon for the 15th time in 2018. Our commitprogramme has been continued with one-off support ment helps strengthen the team spirit and health money in the amount of €3,000 per applicant and consciousness among the employees. This year, about with an expanded focus: now employees can apply 700 employees ran the course again – and in the for a subsidy of their volunteer work if it essentially future we want to promote the event more at our helps people in need. By the end of financial year international locations too. 2017/18, 214 projects in 11 countries had been supported. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 45 Responsibility @ Real Sustainability approach Real RESPONSIBILITY @ REAL SUST SUS TAINABILITY APPRO APPROA ACH REAL healthy health y ph phy ysical and social en envir vironment onment with good pr prospects ospects ffor or the futur future e. We prpromot omote e sus tainability tto sustainability o ensur ensuree tha thatt the generoc ations tto come like ome will lik ewise be able tto o gr groow up in a SUS SUST TAINABILITY IS ONE OF THE 6 PILLARS OF REAL REAL’S ’S MARKETING APPROAPPROA ACH Six pillars of the marketing approach Home-made Destination Boutique Season Sustainability Connected We create unique We create unique We create unique We create unique We create unique We create unique freshness for the product sections, service culture moments due to trust due to combinations of special taste and strikingly and an emotional our special responsible bricks-andhealth experience. presented and shopping perspective on actions. mortar as well as showing great experience. current customer digital shops. diversity. needs. Sustainability is not an option – it is part of our standard ‘Sustainability is no marketing gag but a question of attitude. Acting responsibly is our mandate and guiding principle. As retailers we will return the focus to food items that are produced with dedication and ecological reason.’ PATRICK MÜLLER-SARMIENTO and HENNING GIESEKE Chairmen of the General Management of Real Quality, service, freshness and good value for money sibly’, the company pursues its sustainability efforts in are among Real’s fortes. Every weekday, some 34,000 4 different fields of action. Real feels just as commitemployees at the about 280 Real hypermarkets ted to environmental and consumer protection as it is devote themselves to the customers. The company’s to its employees and suppliers. bricks-and-mortar stores and its digital portfolio also include the Markthalle Krefeld, the Emmas Enkel shop in Düsseldorf, an online shop, an online food shop plus click-and-collect services. Sustainability is firmly embedded in Real’s strategy. In accordance with the motto of ‘Acting responMETRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 46 Responsibility @ Real Product range field of action eal’ss 4 fields of action Real’ Pr oducts fr Products from om permacultur permaculture e Ecological products play a central role in Real’s sustainable product range composition. At the end of 2014, the company was one of the first German retailers to introduce fruit and vegetables from permaculture. Since then, Real has worked exclusively with the supplier Lehmann Natur GmbH, a wholesaler for organic fruit and vegetables based in Meerbusch near Krefeld. The sometimes more than 15 permaculture products are marked with the Real permaculture logo and grow on acreage in Spain. Permaculture is a special form of ecological agriculture with some supplementary aspects. Fruit and vegetables are grown in harmony with nature and on the basis of sound cycles. Its purpose is to avoid the negative influences of modern, conventional agriculture. Other aspects reveal what makes this approach Real’s sustainability strategy defines 4 fields of action special: Permaculture under the motto of ‘Acting responsibly’. The company has formulated sustainability targets and concrete does without any chemical or synthetic fertilisers, measures for each of these fields: pesticides and fungicides, thus exceeding by far Pr Product oduct rrange: ange: Our customers should be able to the requirements placed on the ecological shop with us in good conscience. We are committed agricultural production of food according to the to minimising the use of raw materials and resources EU eco-regulation, while simultaneously respecting and protecting is free of treatment agents, people, animals and nature. promotes the build-up of the humus layer in soil, Emplo Employ yees: We support our employees in all life which is an important source of CO2 and improves situations. We give our employees’ careers a jump soil fertility, start, offer them opportunities to grow and climb the contributes to the preservation of species career ladder, and provide them with support in diffidiversity, nature and habitats due to mixed cult circumstances in their lives. cropping methods and En Envir vironment: onment: Our actions should have as little uses water sparingly, for example by storing and impact on the environment as possible and should using rainwater. conserve resources. Cus Custtomers and society: Our public activities are In addition to their quality, communication is a crucial characterised by credible social responsibility and ties factor in convincing the customers of the products’ to the community. advantages. To this end, Real provides comprehensive The goals within the fields of action were develinformation and background concerning permaculoped in collaboration with the respective departture on its company website as well as in brochures, ments and have been strategically embedded in the booklets and newspaper inserts. company. Their operational implementation takes The Permaculture Advisory Board, established in place in the various departments on the basis of 2016 and consisting of experts and representatives of concrete sub-goals and measures which have been NGOs, assists Real as an independent body in an defined accordingly. Additionally, Real continues to advisory function, for instance in the approval of new develop its sustainability strategy, checks its suppliers and products as well as the training of measures regularly and adjusts them on the basis of employees and in external communication. new insights because Real views sustainability as a Since it was established, Real’s portfolio has process which calls for the company to continuously grown steadily. In 2017, for instance, olive oil and evolve. peanuts from permaculture production were included in the product range for the first time. Depending on the season, Real offers more than 15 different permaPRODUCT R RANGE ANGE FIELD OF culture products. The goal is to further advance ACTION awareness of permaculture and to expand the product range – depending on availability. Our mis mission: sion: Our cuscusttomers should be able tto o shop with us in good c onscience conscienc We e ar e. W areeccommitt ommitted o ed tto Launch of Demet Demeter oducts a products er pr att R eal Real minimising the use of rra aw ma matterials and rresour esourcces while simultaneously rrespecting especting and prprot otecting ecting Another important step in sustainable product range people people,, animals and na natur ture e. composition at Real was the launch of Demeter products in 2017. Initially, the portfolio contained about 100 different items, including various ground grain METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 202017 17 / 18 47 Responsibility @ Real Product range field of action products and pasta, juices, sauces and bread spreads. Pr Product oduct saf safety ety and quality By now, Real’s product range includes more than 150 Demeter products and is to be further expanded. A basic requirement of product range composition is Special training is provided to employees where they that products are impeccable and safe. Here Real receive information on Demeter so they can give often relies not merely on the legal requirements and customers expert advice. controls but offers its customers additional safety be Demeter is Germany’s oldest organic food associimplementing and complying with international qualation. Its standards are significantly higher than the ity standards such as Qualität und Sicherheit (QS) legal EU eco-criteria. For example, Demeter demands and the International Featured Standards (IFS). Real that an agricultural operation switch entirely to biodydefined further standards for specific product groups namic agriculture[1] in line with the Demeter princithat exceed the legal regulations. Regarding fruit and ples and creating closed cycles. vegetables, for instance, the company requires GlobalG.A.P. certification. Moreover, Real backs the 1 The term ‘biodynamic agriculture’ can be traced back to the teachings of Rudolf Steiner, the founder of anthroposophy. It describes the agricultural demand to minimise the use of pesticides and advoholding as an individual entity, an organism that is largely closed in itself, cates legislation that only allows the use of pesticides where the different partial areas combine to form a live unit and which produces all essential elements of agricultural production (for example feed in fruit and vegetable production that are approved in for the animals or fertiliser for the plants) itself in the required quantity. Europe. No more than 70% – and from 2019 no more than 50% (20% in the case of glyphosate) – of the legal maximum residue amounts for pesticides may Sustainable Sus tainable pr oduct rrange product ange c composition omposition be utilised. Additionally, it has been determined that a maximum of 5 different active ingredients may be As a provider of more than 80,000 products, Real is used and only 80% of the total threshold value may at the interface between producers and consumers, be utilised. Real carefully checks the quality of the which gives it special responsibility. The company products on a regular basis via supplier audits, lab lives up to this responsibility in many different ways. inspections by accredited labs as well as warehouse Real undertakes various efforts to make its prodcontrols. uct range as sustainable as possible. For example, the company issued purchasing guidelines for a number of products and raw materials which define mandaComplianc ompliance e with social sstandar tandardsds tory standards for the products. These standards are reassessed every year and adjusted to current develGlobal, complex supply chains have developed in the opments. Objectives are also reassessed and redewake of globalisation. Coffee from Columbia, fruit and fined. vegetables from Africa and New Zealand or textiles Real has already accomplished the overall goal of and electronic products from China and Bangladesh generating 30% of its revenues from the sale of are only some examples where the products are sent sustainable products in the food and near-food around half the globe before they become available segment by 2019. To rigorously further pursue this for customers at the shop. While here at home laws path, the company has set itself a new goal: by 2030, and often also unions and works councils protect Real wants to have a 100% sustainable product range employees against exploitation and working condiin the food and near-food segment. Adjusted individtions that are inhuman or endanger their health, this ual goals have been developed for the different prodis not a given in other regions of the world. Especially uct groups which contribute to achieving the overall in emerging and developing countries, laws are goal. frequently insufficient or inadequately enforced. Sustainable products include items for whose Therefore more and more customers wonder about production special ecological or social aspects were the social conditions under which the goods they considered, resulting in value added for human purchase were produced. For this reason, sustainable beings, animals or nature. The expansion of the product range composition must also take social organic product range plays an important part in this aspects of the production along the supply chain into context. Organic products are marked as such and account. And so Real requires all its business partners must meet specific minimum criteria which are to contractually pledge compliance with the labour defined in the EU eco-regulation. Real’s product standards of the International Labour Organization range already contains more than 4,000 organic (ILO). The strict prohibition of child and forced labour products. However, this category also includes other as well as any kind of exploitation is as much part of logos and seals or set criteria – in other words, prodthe agreement as are other forms of labour that are ucts which offer significant value added for human exploitative, damage a person’s health or violate his beings, animals or nature. A pertinent example is the or her dignity. This applies to the entire food and nonIrish Beef which the stores offer. The animals graze on food product range, without qualification. Irish pastures where they can move about freely Real is a member of amfori BSCI (Business Social during 10 months of the year. Compliance Initiative) via METRO AG. The goal is to implement safe working conditions along the supply chain. Real demands transparency regarding the production sites used, that carry out the final valuecreating production step, as well as compliance with METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 48 Responsibility @ Real Product range field of action the social standards of amfori BSCI from all non-food protection of the marine ecosystems as well as the own-brand suppliers (non-food own-brand products people employed in the fishery industry. For example, as well as own import products) which produce Real Real excludes fish species that are critically endanown brands in so-called risk countries (based on the gered according to IUCN if they are not available as evaluation of amfori BSCI). This must also be valisustainably certified goods. Additionally, Real carries dated by an adequate audit result (i.e. A, B or C, for Victoria perch from the Naturland Wildfish certificathe Amfori BSCI or an audit that is acknowledged as tion programme in Bukoba, Tanzania, which strengthequivalent). By the end of financial year 2017/18, 98% ens smaller fisheries. The standard contains ecologiof factories had a valid and adequate audit. cal, social and economic criteria. Not only is the impact of fishing on the environment reduced in this way, but the working and living conditions of the fishRegional pr product oduct rrange ange ers are improved, too. Real has the concrete aim of having 100% of all To show customers which products are from the fish products under its own brand certified with a region, Real marks them with the ‘Gutes aus der sustainability standard by 2020 if they are available. Heimat’ (Prime local produce) logo. More than These standards include, for instance, the seals from 20,000 items already bear this logo. Especially fruit the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC), the Aquaculand vegetables as well as sausage products are from ture Stewardship Council (ASC), GlobalG.A.P., Bio, nearby enterprises which are located within a radius Friend of the Sea, Best Aquaculture Practices (BAP), of 100 kilometres of the respective store at most. The Naturland Wildfish and the Eel Stewardship Fund company strengthens the local economy with (Initiative zur Förderung des europäischen Aals e. V., regional products. Shorter transport routes and more ESF). efficient logistics protect the environment. In order to furthermore improve the working conditions as well as promote adherence to social minimum standards in the fish supply chain, Real Pr Products oducts with rreduc educed ed ffaat, sugar and sodium obliges its suppliers contractually to comply with the cont ontent ent ILO key labour standards and prefers manufacturing companies and fisheries which are certified according A number of heavily processed foods have a high to a social standard such as BSCI, SEDEX-SMETA or sodium, fat and/or sugar content. This may lead to SA8000. consumers taking in amounts of these nutrients that far exceed the recommended daily allowance. For this reason, Real has been working for years on optimising ocoa Coc from om c oa fr ertified and sus certified sustainable tainable ffarms arms food composition for the benefit of consumer health. In 2015, the company set itself the aim to reduce the Cocoa is one of the most important trade goods in sugar, fat and sodium content of about 150 ownthe world. Most cocoa growing areas (about two brand products by 2017. Real has accomplished this thirds) are in West and Central Africa on small farms. goal: the composition of more than 150 items (includThe working and living conditions of these small ing the own productions at the stores) has been optifarmers are very hard. Often the farmers’ income is mised. The main focus was on products which are not enough to make a living and invest in pest frequently consumed by children, such as ‘real QUALmanagement, good plant material or improved cultiITY TOMATEN-KETCHUP für Kids’. Real was even able vation methods. This in turn exacerbates further evils to reduce the sugar content of this product by 30%. such as child and forced labour. In addition to a The company plans to check all own-brand products number of social challenges, there are also ecological and own productions by 2022 and – if this is possible problems in connection with cocoa growing which without any sensory loss – to alter the formulations in must be overcome. To make a contribution towards terms of a lower sugar, fat and/or sodium content. solving the diverse challenges in the cocoa industry, Real has developed a purchasing guideline for cocoa in which the criteria for cocoa procurement are Sus Sustainable tainable fish pur purchasing chasing defined. For instance, since 2015 the company has demanded that only cocoa be used for all own-brand Overfishing is considered the main reason for the products which has been certified according to one decline of many species within the marine ecosysof the 3 internationally recognised standards of Fairtems. Even though the stocks of some fish species trade, UTZ Certified and Rainforest Alliance and have been able to recover during the past few years, a which was procured in compliance with the Mass large part of the stocks is still considered overfished Balance supply chain option. Now that this goal has or endangered. Aside from the ecological aspects, been achieved, the company plans to gradually such issues as adherence to social standards as well switch to the ‘Segregation’ (SG) and ‘Identity as human trafficking and forced labour are major Preserved’ (IP) supply chain models, as long as the challenges for global fishery. market situation permits. Together with suppliers and stakeholders, Real has developed a number of measures in order to promote sustainable fisheries and in this way contribute to the METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 49 Responsibility @ Real Product range field of action Sus Sustainable tainable palm (k (kernel) ernel) oil species or individual product groups. To make its portfolio of animal products as sustainable as possiPalm and palm kernel oil can be found in many conveble, the company steadily expands its range with nience goods such as food, cosmetic products and products whose standards exceed the legal requiredetergents. Due to its specific properties, it is used in ments. In the poultry segment, for instance, Real the field of consumer goods in many different ways. carries conventional products bearing such quality Demand for it is therefore high – and steadily increasseals as ‘Für mehr Tierschutz’ (For greater animal ing. To meet the growing demand and gain new protection, basic level) or ‘Label Rouge’ as well as acreage, large parts of rain forests continue to be ‘Nature & Respect’. cleared. This contributes to the destruction of the New additions in 2017 were products of the ‘Kikok’ habitats of people as well as numerous animal and label in selected stores. It has also tougher requireplant species, and has far-reaching consequences for ments, such as lower stocking density, the provision the environment and the global climate. of toys and animal feeding requirements. In the pork In terms of production, palm and palm kernel oil, segment, some Real stores carry sausage products of however, cannot be easily and meaningfully replaced the ‘frohNATUR’ brand. Here the pigsties are divided by other oils. This would only shift the problems or into different areas (for example an outdoor or even exacerbate them, as other oil plants yield less oil digging area) and are equipped with straw and toys than the oil palm and would therefore require more for the pigs, among other materials. The stocking acreage. density is lower than in conventional pig husbandry. In view of these facts, Real, in conjunction with its The feed is not genetically modified. As for beef, for suppliers and other stakeholders, advocates sustainthe most part Real carries Irish Beef. Irish cattle spend able oil palm cultivation. The company has been a almost all year long (at least 10 months) on pastures member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil where they can move about freely. In addition to (RSPO) since 2011 via METRO AG. The association of conventional goods, the company has meat and relevant stakeholders of the palm (kernel) oil supply sausage products in organic and Demeter quality in chain supports the sustainable cultivation and use of its assortment. Real is also active with respect to such the oil palm. Since 2015, Real has only used sustainanimal products as milk, dairy products and shell ably produced and certified palm or palm kernel oil eggs. Under its own brands ‘real BIO’ and ‘real QUALaccording to the supply chain models Identity ITY’, the company does not sell shell eggs of laying Preserved (IP), Segregation (SG) or Mass Balance hens whose beaks have been trimmed, as committed (MB) or alternative raw materials for all own-brand in the buying guideline for shell eggs and egg prodfood items. The company has now committed itself to ucts. Additionally, Real carries eggs which have been a new target: by 2025, it wants to use 100% certified distinguished with the ‘Für mehr Tierschutz’ premium palm oil or palm kernel oil based on RSPO’s ‘Identity level logo. Here, too, the beaks of laying hens are not Preserved’ (IP) or ‘Segregation’ (SG) supply chain trimmed. Moreover, the company has added 100% models for its own-brand food items, as long as the certified organic ‘haehnlein’ eggs to its product range market situation permits. In addition, the range of Germany-wide. Here, the male chicks of the laying own-brand detergents and cleaning agents as well as hen line are also reared and later used for meat cosmetics products is to be switched to sustainable production. This is currently not standard practice palm oil based on one of the above-mentioned supply yet, as male chicks have such little meat that they are chain models, if the market situation permits. not as profitable for the meat chicken farms as the Currently, the palm or palm kernel oil is certified chickens that are specifically reared for meat producaccording to the IP or SG supply chain model for tion. Real sells the meat of the male animals in more than 50% of all own-brand products. selected stores. Furthermore, Real switched the fresh milk of the ‘real QUALITY’ brand first to pasture milk and then to Commitment tto o the pr prot otection ection of animals mountain farmers’ milk, from which UHT milk and mountain farmers’ butter are also produced, as Real’s corporate principles require that products of described in the buying guideline for animal products. animal origin are marketed that were made with Mountain farmers’ milk comes from small establishanimals reared in species-appropriate ways. Since ments in the Alps where the cows are in pasture current legislation does not always sufficiently guarseveral months a year and where they can move antee this in farm animal husbandry, the company, in freely about eating fresh grass and fresh herbs. conjunction with various stakeholders and suppliers, is continuously working on measures to further advance animal welfare. Real has summarised the Vegetarian and v vegan egan prproduct oduct rrange ange pertinent goals and measures in a purchasing guideline for animal products which was published in 2016 To promote animal welfare and meet its customers’ for the first time and has been further developed needs, Real is continuously expanding its range of since then. vegetarian and vegan products. In financial year 2017/ Real is engaged in broad-ranging projects which 18, for instance, the company included various vegan advance animal welfare in general, as well as in meat alternatives, such as natural tofu and organic specific measures concerning individual animal ground tofu, vegan schnitzels, nuggets and burgers, METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 50 Responsibility @ Real Employees field of action in its product range under the ‘real QUALITY’ own place in different countries. On the one hand, this brand. Currently, the stores stock more than 2,000 industry branch offers many people jobs and can also vegetarian and vegan products which are identifiable help women to make their living on their own and for customers among other things thanks to shelf and independently. On the other hand, the production and product signs. On the ‘Besser Leben’ (Better living) working conditions in many countries fall short of the consumer portal, Real offers its customers additional internationally defined environmental and social staninformation on the ingredients of its own-brand proddards yet. One consequence of this is that child and ucts. Here, the consumers learn, for example, whether forced labour still exist in many places and the safety gelatin was used for clarification or if the rennet used at work is not ensured everywhere. In addition to the is of animal or plant origin. social aspects, there are a number of ecological challenges in the textile sector that must also be dealt with. These include, for instance, the high water Sustainable Sus tainable w ood and paper pr wood products oducts consumption and the use of pesticides and chemicals. Real has defined various measures to improve the The world’s forest land is an important element in the living conditions of people and animals in the textile regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. Advancing supply chain and help reduce the use of water, pestideforestation for the procurement of wood and paper cides and chemicals. The company steadily expands products thus contributes to the greenhouse gas its range of textiles with sustainability standards. By effect and hence to the global climate change. 2025, it only wants to use own-brand textiles with Forests, moreover, are the habitats for many animal cotton content that meet a sustainability standard species. To live up to its responsibility as a retail such as Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) or company in this area as well, Real engages in the Cotton made in Africa (CmiA), or a seal for certified sustainable treatment of the resource wood. In its organic cotton. purchasing guideline for wood and paper products, Additionally, via METRO AG Real is a member of for instance, published in 2016, the company defined various initiatives which are actively involved in appropriate goals and requirements for the procureimproving the living and working conditions in the ment of wood and paper products. Real has detertextile supply chain. These include, for instance, mined that all own-brand items, customer service amfori BSCI and the follow-up agreement of the items and products for internal use must be from Bangladesh Accord (see the section ‘Compliance with sustainable sources by the end of 2020 if their wood social standards’). Real furthermore strictly excludes or paper content accounts for at least 50% of their critical products such as cotton from Uzbekistan and weight. Wood and paper products are considered the so-called sandblasting method in the production sustainable if they come from sustainable forestry – in of jeans as well as practices involving cruelty to other words, if the material is not one of the types of animals, like the mulesing method used with Merino wood requiring protection according to the Convensheep or live-plucking of geese, ducks and Angora tion on International Trade in Endangered Species of rabbits. Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) or fall under the guidelines of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Products are also considered sustainEMPL EMPLO OYEES FIELD OF A ACTION CTION able if they were certified as sustainable or if they were made from recycled material and bear a pertinent certificate according to the standards of Blauer Our mis mission: sion: W Wee support our emplo employ yees in all lif lifee Engel, the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®), the situa situations. tions. WWe give e giv e our emplo employyees’ car careers eers a jump Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certificastart, off er them opportunities tto offer o gr groow and climb tion Schemes (PEFC), the EU Ecolabel, Nordic Swan the car ladder,, and pr eer ladder career proovide them with support in Ecolabel or ÖKOPAplus. Wood and paper products difficult cir circums tances cumstanc es in their liv lives. es. from trees on the CITES and IUCN lists are prohibited A company can only succeed if it has motivated and unless they come with a certificate concerning committed employees. Accordingly, it is Real’s top sustainable forestry. principle to support and encourage its employees as Furniture, such as garden chairs, beverage cartons best it can and to offer them an attractive work envifor juices and similar and hygiene paper products (all ronment. From giving their career a jump start to under the own-brand range) are already certified offering them opportunities to grow and helping according to PEFC, FSC® or Blauer Engel. We are them in difficult circumstances in their lives, the constantly working on converting other product company provides its employees individual support. ranges to this effect. Currently, Real has some 34,000 employees in all different kinds of professional fields of commerce. The company moreover places great emphasis on Sus Sustainable tainable tte extiles offering training for talented young employees. In addition to the classic jobs requiring training such as Most of the textiles sold in Germany are imported retail sales assistant, butcher and administrator for from abroad – often from developing and emerging office management, since 2017, Real has also offered countries. The textile supply chain is highly complex, training as a retail sales assistant with the additional and different stages of production sometimes take qualification ‘freshness’. Here, the apprentices are METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 51 Responsibility @ Real Employees field of action taught not only commerce-related content but also Industry Indus try-r elatted lectur -rela lectureses and in-house tr ade trade manual skills. fair with sus sustainable tainable ffood ood In his lecture entitled ‘Nachhaltigkeit? Gutes Leben! Focused human rresour esourc ce de devvelopment Strategien und Ansätze für einen gesellschaftlichen Wandel’ (Sustainability? Living well! Strategies and The continuing professional development of employapproaches for a transformation of society), Stephan ees is crucial in the competition with others. Real Schaller from the Collaborating Centre on Sustainable supports its employees with focused human resource Consumption and Production (CSCP) argued that development in many different ways and encourages people want to grow but that it is difficult to change them to act on their own responsibility. For example, their behaviour and it requires stamina to provide the company offers some 300 seminars, workshops concrete assistance. This was followed by a lecture by and more than 100 e-learning programmes to inform Udo Gattenlöhner from the Global Nature Fund (GNF) employees about sustainability measures as well as on ‘Biologische Vielfalt und die Lebensmittelbranche’ their significance for Real and for society. (Biological diversity and the food industry), before Georg Abel from the Verbraucher Initiative e. V. Berlin took a closer look on the consumer’s point of view in Day Da y of Sus tainable F Sustainable Food ood his paper on ‘Gewohnheiten, Kaufverhalten, Erwartungen … Verbraucher und Nachhaltigkeit’ (Habits, purchase behaviour, expectations: consumers and sustainability). During a subsequent panel discussion on ‘Zwischen Umsatz und Unternehmensverantwortung – Herausforderungen und Chancen bei der Förderung des nachhaltigen Konsums’ (Between revenues and corporate responsibility: challenges and opportunities in promoting sustainable consumption), the external lecturers discussed the issue of sustainability and profitability with Real representatives from the Sales division. The visitors also had the chance to gather information about the available sustainable food items and sample them at various trade fair stands. For the first time, selected Real suppliers and producSus Sustainable tainable prprojects ojects of tr trainees ainees ers presented their products and talked about their engagement for sustainability on the ‘Tag der nachReal teaches its young employees not only traditional haltigen Lebensmittel’ (Day of Sustainable Food) in training content but also how to assume responsibility early July 2018 under the motto of ‘Acting responsiearly on and to engage on behalf of society. One bly’. The attendants included numerous employees example of this is the ‘Junges Gemüse verkauft Obst’ from Sales as well as representatives of the press, (Spring chickens sell fruit) in-house project which NGOs plus various guests from the region. In addition took place for the second time in 2018. As part of the to an in-house trade fair, lectures were presented on project, which placed a special focus on Real’s industry-related topics concerning ‘Sustainability in sustainable product range, 22 trainees managed the the food sector’. fruit and vegetable department at the Markthalle In his welcoming speech, Real’s CEO Patrick Krefeld for 4 days. Their main duties included supply Müller-Sarmiento pointed out how important it is to management, incoming goods control, inventory set oneself clear goals and to pursue them with a management and labelling as well as sales presentastrong focus. He specifically emphasised that the tion and customer advice. The young employees company has already accomplished its target of moreover created a raised bed in order to draw the generating 30% of its revenues with sustainable prodcustomers’ attention to the permaculture product ucts by 2019. He also welcomed the inclusion of range and the diverse organic products. The trainees Demeter products in the company’s assortment and were assisted by members of the in-house team announced that this range was going to be expanded leader development programme. rapidly. On the Day of Sustainable Food, Dr Simone Helmle, Director of the Demeter academy in Darmstadt, offered insight into the Demeter concept and Inclusion in e evvery day eryda yw work ork the biodynamic form of agriculture on which it is based. In addition, Tankred Kauf, Managing Director Whether in administration, in the store or in the wareof Campo Verde, offered sales-specific information on house – a disability is no handicap at Real. The ‘Demeter product knowledge’. company promotes the disability-friendly and accessible design of workplaces and the work environment as well as the permanent preservation of jobs and METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 52 Responsibility @ Real Employees field of action trainee positions for disabled persons or those threatSecurity of emploemployment yment ened by disability. The employment rate for people with severe disability is 8.36%, which is considerably For decades, Real has been one of the few companies in above the legal requirements. the food retailing sector that has adhered to pay scales agreed through collective bargaining. In contrast, in recent years more and more retailers with a cooperative Har Hardship dship fund structure have broken away from binding regional collective bargaining and thus undermined it. This developTo give financial support to employees facing an ment has led to personnel costs at Real that are up to emergency, Real set up a so-called hardship fund in 30% higher than those of competitors not bound by 2012. It comprises donations from the employees and collective bargaining agreements. For this reason, Real in employer contributions, and is for the benefit of 2015 switched to an HDE membership (association of employees who have made donations and their relaGerman retailers) without a collective agreement and tives and partners. The General Management and the then tried to find a collective agreement solution for new Works Council decide jointly on how the funds are employees with ver.di. However, ver.di did not agree to used. this, which led to a compromise in the form of a future collective agreement. With this collective bargaining agreement, Real has in principle again recognised the Div Diversity ersity a att R Real eal regional collective bargaining agreements of the retail trade. However, exceptions have been defined, including Real employs individuals from 95 different nations. the requirement that a new competitive remuneration The company respects the cultural differences and structure be negotiated by the end of March 2018, either benefits from this diversity. After all, thanks to its through a reorganisation of the regional collective agreeemployees’ broad range of cultural and linguistic ment or alternatively through an in-house pay scale at competencies, Real is able to address different Real. In the end, it was not possible to find a concrete customer groups. Experience shows: outstandingly joint solution with ver.di for the current challenges facing trained and motivated applicants can be found in all the company and its employees. For this reason, in March nations. For this reason, the company’s expectations 2018, Real began to create the conditions for a collective are the same of all applicants, regardless of their bargaining partnership outside the HDE structures. This origin, religion or other belief, gender or sexual orienincludes the exercise of a special termination right tation. agreed in the future collective agreement. With the termination of the future collective bargaining agreement, the management of Real also deliberately made Equal opportunities the decision to adjust the remuneration for Real employees to the level of the regional collective bargaining Advancing female employees and offering women agreement for 2018. This also means full vacation and attractive career perspectives has been an integral Christmas bonuses already in 2018. The planned increase part of talent management at Real for many years. Its in wages for 2018 took place in several steps. Accordmain focus is on individual arrangements and ingly, existing employees will not have to accept any measures that take the specific situation of the losses. This is ensured by an overall commitment from respective employees into account. As a consethe Real management. quence, the compatibility of family and career, partIn addition, since the beginning of June, Real has time training, parental leave and women in executive been using the collective bargaining agreements negotipositions are an actual reality at Real. In 2017, the ated between the employers’ association AHD – company was the first retailer in Germany to be Unternehmensvereinigung für Arbeitsbedingungen im awarded the golden ‘top4women’ signet for this Handel und Dienstleistungsgewerbe e.V. and the trade exemplary commitment. union DHV – Die Berufsgewerkschaft e.V. for all new hires. These have been in force for some time at METRO SERVICES GmbH (now real GmbH), to which the busiWorkork–lif –life e balanc balance e ness of Real was spun off. The fact that Real is an attractive employer for new hires despite the new remuneraIf you want to feel good and be physically fit, you tion structure is demonstrated by the more than 2,400 must find a healthy balance in life – especially new hires in the months since the changeover of the between career and private life. To make sure its collective bargaining model. Only with a sustainable employees can master this challenge, Real supports remuneration structure can the company remain them in this effort. It was one of the first companies in competitive. In recent years, considerable investments Germany to introduce a family care period in 2015. have been made in Real’s future viability. The step-byThe company allows its employees to reduce their step reduction of structural wage cost disadvantages number of working hours so much that they can compared with competitors through a new remuneration continue to work while also taking care of relatives. structure for new hires is a measure that makes a significant contribution to safeguarding the jobs of the approximately 34,000 employees. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 53 Responsibility @ Real Environment field of action ENVIRONMENT FIELD OF A ACTION CTION Under the motto of ‘Acting responsibly’, Real is actively committed to protecting the climate and the environment. The company’s goal is to use resources Our mis mission: sion: Our actions should ha havve as little impact as sparingly as possible and promote environmentally on the enenvir vironment onment as pos sible and should c possible conserv onserve e sound production processes. resour esourc ces. CLIMATE CLIMA TE PROPROTE CTION T TECTION TARGET ARGET FOR 20 2030 30 400 350 334.5 329.2 298.1 300 315.9 280.1 293.6 254.9 250 269.5 236.9 200 164.7 150 100 50 0 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 023 024 025 026 027 028 029 30 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 20 Real IST Q4 2017/18 accumulated Target Real 2020 Target Real 2030 Real set itself a clear climate protection target back in Improving energy efficiency is a group-wide task 2011: Real wanted to cut greenhouse gas emissions by which cannot be accomplished by the people in 16% per square metre of selling space by 2020 charge of energy issues alone. Energy and climate compared to the reference year 2011. Appropriate protection are matters that must be tackled by all measures were implemented so successfully that it employees. Every single person can make an imporbecame obvious that this target would be achieved tant contribution to saving energy and in this way by Real much earlier than in 2020. In order to make help to protect the environment and achieve the further efforts for the benefit of climate protection, company’s target. For this reason, Real regularly calls Real set itself a new goal in early 2016: it wants to on its employees to actively participate in the develreduce greenhouse gas emissions per square metre of opment and implementation of the energy-related selling space by at least 50% by 2030 compared to improvements, especially within their own scope of 2011. In financial year 2017/18, the company reduced duties. Ideas on the subject can be found in the its carbon emissions by 36% per square metre of sellcompany’s own energy saving guidelines or the ing space compared to the previous year. Further ‘Gewusst wie spart Energie!’ e-learning programme. specific measures are being planned in various areas Information on the company’s energy policy, the ISO in order to achieve the climate protection target for certification and its energy management system in 2030, for instance in energy management, food general is available for all employees on the intranet. refrigeration and lighting. Reducing pack packaging aging Certified ac acc ding tto ording cor o DIN EN ISO 5000 500011 – Real’ eal’ss ener energy gy management ssy ystem As part of its sustainability strategy, Real takes measures to avoid and recycle waste along the entire To continuously reduce energy consumption as well value chain as well as reduce packaging materials that as CO2 emissions while improving energy efficiency, are harmful for the environment. The measures METRO AG and Real introduced a group-wide energy include the promotion of environmentally friendly management system which they had certified accordproducts and packaging as well as active involvement ing to DIN EN ISO 50001. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 202017 17 / 18 54 Responsibility @ Real Environment field of action in avoiding and reducing them and returning them to returnable FairCup which is available in different the cycle of materials. sizes. The item is weighed in the cup and sealed with The company has demanded measures to reduce a sticker. At the checkout, the customer pays for the packaging material and recycle packaging for years, item plus the deposit and takes the closed cup home. especially from its own-brand manufacturers. The Once the cup is empty, it can be returned at the respective internal guidelines are continuously reverse vending machines in the Real stores in Göttinimproved and revised. The purchasing strategy for gen, just like a deposit bottle. The customer receives packaging is based on the 5 principles of removing, a credit voucher which he or she can set off against reducing, reusing, renewing and recycling. the next purchase. Cup and lid can be used up to 500 times and are completely recyclable afterwards. Reusable packpackaging aging aatt R Real’ fresh-f eal’ss fr esh-food ood servic servicee Up until now, the reusable cups have been availcount ounters ers able at about 100 sales outlets in the Göttingen area. With the 2 Real stores, the first major retail company has become a project partner. Avoiding pack packaging aging in the fruit and v vegetable egetable section Since September 2018, Real has provided reusable string bags in a few stores as part of another pilot project. They can be used in lieu of the conventional small plastic bags in the fruit and vegetable section. The company also constantly talks to fruit and vegetable suppliers and tests packaging alternatives and alternative materials such as grass paper bowls or sleeves. After successfully handing out fresh products in reusable packaging provided by the customers in the Gotha (Thuringia), Dreieich (Frankfurt metropolitan area) and Pentling (Bavaria) stores on a trial basis, Real began with the expansion of this concept to all stores in summer 2018. The same applies to serving coffee in reusable cups. Due to the strict hygienic requirements, detailed and mandatory procedures have been developed. Each store must coordinate these procedures with the respective local food monitoring authority in advance. FairCup – rreusable eusable pack packaging aging in a clo closed sed ccy ycle Real takes innovative approaches in its search for alternative packaging concepts in the fresh-food segment. As part of a pilot trial, the 2 stores in Göttingen have supported a deposit system for packaging since August 2018. The idea, which was developed by the start-up FairCup, is simple: customers order their goods at the fresh-food counter and choose the METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 55 Responsibility @ Real Customers and society field of action CUS CUST TOMERS AND SOCIETY FIELD Wish tr tree ee campaign ffor or childr children en OF A ACTION CTION mission: Our mis sion: Our public activities ar e char are charact acterised erised by cr credible edible social rresponsibility esponsibility and ties tto o the community ommunity.. Real supports many social family projects as well as charitable relief organisations. To embed sustainability in society, extensive customer education is equally important. That’s why another focus is the provision of transparent and comprehensive consumer information concerning a healthy lifestyle. UNICEF fundr fundraising aising driv drivee In 2017, the so-called wish tree campaign took place for the eleventh time already at all Real stores. In the During the 2017 pre-Christmas, season Real context of this project, Real collects gifts specifically customers had the opportunity for the seventh for children in such local institutions as children’s consecutive time to purchase UNICEF greeting cards homes, children’s hospices and children’s food banks to do a good deed. The entire proceeds were donated during the pre-Christmas season. The children paint to UNICEF health, education and child protection their little Christmas wishes onto cards which are programmes in about 150 countries. Real sold more attached to the wish tree. Customers can then take than 21,000 Christmas card sets, generating sales them home and bring joy to the children with a gift. In revenues of nearly €172,000 for UNICEF. Over the financial year 2017/18, Real, together with its past 7 years of the cooperation, a total of more than customers, fulfilled nearly 10,000 wishes. €1 million in proceeds went to the United Nations Children’s Fund. Collabor ollabora ation with ffood ood banks Dona Donationtion campaign ffor or Deutsches Real has enjoyed a more than 10-year partnership Kinderhilfs Kinderhilfsw werk with the national food bank organisation Bundesverband Deutsche Tafel e. V. The hypermarkets throughOn the occasion of the 10 year anniversary of the out Germany donate food items which have not yet 2017 Real ‘Meistermetzger’ (Master butcher) concept, reached their best-before date to local food banks. for 1 week €1 of every purchase of more than €10 at These pass the products on to people in need. The the master butcher counter went to Deutsches stores moreover regularly initiate campaigns to Kinderhilfswerk, the German Children’s Fund. The support their local food banks. campaign collected €62,000. Most of this amount was used to promote healthy nutrition for children. For example, cooking classes in schools and associations are subsidised via the nutrition fund of the German Children’s Fund to teach the basics of healthy nutrition in a playful manner. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 56 Responsibility @ Real Customers and society field of action Too good tto o go Bett Better er living – rresponsible esponsible pur purchasing, chasing, na natur turally ally Since August 2018, at 10 Real stores food leftovers have been offered at a reduced price via the Too More and more customers attach great importance to Good To Go app. Excess merchandise is packed in healthy nutrition and a conscious lifestyle. To help bags and offered at a price of €3 per bag via the app; them eat a balanced diet, Real provides information the actual merchandise value is much higher. on the components of individual food items. Under Customers who purchase a bag via the app can pick the motto of ‘Besser Leben’ (Better living), the it up at the Real store within a specified time frame, company regularly provides information on nutrition thus actively combating food waste and saving topics and trends via brochures, magazines, flyers, money to boot. the company website and in the hypermarkets. In addition, customers can learn about a balanced diet and sportsand health-related issues on the ‘Besser Trink rinkwwasasserw serwald ald Leben’ portal at www.real.de/besser-leben/ bewussteinkaufen. Real has supported Trinkwasserwald® e. V. since 2018. The packaging of all own-brand items contains The association underplants conifer monocultures nutrition information tables offering an overview of with deciduous trees so that the forests can supply the energy and nutrient content and information more groundwater and drinking water. Since 2018, about the percentage of the recommended daily Real has included a special mineral water in its portfoallowance that the product supplies. lio from whose proceeds 10 ct per bottle are donated to the association. Customers moreover were able to support the association with their purchases at the fresh-food counters in the Real stores in May 2018. This campaign collected €55,000. Initially, the amount was used to plant some 2 hectares of forest. Real is main partner of Deutscher Hock Hocke eyBund Since February 2018, Real has been the new main partner of Deutscher Hockey Bund e. V. (DHB), the German Hockey Federation. As official partner for nutrition and fitness, the company puts its expertise in freshness and food into the service of the elite sport and accompanies the national women’s and men’s hockey teams to all tournaments. With this partnership, Real intensifies its engagement for healthy nutrition and bolsters its position as a healthoriented company. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 57 Key Performance Indicators Customers and society field of action KEY PERFORMANCE INDIC INDICA ATORS The chapter ‘key performance indicators’ provides information about METRO’s sustainability performance in the form of key performance indicators (KPIs). It is divided into KPIs on the economic performance of the company and KPIs on our areas of responsibility (Empower) People, (Secure) Planet, (Unfold) Prosperity and (Enhance) Partnership. REPORTING PERIOD The reporting year is the same as the METRO financial year, that is from 1 October to 30 September. Key performance indicators are reported for the previous 3 financial years. Reporting of the climate protection target also includes the target’s reference year, 2011. The figure for the reference year relates to the period from 1 January to 31 December 2011. A different reporting period is used in this case because METRO changed its financial year from the calendar year to the 12 months from October to September in 2013. DATA C COLLE OLLECTION CTION APPRO APPROA ACH AND DE DEGREE GREE OF C CO OVER VERA AGE The key performance indicators reported are based on data that is gathered using various internal reporting systems. As a rule, this data is systematically recorded for each sales line and each country every quarter, in some cases every month. The KPIs are based on data collected for the whole METRO, that is for all of the stores, back offices and warehouses and for the head office in Düsseldorf. It is necessary to extrapolate and estimate consumption data for some KPIs in cases where the primary data available is incomplete. This applies to the KPIs from the section Planet. The sustainability data management office merges the data from various reporting systems. The greenhouse gas emissions relating to purchased goods and services, assets and leased assets which are reported in accordance with Scope 3 are modelled because recording primary data for these is highly complex. This modelling is based on KPIs for the economic value added by METRO. To perform these calculations, we use so-called economic input-output models, which are founded on the economic flows of goods and services. The selling and delivery space figures used as a basis for the KPIs are averages for the year. We report all KPIs separately for METRO as a whole and for the region Germany, as the country in which the company is based. As a general rule, the KPIs for METRO as a whole include the data for all locations or all employees. The KPIs we report for work-related accidents and continuing professional development in the section People do not currently cover all employees. We do not have the relevant data for all sales lines and organisational units in proper quality. We report work-related accidents for the German METRO companies. The KPIs for continuing professional development include all companies except for a few service companies. We show sales in the section Prosperity exclusively for our German sales lines Real and METRO Wholesale Germany. All of the sustainability KPIs have been audited by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft. DEVIA DEVIATIONS TIONS FROM PREVIOUS REPORT REPORTS S In some cases, the figures presented in previous sustainability reports differ from those cited in this report. There are various reasons for this. In financial year 2017/18, we switched to different software for the sustainability data management of the KPIs in the section Planet. This involved methodological changes and new emissions factors for calculating greenhouse gas emissions. We use the new emissions factors to represent emissions in financial year 2017/18. For emissions in the preceding years, the previously used factors still apply. We now apply the climate protection target not only to the square metres of selling space, but additionally to the space used for delivery. In doing so, we are taking into account the quickly rising share of delivery operations METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 58 Key Performance Indicators Company in our total business. In the achievement of the climate protection target, this results in an overall positive net effect of 2.5 percentage points. There are other differences in the KPIs in the section Planet, arising from estimated figures having been replaced by actual values. In a number of cases, the utilities provide us with consumption figures quite late, and we therefore initially work on the basis of estimates. The only deviations are those in comparison with earlier reports. Within the present report, KPIs are represented according to a uniform methodology for 3 years, respectively. They thus allow a comprehensible overview of the development. We complete our data collection and reporting on an ongoing basis to improve the level of transparency and the way we manage our sustainability performance. As part of these efforts, we have included the additional KPI: Employees with a recognised severe disability or equivalent status In the KPI for the representation of work-related accidents, we no longer use the rate per 1,000 workers, but rather: The lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) per 1 million hours worked COMP OMPANY ANY ECONOMIC V VAL ALUE UE (V(VAL ALUE UE ADDED ADDED)) 1 in € million 2015/16 2016/17 20 2017 /18 1 17/18 Key perf performanc ormance e indica indicattor Sales development (like-for-like) (in %) 0.2 0.5 0.7 Sales (net) 36,549 37,140 36,5 36,53 34 EBITDA excluding earnings contributions from real estate transactions 1,765 1,436 1,3 1,39696 Earnings contributions from real estate transactions 153 175 129 EBITDA 1,918 1,611 1,5 1,52525 EBIT 1,219 852 740 EBT (earnings before taxes) 894 649 578 Profit or loss for the period 519 345 348 2 Earnings per share (in €) (basic = diluted) 1.39 0.89 0.9.955 Dividend per ordinary share (in €) 0.00 0.70 0.70 3 Dividend per preference share (in €) 0.00 0.70 0.70 3 Cash flow from operating activities 1,173 1,027 905 Investments 1,007 827 811 Equity ratio (in %) 18.3 20.3 20 20.5.5 Net debt 3,051 3,142 3, 3,165 165 Stores 1,041 1,041 1, 1,048 048 1 Includes the figures of the hypermarket business for sale. 2 Pro-forma disclosure of combined financial statements. 3 Subject to the resolution of the Annual General Meeting. METRO C ORPOR ORPORAATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 202017 17 / 18 59 Key Performance Indicators Empower People EVAL EV ALUUATION IN RELEV ANT SUS RELEVANT SUST TAINABILITY INDICES AND R RANKINGS ANKINGS Publication Index/ranking Ra Rating/sc ting/scorore e Scale date 76 Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Indus Industry Group try Gr oup LLeader eader World/Europe Food & SStaples taples RRetailing etailing 0 to 100 09/2018 C+ ISS-oekom Corporate Rating Prime S tus tatus Sta D– to A+ 08/2018 CDP Climate Scoring A– F to A 10/2017 CDP Water Scoring A– F to A 10/2017 FTSE4Good Global/Europe Index Inde Indexx member 07/2018 Explana Explanation: tion: As part of our stakeholder dialogue, we inform the capital market about our sustainability management activities. This means our sustainability performance is rated by independent third parties. In financial year 2017/18, METRO confirmed its industry leadership in the Dow Jones Sustainability World and Europe Indices. EMPO EMPOWER WER PE PEOPLE OPLE EMPL EMPLO OYEES METRO Germany 138,089 137,136 134,877 45,702 44,525 44,128 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 A A A A A A B B B B B B A 43.9 A 44.8 A 44.8 A 35.9 A 36.5 A 36.9 B 56.1 B 55.2 B 55.2 B 64.1 B 63.5 B 63.1 A Pr Proportion oportion of men in % B Pr Proportion oportion of w women omen in % Definition: Full-time equivalent employees, average for the year, excluding trainees. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 60 Key Performance Indicators Empower People NEW EMPL EMPLO OYEES B BY Y GENDER (IN %) METRO Germany 14.9 16.9 16.5 1.6 1.7 2.6 41.4 39.7 42.2 39.4 42.9 45.1 58.6 60.3 57.8 60.6 57.1 54.9 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Proportion Pr oportion of ne new w emplo employ yees in rrela tion tto elation o the a av age number of emplo erage ver employ yees Proportion Pr oportion of men Proportion Pr oportion of w women omen Definition: The figure for new employees includes all newly recruited employees and returning workers. The KPI shows the number of workers joining the company in relation to the average number of employees. This does not include trainees, interns, BA students and employees on temporary contracts. PART ART-TIME -TIME RRAATE (IN %) METRO Germany 52.8 52.5 52.2 27.1 26.3 26.1 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Definition: Share of part-time employees, average for the year, excluding trainees. EMPL EMPLO OYEES B BYYA AGE GE GROUP (IN %) METRO Germany A C A C A 23.0 (24.2) A 15.8 (15.8) B 54.6 (54.3) B 44.7 (45.6) C 22.4 (21.5) C 39.5 (38.6) B B A < 30 yyears ears old B 30–50 y years ears old C > 50 y years ears old 20 2017 17/18 /18 (2016/17) Definition: Breakdown of employees by age group, average for the year, including trainees. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 201717 / 18 61 Key Performance Indicators Empower People NEW EMPL EMPLO OYEES B BY YAAGE GE GROUP (IN %) METRO Germany 2.9 3.4 10.1 2.8 11.3 8.7 50.6 47.3 43.3 0.7 0.4 2.5 0.4 1.5 1.5 13.6 8.2 10.0 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 < 30 yyears ears old 30–50 y years ears old > 50 y years ears old Definition: Breakdown of new employees by age group, average for the year. This does not include trainees, interns, BA students and employees on temporary contracts. NUMBER OF NA NATIONALITIES TIONALITIES METRO Germany 159 151 151 112 116 117 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Definition: Number of different nationalities among our employees, excluding trainees, as of 30 September. GENDER BREAKDO BREAKDOWN GERIAL PO MANAGERIAL WN IN MANA POSITIONS SITIONS (IN %) METRO Germany 20.5 21.6 21.8 16.3 15.8 16.5 79.5 83.7 84.2 83.5 78.4 78.2 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Proportion Pr oportion of men Proportion Pr oportion of w women omen Definition: Managerial positions are those in levels 1–3 (Management Board, General Management, divisional management, departmental management and store management). The percentage of male and female employees in these positions is calculated (per capita as of 30 September). METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 201717 / 18 62 Key Performance Indicators Empower People MANA MANAGERSGERS BBYYA AGE GE GROUP (IN %) METRO Germany A A C C A 0.9 (1.2) A 0.8 (0.9) B 73.6 (73.9) B 62.1 (61.7) C 25.5 (24.9) C 37.1 (37.4) B B A < 30 yyears ears old B 30–50 y years ears old C > 50 y years ears old 20 2017 17/18 /18 (2016/17) Definition: Breakdown of managers by age group as of 30 September. NUMBER OF NA NATIONALITIES TIONALITIES AMONG MANA MANAGERS GERS METRO Germany 54 50 46 32 32 32 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Definition: Number of different nationalities among our managers as of 30 September. EMPLO EMPL TURNOVER OYEE TURNO VER B BY Y GENDER (IN %) METRO Germany 19.0 19.8 18.5 16.7 17.0 15.9 8.3 8.7 7.8 7.6 22.2 21.8 23.3 8.0 7.1 9.0 9.2 10.8 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Staff turno turnovver ttotal otal Staff turno turnov ver of men Staff turno turnovver of wwomen omen Definition: Employee turnover is defined as all employees leaving, that is those who retire, die or hand in their notice. The employee turnover rate is the number of workers leaving in relation to the average number of employees. All employees on permanent contracts are included. Explana Explanation: tion: The employee turnover rate is high at METRO. This is primarily attributable to the fact that the employee turnover is generally high in several Asian and Eastern European countries where METRO operates. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 201717 / 18 63 Key Performance Indicators Empower People EMPL EMPLO OYEE TURNO TURNOVER VER BBYYA AGEGE GROUP (IN %) METRO Germany 11.7 12.3 10.2 15.3 14.3 14.2 8.0 9.3 42.3 9.9 37.9 39.2 6.4 7.1 6.2 12.7 14.5 14.3 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 < 30 yyears ears old 30–50 y years ears old > 50 yyears ears old Definition: Employees leaving due to retirement, death or resignation/dismissal, broken down by age. The employee turnover rate is the number of workers leaving in relation to the average number of employees. INJURY LOST-TIME INJUR Y FRE FREQUENC QUENCY RA YR ATE (L(LTIFR) TIFR) PER MILLION HOURS W WORKED ORKED Germany Definition: The LTIFR captures the number of accidents with at least 1 missed day of work (not including the day of the accident) per 1 million hours worked. Fatalities and cases of permanent sick 45.0 41.8 leave or disability are likewise included, whereas accidents while commuting are not. Explana Explanation: tion: In order to identify areas with high accident rates or especially vulnerable groups of people, evaluate causes of accidents and define targeted countermeasures, the German METRO companies have implemented appropriate reporting which covers 97% of the German METRO companies in financial year 2017/18. 2016/17 2017/18 This reporting is now to be implemented across the group. CONTINUING PROFES PROFESSIONAL SIONAL DEVEL DEVELOPMENT OPMENT Average number of hours of Average Continuing Professional Continuing Professional Development expenditure per Development employee per year in € per employee per year 200 192 176 24 20 20 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Definition: Training (hygiene, occupational safety, etc.) and courses focusing on ongoing operations plus mediumand long-term CPD opportunities that are offered with a view to enhancing the course of business. Explana Explanation: tion: The figures for training relate to full-time employees on an annual average. The reporting covers 95% of all METRO employees. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 201717 / 18 64 Key Performance Indicators Empower People TR TRAINEES, AINEES, INTERNS AND S STUDENT TUDENTS S Trainees including interns and Trainees including interns and students METRO students Germany 3,410 3,305 3,138 2,188 2,064 1,980 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Definition: All trainees including interns and students. EMPLO EMPL OYEES WITH A RE RECCOGNISED SEVERE DIS ABILITY OR E DISABILITY EQUIV QUIVALENT ALENT S STTATUS METRO Germany 5,535 5,441 5,404 4,182 4,124 4,076 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Definition: All employees considered severely disabled as defined by the respective country, or those with equivalent status. SOCIAL A AUDIT UDITS RELATING S RELA TING T TOOO OWN WN IMPORT IMPORTS SB Y METRO SOURCING AND NON-FOOD O BY OWN-BR WN-BRAND AND PRODUCT PRODUCTS S OF THE METRO S SALES ALES LINES Producers with valid audit1 Thereof with passed audit (number) (in %) 1,557 216 1,218 1,274 86 89 92 101 138 1,341 1,173 1,080 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 thereof ther eof with pas sed audit passed ther thereof eof with ffailed ailed audit 1 This includes producers of commercial goods (non-food own brands and own imports) who carry out the last decisive and value-giving production step. Definition: Status of all producers in countries defined as risk countries according to the assessment by the amfori Business Social Compliance Initiative (amfori BSCI) in which METRO SOURCING has import goods manufactured, and of non-food producers who manufacture own brands or own imports for our sales lines. Producers that have passed the audit can demonstrate their successful compliance with the amfori BSCI standard or an equivalent social standard system by presenting a certificate awarded by an independent third party. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 201717 / 18 65 Key Performance Indicators Secure Planet Explana Explanation: tion: 1,274 producers were audited as of 30 September 2018. Of these, 92% (1,173 producers) passed the audit. Producers who do not pass the audit must demonstrate improvement through a follow-up audit within 12 months. Since 1 January 2017, METRO Wholesale and Real are imposing more stringent requirements on suppliers: new suppliers are accepted only if the producers they source from can show at least one passing audit result. For current suppliers, a transition period of 2 years applies. The key performance indicator relates to all the producers of which we are made aware by our suppliers. SE SECURECURE PLANET Carbon ffootprint ootprint GREENHOUSE GA GAS S EMIS EMISSIONS SIONS IN T CCOO2 (CO2 EQUIV QUIVALENT ALENTS) S) Reference year in t CO2 (CO2 equivalents) 2011 2015/16 2016/17 20 2017 17/18 /18 Scope 1 – direct greenhouse gas emissions 836,828 712,692 705,377 621, 621,131399 Scope 2 – indirect greenhouse gas emissions 1,487,420 1,145,953 1,108,950 1, 1,106, 106,0 026 Scope 3 – other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 4,234,512 3,294,700 3,157,223 3,6 3,614, 14,0024 Total gr eenhouse gas emis greenhouse sions emissions 6,558, 6,558,7760 5, 5,15 3,345 153,3 45 4,9 4,97 71,551 5,34 5,3 189 1,18 41, 9 Definition: Level of all main emissions by Scope in line with the methodology of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The following sources of emissions are included: Scope 1 = fuel oil, natural gas, liquefied natural gas (LNG), liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), refrigerant losses from commercial cooling, refrigerant losses from air-conditioning, fuel consumption of company cars and the group’s own logistics fleet, emergency power generators Scope 2 = electricity consumption, district heating and cooling Scope 3 = external logistics for the transport of goods to our stores and warehouses, in-house paper consumption for advertising and office purposes, business trips, goods and services purchased for own use, capital assets, upstream chain emissions and grid losses for all direct and indirect energy sources, waste, employee commutes, leased assets Explanation about the Carbon Footprint, especially about methodology, reporting boundaries and climate protection target are available at www.metroag.de/responsibility/business-operations. Sta tatus tus of clima climatte pr prot otection ection tar targetget GREENHOUSE GA GAS S EMIS EMISSIONS KG SIONS IN K GC CO O2 (CO2 EQUIV ALENTS) QUIVALENT S) PER M2 SELLING AND DELIVER DELIVERY Y SP SPA ACE METRO Germany 374 370 292 288 276 267 250 248 187 174 2011 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2030 2011 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2030 (Reference year) (Target year) (Reference year) (Target year) Definition: Greenhouse gas emissions from METRO’s stores, back offices and warehouses (by selling space and space used for delivery operations) included within the climate protection target. Included are the emissions from METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 66 Key Performance Indicators Secure Planet electricity, heating and cooling energy consumption, also counting upstream chains and grid losses, refrigerant emissions from commercial cooling and air-conditioning, fuel consumption by company cars, in-house paper consumption for advertising material and office purposes as well as business trips. Explana Explanation: tion: We aim to reduce our specific greenhouse gas emissions by 50% between 2011 and 2030. In concrete terms, this means that we want to cut our emissions per square metres of selling and delivery space from 374 to 187 kg of CO2 equivalents per annum. The significant decline in emissions compared with the reference year 2011 can essentially be attributed to 2 factors: Measures to reduce consumption relating to energy, company cars, paper and business travel, and to reduce emissions caused by refrigerant loss General technical and scientific developments as reflected by the adjustment of the emission factors used to calculate CO2 equivalents. Above all in electricity generation, the emissions factor in many countries is declining due to the increased share of renewable energies. Trends in the emis emissionsion sour sourc ces included in the clima climatte pr prot otection ection tar target get GREENHOUSE GA GASS EMIS EMISSIONS SIONS IN K KG GCCOO2 (CO2 EQUIVQUIVALENT ALENTS)S) PER M2 SELLING AND DELIVER DELIVERY Y SP SPA ACE in kg CO2 (CO2 equivalents) per m2 selling and delivery space Reference year 2011 2017 20 17/18 /18 Change in % Electricity consumption 21.8 16.6 -23.9 Thermal energy consumption 8.8 7.7 -11.9 Company cars 4.8 2. 2.77 -44.3 Refrigerant losses 222.7 16 169 9.2 -24.0 Paper consumption 37.0 29 29..1 -21.4 Business travel 79.0 50 50.6.6 -35.9 Total 374. 4.00 275.9 -26.2 Definition: Trends in CO2 emissions per square metre from all the emission sources included in the climate protection target compared to the reference year 2011. Ener Energy gy c consumption onsumption TOTAL ENERG ENERGY YCCONSUMPTION ONSUMPTION (IN MWH) in MWh 2015/16 2016/17 20 2017 17/18 /18 Fuel (heating oil, gas, petrol, diesel, LPG, LNG) 1,000,627 1,055,847 1,0 1, 075, 5,7792 Electricity 2,364,426 2,330,845 2,32 2,324,3 4,37777 District heating 103,821 96,438 92, 2,0035 District cooling 0 0 3, 3,143 143 Total ener energy gy c consump onsumption tion 3,468,8 3,468,87 74 3,483, 3,483,129 129 3,4 3,49 95,3 5,3447 Definition: Energy consumption for operating the locations and for transportation broken down into the different types of energy used. Fuel includes fuel oil, combustion fuel, natural gas and liquefied natural gas. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 201717 / 18 67 Key Performance Indicators Secure Planet ELE ELECTRICITY CTRICITY,, HEA HEATINGTING AND C COOLING OOLING ENERG ENERGY YC CONSUMPTION ONSUMPTION (IN K WH PER M2 OF SELLING AND DELIVER KWH DELIVERY Y SP SPA ACE) METRO Germany 431 436 425 409 402 396 0 0 0 0 0 1 321 322 313 284 274 267 110 114 112 125 128 128 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Hea Heating ting Electricity Cooling Definition: Locations’ energy consumption in relation to the space used for sales and delivery operations. Energy consumption consists of electricity consumption and heating and cooling energy consumption (fuel oil, natural gas, liquefied natural gas (LNG), liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), emergency power generators and district heating/cooling). Water WATER WITHDR WITHDRA AWAL AND W WA ASTEW TEWA ATER GENER GENERA ATED (IN L PER M2 OF SELLING AND DELIVER DELIVERYY SP SPA ACE) METRO Germany 841 809 801 435 434 453 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Definition: Water withdrawal by the locations in relation to the space used for sales and delivery operations. Explana tion: In absolute terms, METRO drew 5.9 million m3 of fresh water in the reporting period. At the wareExplanation: houses, stores and back offices, water is primarily used for cleaning and sanitary facilities. In addition to this, water may be used for storing, transporting and selling food, for example for keeping live fish or making ice to chill fresh fish. At the group level, we measure and monitor the amount of water which the company draws from the public drinking water supply. The public drinking water supply is the only source from which we draw significant amounts of water. We also measure and monitor the total amount of wastewater we generate at the group level. As our locations do not consume a significant amount of water, our calculations are based on the assumption that the volume of wastewater is the same as the amount of fresh water. All wastewater is fed into public sewers. We do not monitor the quality of the wastewater ourselves as this is not relevant given the usage described above. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 201717 / 18 68 Key Performance Indicators Secure Planet Was astte AMOUNT OF W WA ASTE AND RE REC CYCLING R RAATE (IN K G PER M2 OF SELLING AND DELIVER KG DELIVERY Y SP SPA ACE AND IN %) METRO Germany 55.6 57.4 54.3 54.9 53.8 52.0 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 A A A A A A A 78.2 A 79.7 A 68.9 A 96.9 A 96.0 A 97.7 Definition: Waste generated in relation to the space used for sales and delivery operations. The recycling rate is calculated as the amount of waste destined for recycling, heat recovery and composting in relation to the amount of total waste. Explana Explanation: tion: The volume of waste in absolute terms, 385,690 t, marks a reduction from the previous year. This can be broken down as follows: Waste for composting (16,091 t) Waste for heat recovery (55,398 t) Waste for landfill (38,542 t) Waste for recycling (194,221 t) Waste for special waste treatment, such as hazardous waste (14,013 t) Waste for unknown disposal (67,425 t) When we calculate the recycling rate, we do not take hazardous waste into account because we cannot systematically record the way in which it is treated (recycled or disposed of) in all of the countries in which we operate. However, based on information from several countries, most of the hazardous waste is also recycled. In reality, the recycling rate is therefore higher. Sales of mormore tainable pr sustainable e sus products oducts PRODUCTS SALES OF PRODUCT S CERTIFIED A S ORGANIC IN LINE WITH EU RE AS REGULA GULATIONS TIONS in Germany, in € million 2015/16 2016/17 20 2017 17/18 /18 METRO Wholesale and Real 130 139 146 NUMBER OF SUS SUST TAINABL AINABLY Y FISHED OR F FARMED PRODUCTS ARMED PRODUCT S (MSC, A ASC, OBALG.A.P GLOBAL SC, GL G.A.P., ., EU ORGANIC LOGO OGO)) in Germany, no. of products 2015/16 2016/17 20 2017 17/18 /18 Own-brand products, Real and METRO Wholesale 133 113 126 Brand-name products, Real and METRO Wholesale 968 951 1, 1,18 1877 METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 69 Key Performance Indicators Unfold Prosperity SALES OF SUS SUST TAINABL AINABLY Y FISHED OR F FARMED ARMED PRODUCT PRODUCTS S (MSC, A ASC, GLOBAL SC, GL G.A.P., OBALG.A.P ., EU ORGANIC L LOGO OGO)) in Germany, in € million 2015/16 2016/17 20 2017 17/18 /18 METRO Wholesale and Real 86 93 115 SALES OF PRODUCT PRODUCTS S FROM SUS SUST FORESTR TAINABLE FORES TRYY (FSC® OR PEFC LABEL) in Germany, in € million 2015/16 2016/17 20 2017 17/18 /18 METRO Wholesale and Real 13 39 42 UNFOLD PRO PROSPERITY SPERITY SALES OF RE REGIONAL GIONAL PRODUCT PRODUCTS S in Germany, in € million 2015/16 2016/17 20 2017 17/18 /18 Real 367 442 394 SALES OF F FAIR-TR AIR-TRADE ADE PRODUCT PRODUCTS S (F (FAIRTR AIRTRADE ADE OR GEPGEPA A LABEL) in Germany, in € million 2015/16 2016/17 20 2017 17/18 /18 METRO Wholesale and Real 12 16 13 ENHANCE P PARTNERSHIP ARTNERSHIP COMMUNITY INVES INVESTMENT TMENT METRO in € thousand 2015/16 2016/17 20 2017 17/18 /18 Charitable donations 783 1,121 1, 1,17 1711 Community investments 2,809 2,345 1,82 1,824 4 Commercial initiatives 2,299 2,021 2, 2,0014 Total 5,8 5,8991 5,487 5,48 7 5, 5,009 009 German Germany y in € thousand 2015/16 2016/17 20 2017 17/18 /18 Charitable donations – – 117 Community investments – – 1, 1,120 120 Commercial initiatives – – 964 Total – – 2,200 METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 70 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index GRI AND UN GL GLOBAL OBAL C COMP OMPA ACT GRI S STTAND ANDARD ARDS SC CONTENT ONTENT INDEX Univ Universal ersal sstandar tandards ds Or Organiza ganization tion pr proofile GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments 102-1 Name of the organiza#KPMG tion Imprint 102-2 Activities, brands, prod#KPMG AR: Group business model ucts, and services Business model 102-3 Location of headquar#KPMG ters Imprint 102-4 Location of operations #KPMG AR: Group business model Business model AR: Consolidation group AR: Affiliated companies 102-5 Ownership and legal #KPMG AR: Shareholder structure of form Imprint METRO AG AR: Non-financial statement 102-6 Markets served #KPMG AR: Group business model Business model 102-7 Scale of the organiza#KPMG AR: Group business model METRO's sales lines sell products from tion Key Performance Indicators – AR: Asset, financial and earnrenowned manufacturers as well as own Empower People – Employees ings position brands that combine high quality with an Key Performance Indicators – AR: Capital structure attractive price. In Germany, for example, Company the entire assortment comprises around 80,000 articles at Real and around 140,000 at METRO Wholesale. 102-8 Information on employ#KPMG Due to different legal regulations in the ees and other workers Key Performance Indicators – individual countries in which METRO Empower People – Employees operates, it is not meaningful to indicate Key Performance Indicators – the proportion of fixed-term employEmpower People – Part-time ment contracts. rate Since the proportion of persons who are not employees or employees bound by instructions (including employees and employees of contractual partners bound by instructions) is immaterial, it is not reported. 102-9 Supply chain #KPMG As a retail and wholesale company, our Business model supply chain can be simplified as follows: Sustainable Value Creation Manufacturers, producers and producers model of food and non-food products; transSustainability approach METRO port, storage and distribution; stores; Sustainable consumers. Sustainability approach Real Our supply chain management approaches can be found in the Sustainable Procurement and Assortment section. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 71 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments 102-10 Significant changes to #KPMG AR: The year in review In our purchasing processes we make the organization and its sure that we are not dependent on our supply chain suppliers. Our supplier structure has not changed significantly in this respect. Accordingly, we do not report changes in supplier location, supply chain structure or supplier relationships (including selection and termination). METRO's internal structures have also largely remained the same. The chapter Review of the Annual Report provides information on the changes. 102-11 Precautionary Principle #KPMG Environmental guidelines or approach Sustainability approach METRO Sustainable Responsibility – Secure Planet Responsibility – Unfold Prosperity Responsibility – Enhance Partnership 102-12 External initiatives Our Commitments and Guidelines 102-13 Membership of associaMemberships in selected organtions isations Str tra ategy GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments 102-14 Statement from senior Letter from the Management AR: Letter to the shareholders decision-maker Board AR: The year in review #KPMG AR: Goals and strategy Global challenges AR: Macroeconomic and indusSustainability approach METRO try-specific conditions Sustainable AR: Report on events after the 2018 materiality analysis closing date and outlook Area of responsibility AR: Risk and opportunity report 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and AR: Risk and opportunity report opportunities Ethics and intintegrity egrity GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments 102-16 Values, principles, stan#KPMG Our Commitments and Guidedards, and norms of behavior Sustainability approach METRO lines Sustainable AR: Corporate Governance Empower People – Supply chain Report Empower People – Fair and safe working conditions Empower People – Occupational safety and health management Responsibility – Unfold Prosperity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice AR: Respect of human rights and concerns about ethics Report abuses METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 72 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Go Gov vernanc ernance e GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments 102-18 Governance structure #KPMG AR: The Management Board Sustainability management AR: Advice and supervision in consultation with the Management Board AR: Work in the committees AR: Division of duties and areas of responsibility between the Management Board and the Supervisory Board AR: Non-financial statement 102-20 Executive-level responAR: The Management Board sibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders #KPMG on economic, environmental, Stakeholder relations and social topics 102-22 Composition of the AR: Corporate Governance highest governance body and Report its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest AR: Report of the Supervisory governance body Board 102-24 Nominating and selectAR: Corporate Governance ing the highest governance Report body 102-25 Conflicts of interest AR: Report of the Supervisory Board 102-26 Role of highest goverAR: Corporate Governance nance body in setting Report purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge AR: Corporate Governance of highest governance body Report 102-29 Identifying and manag#KPMG ing economic, environmental, 2018 materiality analysis and social impacts Sustainability approach METRO Sustainable 102-30 Effectiveness of risk AR: Risk and opportunity report management processes 102-31 Review of economic, AR: Risk and opportunity report environmental, and social topics 102-33 Communicating critical AR: Compliance and risk concerns management 102-34 Nature and total AR: Risk and opportunity report number of critical concerns 102-35 Remuneration policies AR: Remuneration report 102-36 Process for determinAR: Remuneration report ing remuneration 102-37 Stakeholders’ involveAR: Remuneration report ment in remuneration 102-40 List of stakeholder #KPMG groups Stakeholder relations 102-41 Collective bargaining The proportion of employees who are agreements represented by an independent trade union or whose interests are covered by collective agreements is around 70 percent. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 73 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Stak takeholder eholder engagement GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments 102-42 Identifying and select#KPMG The exchange takes place with stakeing stakeholders Stakeholder relations holders along the entire value chain and takes into account both our impact and the potential impact on us. 102-43 Approach to stake#KPMG holder engagement Stakeholder relations 102-44 Key topics and #KPMG AR: Customer satisfaction and concerns raised Stakeholder relations innovation management Responsibility – Enhance Partnership Reporting principles GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments 102-45 Entities included in the #KPMG AR: Consolidation group The METRO Corporate Responsibility consolidated financial stateBusiness modell AR: Affiliated companies Report 2017/18 covers the main operatments ing units, including the sales lines and service companies as well as the holding. In addition, the respective scope is noted in the indicators. 102-46 Defining report #KPMG content and topic Boundaries Stakeholder relations 2018 materiality analysis 102-47 List of material topics #KPMG 2018 materiality analysis 102-48 Restatements of inforKey performance indicators Any new representations of information mation in comparison with previous reports are explained by footnotes at the appropriate points, where available. 102-49 Changes in reporting AR: Consolidation group Important changes to the scope of the report and the limitations of aspects, if any, are explained in the appropriate places. 102-50 Reporting period #KPMG About this report 102-51 Date of most recent #KPMG report About this report 102-52 Reporting cycle #KPMG About this report 102-53 Contact point for ques#KPMG tions regarding the report Imprint 102-54 Claims of reporting in #KPMG accordance with the GRI StanAbout this report dards 102-55 GRI content index #KPMG GRI Standards Content index 102-56 External assurance #KPMG Assurance about this report About this report METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 74 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Topic specific sstandar tandardsds Economic Economic perf performanc ormance e Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 202017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary 103-2 The management AR: Goals and strategy approach and its components 103-3 Beurteilung des AR: Goals and strategy Managementansatzes GRI 20 201: 1: E Ecconomic perf performanc ormance e 20 2017 17/18 /18 201-1 Direct economic #KPMG AR: Cash flow statement For reasons of competition law, we value generated and Key Performance Indicators AR: Financial liabilities do not report the value generated distributed – Enhance Partnership AR: Other taxes and distributed in detail separately at national, regional or store level. 201-2 Financial implica#KPMG AR: Presentation of the risk Since 2006, our participation in the tions and other risks Carbon footprint situation CDP Climate Change Survey has and opportunities due METRO's carbon footprint enabled us to provide public inforto climate change mation on the risks and opportunities arising from climate change. CDP Climate Change Survey 201-3 Defined benefit Die Angaben zu 201-3 a-e Due to the different pension plan obligations and befinden sich an folgenden schemes, it is not possible to sepaother retirement plans Stellen: rate contributions from employers AR: Development of and employees. employee numbers Figures on participation in a volunAR: Development of staff tary, group-wide future package in expenses Germany can be found in the AR: Capital structure section on the development of AR: Balance sheet personnel expenses. AR: Provisions for postemployment benefits plans and similar obligations 201-4 Financial assisAR: Other operating income tance received from government Mark Marketet pr presenc esence e Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 202017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the AR: Employees material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management AR: Employees approach and its components METRO C ORPOR ORPORAATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 75 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) 103-3 Evaluation of the AR: Employees management approach GRI 10 103: et Pr Market 3: Mark Presesenc encee 20 201717/18 /18 Procur Pr ement pr ocurement practic actices es Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary Secure Planet – Purchasing policy and sustainable procurement Responsibility – Unfold Prosperity 103-2 The management #KPMG approach and its Secure Planet – Purchasing components policy and sustainable procurement Responsibility – Unfold Prosperity 103-3 Evaluation of the #KPMG management approach Secure Planet – Purchasing policy and sustainable procurement Responsibility – Unfold Prosperity GRI 10 103: 3: Pr Procur ocurement ement Pr Practic 2017 es 20 actices 17/18 /18 204-1 Proportion of #KPMG We are currently working on a defispending on local Secure Planet – Local sourcnition for local suppliers and the suppliers ing corresponding data collection. Therefore, we do not yet report this indicator. Anti-c Anti-corruption orruption Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG AR: Compliance and risk material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis management Boundary 103-2 The management AR: Compliance and risk approach and its management components 103-3 Evaluation of the AR: Compliance and risk management approach management GRI 205: Anti-c Anti-corruporruption 20 201717/18 /18 METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 76 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) 205-1 Operations AR: Risk and opportunity All operating companies and service assessed for risks report companies of METRO (except related to corruption companies with minority shareholdings) are reviewed for compliance risks such as corruption. Every year, METRO holds workshops on compliance risk assessment. Within the framework of the workshops, various compliance risks such as corruption are checked for their damage potential and their probability of occurrence in the respective company. Various risk scenarios were developed for the audit, for example on active or passive corruption towards various stakeholders such as suppliers or civil servants. The results of the risk assessment in the companies are reviewed and consolidated at Group level as part of corporate risk management. METRO's business activities are subject to a large number of legal norms and voluntary commitments. The legal requirements have become more comprehensive and complex, as have the expectations customers and the public have of the company's compliance. In order to meet these requirements, METRO has introduced and continuously expanded a Group-wide compliance management system. The aim of this system is to systematically and permanently prevent violations of the law within the company. METRO regularly identifies behavioural risks. The focus of our compliance management is on the prevention of corruption and cartels. Corruption risks can arise when dealing with authorities and civil servants, for example as part of international expansion or approval procedures. They can also occur in business relationships with suppliers and other business partners. The Groupwide compliance management system also covers data protection and other regulatory, criminal and labor law risks such as discrimination. On the basis of the compliance risks identified and examined, the necessary organizational structures are set up as part of the compliance management system. Within the existing structures, the responsible METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 77 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) departments are responsible for the seamless management and control of risks. In order to manage the compliance risks identified, METRO AG has issued Group-wide guidelines, such as a cartel guideline with working aids for negotiations with suppliers. This guideline also contains sample formulations for the communication with suppliers in compliance with antitrust law. METRO AG has also introduced Group-wide corruption prevention guidelines which lay down rules of conduct for dealing with authorities and civil servants on the one hand and business partners on the other. The corruption prevention guidelines also provide for a compliance audit of business partners in risk areas before entering into a business relationship. 205-2 Communication #KPMG AR: Compliance and risk METRO has established procedures and training about antiUnited Nations Global management for training and regulations corruption policies and Compact – Anti-corruption management that apply to all operprocedures measures ating companies and service companies (except for companies with minority shareholdings) and promote compliance and the prevention of corruption. The training and regulation management processes apply throughout the Group and affect employees as well as members of the management bodies. The target groups of the anticorruption guidelines and procedures are defined according to their significance in terms of content and organization. They are distributed either via the intended IT tool or by cascading information about the management levels. The target groups for training measures are defined according to a risk-based approach, which is based, among other things, on the risk profile of the function or position in the company. Executives are as much a part of this approach as employees. A risk-oriented selection is made for temporary staff. Training management can be used to adequately monitor participation in training. The adoption of policies and procedures is checked using the tool. In fiscal 2017/18, new employees were informed about anti-corruption guidelines and procedures. In METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 78 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) addition, anti-corruption guidelines are regularly communicated via internal communication channels such as the intranet or the social network. As the existing anticorruption guidelines were not revised, no separate notification was made about the planned IT tool. In fiscal 2015/16, based on the results of the most recent annual compliance report, anti-corruption training courses were held in 84 percent of all participating operating and service companies for over 90 percent of employees and managers, including members of management bodies. In the same period, anti-corruption training courses in 16 percent of companies reached less than 90 percent of employees and managers. Measures to optimize the training rate in these companies have already been initiated. All relevant business partners must complete a Compliance Questionnaire for Business Partners (BPQ) before concluding a contract with METRO for the first time. A new survey is carried out at regular intervals. The BPQ covers compliance-relevant topics and is intended to give indications of non-compliance with the specifications on the part of the suppliers. A breakdown by regions and employee categories is generally not published. Anti-c Anti-competitiv ompetitive e beha behavior vior Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG AR: Compliance and risk material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis management Boundary 103-2 The management AR: Compliance and risk approach and its management components 103-3 Evaluation of the AR: Compliance and risk management approach management GRI 206: Anti-c Anti-competiompetitive tive beha vior 20 behavior 2017 17/18 /18 METRO C ORPOR ORPORAATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 79 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) 206-1 Legal actions for AR: Remaining legal issues Information on legal disputes, invesanti-competitive behavtigations and other legal matters as ior, anti-trust, and well as on the associated potential monopoly practices risks and effects for METRO can be found in section 47 Other legal matters in the notes to the consolidated financial statements of METRO AG as of 30 September 2018. Only legal matters of material importance for the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group or METRO AG are reported. The principle of materiality of management reporting is derived from § 315 HGB in conjunction with DRS 20 for the consolidated financial statements of METRO AG and from § 289 HGB in conjunction with DRS 20 for the individual financial statements of METRO AG. En Envir vironmental onmental Ma Matterials Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary 103-2 The management #KPMG approach and its Responsibility – Secure components Planet 103-3 Evaluation of the #KPMG management approach Secure Planet – Reducing and avoiding waste GRI 30301: 2017 Matterials 20 1: Ma 17/ / 18 301-2 Recycled input #KPMG materials used Secure Planet – Amount of waste and recycling rate Ener Energy gy Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 80 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) 103-2 The management #KPMG approach and its Responsibility – Secure components Planet 103-3 Evaluation of the #KPMG management approach Responsibility – Secure Planet 302: GRI 30 2: Ener gy 20 Energy 2017 17/ / 18 302-1 Energy consump#KPMG We do not sell significant quantities tion within the organizaSecure Planet – Total energy of energy to third parties. The tion consumption consumption of the individual energy sources is converted into MWh using standard factors. 302-2 Energy consumpAs part of our Impact Assessment, tion outside of the orgawe have made a first assessment of nization energy consumption and GHG emissions in the supply chain. However, we are not yet reporting on this. 302-3 Energy intensity #KPMG The reported energy intensity figure Secure Planet – Electricity, includes only the energy consumpheating and cooling energy tion within the organization. consumption 302-4 Reduction of #KPMG energy consumption Secure Planet – Improving energy efficiency and making energy savings Sustainability approach METRO Sustainable Responsibility Real – Climate protection target for 2030 Secure Planet – Total energy consumption Water Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary 103-2 The management #KPMG approach and its Responsibility – Secure components Planet 103-3 Evaluation of the #KPMG management approach Responsibility – Secure Planet GRI 30 303: 3: W Waater 20 2017 17/18 /18 303-1 Water withdrawal #KPMG by source Secure Planet – Water withdrawal and wastewater generated METRO C ORPOR ORPORAATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 81 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Emis Emissions sions Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary Responsibility – Secure Planet 103-2 The management #KPMG approach and its Responsibility – Secure components Planet 103-3 Evaluation of the #KPMG management approach Responsibility – Secure Planet GRI 305: Emis Emissions sions 20 2017 17/18 /18 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) #KPMG The indicators for greenhouse gases GHG emissions Secure Planet – Greenhouse are reported in CO2 equivalents and gas emissions in t CO2 include all Kyoto gases. Biogenic Scope-1 emissions are not significant for us and are therefore not reported separately. 305-2 Energy indirect #KPMG The indicators for greenhouse gases (Scope 2) GHG emisSecure Planet – Greenhouse are reported in CO2 equivalents and sions gas emissions in t CO2 include all Kyoto gases. 305-3 Other indirect #KPMG The indicators for greenhouse gases (Scope 3) GHG emisSecure Planet – Greenhouse are reported in CO2 equivalents and sions gas emissions in t CO2 include all Kyoto gases. 305-4 GHG emissions #KPMG intensity Secure Planet – Greenhouse gas emissions in kg CO2 (CO2 equivalents) per m2 selling and delivery space 305-5 Reduction of #KPMG GHG emissions Key Performance Indicators – Secure Planet Secure Planet – Trends in the emission sources included in the climate protection target Effluents and w was astte Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary Secure Planet – Reducing and avoiding waste 103-2 The management #KPMG approach and its Secure Planet – Reducing components and avoiding waste 103-3 Evaluation of the #KPMG management approach Secure Planet – Reducing and avoiding waste METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 82 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 306: Effluents and Wasastte 20 2017 17/18 /18 306-1 Water discharge #KPMG by quality and destinaSecure Planet – Water withtion drawal and wastewater generated 306-2 Waste by type #KPMG The determination of the waste and disposal method Secure Planet – Amount of disposal method is based on the waste and recycling rate information provided by the waste disposal service providers we use. Envir En onmental c vironmental complianc ompliance e Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary 103-2 The management AR: Risk and opportunity approach and its report components 103-3 Evaluation of the AR: Risk and opportunity management approach report GRI 30 307:7: En Envir vironmental onmental Complianc ompliance e 20 2017 17/18 /18 307-1 Non-compliance AR: Risk and opportunity with environmental laws report and regulations Supplier En Envir onmental As vironmental Asses sessment sment Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary 103-2 The management #KPMG Sustainable procurement approach and its Responsibility – Unfold Proscomponents perity Secure Planet – Purchasing policy and sustainable procurement Responsibility – Enhance Partnership METRO C ORPOR ORPORAATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 83 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) 103-3 Evaluation of the #KPMG management approach Responsibility – Unfold Prosperity Secure Planet – Purchasing policy and sustainable procurement Responsibility – Enhance Partnership GRI 308: Supplier En Envivironmental As Asses sessment sment 20 2017 17/18 /18 308-1 New suppliers #KPMG that were screened Commitments and manageusing environmental ment systems criteria 308-2 Negative environ#KPMG Sustainable procurement mental impacts in the Secure Planet – Goals for supply chain and responsible product range actions taken composition Social Emplo Employment yment Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 202017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary Responsibility – Empower People 103-2 The management #KPMG AR: Employees approach and its Responsibility – Empower AR: Sustainable human components People resource strategy AR: Succession planning and compensation models AR: Diversity management 103-3 Evaluation of the #KPMG AR: Employees management approach Responsibility – Empower AR: Sustainable human People resource strategy AR: Succession planning and compensation models AR: Diversity management GRI 40 401:1: Emplo Employment yment 20 2017 17/18 /18 401-1 New employee #KPMG hires and employee Empower People – New turnover employees by gender Empower People – New employees by age group Empower People – Employee turnover by gender Empower People – Employee turnover by gender METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 84 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Labor and management rrela elations tions Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG AR: Employer-employee material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis relationships Boundary 103-2 The management AR: Employer-employee approach and its relationships components 103-3 Evaluation of the AR: Employer-employee management approach relationships GRI 40 402: 2: Labor and management rrela elations tions 20 2017 17/18 /18 402-1 Minimum notice The rules on minimum notice periperiods regarding operods vary from country to country. ational changes Oc Occupa cupational tional health and saf safety ety Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary 103-2 The management AR: Occupational safety and approach and its health management components 103-3 Evaluation of the AR: Occupational safety and management approach health management GRI 40 403: 3: Oc Occupa cupational tional health and saf safety ety 20 2017 17/ / 18 403-1 Workers represenIn 2017/18, an Occupational Health tation in formal joint and Safety Circle was established in management–worker 21 of 34 legal entities. health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury #KPMG We report the key figures that are and rates of injury, Key Performance Indicators material to us. The type of accidents occupational diseases, – Empower People – Occuand the underlying causes are evallost days, and absenpational safety and health uated internally by us in order to teeism, and number of management derive appropriate precautionary work-related fatalities measures. The internal recording also includes accidents involving contractors. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 85 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Training and educaeducation tion Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG AR: Continued development material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis of employees Boundary 103-2 The management AR: Recruiting employees approach and its AR: Succession planning and components compensation models AR: Continued development of employees 103-3 Evaluation of the AR: Recruiting employees management approach AR: Succession planning and compensation models AR: Continued development of employees GRI 404: T Trraining and educa education tion 20 2017 17/18 /18 404-1 Average hours of #KPMG The breakdown by gender and training per 2017 per Key Performance Indicators employee groups is not a relevant employee – Empower People – Continfactor for us and is therefore not uing professional developpublished. ment 404-2 Programs for AR: Continued development upgrading employee of employees skills and transition AR: Succession planning and assistance programs compensation models 404-3 Percentage of AR: Individual job perforemployees receiving mance reviews regular performance and career development reviews Div Diversity ersity and equal opportunity Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary 103-2 The management AR: Diversity management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the AR: Diversity management management approach METRO C ORPOR ORPORAATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 86 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 405: Div Diversity ersity and equal opportunity 20 2017 17/18 /18 405-1 Diversity of #KPMG governance bodies and Key Performance Indicators employees – Empower People – Gender breakdown in managerial positions Key Performance Indicators – Empower People – Managers by age group Key Performance Indicators – Empower People – Number of nationalities among managers Key Performance Indicators – Empower People – Employees Key Performance Indicators – Empower People – Employees by age group Key Performance Indicators – Empower People – Number of nationalities 405-2 Ratio of basic Initial surveys have been carried salary and remuneration out, but the figures have not yet of women to men been published. Non-discrimina Non-discrimination tion Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary 103-2 The management #KPMG AR: Employer-employee approach and its UN Global Compact: PRINCIrelationships components PLE 6: Elimination of AR: Diversity management discrimination 103-3 Evaluation of the #KPMG AR: Employer-employee management approach UN Global Compact: PRINCIrelationships PLE 6: Elimination of AR: Diversity management discrimination GRI 406: Non-discrimina nation tion 20 2017 17/18 /18 406-1 Incidents of #KPMG discrimination and UN Global Compact: PRINCIcorrective actions taken PLE 6 METRO C ORPOR ORPORAATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 87 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Freedom Fr eedom of as associa tion and c sociation collectiv ollective e bar bargaining gaining Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG AR: Employer-employee material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis relationships Boundary 103-2 The management #KPMG AR: Employer-employee approach and its Responsibility – Empower relationships components People – Fair and safe working conditions for our employees Responsibility – Empower People – Supply chain 103-3 Evaluation of the #KPMG AR: Employer-employee management approach Responsibility – Empower relationships People – Fair and safe working conditions for our employees Responsibility – Empower People – Supply chain GRI 40407: 7: Fr Freedom eedom ooff as associa sociation tion and c collecollective tive bar gaining 20 bargaining 2017 17/18 /18 407-1 Operations and #KPMG suppliers in which the Responsibility – Empower right to freedom of People – Supply chain association and collective bargaining may be at risk Child Labor Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary 103-2 The management #KPMG approach and its Empower People – Supply components chain 103-3 Evaluation of the #KPMG management approach Empower People – Supply chain GRI 408: Child Labor 20 201717/18 /18 408-1 Operations and #KPMG AR: Employer-employee suppliers at significant Empower People – Supply relationships risk for incidents of chain child labor METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 88 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index For orcced or c compulsory ompulsory labor Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 202017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary 103-2 The management #KPMG approach and its Empower People – Supply components chain 103-3 Evaluation of the #KPMG management approach Empower People – Supply chain GRI 409: F For orcced or compulsory labor 20 2017 17/ / 18 409-1 Operations and #KPMG suppliers at significant Empower People – Supply risk for incidents of chain forced or compulsory labor Human rights as asses sessment sment Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 202017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary 103-2 The management #KPMG AR: Employer-employee approach and its Empower People – Supply relationships components chain Global principles on fair United Nations Global working conditions Compact – Support for BSCI Code of Conduct human rights 103-3 Evaluation of the #KPMG AR: Employer-employee management approach Empower People – Supply relationships chain Global principles on fair United Nations Global working conditions Compact – Support for BSCI Code of Conduct human rights GRI 4412: 12: Human rights asses as sment 20 sessment 2017 17/18 /18 412-1 Operations that #KPMG have been subject to Empower People – Supply human rights reviews or chain impact assessments 412-2 Employee training #KPMG on human rights policies Empower People – Supply or procedures chain 412-3 Significant invest#KPMG ment agreements and Empower People – Supply contracts that include chain human rights clauses or METRO C ORPOR ORPORAATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 89 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) that underwent human rights screening Supplier social as asses sessment sment Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG Procurement and product material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis range composition Boundary 103-2 The management Procurement and product approach and its range composition components 103-3 Evaluation of the Procurement and product management approach range composition GRI 4414: 14: Supplier social as asses 2017 sment 20 sessment 17/18 /18 414-1 New suppliers that #KPMG It is currently not possible to were screened using Empower People – Supply mention the percentage because social criteria chain new suppliers are not recorded separately. Entry is planned for the future. 414-2 Negative social #KPMG impacts in the supply Empower People – Supply chain and actions taken chain Cus Custtomer health and saf safety ety Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG AR: Risk and opportunity material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis report Boundary 103-2 The management AR: Risk and opportunity approach and its report components 103-3 Evaluation of the AR: Risk and opportunity management approach report GRI 4416: 16: Cus Custtomer health and saf safety ety 20 2017 17/ / 18 416-1 Assessment of the AR: Risk and opportunity health and safety report impacts of product and service categories METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 90 GRI and UN Global Compact GRI Standards Content index Cus Custtomer PrivPrivac acyy Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary 103-2 The management #KPMG AR: Non-financial statement approach and its Sustainability approach components METRO Sustainable 103-3 Evaluation of the #KPMG management approach Sustainability approach METRO Sustainable GRI 4418: 18: Cus Custtomer Priv Privac acy y 20 2017 17/18 /18 418-1 Substantiated AR: Non-financial statement complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Socioec Socioeconomic onomic C Complianc ompliance e Reason(s) of GRI-Indicator Links within this report External links Comments omission(s) GRI 10 103: 3: Management appr approach oach 20 2017 17/18 /18 103-1 Explanation of the #KPMG material topic and its 2018 materiality analysis Boundary 103-2 The management UN GC – Anti-corruption AR: Compliance and risk approach and its measures management components AR: Risk and opportunity report 103-3 Evaluation of the UN GC – Anti-corruption AR: Compliance and risk management approach measures management AR: Risk and opportunity report GRI 4419: 19: Socioec Socioeconomic onomic Complianc ompliance e 20 2017 17/18 /18 419-1 Non-compliance UN GC – Anti-corruption AR: Compliance and risk with laws and regulameasures management tions in the social and AR: Risk and opportunity economic area report METRO C ORPOR ORPORAATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 91 GRI and UN Global Compact United Nations Global Compact UNITED NA NATIONS TIONS GL OBAL C GLOBAL COMP OMPA ACT Being a member of the United Nations Global Compact – the world’s largest initiative for corporate responsibility – helps METRO to firmly embed sustainability in its company strategy. As well as this, it provides the right framework for our long-term commitment to responsible and ethical business practices. With this Communication on Progress, METRO is fulfilling its obligation to demonstrate which guidelines and measures it is using to improve its performance in the fields of human rights, working standards, environmental protection and the elimination of corruption and to ensure that the Global Compact’s 10 basic principles are adhered to in strategic decision-making and day-to-day work both now and in the future. Düsseldorf, December 2018 United Unit tions Global C Nations ed Na Compact ompact C ommunication Communica tion on Pr Progr ogresesss 20 2017 17/18 /18 In the following tables, we show examples of commitments and management systems that serve the 10 principles, measures that we have taken and results that we achieved in the reporting period 2017/18. Human rights and labour standards Environmental protection Anti-corruption measures METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 92 GRI and UN Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Human rights and labour sstandar tandardsds PRINCIPLE 1: Support for human rights PRINCIPLE 2: Elimination of human PRINCIPLE 3: Freedom of association rights abuses and the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 4: Elimination of all forms of PRINCIPLE 6: Elimination of discrimiforced labour PRINCIPLE 5: Abolition of child labour nation Commitments and management systems Measures 2017/18 Achievements 2017/18 METRO Business Principles The producers in defined risk countries Of the 1,274 audited amfori BSCI-relevant facto(according to the assessment of the ries, 92% passed the social audit in accordance METRO guideline for human rights in its own amfori Business Social Compliance Initiawith amfori BSCI specifications. business operations and throughout the supply tive [BSCI]) in which METRO own brands In addition to the training programmes offered by chain or own imports in non-food areas are amfori BSCI, 160 producers with 218 participants manufactured, are supported in implewere trained by METRO SOURCING. Anti-discrimination tenet menting the amfori BSCI standard or an See key figure for social audits related to METRO equivalent system of social standards. own brands or own imports in the non-food areas METRO guidelines on fair working conditions Publication of the new overarching and social partnership Pilot run at METRO Turkey and METRO Pakistan of METRO guideline for human rights in its the training on the subject of forced labour own business operations and throughout Code of Conduct for Business Partners the supply chain Sales of fair-trade products within the METRO and Real sales lines in Germany came to approx. €13.4 Jointly with amfori BSCI, development of International standards throughout the supply million. This figure includes items featuring the a special one-day training on the subject chain (BSCI) Fairtrade or the GEPA label. of forced labour, designed to increase the ability of METRO employees to To fulfil our due diligence, in 2016 we launched a The Accord on Fire and Building Safety in project to audit country organisations with regard recognise, treat and prevent potential Bangladesh 2.0 to adherence to the principles of fair labour condiand/or actual cases of forced labour. The training is to be carried out in all METRO tions and social partnership. In the framework of Key labour standards of the ILO (International the project, our international METRO stores, head countries by the end of September 2020. Labour Organization), embedded in a variety of offices and METRO distribution centres are corporate guidelines Auditing of the METRO country organiaudited. This expanded auditing is based on the sations for compliance with guidelines on UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Social standards clause in supplier contracts fair working conditions and social partRights and – along with the 7 global principles of nership. Project to run until 2020 with METRO concerning fair labour conditions and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the aim of auditing up to 6 country social partnership – encompasses issues including embedded in a variety of corporate guidelines organisations annually. employee data protection and the quality of inteSocial dialogue at the local level is an gration of, and communication with, employees. The Consumer Goods Forum’s Resolution on important element in order for METRO to As these METRO guidelines explicitly include the Forced Labour build up good labour relations. employees of third-party contractors on our Development of new diversity and inclucompany grounds, these employees are also The Consumer Goods Forum’s Resolution on sion training for all employees, with the included in our audits. Health & Wellness aim of ensuring a common understandThe auditing process is designed to ensure that ing of diversity and inclusion in general our companies are not involved, either directly or and at METRO in particular. Beyond this, indirectly, in human rights violations. Our goal is the business impact of diversity and to audit all METRO Wholesale organisations inclusion on METRO and its managers worldwide by 2020 in order to identify weakwill be examined. nesses, develop countermeasures and ultimately METRO is a member of Charta der translate these into a sustainable process, as well Vielfalt e. V. As a member of the Rhineas to create sustained awareness of these issues. Ruhr Diversity Network, METRO organThe first audits were carried out in 2014 in the ised a joint event under the motto of METRO countries Turkey, Poland and Austria with ‘Vielfalt statt Einfalt – Digitalisierung, the assistance of the Group Internal Audit departKompetenzen und Diversity’ (Diversity, ment. In October 2016, the pilot was conducted in not simplicity – digitalisation, competenthe Ukraine. The full project was launched in 2017 cies and diversity) on the occasion of with audits in the METRO countries Pakistan, Germany’s 6. Diversity Day. Some 100 Bulgaria, China, Japan Hungary, Italy and Serbia. managers from the member companies In 2018, additional audits took place in the METRO were invited to experience the imporcountries India, Slovakia, Moldova, Spain and Russia. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 93 GRI and UN Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Commitments and management systems Measures 2017/18 Achievements 2017/18 tance of this issue for their management The principles of fair labour conditions and social tasks in many different ways. partnership include the freedom of association By 30 June 2022, the proportion of and the recognition of the right to collective women within METRO AG is to reach at bargaining. In the scope of the audit on the adherleast 20% in the first management level ence to the principles of fair labour conditions and below the Management Board, and at social partnership, anonymised discussions were least 35% in the second level below the held with labour representatives/trade union Management Board. members, our own employees and employees of third-party suppliers in order to determine how In addition, METRO started the Women the principle of the freedom of association is Leadership Program (WLP) in 2018. After being implemented in the respective country, and successful testing in a pilot programme whether and to what extent a structured and in June 2018, preparations are now under regular social dialogue is taking place. Furtherway for global implementation in early more, 3 to 4 meetings of the European Works 2019. Councils are held annually to facilitate exchange The employee network Women in Trade between various countries and General Manage(WiT) is instrumental in sustainably ment. increasing the proportion of women in Establishment of a working group structure within managerial positions, promoting internal the skilled international workforce to address and external dialogue, and creating occupational health and safety and the joint better underlying conditions for women development and implementation of international within the group. WiT has opened 6 guidelines for the creation and maintenance of a foreign branches. Through local activihealthy and safe work environment. In financial ties, the country networks in France, year 2017/18, these working groups gave rise to Portugal, Japan, Pakistan, Germany and the development of a standard auditing process China contribute to the common goal. for safe high racks and unified processes for the There are now around 588 network safe palletising and loading of goods, a transnamembers in the Düsseldorf location. tional overview of standards for personal protecThe employee network METRO PRIDE for tive gear provided to employees and a guideline lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans and intersex for the classification and handling of hazardous people aims to raise awareness of the materials, as well as an additional contract clause topics of sexual orientation and identity. for external companies including a clear requireSince 2017, METRO AG has additionally ment with regard to occupational health and been a member of PROUT AT WORK. safety. Since 2016, METRO AG has additionally To make people more aware of the fact that occubeen a member of the international pational health and safety is the responsibility of LEAD Network. all employees, we have taken part since 2016 in In May 2018, METRO AG and METROthe World Day for Safety and Health at Work, an NOM signed the United Nations ‘Free & initiative of the International Labour Organization Equal LGBTI Standards of Conduct for (ILO), with various employee activities. A number Business. The aim of these Standards of of countries conducted activities related to these Conduct is to guarantee the freedom and events at a later time. equality of all employees and ensure that The proportion of women at management levels 1 they don’t experience discrimination of to 3 was 21.8% on the reporting date, 30 Septemany kind – at the company itself, in assober 2018. ciated collectives or by suppliers. For details of active involvement in the areas of diversity and inclusion, occupational health and safety, and employeremployee relations, see also the ‘employees’ chapter of the Annual Report 2017/ 18. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 94 GRI and UN Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Envir En onmental pr vironmental prot otection ection PRINCIPLE 7: Precautionary approach to PRINCIPLE 8: Promotion of greater enviPRINCIPLE 9: Environmentally friendly environmental challenges ronmental responsibility technologies Commitments and management systems Measures 2017/18 Achievements 2017/18 METRO environment guidelines Measures for behavioural change (Energy Greenhouse gas emissions per m2 of selling and Energy management systems in accordance with Awareness Programme), investment in delivery space reduced by 26% compared to 2011 ISO 50001 energy efficiency and renewable energies Electricity consumption per m2 of selling and (Energy-Saving Programme), changeover delivery space reduced by almost 22% compared METRO climate protection target: reducing 2 of refrigeration systems to natural refrigto 2011 greenhouse gas emissions per m of selling and 2 erants (F-Gas Exit Programme) delivery space by 50% from 374 kg CO2e/m in Greenhouse gas emissions from refrigerant losses 2011 to 187 kg CO2e/m2 in 2030 Recertification and annual check of per m2 of selling and delivery space reduced by energy management systems in accor36% compared to 2011 Buying policy for sustainable sourcing, also dance with ISO 50001 specific purchasing guidelines on fish, palm oil, Water consumption per m2 of selling and delivery paper, wood and packaging Implementing the general buying policy space increased by 2% compared with 2011, for sustainable procurement and the compared to the previous year reduced by 5% International standards along the supply chain specific buying guidelines for fish, palm (GlobalG.A.P., IFS) Energy management systems in accordance with oil, wood, paper and packaging The Consumer Goods Forum’s Resolution on ISO 50001 at all locations in Germany and nearly Range of ecologically and socially certiall locations in France. Deforestation fied products The Consumer Goods Forum’s Resolution on BREEAM certification for METRO headquarter in Voluntary commitment to reporting on Düsseldorf Sustainable Refrigeration projects and their aims, measures and The Consumer Goods Forum’s Resolution on Additional transcritical refrigeration systems KPIs concerning circular economy by Food Waste started up, including in Bulgaria, Russia and China 2018 in the context of the Retailers’ EnviMembership in the Roundtable on Sustainable ronmental Action Programme (REAP), Third green store opened in China, with signifiPalm Oil (RSPO) which is jointly sponsored by the Eurocantly reduced energy demand Membership in the Global Sustainable Seafood pean Commission and European retailers Further photovoltaic systems installed, expanding Initiative (GSSI) and associations total capacity to more than 19,000 kWp, with The objective of the at the group level newest systems in China, Germany, Pakistan, India Signing of the Tuna 2020 Traceability Declarasuperordinated working group ‘Waste and Japan tion Management’ with it member countries Measures for heat recovery in a number of Membership in the Round Table on Responsible from FR|CN|PK|RO|PL|UA|TR is to markets Soy (RTRS) further optimise waste management in Review and, where appropriate, reworking of the Signing of the Statement of Support for the METRO Wholesale countries in the area packaging of 10,949 own-brand products Cerrado Manifesto of stores, and to increase efficiency in concerning environmental impact Company car guideline with incentive system for the interest of a closed circular economy With the implementation of a digital platform more fuel-efficient vehicles as a means of saving costs; topics of developed by our partner Whole Surplus, METRO Commitment to provide 1,000 charging stations focus are: Turkey now has a basis for systematically managfor electric vehicles by 2030 within the scope of Offering customers collection ing food waste in its own business operations and EV100 (joint commitment to electric vehicles), points reducing food loss. organised by The Climate Group Increasing food donations Charging point infrastructure for electromobility Voluntary commitment on disposable plastics Promoting employee awareness expanded to more than 200 charging points at and involvement METRO Wholesale Promoting exchange on best practices Implementation of an industry-wide traceability system as a precautionary measure relating to illeIn the framework of a comprehensive gal fishing in various countries, and expansion to plastics initiative, METRO has committed include new partners, countries and product itself to replacing conventional disposgroups able plastics with reusable, recyclable or Products certified in accordance with the EU compostable alternatives by 2025 and regulation on organic farming accounted for promoting the transition to a closed approximately €146 million in sales within the circular plastics economy. In company METRO Wholesale and Real sales lines in canteens, multiway systems are to Germany. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 95 GRI and UN Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Commitments and management systems Measures 2017/18 Achievements 2017/18 replace existing one-way solutions by In Germany, METRO Wholesale and Real gener2019. ated sales of over €115 million with products Formulation of the METRO Sustainable caught using sustainable fishing practices and Value Creation Model, an accounting of aquaculture. These are products bearing the sustainability for financial year 2016/17 Marine Stewardship Council (MSC), Aquaculture for the monetary representation of the Stewardship Council (ASC) and EU organic logos economic, ecological and social effects or are certified in accordance to GlobalG.A.P.. Real of the business activity of METRO generated sales of more than €394 million with Wholesale along the value chain regional products in the last financial year. Sales of products bearing the Forest Stewardship CounTransparent public reporting on climate cil® (FSC®) label or the label of the Programme for change and water via the CDP climate the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) change programme and the CDP water amounted to approx. €42 million. programme METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 96 GRI and UN Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Anti-c Anti-corruption orruption measur measures es PRINCIPLE 10: Combating corruption Commitments and management systems Measures 2017/18 Achievements 2017/18 METRO Business Principles Group-wide compliance communications Examples of internal communication measures: providing staff with information in variCompliance Talks Anti-corruption guidelines for dealings with ous formats, including METRO’s social Compliance presence on METRO’s social business partners and public officials network platform, in order to ensure network compliant conduct Communications campaign, including new Business partner questionnaires flyers and posters on METRO’s Business Development of new anticorruption Principles that also deal with OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, guideline that consolidates the topics anticorruption. embedded in a variety of corporate guidelines business partners and public officials, to be rolled-out in the business year 18/19, Examples of external communication measures: Supply Chain Initiative (SCI) and which includes a risk-based business Membership of and active involvement in partner due diligence process that evaluthe Alliance for Integrity, an anti-corruption ates and categorizes business partners initiative run by the Federal Ministry for based on risk KPIs and a business partEconomic Cooperation and Development ner questionnaire and that tailors depth and the United Nations Global Compact of due diligence accordingly as well as network mitigating measures due to risks identified Training management optimisation for better adaptation of all training in the area of Corporate Implementation of a risk scaling Legal Affairs & Compliance and to ensure there is approach that classifies METRO compaa sufficient array of training for the target group, nies into different risk classes (e.g. high, with defined mandatory trainings medium and low risk) as per various Implementation of a variety of compliance traininternal and external risk KPIs, and which ings, including on anti-corruption, for the relevant leads to a scaling up or down of complitarget groups in accordance with METRO’s trainance measures including those related to ing management anticorruption, depending on the applicable risk class of the METRO company in In financial year 2017/18, the format of question business principles trainings (electronic and face-to-face trainings) has been improved and modernized, has become more interactive and practical New face-to-face training for employees on core compliance risk areas, including on anticorruption, with various interactive videos METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 97 About this report United Nations Global Compact ABOUT THIS REPORT TR TRANSP ANSPARENT ARENT REPORTING available online, METRO meets its obligation to demonstrate how improvements have been made within these areas. We are confident that transparent reporting helps us to better manage our business operations and meet the demands of various stakeholder groups. The stanINDEPENDENT EXTERNAL dards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) form the ASSURSURANCEANCE OF THE CR REPORT basis of our reporting. This Corporate Responsibility 20 2017 17/18 /18 Report 2017/18 was prepared in accordance with the GRI standards and fulfils the ‘Core’ option. The GRI Content Index can be found here. We strive to continuously improve our sustainability In contrast to previous years, this report does not management. Having our report audited externally is continue the section of goals. However, these are also a means of emphasising the credibility and transincluded in the respective chapters of this report. parency of our sustainability reporting. The quantitative and qualitative sustainability performance information included in the scope of the assurance REPORTING PERIOD engagement that was conducted by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft according to ISAE 3000 and ISAE 3410 is marked with the symbol The reporting period is the financial year 2017/18 [#KPMG] in the column ‘Links within this Report’ of (1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018). To provide the GRI Content Index. It was not part of the engageupdates on developments, information has also been ment to review product and service related informaincluded that relates to periods prior to 2017/18. In the tion, references to external websites and information interests of topicality, we have also taken into account sources, as well as future-related statements in the events which occurred up to the time of going to Report. The certification from the independent audipress (11 December 2018). The frame of reference for tor can be viewed under audit certification. each of our goals and measures is indicated in the relevant section. METRO reports on its sustainability performance DISCLAIMER each year by publishing either a progress report or a Corporate Responsibility Report. A progress report was produced for financial year 2016/17, which was This Corporate Responsibility Report contains published on 13 December 2017. forward-looking statements that are based on certain assumptions and expectations at the time of its publication. These statements are therefore subject to risks LIMIT LIMITA ATIONS OF THE REPORT and uncertainties, which means that actual results may differ substantially from the future-oriented statements made here. Many of these risks and uncerThe scope of applicability of the information is given tainties are determined by factors that are beyond in the respective texts, key performance indicators or the control of METRO and cannot be gauged with any goals. certainty at this point in time. These include future market conditions and economic developments, the behaviour of other market participants, the achieveUNITED NA NATIONS TIONS GL GLOBAL OBAL ment of expected synergy effects as well as legal and COMP OMPA ACT political decisions. METRO does not feel obliged to publish corrections to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur Since 2010, METRO has subscribed to the principles after the publication date of this material. of the UN Global Compact, a United Nations-led global initiative that aims to encourage businesses to adopt universal sustainability principles. By subscribJOIN IN THE DIAL DIALOGUEOGUE ing to the United Nations Global Compact, we have committed ourselves to continuous improvements in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environDialogue with our readers is important to us because mental protection and anticorruption measures. With it shows us what you expect of our company and this Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 that is where we can make further improvements. We would METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 98 About this report United Nations Global Compact therefore like to hear any questions or comments you To share your thoughts, use one of our online may have about the METRO Corporate Responsibility dialogue tools or send us an e-mail: CR@metro.de Report 2017/18 and our sustainability activities in general. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 99 About this report Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor regarding the Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/181 LIMITED A ASSSUR SURANCE ANCE REPORT OF professional pronouncements and have fulfilled our THE INDEPENDENT A AUDIT UDITOR OR additional professional obligations in accordance with RE REGARDING GARDING THE C CORPOR ORPORA ATE these requirements. RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 /181 17/18 Our audit firm applies the legal provisions and professional pronouncements for quality assurance, in particular the professional code for German Public To the Management Board of METRO AG, Düsseldorf Auditors and Chartered Accountants (in Germany) We have performed an independent limited assurand the quality assurance standard of the German ance engagement on the sustainability information Institute of Public Auditors (Institut der Wirtschaftpublished in the “Corporate Responsibility Report sprüfer, IDW) regarding quality assurance require2017/18” (further “Report”) for the period October 1, ments in audit practice (IDW QS 1). 2017 to September 30, 2018 of METRO AG, Düsseldorf (further “METRO”), published online at http://reports.metroag.de/corporate-responsibilityPr Practitioner actitioner’’s R Responsibility esponsibility report/2017-2018. It was not part of our engagement to review prodIt is our responsibility to express a conclusion based uct and service related information, references to on our work performed within a limited assurance external websites and information sources, as well as engagement on the Report. future-related statements in the Report. As disclosed We conducted our work in accordance with the in the section ‘global labour and social standards in International Standard on Assurance Engagements the supply chain’, certifications on manufacturing (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements facilities of suppliers were conducted by external other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial certification firms mandated by METRO to ensure Information” and the International Standard on Assurcompliance with the environmental, social and health ance Engagements (ISAE) 3410: “Assurance Engagestandards of the amfori Business Social Compliance ments on Greenhouse Gas Statements” of the InternaInitiative (BSCI) or equivalent standards. The approtional Auditing and Assurance Standards Board priateness and accuracy of the conclusions from the (IAASB). These standards require us to plan and audit/certification work performed was not part of perform the assurance engagement in order to obtain our limited assurance procedures. limited assurance as to whether the Report was prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. We do not issue a separate Management Management’’s R Responsibility esponsibility conclusion for each sustainability disclosure. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence gatherThe management board of METRO is responsible for ing procedures are more limited than in a reasonable the preparation of the Report and the determination assurance engagement and therefore less assurance and presentation of the information in accordance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagewith the Reporting Criteria. METRO applies the princiment. The choice of audit procedures is subject to the ples and standard disclosures of the Sustainability auditor’s own judgement. Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting InitiaWithin the scope of our work, we performed tive, the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Stanamongst others the following procedures: dard (Scope 1 and 2) and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard of World Resources Institute/ Interviews of group-level employees responsible World Business Council for Sustainable Development, for the materiality analysis in order to get an supported by internal guidelines (further: Reporting understanding of the process for identifying Criteria). material topics and respective reporting This responsibility of the management board boundaries for METRO. includes the selection and application of appropriate A risk assessment, including a media research, of methods to prepare the Report and the use of relevant information about the sustainability assumptions and estimates for individual disclosures, performance of METRO in the reporting period. which are reasonable under the given circumstances. Evaluation of the design and implementation of Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, systems and processes for the collection, implementing and maintaining internal controls processing and monitoring of disclosures on deemed relevant for the preparation of the Report in environmental, employee and social matters, a way that is free of – intended or unintended – matehuman rights, corruption and bribery, including rial misstatements. data consolidation. Inquiries of personnel at group level who are responsible for determining disclosures on Independence Independenc e and quality as suranc assur ance e on the concepts, due diligence processes, results and part of the auditing firm risks, the implementation of internal controls and the consolidation of disclosures. We are independent from the Company in accorEvaluation of selected internal and external dance with the requirements of independence and documents. quality assurance set out in legal provisions and METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 100 About this report Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor regarding the Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/181 Assessment of local data collection and reporting Our assignment for the Management Board of processes and reliability of reported data via a METRO AG, Düsseldorf, and professional liability is sampling survey at METRO AG, METRO Energy governed by the General Engagement Terms for Management, METRO ADVERTISING, MAKRO Wirtschaftsprüfer and WirtschaftsprüfungsgeCash and Carry España S.A., Madrid, (Spain), real sellschaften (Allgemeine Auftragsbedingungen für GmbH. Wirtschaftsprüfer und WirtschaftsprüfungsgeAssessment of the overall presentation of the sellschaften) in the version dated January 1, 2017 disclosures. (https://www.kpmg.de/bescheinigungen/lib/ aab_english.pdf). By reading and using the information contained in this report, each recipient confirms Conclusion notice of provisions of the General Engagement Terms (including the limitation of our liability for Based on the procedures performed and the evidence negligence to EUR 4 Mio as stipulated in No. 9) and received, nothing has come to our attention that accepts the validity of the General Engagement causes us to believe that the sustainability informaTerms with respect to us. tion in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 of Düsseldorf, December 12, 2018 METRO, published online at KPMG AG http://reports.metroag.de/corporate-responsibilityWirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft report/2017-2018 for the period October 1, 2017 to [Original German version signed by:] September 30, 2018, is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Laue Glöckner Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer [German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor] Res estriction triction of Use/Clause on Gener General al Engagement T Terms erms 1 Our engagement applied to the German version of the Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in the German language, whereas the German text is This report is issued for purposes of the Management authoritative. Board of METRO AG, Düsseldorf, only. We assume no responsibility with regard to any third parties. METRO C ORPOR ORPORA ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 10 1011 Imprint Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor regarding the Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/181 IMPRINT Publishing details Pr Project esponsibility,, c oject rresponsibility conc oncept ept and editing Publisher Nina von Radowitz METRO AG Silvio Schmidt Metro-Straße 1 Chantal Wagner 40235 Düsseldorf, Germany Edit ditorial orial support and rrealisa ealisation tion METRO AG on the intinternet ernet Ketchum Pleon GmbH, Düsseldorf, Germany www.metroag.de Gr Graphic aphic design Corpor orpora ate R Responsibility esponsibility Strichpunkt GmbH, Stuttgart/Berlin, Germany Veronika Pountcheva Online design, c ept and rrealisa oncept conc ealisation tion Michael Goebbels nexxar GmbH, Vienna Phone: +49 211 6886-3192 Published on 13 December 2018 cr@metro.de METRO C ORPOR ORPORAATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 2017 17 / 18 Discover how “we are on the move”: In our videos and stories of our online report via www.metroag.de/cr-report-2017-18
