2018 Sustainability Review Sustainability lies at the heart of Pact Group’s vision — To enrich lives everyday through sustainable packaging solutions. Raphael Geminder, Executive Chairman 02–06 07–14 15–34 A word from our Chairman Our stakeholders People Who we are and what we do Key sustainability issues 35–50 51–58 59–71 Environment Society Ethics and governance About this Report GRI Index 2 A WO R D F RO M OU R CH A I R M A N — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 3 A word As a company, we have been focussed on from our minimising plastic packaging waste for nearly two decades. In 2015 we called a War on Waste Chairman and now we want to take this to its logical next step; the End of Waste. Our Vision is to enrich lives every day through sustainable packaging solutions. It is this vision that defines our behaviour, shapes our culture and guides the way we do business. It lies at the very core of our growth strategy and I am proud of the progress we have continued to make over the past year. Our customers are increasingly looking to us to deliver cutting edge solutions that will support their own sustainability I’m pleased to report that we are already making strong headway We accept our role as a responsible employer and remain committed credentials. In line with this, developing sustainable solutions with these aspirational targets, having developed and manufactured to supporting the United Nations Global Compact and advancing its is now more of a focus for us than ever before and we are a variety of innovative packaging solutions for our customers utilising principles through our actions. determined to become the number one partner in sustainable recycled materials. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our key stakeholders, choices in the packaging industry. Focusing on introducing new products and processes that will eliminate including our employees, our customers, and the communities in which As a company, we have been focussed on minimising plastic waste from every point in the supply chain addresses the Group’s we operate, for their continued support. I’m excited to continue to work packaging waste for nearly two decades. In 2015 we called a War inherent conviction that we must be more than just ‘responsible’ in the with you as we grow our business whilst achieving the ambitious targets on Waste and now we want to take this to its logical next step; the way we tackle waste in its afterlife. we have set ourselves. It is important that we strive to continue to have End of Waste. a positive impact on the environment and society as a whole. Each year, we provide a transparent account of our performance in It is for this reason we have developed the Pact 2025 Promise, a relation to the four key areas that are connected to our business: pledge centred on the Group’s vision to extend its responsibility to People, Environment, Society, Ethics and Governance. sustainability by delivering on ambitious goals by 2025 to: This FY18 Sustainability Review addresses the challenges and 1. Reduce — eliminate all non-recyclable packaging that we opportunities facing our business in each of these areas. It allows our produce stakeholders to see how we’ve addressed our responsibilities and Raphael Geminder showcases examples of our approach to sustainability in action. Executive Chairman 2. Reuse — have solutions to reduce, reuse and recycle all single use secondary packaging in supermarkets 3. Recycle — offer 30% recycled content across all of our packaging Portfolio 4 W H O W E A R E A N D W H AT W E DO — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 5 Who we are and what we do 105 OPERATING 10 countries1 SITES Extensive manufacturing and At Pact our Vision is to enrich lives every day through sustainable supply network packaging and manufacturing solutions. across Australia, We are a leading provider of specialty packaging solutions in Australasia, New Zealand and a with a growing presence in Asia. We deliver products and services to some of the world’s biggest and most trusted brands in both the growing presence consumer and industrial sectors. in Asia Headquartered in Melbourne, Australia, we are listed on the Our Product Portfolio Australian Stock Exchange and have 105 operating sites across 10 countries, with Consumer Contract approximately 5,500 employees, & Industrial Manufacturing casuals and contractors. Packaging We have been recognised six times by the Australian Financial Review (AFR) as one of Australasia’s Most Innovative Companies, with our ~ 5,500 employees, Materials Sustainability approach to innovation and superior technology platforms enabling us to deliver leading packaging, contract manufacturing, supply chain and Handling Services casuals and sustainability solutions to our customers. contractors Catering to a diverse range of industries, including the food, dairy, beverage, chemical, agricultural and industrial sectors, Pact Group is constantly expanding its diverse product portfolio. Strategy Our strategy is to deliver long-term value to our stakeholders through focus on three key pillars: Protect our Operational Growth through Operating in more 6 years recognised as core and grow excellence and a disciplined organically efficiency approach to M&A than 100 market one of Australasia’s segments across Most Innovative 22,000 product Companies2 variants 1 10 countries = Australia, China, India, Indonesia, Nepal, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand. 2 Australian Financial Review Most Innovative Companies List 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018. 6 OU R S TA K E H O LDE R S — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 7 OUR STAKEHOLDERS We value open and collaborative We interact with a wide range of stakeholders, including employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, government dialogue with our stakeholders as bodies and the broader communities in which we operate. we continually strive to improve our sustainability performance. 8 OU R S TA K E H O LDE R S — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 9 As our stakeholders grow increasingly invested in issues relating to sustainability; engagement with them facilitates open, collaborative dialogue. 10 OU R S TA K E H O LDE R S — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 11 Our Determining stakeholders our material Pact’s approach to sustainability is vital to the long-term value we We interact with a wide range of stakeholders, including employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, government bodies and the broader communities in which we operate. issues create for all our stakeholders. Our methods of communicating to, and with our stakeholders are diverse, At Pact, our Vision and Values define our behaviour, shape our culture We recognise that our as summarised below: As such we actively seek input and guide the way we do business. Sustainability is a central part of our vision; to enrich lives every day through sustainable packaging solutions. business operations from key stakeholder groups. The material issues addressed in this report reflect priorities identified for Pact Group and its stakeholders, in-line with Global Reporting Initiative impact many people, (GRI) G4 requirements. They inform our Sustainability Strategy, as pictured including our employees, below. Stakeholder How we engage The process of identifying and responding to material sustainability customers, shareholders, Directly affected issues allows us to create value for stakeholders and the broader global suppliers and the community. Customers We service customers in the food, dairy, beverage, chemical, • • Customer-led audits and assessments Regular customer business review meetings Our key materiality issues are listed on pages 12 and 13. broader communities in pharmaceutical, retail, agricultural, industrial and other sectors. • • Newsletters, websites and other communications Customer presentations Materiality analysis which we operate. • Conferences and trade shows We routinely engage with our internal and external stakeholders to Consumers • Websites and external communication channels properly understand the issues that are important to them and our The end-users of our products. such as social media business. • Focus groups and consumer immersions A number of factors are considered when determining our material Employees and contractors • Employee Engagement Survey (every two years) issues, including our Vision and Values, areas of concern and interest Spread across 10 countries with approximately 4,500 employees and • Regular performance appraisals expressed by our stakeholders and the global community, as well as the 1,000 casuals and contractors across Australia, New Zealand and Asia. • Company intranet and websites influence on upstream (such as supply chain) and downstream entities • Workplace noticeboards and Toolbox Talks • Site and corporate inductions (such as customers). • Organisational social networking through Yammer The issues we consider most material to our business have been prioritised Shareholders • Websites, press releases and ASX releases through a weighting process and form the structure of this report. Comprises institutional investors, individuals and retail shareholders. • Annual Report • Sustainability Review • Mailed communication • Face-to-face meetings • Annual General Meeting (AGM) • Investor presentations and webcasts • Social media channels Suppliers and business partners • Supplier assessments We engage with a wide range of suppliers and business partners • Newsletters and other written communications People Environment across the world. • Regular review meetings Providing an honest Reducing our • Contract documents safe and respectful environmental Actively interested workplace with highly impact Government and regulators • Face-to-face meetings motivated and PACT As required, we engage with Local, State and Federal Governments, • Reports, licensing and Performance Statements engaged talent SUSTAINABILITY primarily regarding regulatory compliance. STRATEGY Community groups • Community engagement/support plans Non-profit groups, program partners and communities local to our • Community Giving Program site operations. Broadly, the focus is on our operational impacts, • Face-to-face community meetings employment opportunities, donations and sponsorship opportunities. • Local media Ethics & Society Third party employee organisations • Enterprise bargaining negotiation processes Governance Investing in programs We respect freedom of association and work collaboratively with • Face-to-face meetings Conducting our that positively impact employees and their representatives. • Employee representation matters business responsibly the societies in which • Resolution of employee grievances and concerns and with integrity we work 12 K E Y S U S TA I N A B I LIT Y I S S U E S — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 13 Key sustainability issues ENVIRONMENT Key Key initiatives UN issues for FY18 SDGs The material issues have been categorised into the following section, which form the structure for this report. • Greenhouse gas • Regulatory compliance reporting including emissions National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (NGER), and National Pollutant Inventory (NPI) During FY18 we again mapped our material issues against the United in Australia Nations’ (UN’s) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to align our Energy and activities with these globally strategic priorities. Where appropriate emissions the SDG logo features on the relevant section of the report to indicate the linkage. We continue to monitor external trends and priorities and address these where appropriate. • Materials usage • Ongoing roll out of Operational Excellence • Waste to landfill Program Waste • Product design projects Key Key initiatives UN PEOPLE issues for FY18 SDGs • Sustainable • Product life cycle assessments packaging design • Product lightweighting • Employee health, • Implemented programs to promote Health & • Recycling and • Use of recycled content reconditioning of safety and wellbeing Wellbeing Product products • Innovation model Health • Speak Up About Safety “Ussie” campaign stewardship • Customer and industry collection • Workplace Health, Safety and Environment and recycling programs and safety (WHSE) Audit • Employee • Diversity and Inclusion Policy training SOCIETY engagement • Investing in • Community Giving Program • Online learning opportunities community • Continued signatory status of United • Talent • Performance appraisals completed for all initiatives and Nation's Compact management salaried staff Talent • Employee reward activities • Site-based SEDEX memberships • Applause — reward and recognition management and recognition • Human rights • Responsible procurement program Community • Supply chain • Onboarding and Exit Surveys ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE • Diversity and • Continued progress towards reaching our inclusion Board approved gender diversity targets • Ethical conduct • Tax Transparency Report published • Fair and equitable • Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) • Taxation • Risk Register and program Equality labour relations Compliance transparency and diversity • Pac Women’s Network • Corporate • Flexible work practices Governance governance 14 PE O PLE — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 15 PEOPLE We have made a promise to become the number one partner of sustainable choices for our customers. Our End of Waste Strategy encompasses three aspirational targets to enable ourselves and our customers to meet their sustainability objectives, to benefit the environment and be respectful of the communities in which we operate. Pact’s continued growth is directly linked to the success of our people. We recognise that to create a high-performance culture REDUCE REUSE RECYCLE our employees need to feel inspired, engaged and empowered. E L I M I N AT E A L L N O N H AV E S O L U T I O N S T O OFFER 30% RECYCLED R E C Y C L A B L E PA C K A G I N G REDUCE, REUSE AND CONTENT ACROSS OUR T H AT W E P R O D U C E RECYCLE ALL SINGLE USE PA C K A G I N G P O R T F O L I O S E C O N D A R Y PA C K A G I N G IN SUPERMARKETS 16 E QUA LIT Y & DI V E R S IT Y — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 17 We value diversity and inclusion and the benefits they bring in achieving our objectives, enhancing our reputation, and attracting, engaging, and retaining talented people. 18 E QUA LIT Y & DI V E R S IT Y — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 19 Equality Female representation at Executive General Manager & diversity level has increased from 18% in FY17 to 27% in FY18. At Pact, we define an inclusive In addition to the above actions, we continue to raise awareness of issues relating to diversity and inclusion. Throughout FY18, Pac Network work environment as one acknowledged and celebrated the following days, by communicating that enables our employees across a number of internal channels: • White Ribbon Day (25 November 2017) Intranet and poster campaigns to realise their full potential, to encourage employees to stand up, speak out and act against regardless of gender, age, domestic violence. • International Women’s Day (8 March 2018) video campaign to celebrate disability, ethnicity, sexual the social, economic, and cultural achievements of women in orientation, or any other factor leadership positions at Pact. In FY19 we will be seeking to rollout the diversity program to our newly that makes them who they are. acquired sites in Asia. Parental leave Workforce breakdown Flexible work arrangements are implemented as needed for those In FY18, we directly employed approximately 4,500 people. Women made employees returning from parental leave. During FY18 more than 43,000 up 34% of our total workforce, with 34% women in Australia and New hours of parental leave was taken across the business. Zealand, and 51% women in Asia. More than 93% of our people were employed on a permanent basis. All permanent employees, both make and female, are entitled to take parental leave once they have completed one year of service with Pact. Employee engagement, development and recognition Return to work and retention rates of employees who took parental leave, We believe that Pact’s continued success is directly linked to the success by gender is outlined in the table below: of our people and their ability to realise their ambitions as individuals. It is for this reason we actively invest in training and developing our people to Diversity targets Other significant progress towards reaching our goals has been made as Male Female Total become the best they can be. We also run a well-established and awardfollows: Our priority in respect to diversity is to positively increase female Total on Parental leave FY18 36 52 88 winning reward and recognition program called Applause, which helps to • We continue to actively source and encourage females to apply for representation in the workplace, with immediate focus on management foster a culture of engagement (refer to page 25). Returned from parental leave 36 26 62 level roles. positions at Pact. This includes direction to external recruiters to source female applicants for all salaried staff vacancies. Hours on parental leave 2,173 40,843 43,016 To achieve this, the Board has set the following gender diversity WOMEN MEN measurable objectives: • Pact’s Human Resources Information System (HRIS) recruitment module, implemented in FY17, enables us to capture a diverse pipeline of 1,317 + 2,804 = 4,121 Full-time 1. All salaried recruitment assignments are required to interview at least candidates. Our objective is to source one female candidate to one female candidate. 52 + 25 = 77 AUS & NZ Part-time proceed to our selection process for every role. 2. Monitor the annual salary review outcomes for salaried employees to 167 + 146 = 313 Casual • Membership to National Women in Operations (NAWO) and ensure females receive, on average, not less than the same percentage 130% 1,144 + 2,228 = 3,372 Total AUS & NZ increase in their remuneration as males across the Group. participation at industry events continue to raise the profile of Pact. ASIA 386 + 753 = 1,139 Total Asia • The annual salary review includes gender detail to enable the In FY18 more 3. Ensure that we continue to ask and review specific questions in the identification of any gender pay equity imbalance, with a view to Employee Engagement Survey to quantify gender as an issue in the minimising any such imbalance as part of the final approval process TOTAL 1,530 2,981 4,511 1,000 Contractors workplace across the Group. with the CEO. parental leave hours were Since setting the measurable objectives in April 2014, our focus on these targets has enabled several key appointments of professional females • The Group continues to lodge its annual public report with the taken across the Group Australian Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA), which includes Diversity and inclusion into operational and managerial leadership positions. We are particularly details of salaries by gender. WGEA has confirmed we have achieved compared to FY17 At Pact, we value diversity and inclusion and the benefits they bring proud of the increase in female representation at Executive General compliance status. in achieving our objectives, enhancing our reputation, and attracting, Manager level, from 18% in FY17 to 27% in FY18. engaging, and retaining talented people. • The next Employee Engagement Survey, scheduled for October 2018 will continue to ask a range of questions regarding diversity. Our Diversity Policy states that we have zero tolerance for discrimination and outlines how we are actively focusing on providing working arrangements that cater to the needs of our employees. 20 E QUA LIT Y & DI V E R S IT Y — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 21 Diversity Case Study composition International across our Women’s Day business videos At Pact we are committed to the global movement challenging bias, supporting women's advancement, and openly celebrating achievement. In FY18, we acknowledged International Women’s Day by Board CEO and EGMs Managers / Supervisors recognising the talent and experience our strong female leaders bring to our business. 1 4 3 8 77 241 Thirteen women from our leadership teams were invited to share their career journeys, as well as messages for future female leaders, in short videos posted on internal group-wide social networking tool Yammer. 5 11 318 The videos were an opportunity for us to encourage open conversations, and to motivate and unite colleagues to think, act and be gender Professionals, Sales and Admin Operations inclusive. 315 343 1,135 2,389 International Women’s Day 658 3,524 Male Female Total Under 30 393 30–50 2,502 Over 50 1,616 Total 4,511 22 E QUA LIT Y & DI V E R S IT Y — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 23 Ensuring Talent fair & management equitable labour Providing the learning and relations development opportunities that motivate our people to excel. At Pact we build strategic capability to ensure our people have the right knowledge, skills and attitudes to deliver results. We have developed At Pact we believe it’s essential that employees are genuinely customised learning and development frameworks and programs that empowered, and in-line with this we respect rights to freedom of are responsive to our current business needs and focussed on future association and collective bargaining. capability drivers for performance. More than 69% of our frontline employees in Australia, 61% in New Performance appraisals Surveys Zealand and 7% in Asia are covered by Enterprise Agreements, and as All monthly salaried staff, including Executive and Senior Managers, We believe open, honest, and respectful dialogue with our employees such, labour relations are central to our sense of social responsibility. participate in bi-annual performance appraisals that rate the is essential to creating a high-performance culture. Employees are Our employee arrangements vary, reflecting the diversity of our achievement of goals against our plan from 1 to 5. invited to participate in a number of surveys which aim to identify and workforce. understand potential issues and challenges throughout the life of their The appraisal process is performed online via our SuccessFactors employment. All our contractual agreements meet the statutory requirements in platform. Completion rates are monitored by the Human Resources relation to termination and redundancy processes. In many cases, we department, and reported to the Functional and Divisional EGMs, CEO An Onboarding Survey is provided to new salaried/monthly staff at the end exceed the regulatory standards. and the Board. of their third month of employment and aims to gather information on the onboarding and induction experience to help identify potential issues Objectives are framed within the five Strategic Pillars established by the with these processes. Pact Executive Leaders, and are designed to ensure alignment of activity More than 67% of our frontline to the strategic goals of the organisation. The Strategic Pillars are: An Exit Survey is provided to salaried/monthly staff who are ending their employees in Australia and • People employment with Pact. This survey aims to gather information about why the employee is leaving the Group and to identify any potential issues of • Operational Excellence New Zealand are covered by • Customer concern which may need to be rectified. Enterprise Agreements • Strategic Mergers & Acquisitions (M&A) All employees have the opportunity to complete an Engagement Survey. This survey lets employees have their say on everything from the quality • Financial of their workplace culture; their ability to collaborate with colleagues; the The Group performance appraisal will be rolled out to employees from company’s leadership quality, and broader business issues. This feedback new acquisitions made in FY18 during FY19. helps to inform the programs and initiatives administered across the Group, and ultimately improve our workplace. Succession planning An Engagement Survey was not conducted in FY18. The next survey is A 9-Box Performance & Potential matrix has been developed and planned for October 2018. implemented for Executive and Senior Management positions. All Executives have reviewed the 9-Box for their Division or Function. This process enables succession planning for key roles, as well as identification of high potential performers in the Group. SURVEY LIFECYCLE Succession plans are in place for key and critical roles. Onboarding Engagement Exit Survey Survey Survey 24 E QUA LIT Y & DI V E R S IT Y — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 25 Pact’s award-winning reward and recognition program, Applause, places Case Study innovation in the hands of all employees. Pac Network attend Women in Manufacturing Employee development Employee recognition Training and skills development Applause reward and recognition program Leadership Summit At Pact we are committed to supporting the professional growth of our Pact’s award-winning reward and recognition program Applause, places employees so that they can deliver their best possible work and realise innovation in the hands of all employees. their ambitions. In-line with this, many training options are made available The program fosters engagement and a high-performance culture to our people. throughout the organisation where our people feel empowered to Employees working on-site are offered development courses and skills succeed. In FY18, three female leaders from Pact attended the Women in Manufacturing Leadership training specific to their role. At the Group level, Pact utilises an online Summit in Melbourne. The purpose of the conference was to provide women with tools, Categories for reward align with Pact Group’s corporate values: platform to facilitate the rollout of more than 50 different training network and inspiration to not only excel in a manufacturing environment, but to thrive and programs, focussed on a wide variety of areas, from project management • We walk in our customers' shoes to serve them better encourage other women to join our industry. to cyber-security awareness. • We are committed to sustainability and providing an honest and Attended by more than 80 women from manufacturing across Australiasia, participants heard respectful environment Our corporate compliance programs address our obligations to create a from inspirational leaders who shared the barriers they had broken through on their journey fair workplace, free from discrimination, bullying and harassment. • We are passionate about driving results towards senior level leadership and offered advice and tools needed to • We pursue opportunities for transformational change Leadership Conference break any type of barrier • We act with speed and purpose In July 2017, 100 of our Senior Leaders from across the Group gathered for our annual Leadership Conference in Melbourne. The theme for FY18 Applause Central, the program’s online platform, creates a transparent was Delivering on our Promises. central repository for ideas, and delivers real-time communication that can get in the way of Three promises were identified to underpin Pact’s Growth Strategy: updates. It is open to all employees and places voting in the hands of the entire business to empower innovation through co-creation. a successful career. The 2017 Applause program received a record number of nominations and awards with a total of 354 submissions. These ideas received more than 496 comments; 3,181 votes and were shared 472 times. Of the 354 nominations, 119 made it to the Silver level and received a Our Our Our cash prize for their submission. There were 14 Gold winners and six Customer People Shareholder Platinum finalists. Promise Promise Promise The overall winner for 2017 was Steve Long from Pact’s Alto site in Hamilton, New Zealand. Steve’s winning idea explored two existing Delivering our Working in a safe Delivering on our manufacturing processes, delivering efficiency savings across the product and services and respectful financial performance. production of two separate products. As the winner, Steve received cash safely, of high quality environment and prizes to the value of $31,000, including an 11-night luxury cruise and on time in full. that fosters team for two people along the Kimberly Coast valued at $16,000. The cash engagement; a component was awarded in two stages — half at the awards night and fair reward system the remaining to be awarded when the idea is commercialised. and clear goal expectations. Applause Innovation Missions Following their successful introduction in FY17, employees were challenged with two new month-long Innovation Missions encouraging The leaders were also inspired by Western Bulldogs’ high-performance creative thinking and problem solving in FY18. coach Graham Lowe who led the team to the 2016 premiership to end a drought dating back to 1954. Graeme challenged the Group to liken Weight Watchers leadership to being corporate athletes. He spoke about how consistent, The Weight Watchers Innovation Mission was our first site-led Mission, high performance takes effort and focus, and high performing leaders challenging sites to look at their products and manufacturing processes achieve great success if they master their mind, emotions, and take the to see where material and cost savings could be made. time to get the best out of themselves and their team. Pact to The Future The future-facing Pact To The Future Innovation Mission challenged employees to generate ideas that would help Pact get on the front foot and help our customers meet their sustainability objectives. 26 E QUA LIT Y & DI V E R S IT Y — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 27 Recognition of long service Pact is committed to ensuring that the contributions of employees over a long period of time are recognised and celebrated. Certificates of Long Case Study Service are presented to employees in recognition of having achieved the key milestones of 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 and 35+ years of continuous meritorious service. In FY18 we automated this formerly manual process using data from HR. A new system was built to check which employees were due to reach a key milestone a month in advance of the date. The system then generates an email to the employee's manager with certificate signed by Innovation Mission Pact’s Executive Leaders and a reminder to plan a suitable celebration to mark the milestone. On the day of the milestone, managers are prompted to post a photo of the employee receiving the certificate to Pact’s enterprise-wide social media platform Yammer. The Pact to the Future Innovation Mission challenged Pact employees to generate ideas that would help Pact get on the front foot and help our customers meet their sustainability objectives. During the six-week mission, employees were given scope, stimulus and segments to focus on including: • Global best practice • Improved design for recyclability • Material Matters — (biodegradable, compostable, edible etc.) Pact is committed • Afterlife and upcycling to ensuring that the contributions of employees Pact to the Future over a long 88 innovative ideas period of time are recognised and received celebrated. from 29 sites making this the most successful Innovation Mission we have ever administered. 28 E QUA LIT Y & DI V E R S IT Y — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 29 Ongoing Case Study focus on Safety awareness improving Ussie, Ussie, Ussie — Oi, Oi, Oi safety For Pact to develop an effective and sustainable safety culture, employee involvement in the process is key. To engage all employees in the safety conversation, for the month February 2018, we empowered all employees to participate in our Speak Up About Safety Ussie campaign. culture and In a fun and engaging way, this campaign encouraged employees to focus on Pact’s aspirational target to be an incident free workplace by 2020, identify and report all hazards and, perform root cause analysis on all injuries to ensure process they do not reoccur. What is an Ussie? Firstly — it is pronounced Us-sie (ie. rhymes with ‘fussy). An Ussie is a group selfie shared via social media. In February 2018 all sites were sent a pack that included: Keeping our people safe • An Ussie decal • Props including megaphones and paddles and healthy • Speak Out About Safety Hi-Vis Vests • Speak Out About Safety noticeboard posters Pact’s Towards Zero Harm safety culture is built upon our ability to lead and rethink processes, adopting practices that aim to achieve zero workSites were challenged to: related injuries. • Post as many Safety Ussies involving employees with the hashtags We firmly believe that any injury is unacceptable and preventable. In #speakupaboutsafety, #incidentfreeworkplace2020 and #proudtobepact to everything we do, the health and safety of our people and communities The LTIFR represents the number of lost time injuries recorded for every Yammer. is always our top priority. The commitment we have to our goal of Zero one million hours worked over a rolling 12 month period. The number • Have employees sign their name on the decal to signify their ongoing Harm is supported by strong leadership. Our Executive and Senior is determined by the total number of workplace injuries that resulted commitment to speaking up about safety Managers actively empower our people to maintain safe working in lost time during the reporting period, irrespective of when the injury Site prizes were awarded to the site that involved the highest proportion of environments. occurred. their employees in Ussies and the site that submitted the most creative Ussie. In FY18 we have continued to be guided by our three year safety strategy, The table below indicates LTIFR performance over the past three years. The Site Manager from each of the winning sites was extended an invitation to Towards Zero Harm — Incident Free Workplace 2020, which we launched We are pleased to see an improvement in performance across the Group the 2018 Applause Awards to accept a prize on behalf of their site. in FY17. This aspirational strategy has focussed our activities in FY18 in FY18. We acknowledge that further work is required to achieve our Pact's Speak Up About Safety Ussie campaign encouraged employees to unite and continues to progress our ultimate goal of zero harm to people and aspiration of Incident Free Workplace 2020 and continue our relentless and have fun and more importantly, that their voice is paramount to the safety planet. focus on this. conversation and culture. Our safety performance Group Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: 1,926 Pact’s safety performance is measured by a number of key injury frequency rates — Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) and Total FY17 5.8 employees from 85 Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR). Our safety statistics cover all incidents that have occurred at our workplaces related to permanent, FY16 4.9 FY18 5.5 casual and contracted employees and workers. This includes all sites across 6 acquisitions (regardless of the time since the acquisition) and joint ventures (excluding Spraypac Products NZ Ltd). Our data reporting is focussed on our total exposure at sites, therefore countries we do not break the data down into gender, region or employee type, participated in our Speak Up About and do not exclude specific employment groups, such as contractors. Safety Ussie campaign. 30 E QUA LIT Y & DI V E R S IT Y — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 31 Our safety strategy The TRIFR represents the number of lost time injuries and medically Our aspirational three year safety strategy, Towards Zero treated injuries recorded for every one million hours worked over a Harm — Incident Free Workplace 2020, is guided by the rolling 12 month period. Pact’s TRIFR for FY18 is 20.2. There were no following objectives. A summary of our FY18 activities fatalities recorded in FY18. against each of these objectives is included below. Incidents are reported by sites to the Group in real time via an online system and telephone. Serious incidents are also reported to Executive Management to ensure appropriate action and review. As we strive to achieve our aspiration of Injury Free Workplace 2020 we continue to 1. Leaders defining culture drive a robust process following • Continued focus on safety through Operational a reported incident. Excellence Program • Management reporting and reviews All Lost Time, Medical Treated and Serious Incidents are investigated utilising the ICAM process. This process ensures appropriate identification of root cause and structures the investigation findings to produce actionable tasks to prevent recurrence. Approximately 60 employees were trained in ICAM across the Group in FY18. Our Group Risk Team has continued an annual audit program which Safety culture We track and internally report on WHSE performance on a monthly basis, reviews the sites against the requirements of the WHSE System. These and externally, along with our financial results, at full and half year. The audit scores are communicated to sites and management, and published Culture is an integral part 2. Management Systems monthly Scorecard is published on the intranet and site noticeboards on a monthly scorecard. to ensure transparency regarding incident management. Further Hazard and risk management continues to be a critical component of our of our approach to safety, • Updated environmental policies • New investigation process (iCAM) and driving a culture where information about our environmental performance is available on pages WHSE System. During FY18 approximately 300 employees were trained 38 and 39 of this Review. • Hazard and reviews via webinar on Hazard Identification and Risk Management processes. Workplace Health, Safety and Environment System The webinar emphasised: identify, assess, control and review, and no injury is acceptable is • Internal WHSE audit program We continually seek to improve our Group wide Work Health, Safety and provided attendees with a review of the key WHSE System documents and practical activities. paramount. • External benchmarking exercise Environment System (WHSE System), to ensure it defines the minimum standards and provides management of critical risk areas in the most A Legionella Risk Management review was also conducted across To reinforce the importance of this, a dedicated awareness campaign, efficient manner for the Group. The System incorporates a manual, Australia and New Zealand by Nalco, to determine appropriate controls Speak up about Safety Ussies , was rolled out during FY18. This campaign policies, procedures and forms applicable to all operations across the for this potentially hazardous airborne disease. Workers at our sites are was highly successful in engaging employees and in starting safety Group. not exposed to occupational activities that have a high incidence or risk conversations. Further details of this campaign can be found on page 29. of specific diseases. To ensure our System remains relevant, in FY18 we completed a To ensure our safety aspiration is achievable, additional WHSE resources benchmarking exercise with 10 ASX100 companies, to review WHSE have been deployed at Divisional levels. These roles will provide further standards and processes and to share best practice. We also updated a range of environmental policies, to continue the consolidation of the support to the site level resources, which have also been focussed purely 3. Capability on safety and environment management. safety and environmental systems, and ensure that key environmental • Training on procedures and processes aspects and impacts are being adequately managed. • Additional WHSE resources at Divisional levels • Elimination of combined roles at Site level • Speak Up About Safety Ussie Campaign 32 E QUA LIT Y & DI V E R S IT Y — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 33 Case Study Global Corporate Challenge Workplace health and wellbeing We value the physical, mental and nutritional health of our employees. That is why we invest in initiatives promoting the importance of a healthy body, mind and lifestyle. Over 100 days, 280 workmates from across 25 sites “stepped” their way to better mental and physical health as part of the Virgin Pulse Global Challenge. The Pact Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Our Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is for employees and their families Throughout the Challenge, team members have access to clever online tools in Australia and New Zealand. It offers confidential counselling to provide to help them understand the benefits of exercise; make better nutritional emotional, mental and general psychological support. Broadly, it is choices; refresh and refocus their minds; as well as access tips and info to designed to enhance the wellbeing of our people when they need it. improve sleep. Teams engaged in some friendly competition along the way, motivating each Global Corporate Challenge other to log 10,000 steps per day in a race to the finish line. Since 2015 we have provided our employees with the opportunity to participate in the Virgin Pulse Global Challenge, formerly the Global Corporate Challenge. The Challenge is a 100-day virtual contest that involves more than 280 individuals 370,000 people from around the world competing in teams to improve their physical and psychological health. Participants begin their journey by completing an online health assessment which provides recommendations to support and build their 40 teams progress. As confidence and habits begin to improve and employees discover how enjoyable and easy change can be, the online platform gets them eating more healthily before helping them to sleep better and develop psychological strategies that ensure they show up for work physically and mentally ready to perform at their best. 25 sites 323,289,620 total steps 209,905 KM total distance covered (equivalent to five trips around Earth!) 34 E N V I RO N M E NT — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 35 ENVIRONMENT We value the physical, mental and nutritional health of our employees. Pact’s long-term commitment is to ensure all products, services and activities meet the requirements of stakeholders without That's why we invest in initiatives compromising the needs of future generations. promoting the importance of a healthy body, mind and lifestyle. 36 E N V I RO N M E NT — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 37 Pact is committed to reducing and eliminating waste from our operations 38 E N V I RO N M E NT — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 39 Energy and emissions Materials and waste We use a number of energy sources when manufacturing Pact products, Materials including electricity, natural gas, LPG, diesel and butane. Pact produces and packages a diverse range of products and In Australia we report our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions and energy environmental sustainability is a key consideration for us. use through the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Scheme. Primary raw materials used to manufacture products are resin for In FY18 Pact Group consumed 2,005,505 GJ of energy and emitted 331,593 plastics-based products, and steel coil and tin plate for steel products. tco2e GHG emissions. In FY18 we consumed approximately 250,000 tonnes of these materials. The breakdown of this result is as follows: Recycled resin is used in place of virgin resin, where customer • Scope 1: 21,223 tCO2e requirements can be met, and product specifications allow the usage. Of all resin consumed In FY18, 7% was recycled resin. • Scope 2: 310,370 tCO2e Waste Pact is committed to reducing and eliminating waste from our operations, Energy and emission breakdown and this has been a primary focus of the Operational Excellence Program. This commitment is assisted by our aim to produce packaging that is 100% Australia New Zealand Asia recyclable. Total energy 1,383,042 318,396 304,067 All our sites have implemented internal recycling processes and systems. Consumed (GJ) Our waste management providers work with us to minimise waste and Total GHG emissions (tCO2e) 267,240 11,670 52,683 recycle as much as possible. Materials we most commonly recycle include paper, cardboard, steel, plastic, used oil, steel drums and intermediate bulk containers (IBCs). Breakdown: Scope 1 (tCO2e) 17,989 2,669 535 High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) and Polypropylene (PP) plastics are collected and recycled by our Sustainability Services Division, in Australia Scope 2 (tCO2e) 249,251 8,971 52,148 and New Zealand. Any non-recyclable waste is sent to landfill and all hazardous waste * Greenhouse gas emissions were reported in accordance with the World Resources Institute is collected via licenced hazardous waste contractors and processed (WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol. according to local legislation. ** Australian emission and energy content factors were derived from the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) (Measurement) Determination 2008 as amended. Of all waste generated across the Group in FY18, 49% was diverted from Across all our sites, *** New Zealand emission and energy content factors were derived from Guidance for Voluntary landfill via recycling. Greenhouse Gas Reporting — 2016: Using Data and Methods from the 2014 Calendar Year. Wellington: Ministry for the Environment. **** Asia emission factors derived from the Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) 2018 we use internal recycling processes and systems. 40 E N V I RO N M E NT — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 41 Case Study Waste reduction Product achieved through stewardship Pact’s Operational Excellence Program Pact is involved in the conception, design and For the 12 months ending November 2017, Alto (Albany) required manufacture of packaging approximately 1,000 additional tonnes of imported roll-stock to support for many products used by the production of PET protein trays the site supplies to a major New Zealand retailer. This additional roll-stock required carried a cost impact consumers. of $800,000 per annum. This means recognising that packaging has a life after the contents are Through the implementation of Pact’s Operational Excellence Program, consumed and it can be repurposed, reconditioned, or recycled. it was identified that the additional requirement was driven by two root causes: Pact is a signatory to the Australian Packaging Covenant (APC). The APC brings government, industry and community groups together to fund 1. Inefficiencies off the OMV extrusion machine projects that address packaging sustainability issues. Pact has an Action — Inconsistent hourly volume outputs Plan in place which sets out intended activities for 2018–2021. An Annual — Inconsistent quality Report with the APC is completed for the reporting period. 2. High reject rates of the PET trays off the formers (approximately 21%) Sustainable packaging design It was observed that the temperature of the factory during summer was At Pact we provide a range of sustainability, recycling and environmental causing condensation to form on the chilled roll-stock triggering the services to help our customers reduce the environmental impact of machine to shut down. To overcome this, the machine was enclosed and their product packaging and related processes. We try to design our an air conditioner installed. Almost immediately, the data logger showed packaging not only to suit the product, but to ensure that its end-of-life a change in the atmosphere within the basic enclosure. The temperature, management suits existing recycling systems, collection programs and dew point and humidity all collectively dropped and stabilised. kerbside recycling. We utilise the most appropriate materials, eliminating harmful substances wherever possible, and label our products with This solved the OMV’s output issue as it created a constant environment advice for appropriate end-of-life disposal so they do not become an for the chilled roll stack resulting in the OMV performing at 85% plus OEE environmental challenge in the future. daily. The speed of the OMV extrusion machine increased to 600kg/hr and has been maintained ever since. In the six months to June 2018, waste reduced to approximately 6–8% of the two PET formers from 21%. This reduced the need for rework and no more imported roll stock has been order since December 2017. The FY19 target is to further reduce waste to 2%. 42 A WO R DEFNRO V IM N MRECE ROOU NTO—– PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 43 Case Study: Pact Group is the largest recycler of post-industrial plastic packaging in Australasia. Reduce Smart Cube Reduce In FY18, Pact developed and patented a new 20 litre Smart Cube for the agricultural chemicals market. Pact is the only Australian manufacturer Sustainable packaging design with the ability to supply co-extruded multiple layer 20 litre containers to meet our customers barrier requirements. The Cube has been Pact’s global design network considers the entire life cycle impact of a light-weighted by 11% on the former design and to maximise freight package including the choice of raw materials, energy, transportation efficiencies; it has been designed to fit 20 to a layer on the pallet. configurations through to end-of-life. We use Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and the Packaging Impact Quick Evaluation Tool (PIQET) to perform rapid comparative environmental impact assessment of alternative designs at all stages of the design process. Lightweighting the Smart Lightweighting Cube by 11% has the Lightweighting, sometimes referred to as thin walling or down gauging, is potential to save >105 tonnes the process by which existing packaging is adjusted and/or redesigned to reduce its overall weight without compromising its structural integrity and quality. At Pact, we continue to invest in raw material, tooling, and technological innovation to produce even lighter packs that offer the same or improved technical performance whilst simultaneously reducing our environmental impact. of virgin HDPE per annum Reuse Incorporating recycled content into plastic packaging is one of the best tools at our industry’s disposal to forge a circular economy. Pact continues to work on the development of packaging that incorporates recycled material, diverting used plastic from the waste stream and landfill. Recycle At Pact, we make sure that what we manufacture is suitable for existing recycling systems, collection programs and kerbside recycling. In doing this we select the most appropriate materials and focus on eliminating harmful substances. We also label our products with clear end-of-life disposal information. Plastic recycling and conversion to recycled resin Pact Group is the largest recycler of post-industrial plastic packaging in Australasia and last year processed more than 30,000 tonnes of (scrap/ waste) plastic. From this more than 28,000 tonnes was converted into recycled resin pellets or products made from recycled material. The recycled resin replaces virgin resin in manufacturing process within Pact and other plastic manufacturers throughout Australasia. 44 A WO R DEFNRO V IM N MRECE ROOU NTO—– PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 45 Case Study: Case Study: Reuse Reuse Essano’s 100% rPET shampoo OMO EcoActive and conditioner bottles washing In FY18, Pact launched a new 300ml shampoo and conditioner bottle detergent range made from 100% recycled polyethylene terephthalate (rPET) for Mix Limited’s Essano brand. Pact manufactures Unilever’s OMO EcoActive washing detergent bottle range from 25% Australian sourced postconsumer recycled High Density Polyethylene (rHDPE). The new 100% rPET Substituting to rHDPE saves 25.8t of CO2 emissions per year and is the equivalent to planting 39 trees per year. The 169.1kL bottle is 20% lighter than of water savings is the equivalent daily water use of more than 1,000 people in Melbourne. the former HDPE bottle effectively repurposing The use of rHDPE more than saves more than 56 23 tonnes tonnes of pre-used plastic of virgin HDPE per annum 46 E N V I RO N M E NT — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 47 Case Study: Reuse Lewis Road’s 100% rPET milk Reconditioning bottle range Pact’s reconditioning services extend the life of IBC’s and steel drums without Pact has launched new 750ml and 1.5 litre milk bottles compromising quality. made from 100% recycled polyethylene terephthalate IBCs (Intermediate Bulk Containers) (rPET) for New Zealand’s iconic dairy brand Lewis Road. Supporting our new IBC manufacturing capabilities, Pact also offers reconditioning and laundry services to help extend the life cycle of IBCs without compromising their quality. Our national collection and buying services provide our customers a truly cost-effective and complementary Based on alternative to new packaging. In FY18, Pact collected more than 160,000 used IBCs for reconditioning. Lewis Road’s Drums Pact also provides compliant collection, reconditioning and drum current volumes, disposal services for both steel and plastic drums. Reconditioning provides a cost-effective and complementary alternative to new this equates to saving packaging. In the past 12 months, Pact has collected more than 1 million used 343.4 drums for reconditioning with 80% of these reconditioned into good-as-new drums for reuse and the remaining 20% sent to steel recyclers. Customer and industry waste collection and hard recycling services tonnes drumMUSTER Every year, the Group collects more than 650,000 plastic drums (approximately 650 tonnes of material) as a participant in the national drumMUSTER recycling program. drumMUSTER is a national product stewardship program that is supported by chemical manufacturers and industry stakeholders to collect and recycle eligible containers. Prior to the program, these containers were typically sent to landfill or burned/ buried on farms. Since its inception in 1998, drumMUSTER has recycled of virgin PET more than 21 million containers. These hard to recycle products are either impractical or too expensive to per annum collect via traditional networks. By diverting this waste from landfill and reprocessing it, Pact minimises the loss of valuable resources. 48 A WO R DEFNRO V IM N MRECE ROOU NTO—– PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 49 Case Study: Innovation Recycle Pact Group received One of Australasia’s Most Innovative Companies Pact was thrilled to be recognised for designing and manufacturing an infant formula lid for one of Australasia’s most prominent exporters Government funding for innovative recycling solution In 2018 Pact Group was honoured to be recognised as one of Australasia’s Most Innovative Companies for the sixth consecutive year. The of infant formula that has multiple layers of tamper security for antiprestigious annual list, published by The Australian Financial Review (AFR), is counterfeit. Both layers are self-destructive to ensure any attempt based on a rigorous assessment process managed by Australia’s leading to remove the lid and place it on another package will result in its innovation consultancy, Inventium, in conjunction with a panel of industry irreversible destruction to prevent tampering, substitution, or cloning. expert judges. Challenging conventional thinking The process of recycling In FY18, Pact’s Sustainability Services division, Astron Sustainability, received funding from New Zealand’s Waste Minimisation Pact ranked 26 on the overall list, from more than 1,000 nominated organisations across Australia and New Zealand. Pact is the only Inpact Innovation is Pact’s internal innovation division and was created challenging plastics such as Fund (WMF) to expand the Auckland recycling plant with new as a standalone business in 2013. The team at Inpact is made up of silage wrap is innovative and infrastructure and capacity to convert challenging plastic waste into packaging company, and one of only three companies, to make the cross-functional employees from industrial designers and engineers, to a wide range of usable products such as slipsheets, dampcourse, prestigious list for the past six consecutive years. The assessment measures a top innovation implemented in the past 12 marketing and sustainability specialists. They come together with the sole purpose of challenging conventional thinking to create innovative hasn’t previously been done plastic plywood and underground cable covers. The overall budget is $1.5m of which the WMF contributed $500,000. months. The judges specifically look at how valuable the problem is that packaging and manufacturing solutions. in New Zealand. Historically One of the products being made from recycled materials is the innovation is solving, the quality and uniqueness of the solution, and the level of impact that the innovation has had. Internal elements such as the material was deemed Plasback’s Tuffboard plastic plywood used commonly on farms. too contaminated by the This is an example of the circular economy in action. Farm waste is innovation culture, strategy, resources and process, which demonstrate a collected, processed, and turned it into a useful product that can sustainable and repeatable approach to innovation are also assessed. local recycling industry and be used again back on the farm. the materials were forced In 2015, Astron received WMF funding for the first stage Cleaning and Recycling of ‘Hard to Recycle’ Soft Plastics project. The project offshore to be recycled. was successfully completed in December 2016, including the Inpact's innovation model installation of a unique dry-cleaning machine which enabled the successful recycling of previously unable to be recycled plastic. This additional funding means the plant can significantly increase its capability and process up 3,500 tonnes per year. 01 02 03 04 Create Source Engineer Manufacture The creative process starts Pact searches the world to Concepts are transitioned Pact has the manufacturing with category mapping to gain find and secure the latest from sketched illustrations on capabilities and technological an insight into the competitive technological innovations a page to full 3D rendering know-how to take Inpact’s environments In which our so we can deliver worldand tool design. Our engineers creative concepts to the customers operate. We identify class packaging solutions manage each step of the commercial world. the key influences of brand, and designs. Our innovation process, taking the project product, packaging design and and technical teams work from the conceptual phase retail navigation. Throughout collaboratively to ensure each through to implementation. the process, consumers design challenge is considered All aspects of making the remain the central focus so from all angles. If we do not concept more environmentally we can better understand already hold the solution, sustainable are considered their behaviour and improve we will find a way to make it from lightweighting via material their experience. The insights happen. reduction, material switching extracted during this process and use of recycled content. guide our strategic innovation. From Left to right: Joseph Price (Astron Sustainability), Hon Eugenie Sage (Associate Minister for the Environment), Steve Mead (Astron Sustainability) 50 S OCI E T Y — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 51 Case Study: Recycle — Bespoke Customer Programs Resene Plastic paint pail SOCIETY recycling program Leading New Zealand paint producer, Resene, and Pact have collaborated to build a program that closes the loop for plastic paint pails. Resene’s customers can bring their unwanted paint and paint containers into their local Resene ColorShop stores where the paint is donated to local community groups and Pact subsidiary businesses wash and granulate the material, re-extrude it and manufacture new pails from the material for Resene. More than 14 tonnes of HDPE has been recycled in the last 12 months of the program We encourage a spirit of generosity in our people and actively invest in initiatives that align with our product and service offering, geographic footprint and stakeholder groups. 52 S OCI E T Y — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 53 As a multinational company, we recognise the importance of community engagement at a local level, and invest in areas we believe contribute to meaningful change. 54 S OCI E T Y — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 55 Investing in community initiatives and activities As a global company operating in 10 countries, we are committed to implementing initiatives that develop and Ronald McDonald House Charities — Australia and New Zealand reinforce positive connections Pact is proud to continue its partnership with Ronald McDonald between our employees, House Charities (RMHC) in Australia and New Zealand. With 16 locations around Australia and three in New Zealand, Ronald customers and the communities McDonald Houses are attached to major women's or children’s in which we live. hospitals and provide a home-away-from-home for seriously ill children and their families. To support the incredible work of RMHC in FY18, we provided Community Giving program direct financial support and essential resources to help make At Pact, we actively encourage a spirit of generosity in our employees. the day-to-day lives of those most in need easier and more Our Community Giving Program provides opportunities for employees comfortable. to give back to charity groups they are passionate about, or personally connected with, in four ways: • In-kind equipment and product donations • Financial donations to charity partners with a purpose that strives to create lasting social change • Monetary donation matching of personal employee fundraising Australia’s Biggest Morning Tea contributions Australia's Biggest Morning Tea is Cancer Council’s most popular • Corporate sponsorship fundraising event and the largest, most successful event of its kind in Australia. The idea is simple, just get your friends, colleagues or Given the breadth of Pact’s community programs and initiatives, we do community together over some tea and treats, and help to raise not quantify the percentage of Group operations with implemented vital funds that go towards vital cancer research, support services, community engagement, impact assessments and development prevention programs, and advocacy. programs. We do acknowledge this position may change in future years as Group projects evolve. The event is an annual feature of the Pact calendar and we are proud to have hosted morning teas across our sites for the last decade. Keep it clean Ongoing support to WasteAid In FY18, Pact, for the first time, became a member of Keep New Zealand Pact’s Sulo brand is proud to continue its involvement with non-profit Beautiful, and a supporter of Keep Australia Beautiful. organisation WasteAid. WasteAid provide basic waste services to disadvantaged areas of Australia, predominantly assisting Aboriginal The two iconic not-for-profit organisations deliver sustainability education and Torres Strait Islander populations. Sulo has provided waste bins for programs; waste minimisation and recycling initiatives; and are dedicated various projects and Pact is proud to continue to provide further support to keeping our communities clean, safe and beautiful. We’re eager to Royal Flying Doctor Service to WasteAid as it continues to implement waste services throughout start working with these two established groups in FY19 and beyond. remote communities. For the past seven years, Pact has been a proud supporter of the Royal Flying Doctor Service (RFDS). Delivered by a dedicated team of professionals, using the latest in aviation, medical and communications technology, the RFDS provides extensive primary health care and 24-hour emergency service to people over an area of 7.69 million square kilometres. It is a vital service for those that live, work and travel in rural and remote Australia. 56 S OCI E T Y — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 57 Our supply Case Study A slice of cake and chain a cup of gratitude For the last 10 years, Pact has been a passionate supporter of Australia’s Biggest Morning Tea. We understand we have the The annual event provides an opportunity for workmates to come together, share a cup of tea and help raise funds that go towards vital cancer research, support services, prevention opportunity and responsibility programs, and advocacy. to minimise the environmental In FY18, nine Pact sites filled their kettles, and social impacts of our baked cakes and came together and products throughout our raised more than supply chain. $3,000 Responsible procurement Due to the nature of our business and the fact our key raw materials , with the Pact make up approximately 50% of our total manufacturing costs, our supply chain is relatively streamlined and therefore presents a low risk overall. Community Giving Program adding In-line with the supply chain requirements of our customers and our $10,000 commitment to operate responsibly, we have a Quality Policy in place to ensure we continue to surpass international standards. a further to the total. New suppliers are assessed on their ability to meet our Supplier Code of Conduct, which outlines stringent ethical, social and environmental requirements. Assessments of existing suppliers are also routinely This year’s contribution takes our carried out. overall donation total to more than Both our Quality Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct can be found on the Pact website: www.pactgroup.com.au/sustainability. $90,000 our first Morning Tea ten years ago. since hosting Raw material Manufacturing Raw material Manufacturing Recycle Customer Processor Customer INDUSTRIAL RETAIL PACKAGING Kerbside Distribution SUPPLY CHAIN PACKAGING recycle SUPPLY CHAIN centre Industrial collection/recycling Farm/mines etc. Consumer Retail Landﬁll This diagram visually represents our industrial and retail packaging supply chains. 58 E TH I C S A N D GOV E R N A N CE — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 59 ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE Pact is committed to high standards of business ethics, ensuring we operate with appropriate compliance in all applicable policies and regulations and are properly managed to protect and enhance stakeholder interests. 60 E TH I C S A N D GOV E R N A N CE — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 61 Our Code of Conduct outlines how we expect our representatives to behave in the workplace. It includes legal compliance, guidelines on appropriate ethical standards and, provides a benchmark for professional behaviour. 62 E TH I C S A N D GOV E R N A N CE — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 63 Ethical conduct Our Group Code of Conduct Privacy policy Protecting our stakeholder’s privacy is important to us and this explains demonstrates our commitment how Pact Group Ltd and its wholly owned subsidiaries manage personal to corporate responsibility and information. The Code and Group policies are available on the Pact website: operating with integrity. www.pactgroup.com.au/sustainability. Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy Ethical conduct Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy outlines the standard of Our Code of Conduct outlines how the Group expects its representatives appropriate behaviours in respect to this topic. Training on the applicable to behave and conduct business in the workplace. It provides a laws has been provided to relevant Executive and Senior Managers. We benchmark for professional behaviour to support the Group’s business continue to focus on this and are further developing and enhancing tools reputation and corporate image within the community. It covers key and procedures to mitigate risk. topics including: conflicts of interest; anti-bribery and corruption; gifts and commissions; facilitation payments; political contributions and During the reporting period, we have not had any incidents in which securities trading. employees or contracts with business partners have been investigated or terminated due to corruption. It applies to all business activities involving suppliers, contractors, customers, shareholders and employees in Australia and overseas. The The Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy is available on the Pact website: Code encourages the reporting of unethical behaviour, breaches of policy www.pactgroup.com.au/investor/Corporate-governance/policies-andor company values. The related processes are further outlined in the standards. Group Whistleblower Policy below. Competition and Consumer Act Compliance Policy Supporting the Code of Conduct is a range of Group policies designed to Our Competition and Consumer Act Compliance Policy states Pact’s ensure compliance with laws and regulations. commitment to acting in accordance with the obligations under the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (CCA) and Commerce Act 1986. Pact Environmental Policy places great importance on compliance with this key area as it impacts Our Environmental Policy sets out our commitment to continuously how we deal with our competitors, suppliers and customers. improve the environmental performance of our operations and services. Work health and safety policy Whistleblower Policy All of our Executives, Senior Managers, sales team and other relevant Quality Policy The Group is committed to ensuring all work is completed incident and This supports the Group’s Code of Conduct and is designed to promote employees have completed online Self-Administered Legal Training Our Quality Policy outlines our commitment to operate our business in a injury free, in-line with our strategic ambition Towards Zero Harm. This and reinforce the Group’s culture of honest and ethical behaviour. The (SALT) and refresher training is delivered every year. manner that meets international quality standards. policy provides an overview of the Company’s commitment to workplace purpose of this policy is to encourage employees to raise concerns about health and safety and what is expected of employees and others. misconduct, malpractice, irregularities or any other behaviour which is A breach of the CCA can result in significant penalties (to both the dishonest, corrupt, Illegal or inconsistent with any of the Group’s values. company and individuals) and significant damage to the Company’s Equal Opportunity, Harassment and Bullying Policy goodwill and reputation in the marketplace. During the reporting period, It also sets out how the Group intends to make sure a Whistleblower is We are committed to being an equal opportunity employer and will protected for reporting unacceptable behaviour. we have not had any legal action pending or completed regarding not tolerate unlawful discrimination, harassment, bullying, vilification or anti-competitive behaviour in which the Group has been identified as victimisation in the workplace. Our Equal Opportunity, Harassment and Supplier Code of Conduct a participant. There have been no significant fines or non-monetary Bullying Policy sets out our expectations for high standards of behaviour in Conducting our business ethically and with integrity includes looking sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations in relation to the workplace and the procedures for making complaints and investigating at our supply chain. Our suppliers must comply with all local laws and competition law. issues relating to unlawful discrimination, harassment or bullying. legislation and must declare all instances where the manufacture of our goods is outsourced. 64 E TH I C S A N D GOV E R N A N CE — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 65 Corporate governance & risk management Board Risk management The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall corporate Pact promotes best practice risk management across our business, governance of Pact Group. The Board’s role is to ensure that the Group is covering a variety of risks, including but not limited to: operational; properly managed, to protect and enhance shareholder interests, and to environmental; sustainability; compliance; strategic; ethical conduct; ensure the Group operates in an appropriate environment of control and reputation or brand; technological product or service quality; human corporate governance. capital; financial reporting; and market-related risks. The Board is comprised of a non-Executive Chairman, four independent Pact’s Risk Management Policy sets out our commitment to managing all non-Executive Directors, and an Executive Director. risks in a proactive and effective manner. The Policy is complemented by our Risk Management Framework, which requires the identification Board members have extensive experience in a range of relevant and mitigation of risks to ensure business continuity, protection of the industries, including manufacturing, finance, information technology, Group's reputation and informed management decisions. It also drives operations, and public company experience. competitive advantage. The Framework is based on ISO31000 Risk Further information and biographies of the Group’s Board members Management Principles. The Risk Management Policy is available on the are available in the Annual Report, which is located on the Pact website: Pact website: www.pactgroup.com.au/Investor/corporate-governance/ www.pactgroup.com.au/investor/leadership/board-of-directors. policies-and-standards. The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to two governance subFurther information on our corporate governance practices can be Financial transparency Political contributions and activities committees, which are chaired by Independent Directors. found in the Corporate Governance Statement on the Pact website: Tax transparency Our Code of Conduct prohibits the use of corporate funds for political www.pactgroup.com.au/Investor/corporate-governance/policies-andThe Nomination and Remuneration Committee and The Audit, Business purposes. Pact does not contribute any monies to any candidate for standards. Pact Group’s approach to tax is governed by the following three Risk and Compliance Committee have defined responsibilities detailed principles: election to a political party. in their respective charters. These charters can be viewed on the Pact • Pact pays tax where the underlying economic activity occurs. We do not prohibit political activity undertaken by an employee in their website: www.pactgroup.com.au/investor/corporate-governance/boardown individual, private capacity. However, to eliminate any appearance of and-committee-charters. • Pact does not hide assets or income through secrecy provisions. coercion in such political activities, it is prohibited for any supervisor to • Pact does not shift profits to low or zero-tax jurisdictions. solicit funds from a subordinate for political purposes. These principles are enforced through a Tax Governance Policy that Pact supports the involvement of its employees in community activities ensures the Board reviews and signs off on all significant tax decisions, and professional organisations. However, outside activity must not create and a tax risk management framework that guides management in the a conflict (or the appearance of a conflict) of interest. day-to-day management of tax issues. A Report outlining our approach to taxation and providing details about the taxes we paid in FY17 was published during FY18 to help our stakeholders understand our tax paying position. The Report includes information on income and other taxes we have paid, to provide a clearer picture of our contribution to the Australian community. It is Intended that a similar report will be prepared for future years. Further information and a copy of Pact’s FY17 Tax Transparency Report can be found on the Pact website: www.pactgroup.com.au/wp-content/ uploads/2017/06/Pact-Tax-Transparency-Report-2015_V2.pdf. 66 E TH I C S A N D GOV E R N A N CE — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 67 Human rights Supplier Ethical Database Exchange (Sedex) United Nations Global Compact Sedex is a secure online database that allows members to store, share and report on four key areas including labour standards, health and As a signatory to the United Nations The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with safety, the environment and business ethics. 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. It is a simple and effective way of managing ethical and responsible Global Compact, we continuously work practices across the supply chain. A number of our sites have completed As a signatory to the UNGC, Pact Group upholds the principles of a Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA). to align our operations and business universal human rights, including accessibility, non-discrimination and Sedex is currently a tender requirement for some of our customers and strategy to its 10 principles. labour rights across all of our operations. This is demonstrated through enables Pact to display our sustainability credentials within their supply the Group’s Code of Conduct, which requires the fair and equitable chains. treatment of all Pact stakeholders and outlines the responsibilities of all employees in accordance with this. It is also supported in our Equal Opportunity, Harassment and Bullying Policy, mentioned earlier, in which Pact is committed to being an equal opportunity employer and to ensuring our workplace is free of unlawful discrimination, harassment and bullying. There have been no grievances about human rights impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Our corporate induction, which all new salaried employees complete, covers our expectations with regards to the Group and employees upholding the principles of universal human rights. We lodged our annual UNGC Communications on progress in December 2017 which can be downloaded From the UNGC website: www.unglobalcompact.org. Child and forced labour As a signatory to the UNGC we are committed to supporting the abolishment of child labour and forced labour worldwide. As a business, our Code of Conduct and other Group policies condemn and resolutely prohibit child and forced labour. There have been no incidents of child or forced labour within the Group that we are aware of during the reporting period. 68 E TH I C S A N D GOV E R N A N CE — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 69 Independent Limited Assurance Statement to the About Management and Directors of Pact Group Holdings Limited (Pact Group) this Report Our Conclusion: We were engaged by Pact Group to undertake limited assurance (here after referred to as a ‘review’) over total combined scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (t.CO2-e) for Pact Group’s Australia and New Zealand operations included in its 2018 Sustainability Report for the year ended 30 June 2018. Based on the work we performed, nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that the total combined scope 1 and scope 2 GHG emissions for Pact Group’s Australia and New Zealand operations have not been prepared and presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria defined below. What our review covered Summary of review procedures performed We reviewed the total combined scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse A review consists of making enquiries, primarily of persons gas (GHG) emissions (t.CO2-e) for Pact Group’s Australia and responsible for preparing the total combined scope 1 and scope 2 New Zealand operations included in its 2018 Sustainability Report. GHG emissions for Pact Group’s Australia and New Zealand This Sustainability Review for Pact Group Holdings Ltd has been prepared operations and related information, and applying analytical and in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability The subject matter did not include: other review procedures. A review is substantially less in scope Reviewing Guidelines (G4 version). This Review is in accordance with “core” ► Data sets, statements, information, systems or approaches than an audit conducted in accordance with Auditing Standards other than the underpinning performance data and consequently does not enable us to obtain assurance that we GRI guidelines and no information is restated and no changes have been would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified. ► Management’s forward looking statements identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion. The information contained in this Review relates to sites wholly owned ► Any comparisons made against historical data. Our procedures included: and operated by Pact Group Holdings Ltd (“Pact” or “the Company”) and its wholly owned subsidiaries (“the Group”). All data relates to Criteria applied by Pact Group ► Conducted interviews with personnel to understand the In preparing the total combined scope 1 and scope 2 GHG business and reporting process the 12-month period or the status as at 30 June 2018 (FY18), unless emissions, Pact Group applied: ► Conducted interviews with key personnel to understand the otherwise stated. ► The World Business Council for Sustainable Development and process for collecting, collating and reporting the Subject All monetary amounts in the Review are stated in Australian dollars unless World Resources Institute's Greenhouse Gas Protocol Matter during the reporting period otherwise stated. Revised Edition ► Checked that the calculation criteria have been correctly ► Australian National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting applied in accordance with the methodologies outlined in the Information integrity and verification (Measurement) Amendment Determination 2017 (No. 1) Criteria Pact’s Executive and Senior Management are responsible for the ► New Zealand Climate Change (Stationary Energy and ► Undertook analytical review procedures to support the preparation and integrity of the information in this Review. We believe this Industrial Processes) Regulations 2009 reasonableness of the data Review fairly represents our sustainability performance during FY18. ► New Zealand Climate Change (Liquid Fossil Fuels) ► Identified and tested assumptions supporting calculations Regulations 2008 ► Tested, on a sample basis, underlying source information to Further information check the accuracy of the data. ► New Zealand Climate Change (Unique Emissions Factor) Further information regarding Pact’s sustainability performance is Regulations 2009 We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate communicated through various channels Including: to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusions. • www.pactgroup.com.au Key responsibilities EY’s responsibility and independence • The Annual Report Our responsibility was to express a conclusion on the total • The Annual General Meeting (AGM) combined scope 1 and scope 2 GHG emissions for Pact Group’s Australia and New Zealand operations based on our review. • Disclosures to the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX), Company code Ernst & Young (PGH). We were also responsible for maintaining our independence and Melbourne, Australia confirm that we have met the independence requirements of the 1 November 2018 Previous Sustainability and Annual Reports can be downloaded from the APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants and have the required competencies and experience to conduct this Limited Assurance investor section of our website: www.pactgroup.com.au/sustainability. assurance engagement. Procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in If you have any questions or feedback, please email: nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable Pact Group’s responsibility assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance info@pactgroup.com.au obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower Pact Group’s management (“management”) was responsible for than the assurance that would have been obtained had a selecting the Criteria, and preparing and fairly presenting the total reasonable assurance engagement been performed. While we combined scope 1 and scope 2 GHG emissions or its Australia considered the effectiveness of management’s internal controls and New Zealand operations in accordance with the Criteria. This when determining the nature and extent of our procedures, our responsibility includes establishing and maintaining internal assurance engagement was not designed to provide assurance on controls, adequate records and making estimates that are internal controls. Our procedures did not include testing controls or reasonable in the circumstances. performing procedures relating to checking aggregation or calculation of data within IT systems. Our approach to conducting the review Use of our Assurance Statement We conducted this review in accordance with the International We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this Federation of Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance assurance report to any persons other than management and the Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Directors of Pact Group, or for any purpose other than that for which Information (‘ISAE 3000’) and the terms of reference for this it was prepared. engagement. 70 E TH I C S A N D GOV E R N A N CE — PAC T 2018 SUS TA IN A B IL I T Y R E V IE W 71 Pact’s 2018 Sustainability Review has Global Reporting Global Reporting Initiative Initiative been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reviewing Guidelines (G4 version). The following table summarises Pact’s performance against “core” GRI guidelines. Summary Index Summary Index General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures (continued) Standard Description Reporting Report heading Page/s Standard Description Reporting Report heading Page/s Disclosure status Disclosure status Strategy and Analysis Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker in the organisation Fully A word from our CEO 2–3 G4-DMA Effluents and waste policy Fully Materials and waste 39 G4-2 Impacts and Risks summary Fully Key sustainability issues, Corporate Governance & Risk Management 11, 12, 65 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Partially Materials and waste 39 Organisational profile Material Aspect: Products and Services G4-3 Organisation name Fully About this report 68 G4-DMA Environmental impacts policy from product & services Fully Product stewardship 41 G4-4 Primary products, services Fully Who we are and what we do 4, 5 G4-EN27 Impacts and mitigation of impacts from product & services Partially Product stewardship 41 G4-5 Head office location Fully Who we are and what we do 4, 5 Material Aspect: Environmental grievance mechanisms G4-6 Countries of operation Fully Who we are and what we do 4, 5 Category: Social G4-7 Ownership and legal form Fully About this report 68 Sub-category: Labour practices and decent work G4-8 Markets served Fully Who we are and what we do 4, 5 Material Aspect: Employment G4-9 Scale of organisation Fully Who we are and what we do 4, 5 G4-DMA Workforce & labour practices and policies Fully Workforce breakdown 20 G4-10 Employee structure / breakdown Fully Diversity 18 G4-LA3 Return to work after parental leave and retention rates Partially Parental leave 19 G4-11 Employees covered by bargaining power Fully Industrial relations 22 Material Aspect: Labour/Management relations G4-12 Supply chain description Fully Responsible Procurement 57 G4-DMA Labour / management relations policy Fully Industrial relations 22 G4-13 Significant changes to organisation Fully About this report 68 Material Aspect: Occupational Health & Safety G4-14 Overall approach to managing operational risk Fully Corporate Governance & Risk Management 65 G4-DMA OHS policy Fully Safety, Health, and wellbeing 28–31 G4-15 External charters, principles, initiatives subscribed to Fully Human rights, product stewardship 66 G4-LA6 Injuries, rates, days lost Fully Safety, Health, and wellbeing 28–31 G4-16 Active in external memberships Fully Human rights, product stewardship 66 G4-LA7 Workers with high risk jobs Fully Safety, Health, and wellbeing 28–31 Identified material aspects and boundaries Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal opportunity G4-17 Who is covered by this report Fully About this report 68 G4-DMA Diversity & equal opportunity policy Fully Diversity 62 G4-18 Boundaries of this report Fully About this report 68 G4-LA12 Governance and workforce breakdown Fully Diversity 20 G4-19 Material aspects identified Fully GRI Index — Specific Standard Disclosures 70 Material Aspect: Equal remuneration G4-20 Aspect boundaries — relevancy to entities inside organisation Fully Key Sustainability issues 11, 12 G4-DMA Equal remuneration policy Fully Diversity 20 G4-21 Aspect boundaries — relevancy to entities outside organisation Fully Key Sustainability issues 11, 12 G4-LA13 Gender remuneration breakdown by job category Partially Diversity 20 G4-22 Any restatements of previously reported information Fully About this report 68 Material Aspect: Labour practices grievance mechanisms G4-23 Any significant changes since last report Fully About this report 68 Sub-category: Human Rights Stakeholder engagement Material Aspect: Investment G4-24 List of stakeholders Fully Stakeholders 10 G4-DMA Human rights policy Fully Human rights 66 G4-25 Reason stakeholders chosen Fully Stakeholders 10 G4-HR2 Percentage and number of hours employees trained in human rights Partially Human rights 66 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Fully Stakeholders 10 Material Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-27 Issues raised by stakeholder groups Fully Key sustainability issues 11, 12 G4-DMA Non-discrimination policy Fully Human rights 66 Report profile G4-HR3 Number of discrimination incidents, resolutions Fully Human rights 66 G4-28 Reporting period Fully About this report 68 Material Aspect: Freedom of association and Collective bargaining G4-29 Date of previous report (if any) Fully About this report 68 G4-DMA Freedom of association & collective bargaining policy Fully Industrial relations 66 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Fully About this report 68 G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers violating this right Partially Industrial relations 66 G4-31 Contact for any questions regarding this report Fully About this report 68 Material Aspect: Child labour G4-32 In accordance with Fully About this report 68 G4-DMA Child labour policy Fully Human rights 66 G4-33 Approach to external assurance Fully About this report 68 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers with incidents of child labour Partially Human rights 66 Governance Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsory labour G4-34 Governance structure Fully Corporate governance & Risk Management 65 G4-DMA Forced or compulsory labour policy Fully Human rights 66 G4-35 Process for delegating authority economic, environmental & social topics Fully Corporate governance & Risk Management 65 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers with incidents of forced labour Partially Human rights 66 Ethics and integrity Material Aspect: Supplier human rights grievance mechanisms G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles and standards e.g. code of conduct Fully Ethical conduct 62–64 G4-DMA Policy for human rights grievance mechanism Fully Human rights 66 G4-HR12 Percentage and number of supplier human rights grievances Partially Human rights 66 Sub-category: Society Specific Standard Disclosures Material Aspect: Local communities Standard Description Reporting Report heading Page G4-DMA Community investment and engagement policy Fully Community 54–55 Disclosure status G4-SO1 Percentage operations with community engagement & development Partially Community 54–55 Category: Economic Material Aspect: Anti-corruption Material Aspect: Economic performance G4-DMA Anti-corruption policy Fully Ethical conduct 63 G4-DMA Why economic performance is material Fully Our Materiality Process 11 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption Fully Ethical conduct 63 G4-EC1 Local economic value — revenue, employees, community Fully 2017 Annual Report – G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption, resolution Fully Ethical conduct 63 Category: Environmental Material Aspect: Public policy Material Aspect: Materials G4-DMA Political contribution policy Fully Financial Transparency 64 G4-DMA Materials policy Partially Materials and waste 39 G4-SO6 Value of political contributions, broken down Fully Ethical conduct 64 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight — non-renewable, renewable Partially Materials and waste 39 Material Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Anti-competitive behaviour policy Fully Ethical conduct 63 G4-DMA Energy policy Partially Energy and emissions 38 G4-SO7 Number of legal actions from anti-competitive behaviour Fully Ethical conduct 63 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within organisation Partially Energy and emissions 38 Material Aspect: Compliance Material Aspect: Emissions G4-SO8 Value of fines from non-compliance Fully Ethical conduct 63 G4-DMA Emissions policy Fully Energy and emissions 38 G4-EN15 Scope 1 Direct GHG emissions Partially Energy and emissions 38 G4-EN16 Scope 2 Indirect GHG emissions Partially Energy and emissions 38 6/650 Church Street, Richmond VIC 3121 Australia Telephone +61 3 8825 4100 www.pactgroup.com.au
