BREW better Keurig Green Mountain 2017 Sustainability Report 1 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction Coffee has the power to connect us. Coffee gives us a deep connection to the world. To far-flung coffeelands. To hard-working farming families. And to people everywhere who love the familiar comfort of their morning ritual. At Keurig Green Mountain, we’ve always seen this as a unique opportunity to make the world a better place. From the very beginning, we’ve had a commitment to Coffee Earth Community do more than what’s expected of us. We’ve worked to We’re committed to truly great As a coffee company, we’re We’re better together. That’s integrate social responsibility into all aspects of our coffee that promotes the greater deeply connected to our earth why we empower our employees business, so it’s engrained in everything we do — from good — so growers and workers and have set ambitious goals to to get out and volunteer, and improving the lives of coffee farmers to caring for our can live better lives, farmlands protect it. We’re working across partner with organizations that earth and our local communities. And we partner with can prosper each and every every area of our organization to help us serve and grow in our other organizations who share our vision. Because together season, and coffee can thrive for use fewer resources and leave the communities. we can accomplish more. generations to come. world better than we found it. For the past four years, we’ve been working diligently to meet ambitious 2020 targets. With two years still to go, we’re more excited than ever about what we’ve achieved — and what we can do in the future. 2 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More “In the coming year, landfills by pursuing recycling options for our consumers and investing in recycling solutions across North America. we’ll keep pushing to And it’s working! We will finish converting all Keurig K-Cup® pods in Canada to a recyclable format in 2018. meet the rest of our All pods across North America will be transitioned by 2020 targets while the end of 2020 and we will be looking at new ways to incorporate recycled content into our brewers and items looking forward to an that we purchase for our business. even more ambitious As we look to the future, we find ourselves at the forefront of an industry that is changing rapidly. future.” To compete in the shifting industry, our vision and mission will evolve. We recently announced a merger –B ob J. Gamgort, with Dr Pepper Snapple Group, which positions us as Chief Executive Officer a challenger in the beverage industry and presents a tremendous opportunity to do more in local and global communities where we have offices, operations, Executive letter. suppliers, and consumers. We’re confident we can fulfill As a company, we’ve been in love with coffee for a great strides towards meeting our 2020 environmental our ultimate goal of making each and every one of these long time. So it’s been exciting to see people of all targets at a much faster pace than we had anticipated. places better because we’re there. ages discovering or rediscovering coffee over the last Coming on the heels of having met our 2020 GHG In the coming year, we’ll keep pushing to meet the rest of few years. Cold coffee. Flavored coffee. Single-serve reduction goal of 25% in 2016, we’re pleased to announce our 2020 targets while looking forward to an even more or ready-to-drink coffee. And in every case, there’s an that we met our 2020 water stewardship target in 2017 — ambitious future. We’ll also continue to find innovative opportunity to make it a sustainable cup of coffee — three years ahead of schedule. We made a commitment ways to redefine the coffee experience and make a another passion of our company. to being good water stewards in coffee communities, positive impact with our business, products, people, and Our recipe for business success is incredibly simple — in our operations, and in our local communities. By relationships — from source to cup and beyond. focus on great coffee and listen to our consumers. partnering with The Nature Conservancy and others, Robert (Bob) J. Gamgort, Our success in recent years has been the result of we improved the quality and availability of more than Chief Executive Officer maintaining our focus, which has led to significant 1,625 million gallons of water. efficiencies that have benefited the business as well Monique Oxender, We’re on track to achieve zero waste to landfill from our as our footprint on the earth. As a result, we’ve made Chief Sustainability Officer operations in 2018 and are keeping our products out of 3 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 About About us. 5,300 Keurig Green Mountain is a leader in * Awards and Recognition specialty coffee and innovative single• 2018 PAC Global Leadership Award: Best-In-Class serve brewing systems. Package Innovation for our recyclable K-Cup® pod Committed to delivering exceptional coffee for more than • 2017 EnviroLys Award Finalist for our recyclable 35 years, today our Keurig® brewers and single-serve hot employees globally K-Cup® pod beverages are in more than 20 million homes and offices 600+ • Named a Canadian Top Employer, Top Employer throughout North America. In under a minute, Keurig® for Young People, and Montreal Top Employer brewers consistently and conveniently deliver a freshbrewed, great-tasting cup with just the push of a button. • Ranked #15 in the Prophet Brand Relevance Index™ for 2017 As a testament to that quality, nearly 50 leading global coffee, tea, and cocoa brands have partnered with • Coffee Maker Brand of the Year in the 2017 beverage varieties in the Keurig® system, Keurig to offer consumers vast personal choices from Harris Poll Equitrend® Study as of 9/30/17 600+ varieties. Keurig is a private business owned by an investment group led by JAB Holding Co. Our North American Facilities 7 Production facilities 2 R&D facilities * The number of employees disclosed in this report is the average number of employees for fiscal 2017 and does not include temporary employees or employees on leave. 4 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More Our Purpose Governance and Management values into daily decisions, provides guidance to all of our employees on everything from legal compliance and Create the ultimate beverage experience in every At Keurig, we are committed to operating our business respect for human rights to avoiding anti-competitive life we touch, from source to cup — transforming with integrity and high ethical standards. We have put in behavior and conflicts of interest. the way the world understands business. place strong governance and management systems that drive effective oversight of, and accountability for, the Employees are trained on the Code when they join the Our Mission way we conduct our business. company and are required to complete an interactive online training and certify annually that they have read A Keurig® brewer on every counter and a beverage In March 2016, Keurig was acquired by JAB Holding and understand the Code. The Code underscores that how for every occasion. Company (JAB), becoming a private company and an we do our work matters and that our personal decisions independent part of the JAB family and its leading can have far-reaching consequences for all stakeholders. Our Vision global coffee platform. In January 2018, Keurig and Become the world’s leading personal beverage Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. announced that they have Our 2017 Sustainability entered into a definitive merger agreement to create systems company. Keurig Dr Pepper. The transaction is planned to close in Governance Model the third calendar quarter. Once the transaction closes, Our Values Keurig Dr Pepper will be a publicly traded company, Our governance and operating structure promotes coordination among business functions and enables We partner for mutual success. Our boundaryless with JAB as its controlling shareholder. communication and cooperation as we work to Brew approach to collaboration creates benefits for all. A Better World™. JAB’s Board meets regularly with Keurig executives We innovate with passion. With courage and to provide oversight and accountability around curiosity, we are shaping the future by redefining sustainability. The daily execution of Keurig’s social Sustainability Governance Committee the consumer experience. and environmental initiatives led by Monique Oxender, Monthly forum for guidance and decision making We play to win. Our team sets ambitious goals our Chief Sustainability Officer. and meets each challenge with unified purpose We regularly evaluate our management of and character. sustainability and other key business issues as part Executive Leadership Team We Brew A Better World™. We use the power of of our business performance review process. We Quarterly updates and dialogue to ensure business to make the world a better place. make adjustments to management approaches business alignment as needed based on these evaluations. Our Code of Conduct helps us to create a corporate Cross-functional Sustainability Team culture that values ethics and integrity. The Code, which explains how to integrate our purpose, mission, and Drive strategy, policy, and integration 5 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More Value Chain There are seven basic stages in our value chain related to coffee and brewing systems. From the cultivation of coffee beans to brewing the perfect cup of coffee to Cultivation end-of-life disposal, we seek to understand the impacts & Processing of our business and collaborate with others to make meaningful and lasting contributions to solving social and environmental challenges. 1 Product Packaging 2 3 Operations Distribution 5 Brewer 4 Supply Chain K-Cup® We’re aiming to have 100% of our 2020 target pods recyclable in Canada by the end 6 7 100% ofare K-Cup pods ® of 2018 and continuing our work will be across recyclable North America to by meet our Consumption/Use End-of-Life end of target 2020 by the end of 2020. 6 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More Materiality Analysis PRODUCT USE/ SUPPLY CHAIN OPERATIONS POST-USE We conducted our first materiality assessment in fiscal 2012. Because the business and its related sustainability context have evolved, we conducted All Supply Chain Employees All Product Use/Post-Use a refresh of this assessment in fiscal year 2015, and another, environmentally focused refresh, • Labor conditions • Diversity • Transparency in fiscal 2017. • Climate change adaptation • Health and safety • Consumer health and wellness • Community development • Community relations The results of our materiality assessment continues • Transparency • Transparency to inform our sustainability strategy, including • Waste management • Talent attraction and retention execution against our 2020 targets and the content • Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions • Effective corporate culture of this report. Keurig believes our process for Brewer Use/Beverage defining report content meets the Global Reporting Agriculture/Ingredients Product Design/Formulation Consumption Initiative’s (GRI) principles for defining report content, including stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability • Farmer/supplier capacity building • Sustainable packaging • Energy consumption context, materiality, and completeness. • Local food security • Product safety • Water consumption • Land rights • Capacity building on sustainability • GHG emissions • Biodiversity • PCR • Brewer end-of-life • Soil health • Nutritional benefits • Water quality • Behavior change • Water availability • Plastic and consumer health • Certifications • Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) • Sustainable coffee sourcing Brewer/Packaging Product Manufacture Data Capture • Conflict minerals • Energy use • Consumer privacy • Materials of concern • GHG emissions • Climate change adaptation • Waste management • Water availability • Water quality 7 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Targets Our 2020 targets. Zeroing in on our 2020 targets. Reduce emissions. Reduce greenhouse gas Responsible sourcing. Responsibly source (GHG) emissions by 25%. 100% of our coffee and brewers. We can, and must, do our part to care for our world. That’s why we set ambitious 2020 targets and are Target met! We met this target in fiscal Gaining ground. We’re moving beyond relentlessly pushing to achieve them. In our efforts 2016 — four years early — but we continue to traceable to 100% responsibly sourced to make a positive impact where we work and live, push ourselves to further reduce our impact. coffee. We’ve also joined the Responsible we also have the opportunity to contribute to larger Business Alliance and are using their tools Restore water. Restore 100% of the water global initiatives. to help us meet our target for appliances. used in our brewed beverages. In 2015, the United Nations adopted the Sustainable Zero waste. Achieve zero waste to landfill. Target met! We met our target in fiscal 2017 Development Goals (SDGs), which seek to tackle the by protecting farmlands, wetlands, and Virtually there. We’re 98% there and expect world’s economic, social, and environmental issues by floodplains in our local communities. to meet our target in fiscal 2018 — two years 2030. Our targets are a part of our commitment to ahead of schedule. actively contribute to the achievement of these global Improved lives. Engage 1 million people in our goals — and to our own goal of leaving the world better supply chain to improve their lives. Recyclable K-Cup® pods. Make 100% of than we found it. So we’ll continue to push ourselves 485,000+ lives improved. We’ve helped K-Cup® pods recyclable. even harder, ask what we can do next, and make caring farming families through various initiatives Closing in. We will have converted to 100% for our coffee, our earth, and our communities a part that resulted in better farming practices, recyclable K-Cup® pods in Canada by the end of everything we do. Because together, we can Brew A new sources of income and food, and access of 2018, moving us closer to our target of Better World™. to clean water. 100% conversion in North America. Employee engagement. Engage 100% of employees in our vision and values. 78% engaged. Three quarters of our employees engaged in a sustainability program or education initiative. 8 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Coffee Beyond great coffee. Our work connects us to coffee farmers Making a difference starts at in which to work. That’s why we strive to uphold our around the globe — we shake their hands, Responsible Sourcing Supplier Guidelines and why we the source. conduct ongoing assessments to ensure they meet our visit their fields, and meet their families. As a coffee company, our impact extends across a global high standards. And while we’ve always been committed to supply chain — from the beans that are harvested and treating them fairly, we think we can do even roasted to the brewer that is sitting on your counter. better than that. It’s why we’ve challenged 2020 Targets The ability of coffee farmers to adapt to things such ourselves to improve the lives of 1 million as changing climate and economic conditions is vital to people in coffee communities. And why we’re Engage 1 million people in our keeping their farms healthy and productive, and supply chain to improve their lives. dedicated to 100% sustainable, ethical, and to ensuring that they can continue farming coffee into 485,000+ lives improved. responsible sourcing. This is more than a the future. That’s why we’re working to understand the challenges they face and partnering to find solutions. pledge. It’s our unwavering commitment — so farmers can better support their families, In our brewer supply chain, while product, safety, and Responsibly source 100% of our lead healthier lives, and continue farming the quality are important, it’s equally important that coffee and brewers. Gaining ground. factory workers have a safe and dignified environment coffee we all love for generations to come. 9 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More From traceable to responsible in 2020. We continued our commitment to traceable coffee this Going beyond compliance to year, working with our suppliers to achieve a milestone of improve lives. We all care about how coffee farmers are treated — 85% of our beans being traceable back to the exporter, and equally important, how they’re treating the earth. We believe truly great coffee promotes the greater good, mill, group, or farm. But traceable does not necessarily That’s why we rolled out a responsible sourcing program so we look beyond just knowing where our coffee comes equal responsibly sourced. So we’re partnering with that not only protects growers and communities, but from, and even beyond compliance, to understanding the certification and verification organizations to reach our also preserves farmlands and our planet. most important issues facing the communities where our 2020 target. Having a diverse portfolio of partners helps coffee is grown. We work with farmers and collaborate us ensure we always have a rich supply of responsibly 85% 31% with industry coalitions to ensure positive impact in our sourced coffee. Today, we partner with Fair Trade supply chain on three levels: organizations as well as Rainforest Alliance and UTZ ‣‣ Traceability for sustainable coffee. These and other partnerships Traceability is a means to understanding our risks and will help us close the gap from 31% to 100% responsibly opportunities for supporting farming communities. sourced by 2020. Knowing the origin of our coffee enables the rest of traceable coffee responsibly sourced our work because it helps us identify and reward great in fiscal 2017 coffee in fiscal 2017 quality, continually improve our efforts in a meaningful way, and build relationships within the supply chain. ‣‣ Compliance “It’s not just about sourcing against a We use various tools to engage our suppliers in understanding and complying with responsible sourcing responsibility standard. We go deeper standards. These range from a commitment to our Responsible Sourcing Supplier Guidelines to purchasing coffee that is certified and verified as sustainably into coffee communities to understand sourced. ‣‣ Beyond Compliance the issues and work together to solve Compliance addresses the challenges farmers face today, whereas investing in coffee communities helps us address larger challenges like climate change, complex problems.” food insecurity, and the need to keep young people in farming. These are all critical to ensuring that coffee can be farmed sustainably into the future. — Colleen Popkin, Senior Manager, Coffee Sustainability 10 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More 485,000+ lives Cultivating strong coffee communities. for sustainability, and stimulate greater demand for sustainable coffee. Whether it’s to increase farmers’ yields, restore water improved. sources, or teach improved farming techniques, we partner with organizations working to find solutions • We are on the Board of the Sustainable Food Lab where we engage with peer companies to speed In the past year, we’re proud to have achieved that strengthen coffee communities and improve lives. progress toward sustainable mainstream food the following results across all programs: systems worldwide. Watershed degradation, urbanization, and contamination are threatening water sources across • We are a founding member of the Coalition for 4.6K 4K Central America. That’s why we’ve partnered with CRS Coffee Communities, a group of six member to invest in their Blue Harvest program, which protects, companies that seek to strengthen coffee improves, and restores water resources that are critical communities through the power of collaboration. for downstream populations. households households have Collaborating over coffee. We also have an ongoing partnership with Root Capital, have adopted improved access which provides financing and advisory services to Last May, our team traveled to Honduras to host an good agricultural to safe drinking farmer cooperatives to help improve operations and Intercambio for our Honduran and Nicaraguan coffee practices water strategy, and help them become more resilient to supply chains. Intercambio is the Spanish term for climate change. In 2017, we invested $626,000 in the the exchange of ideas — and that’s exactly what the Root Capital Partnership for Sustainable Coffee. This group did. 1.2K 1.4K program provides basic financial management training We shared updates on topics ranging from the state and agronomic assistance to 100 coffee organizations, of our business to our responsible sourcing and reaching over 90,000 coffee farmers in Colombia, sustainability programs. We also presented lectures Honduras, Peru, Rwanda, Uganda, and Indonesia. on good farm management practices, seed varietal households have households have In addition to these key partnerships: research, and business-strengthening techniques. diversified their adopted waterWe enjoyed a group cupping session, where everyone • We are on the Advisory Council of an initiative called income sources or climate-smart gained an appreciation for the different coffee tastes the Sustainable Coffee Challenge, a collaborative agricultural effort of companies, governments, NGOs, research and aromas. On the last day together, there was a practices institutions and others to make coffee the world’s workshop on practical solutions to common challenges in the coffeelands, such as income diversification and first sustainable agricultural product. The Challenge water management. Our supply chain partners learned contains over 100 partners, all working together to from us and we learned from them, making the event increase transparency, align around a common vision a collaborative, win-win for all. 11 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More Immersing our employees in coffee culture. Women as strong as their coffee. Each year, we send approximately 60 employees to connect with the people and places where our coffee In the quiet Andean town of San Ignacio, Peru, the small coffee shop Saja is abuzz with activity. is grown. These aren’t just coffee buyers or tasters — It’s owned and operated by the APROCASSI co-op women’s group. Thanks in part to support from they’re employees from every department and location Keurig and Root Capital, the women of APROCASSI are earning their own income and advancing where we operate. Our goal is to infuse all areas of our their position in the community. company with respect and love for our products, the In 2013, Root Capital launched the Coffee people who produce them, and places they live. Our Farmer Resilience Initiative (CFRI) in employees have the opportunity to meet the families partnership with USAID, Keurig, and others. who grow our coffee, understand all that they do, and From 2013 to 2016, this successful initiative witness the impact of our work and relationships at helped coffee enterprises and their farmer the source. In fiscal 2017, we went to Nicaragua, Brazil, members in Central America and Peru Mexico, Costa Rica, and Colombia. address coffee leaf rust through efforts like short-term and long-term lending, financial “We celebrated Festa Junina with training, agronomic assistance, income diversification training, mobile technology coffee farmers and their families in services, and knowledge sharing. By building Carmo de Minas. Because of the up the resilience of coffee enterprises and fellowship in that one event, my producers, we're unlocking an upward spiral of benefits. says Willy Foote, founder and CEO passion for coffee and its positive of Root Capital. Not only can we accelerate benefits on communities in places enterprise growth and prevent risk, we can like rural Brazil is ignited.” improve lives for entire communities that — Jonathan Francis, Multisite SC Planning Beverage depend on coffee farming.” Associate, Keurig Green Mountain In 2017, Keurig and USAID came together again to fund the Partnership for Sustainable Coffee to continue this work with new cooperatives and in new geographies. Maria Javita Vasquez Carranza is a single mother and vice president of the Aprocassi co-op. She has used the higher proceeds from her coffee to pay for her children's education. 12 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More Our Costa Rica trip took us from a coffee cupping To achieve our 100% responsible sourcing target and As part of our RBA membership, we are also a member session on a sun-drenched terrace on the Finca La Hilda to manage quality and safety expectations with our of the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), formerly the plantation to Coope Tarrazú, a Fair Trade Certified™ suppliers, we have a Supplier Relationship Management Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI). The RMI provides cooperative where we participated in a coffee cherry(SRM) program. This highly collaborative program us with the tools to further strengthen our due diligence picking contest. We also visited several co-ops where we brings Keurig employees from appliances, operations, efforts related to conflict minerals. We also voluntarily were able to work alongside farmers and ask them about and quality together to comprehensively manage our prepare and publish an annual Conflict Minerals Report their work. One of these was Coope Atenas. We showed relationships with suppliers. Through the SRM program, outlining these efforts, which you can read here. the farmers our K-Cup® pods, which allowed them to see suppliers are regularly rated on a scorecard so they the full circle of their coffee and the importance of our clearly understand their performance against our relationship. Another stop was Icafé, the Costa Rican requirements. Each scorecard includes a section for Strengthening the links in our Coffee Institute where we saw first-hand the nationwide sustainable supply chain criteria that allows for the supply chain. effort to support coffee farmers — both in the fields inclusion of responsible sourcing and/or social impact metrics in the evaluation process. Once they’ve been In November of 2017, we gathered together with our and in the laboratories — and to promote Costa Rican brewer suppliers for our annual Quality and Manufacturing coffee as a brand. evaluated, we work with suppliers on corrective action Summit in Asia. Keurig attendees came from many parts or continuous improvement plans if necessary. of the business, ranging from quality to procurement to Not just beans but brewers too. In fiscal 2017, 81% of direct material suppliers in our responsible sourcing. We maintain a commitment to social and environmental SRM program certified to our guidelines. These include Throughout the week, we gave presentations on our responsibility throughout our supply chain — from farm all Tier 1 suppliers as well as our most important Tier 2 expectations around quality, manufacturing, engineering, to factory. We ask our most important coffee and brewer component suppliers. We aim to improve the and responsible sourcing. We shared our product roadmanufacturing suppliers to certify each year that they response rate in the upcoming year. map with our suppliers as well as some of the work we’ve follow our Responsible Sourcing Supplier Guidelines, been doing to become a more agile organization. We also This past year, we began performing Responsible which are posted on our website and can be found here. discussed how we plan to leverage the tools available via Business Alliance (RBA) audits, which use common tools our RBA membership to elevate the social/environmental These guidelines support the goals of the California to help us proactively address risks and more efficiently practices in our supply chain. Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB 657) and ensure our appliance suppliers are meeting our the United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act in striving to Each of our suppliers presented their year in review, standards. These include standards around labor, health be an example of good human rights and labor practices highlighted issues and challenges in the coming year, and and safety, the environment, and business ethics. throughout our business activities. You can read our followed up on items from last year’s summit. Then, with statement of commitment to these acts here. transparency unique to this event, our host, VSI, opened up their factories to share best practices with everyone. 13 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Earth Working like our earth depends on it. As a coffee company, we’re deeply connected We’re excited to announce that in fiscal 2017 we added 2020 Targets to the earth, and we’ve set ambitious goals our water goal to the list of 2020 targets we’ve met early. We’re also 98% there on our waste target and are to protect it. Once we reach our targets, set to achieve the final 2% in 2018, two years ahead of Make 100% of K-Cup® pods recyclable. we move them farther out. Beyond making schedule. We’re closing in on our recyclable K-Cup® pod Closing in. K-Cup® pods recyclable, we’re ensuring they target — aiming to have 100% of our pods recyclable actually get recycled into something new. in Canada by the end of 2018 and continuing our work Beyond reducing the environmental impact of across North America. Achieve zero waste to landfill. our products, we’re finding new ways to use Virtually there. fewer resources across every aspect of our business. We keep pushing harder Smarter choices for a circular and harder because we’re passionate about economy. leaving this world better than we found it. In our ongoing effort to design, source, and manufacture responsible products, we’re working to be smarter about all we do — from the choice of materials in our products to the manner in which we divert waste from 14 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More landfills. This is driven by the growing consumer desire for environmentally responsible products, plus our own identification (RFID) technology to follow our recyclable pods through the entire recycling facility with 100% We chose polypropylene desire to embrace a circular economy — where we focus traceability. We’re seeing results similar to beverage because it is a valuable on reducing waste and energy consumption by designing bottle and yogurt container recovery — items that have for reuse of materials. Our 2020 targets, to make 100% been successfully recycled for years. plastic in high demand of our K-Cup® pods recyclable and achieve zero waste to for use in new products. landfill, will help us achieve this. Manufacturing more responsible products. Award-winning recycling solutions In order to make 100% of our K-Cup® pods recyclable, we had to rethink its design with a second life in mind. 2018 PAC Global 2017 SPC Innovator The original pod is made with various plastics and classified as a #7 plastic, which has limited recyclability. Leadership Award Award for By redesigning the pod to use polypropylene (#5), we for Best-in-Class Breakthrough are working to move away from the traditional linear process and create a circular flow of materials where Packaging Innovation Process the value of the material drives reuse. This means the coffee grounds can be composted, the used container collected and recycled, and the reclaimed material used to produce plastic bins, pallets, outdoor furniture, “I think what Keurig is doing is really unique. In working and more. But making our K-Cup® pods recyclable is just one with them, we’re able to not only ensure that more element of a bigger commitment. We want our pods to be recyclable and recycled. By collaborating with material is recycled but perhaps provide a template for the recycling industry and communities, we have demonstrated high potential for recovery with existing how we can engage in more recovery of small items.” equipment. Our groundbreaking work with material recovery facilities (MRFs) uses radio-frequency — Allen Langdon, Managing Director, Recycle BC 15 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More 27% Partnering for more impact. • Standardizing recycling instructions We recently became members of the How2Recycle standardized We can accomplish so much more when we work labeling system which clearly communicates recycling reduction together. That’s why we’re collaborating with key instructions to the public. We are empowering partners who are as passionate about improving consumers through smart packaging labels as we roll recycling as we are. With our partners, we hope to shift out new products. the conversation around recycling, reach more people, in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by and ensure that valuable materials can be recovered switching our K-Cup® pod's packaging to and recycled more efficiently. polypropylene as the material of choice • Using more recycled plastic As a Recycling Demand • Improving curbside recycling We’re proud to be part Champion, we’ve committed to increasing the of The Recycling Partnership’s efforts to improve amount of post-consumer recycled content (PCR) and energize curbside recycling through operational in products that we purchase. We’ve started with Analyzing our entire product lifecycle. pallets used to move product in our plants. upgrades, technical assistance, and consumer education. To truly reduce our environmental footprint, we must look across our entire product lifecycle for ways to use fewer resources — from reducing energy used in roasting to using less energy-intensive materials in our products. We evaluate new designs and concepts with lifecycle • Designing more sustainable packaging The assessment (LCA) tools. This helps us better understand • Investing in recycling infrastructure We’re investing Sustainable Packaging Coalition (SPC) provides their environmental performance throughout their $5 million over five years in the Closed Loop Fund to insights, benchmarking, and solutions that enhance lifecycles to ensure we aren’t simply shifting the environsupport the expansion of recycling infrastructure and the sustainability of packaging across the industry. mental burden to different areas of the value chain. These sustainable manufacturing technologies that advance assessments are one of many tools we use to identify We’re proud to have won their 2017 SPC Innovator the circular economy. areas that have the most significant environmental Award for our recyclability testing protocol. impacts. And the greatest potential for improvement. 16 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More Bringing everyone to the table. Our work to reduce waste is paying off. In fiscal 2017, we Waste Diversion Rates for Manufacturing Facilities successfully diverted 98% of our solid waste from our In 2017 we hosted our Third Annual Recyclability owned and operated manufacturing and distribution SITE FISCAL 2017 Roundtable, inviting experts from the U.S. and Canada facilities. We’re proud of all these efforts, which have recycling communities. Twenty organizations attended set us up to meet our target of 100% waste diversion Castroville, Calif.* 93% the roundtable, where we discussed ways we can work 19,239 in fiscal 2018, two years ahead of schedule. together to advance plastic recycling and change total tons Essex, Vt. 100% 5X people’s perceptions and behaviors about recycling. We also assembled an Advisory Board to support us on 17% Knoxville, Tenn. 97% our recyclability journey. Leaders from the private sector, government, and academia met with a team of Keurig more material was diverted Sumner, Wash. 100% executives for three, full-day meetings over the course of the year to provide guidance on partnerships, trends, through reuse, recycling, 52% and Waterbury, Vt. 100% Reuse**: X,XXX and technologies. The robust dialogue has informed composting than through Solid Waste Recycled: X,XXX Williston, Vt. 100% our approach to recycling solutions and product sustainability. waste to energy Solid Waste Composted: X,XXX 13% Windsor, Va. 100% Energy Recovery: X,XXX 10% Reduce, recycle, rethink. Solid-Waste-to-Landfill: X,XXX Montreal, Canada 94% We continually rethink how we distribute and dispose 7% of waste, focusing our efforts on reducing, reusing, Waste Generation and Management (tons) Average diversion rate for manufacturing 98% and recycling 100% of our operational waste — most facilities of which comes from coffee roasting and packaging. 24% Reuse * In mid-fiscal 2017, our Castroville, California, facility was closed. Achieving zero waste to landfill needs to involve 43% Recycled everyone in our organization. That’s why we value the 15% Compost site champions we have in many of our locations who are working hard to get employees actively engaged in 16% Waste to Energy A tale of two sites. 2% Solid Waste-towaste diversion. It starts with education — providing an Landfill In fiscal 2017, our Essex, Vermont, facility reached zero understanding of what we’re doing as a company, what waste to landfill at their site, diverting nearly 2,800 tons employees can do to help, and why it matters. It also of waste. To make this happen, the staff formed a waste includes getting everyone excited about finding creative diversion team with members from each shift who work ways to reduce, recycle, and reuse everywhere we can. as diversion ambassadors on the floor. They look for ways 17 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More to improve the current process with initiatives for resale, reuse, recycling, compost, and waste to Growing our Grounds to Grow On™ program. energy. Some of these include: While recycling the polypropylene K-Cup ® • Burlap bags and other materials are identified pods at curbside is the preferred option for for reuse. home use, an office place, campus, or event • Scrap coffee pods are dismantled, the coffee setting results in concentrated use, and allows and filters are sent to compost, and the rest for a different solution. In 2011, we started of the pod materials are sent to recycling. our Grounds to Grow On™ program, which Our Knoxville site came close to reaching zero waste provides an easy way to collect brewed K-Cup ® to landfill this past year, thanks to a facility-wide effort, pods from places outside the home. With the including two employees solely dedicated to recycling. help of g2 revolution®, an innovative recycling The plant diverted 5,274 tons of waste last year, company, the foil and plastic components are averaging 440 tons per month. Their waste diversion separated and turned into recycled products initiatives include: like aluminum cans and shipping pallets, and the coffee grounds are composted. • Filter paper goes to recyclers for pet beds, ceiling tiles, and more. • Burlap bags go to recyclers for oyster farmer Good things are brewing with our bags, tree roots for landscaping, and more. appliances too. • Wood pallets are sent out to be recycled, rebuilt, Our efforts to reduce waste extend to all of our who are certified by Sustainable Electronics Recycling and reused. products. We strive to maximize the lifespan of our International. All partners have a zero waste-to-landfill brewers in order to minimize waste and returns. If a policy, where they break down all components of the • Scrap coffee and chaff gets composted in topsoil brewers for reuse or recycling. In Canada, consumers and mulch. brewer does need to be returned, we have a brewer returns program where select retailers in the U.S. collect may return their brewers to Staples for recycling. • Scrap K-Cup® pods, cardboard, office paper, the brewers and send them to us for evaluation. We then In fiscal 2017, we reused approximately 16,725 brewers shrink-wrap, and super sacks are sent to local refurbish the brewers for internal use, such as in-store for marketing or in-store displays and recycled more recyclers for reuse. displays or for marketing demonstrations. When they than 368,000 brewers. This translates to a total of nearly can’t be reused, we send them to our recycling partners, 13 million pounds of materials diverted from landfills. 18 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More Coffee and climate. We also committed to reducing lifecycle GHG emissions Total Energy Use (Therms), Fiscal 2017 of brewed beverages by 25% compared to a 2012 Climate change poses a significant risk to the coffee baseline. We met that target in 2015 through efficiency Scope 1: Direct energy 5,146,861 industry and will not only impact our ability to deliver in our coffee roasting and building operations. We’re the quality coffee that our consumers know and love, proud of what we’ve accomplished to meet our goal Scope 2: Purchased electricity 3,171,214 but will have a significant impact on the communities early. In doing so, we’ve gained knowledge and protocols where coffee is grown. For example, Arabica coffee for our energy use and emissions management that we’ll Scope 3: Indirect energy* 56,413,715 grows in mountainous areas and requires specific continue to implement as we push ourselves to further temperatures and amounts of rainfall to thrive. As reduce our energy demands. Total therms 64,731,790 weather patterns change, the areas where it can be grown are being threatened, endangering future crops. GHG Emissions (Short Tons in Thousands), * Our Scope 3 data utilized to calculate energy (therms) impact includes warehousing and transportation of raw materials and The impacts of climate change on coffee cannot be Fiscal 2017 finished goods by third-party logistics partners to and from Keurigfully addressed through mitigation or reduction of owned or leased facilities, and the energy consumed when brewers are used. greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. That’s why we Scope 1: Direct emissions 32 developed a climate change policy, which reflects our holistic approach of mitigation, adaptation, Scope 2: Purchased electricity* 0 Powering our work with 100% renewable energy. and engagement. Although we met our GHG emission target early, we Scope 3: Indirect emissions** 1,062 This approach can be seen in our 5-year, $2.5 million are continuing our efforts to reduce our impact. Each investment in World Coffee Research which is enabling Total estimated emissions 1,094 year, we purchase 100% renewable energy for all our the development of new coffee varieties, on-farm trials, North American operations. We also support renewable and new climate-smart technologies that are placed * We purchase renewable electricity in the form of Green e-certified energy with the purchase of Green e-certified renewable renewable energy certificates. Consistent with U.S. Environmental energy certificates (RECs). In 2017, we purchased 94,990 directly into the hands of coffee farmers. Protection Agency (EPA) guidance, we began recording zero Scope 2 emissions based on our purchase of renewable energy in fiscal 2010. MWh of wind and solar energy, including some within 2020 Targets ** Beginning in fiscal 2015, we began tracking a more comprehensive the same grid region as our Windsor, Virginia, plant, set of data for Scope 3. Our Scope 3 data now includes emissions related to coffee cultivation, warehousing, and transportation of raw which allows us to report zero Scope 2 emissions in our Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) materials and finished goods by third-party logistics partners to and greenhouse gas footprint. from Keurig-owned or leased facilities; production of our brewers emissions by 25%. Target met! and packaging materials; the energy consumed when the brewers are used; and emissions related to end-of-life for our products and manufacturing waste. 19 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More Looking at all areas of our operations. We will continue to focus on reducing emissions Improving roasting performance. by monitoring, collecting, and auditing data on all We continually assess how our buildings operate — Coffee roasting is essential to our business. Yet three scopes. measuring their performance through state-of-the-art because it consumes a great deal of fuel, we need to buildings and operations management tools, monitoring be thoughtful in how we monitor and manage roasting “As we start talking about smart performance. We use submetering to monitor our our energy usage through submeters, and continually driving for efficiency with periodic lighting retrofits appliances, we’re looking at how efficiency, where natural gas use is tracked through and compressed air audits. For Scope 1 and Scope 2 we can manage the electrical automated systems at most of our manufacturing emissions, we track and report energy use through utility facilities and is normalized by production volumes to energy consumption at home account for shifts in volume and productivity. This helps bills. Beyond our own operations, we measure our GHG impact throughout our entire value chain. because we know it’s important us provide an objective comparison across different For Scope 3 emissions, we use a combination of direct to our consumers.” facilities and operations. measurement, supplier data, and modeling. Some of our — Mark Choe, Chief Technology Officer efforts include: Feeling the heat of change. • Measuring the energy use of our brewers. The largest percentage of our GHG footprint comes from our Corporate GHG Footprint* In fiscal 2017, we set a goal to reduce our fuel brewers, so we test them in our labs with a protocol consumption by an additional 2%. Despite a designed to mimic typical brewer usage in the lot of effort, we only achieved a 1% reduction. home and workplace. To lessen their impact, we’ve 6% Coffee Cultivation This shortfall can largely be attributed to a 6.6% Coffee Cultivation and started shipping some models with the auto-off and Processing Processing conversion to new production management enabled feature enabled, which reduces their energy 4.5% Operations 3% Operations system software. While the conversion is good consumption. 29.5% Product Packaging for our business, the implementation caused 16% Product Packaging • Gathering data directly from some of our suppliers. 21.8% Brewer Supply Chain downtime, delays, and a few snags in our effort 14% Brewer 6.3% Supply Chain Distribution to maintain our roasting performance goal. We collect data on energy consumption associated with the facilities that warehouse our green coffee 6% Distribution 30.9% Brewer Energy Use We learned valuable lessons in the process and and finished goods. 0.3% End-of-Life are excited to see continued improvements 55% Brewer Energy Use from comprehensive energy metering at our • Using industry emissions factors for other parts 0% End-of-Life manufacturing plants and other opportunities of our value chain. This includes the cultivation and * Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. for efficiency. processing of coffee. 20 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More Water stewardship. World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s Slowing the flow in our operations and homes. Global Water Tool™ and the World Resources Institute’s Our commitment to create sustainable products means Meeting our water goal, drop by drop. Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, we found that all facilities using fewer resources in all we do — including water. currently in our network are in areas of low water Water is a crucial component in growing and brewing That’s why we make smart water use a priority in stress with abundant or sufficient annual water coffee. That’s why we developed a water policy in 2014 our operations. While coffee processing is a relatively supplies, but relatively high flood occurrence. In our to strengthen our commitment to being a model water dry process, meaning we use very little water in our coffee supply chain, we found overall water risks and steward in our operations, in coffee communities, and in operations, we track the amount we do use through our scarcity were low to medium in most regions, with our local communities. It’s also why we set an ambitious water bills to ensure responsible management. In fiscal primary risks coming from potential for flooding, 2020 target to restore a cup of water for every cup used 2017, we withdrew just over 105.2 million liters of water access to water, and climate change. in our brewed beverages. We’re excited to report that for our operations. This was drawn from the municipal we met our water target in fiscal 2017 — three years water supply associated with each facility. Corporate Green and Blue Water Footprint* ahead of schedule. We achieved our goal by improving Smart water use is also an inherent benefit of our the quality, availability, or both of more than 1,625 million brewers because they use only the amount consumed in gallons (6,154 million liters) of water. a cup of coffee — compared to brewing a pot of coffee where at least 15% is typically thrown out. 2020 Targets Green Water Blue Water Save Water and Coffee Restore 100% of the water used in our Brewing only what you need with Keurig® brewers saves brewed beverages. Target met! coffee, money, and water. Green Blue Green Blue Coffee Cultivation and Processing Coffee Cultivation and Processing 99.5% 99.5% 57.0% 57.0% About 15% of each brewed Analyzing the ripple effects of our water use. Operations Operations Product Packaging 0.0% 0.0% 0.5% 0.2% 0.2% 1.6% pot is wasted,* which adds In 2014, when we first set our water goal, we conducted Product Packaging Distribution 0.5% 0.0% 0.0%1.6% up to 438 cups of coffee a comprehensive analysis of our water footprint. At the same time, we analyzed the risks to water resources Brewer Distribution Brewer Supply Chain Energy Use 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 7.6% 22.0% annually and about $104 per Brewer Supply Chain 0.0% 7.6% in our supply chain and where we operate. Using the Brewing Water Brewer Energy Use 0.0% 0.0% 11.8% 22.0% household down the drain. End-of-Life 0.0% 0.0% Brewing Water 0.0% 11.8% * Keurig Research Study on Waste Coffee, February 2016. * Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding. Footprint is based on fiscal 2012 data. End-of-Life 0.0% 0.0% 21 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 Same as last year? 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More Ensuring water security in coffeelands. Fulfilling a pipe dream in El Roblar. Changing the course of the Water security is not only essential for growing coffee, The El Roblar farming community in Nicaragua was in Rock River’s future. but for quality of life. One of our 2020 targets is to chaos. Their population was growing while the flow of improve the quality of life for one million people in our water was decreasing. For five years, they hauled water The Lake Champlain Basin, home to our Vermont supply chain. Connecting people to clean water is an from a river 600 meters away — when the water was offices, is also home to wetlands with fish and integral part of that. actually flowing. With help from Keurig and CRS’s wildlife habitats. These wetlands are vital to Blue Harvest program, they were able to access new To accomplish this, we’re collaborating with key partners water sources upstream, install new pipes to connect the the area’s ecosystem, but they’re facing serious who are working to ensure good water management new water catchment to the old one, and install filters threats from development. That’s why we’ve and access to clean water in coffee communities. and a collection tank. been partnering with The Nature Conservancy 9M Our investments in key supplier regions are enabling and other organizations to conserve the basin’s research, infrastructure, support tools, training in wetlands and river corridors. good agronomic practices, and more. Better water One of these projects is on the Choiniere management not only improves the quality of the Farm. This parcel of land is located along the coffee, but the livelihoods of our coffee farmers and Rock River, which drains into the Missisiquoi their neighbors downstream. Bay — an area with some of Lake Champlain’s people in Central America rely on water biggest water-quality challenges. The river that flows downhill from coffeelands corridor has a diverse riparian community with alder and hemlock swamps, floodplain forest wetland, and cattail marshes. Birds, animals, and fish travel along the river corridor and up into the connecting stream systems or “Water is increasingly scarce in Nicaragua. Blue Harvest patches of forest. To protect this area from eventual development and to ensure that a is designed to link the water issue and coffee and bring higher quality of water flows downstream, we helped The Nature Conservancy establish together different stakeholders in communities and in a conservation easement and wetland protections for 10 acres of wetland and watersheds to collaborate and improve both.” 53 acres of river corridor. — Paul Hicks, CRS Blue Harvest Project Advisor 22 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Community Better together. Coffee connects us to friends, family, Coffee and community. The perfect blend. 2020 Targets and community. And we’re passionate Our employees are one of our most important resources. about strengthening those bonds in the And our communities are our greatest partners. When Engage 100% of employees in our places we work and live. It’s why we serve we work together, we can deliver on our commitment to vision and values. 78% engaged. strengthen families and communities. together with local organizations that connect people to their families. And it’s We have a long history of employee engagement in our sustainability and community programs. And we why we grow together with environmental recognize the difference they can make. That’s why we partners to develop the kinds of eco-friendly set a goal to get 100% of our employees engaged in our neighborhoods where we all want to live. vision and values by 2020. In fiscal 2017, we had 78% of These connections bring us together. And our employees engage in opportunities ranging from we know we are better together. education and volunteerism programs to trips to coffee farms around the world. 23 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More “We commit ourselves to making a positive Our commitment extends beyond our employees to embrace our communities as partners. We support non-profit organizations within the six communities where we operate. Our employees volunteer their time and talent, and we provide sponsorships and product impact in the lives of our employees, in donations. Building on the belief that we are better together, we focus on organizations that connect the communities we operate in, and the families and communities through service, shelter, and a healthy environment. world around us. We consider both the Getting our employees 100% engaged. When our employees get involved with local organizations, shortand long-term effect of the actions we take.” helping our communities is no longer just something the company does. It becomes very personal. They learn more about the issues facing our communities. They forge relationships with organizations doing work that inspires — Scott Moffitt, Chief Beverage and Brand Officer, Keurig them. And they see the difference they can make — individually, and as part of a larger whole. Our Community Action for Employees (CAFE) program Putting our dollars where our passions are. gives every full-time employee 52 hours of paid volunteer To amplify our employee efforts, we provide an Employee time each year and every part-time employee 25 hours. Match program to further support the organizations our The program is designed so employees can choose the employees care about. This provides up to $1,000 that local causes they want to support. employees can use to have their donations matched 1:1 or to provide a $250 donation to organizations where 50,000+ they’ve volunteered at least 25 hours outside of their CAFE time. We also provide sponsorships and donate product to Employees volunteer hours contributed local non-profit organizations — focusing on those that help us deliver on our commitment to serve, and grow In January, nine employees traveled to Nicaragua for a 7-day journey, gaining a deeper appreciation of the coffee process and our local communities. the challenges facing those who grow our coffee. 24 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More Doubling down for hurricane relief. After the devastation of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Marie in 2017, we provided a special 2:1 match for donations made to the American Red Cross and Keep America Beautiful for immediate relief and post-storm restoration and recovery. Our employees opened their hearts and wallets, and through our Employee Match program, raised $14,000. To celebrate Earth Day in Montreal, over 40 employees from several departments participated in a tree planting event organized by the 375,000 Trees project. Serving those who serve our country. Growing trees to protect our waterways. viability and land sustainability by managing runoff from agriculture into the lakes and rivers of Vermont and Our REVV® Coffee is as strong as it gets — but nothing On a warm day in August last year, 17 members of surrounding states. compares to the strength of our military personnel. our beverage sourcing team volunteered to help plant We’re proud to have partnered with Purple Heart Homes 3,089 native seedlings at the Intervale Center — a In addition to the team’s hard work, we also provided a in fiscal 2017 to help renovate kitchens for veterans 360-acre campus of farmland, trails, and space along $5,000 sponsorship for the Intervale Center’s Allen Brook who were disabled while serving our country. In addition Vermont’s Winooski River in Burlington. They worked and Muddy Brook initiatives. With our support, they were to giving the organization a $50,000 donation, we to remove weeds, prepare the beds, and plant white able to plant trees and perform stewardship maintenance designed and outfitted a coffee corner for the renovated pine and silver maple seedlings. Once the trees are on 14+ acres of riparian forest in Williston, Vermont. kitchens — complete with a Keurig® coffee maker and mature enough, they’ll be given or sold to local farms REVV® K-Cup® pods. and non-governmental organizations to enhance farm 25 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More Seeing how we measure up. Fiscal 2017 donations $118K+ Employees are at the heart of our efforts to make a positive impact in the places where we work and live. In fiscal 2017, 78% of our employees engaged in a sustainability program or education initiative, and 60 employees traveled to a coffee-producing country on a total employee donations matched company-sponsored “source trip.” We also had 48% of 2,000+ our full-time employees participate in one of our volunteer programs. While that number is down 7% from last year, it still resulted in a total of 50,161 volunteer hours. To help reach our target of 100% engagement, we’re brewers donated implementing new ways to engage and encourage full $407K+ employee participation, including a new, automated platform that will make it even easier to get involved with our community programming. Behind all of the numbers are our amazing employees. We retail value of donated products are proud to support all that they’re doing to strengthen our communities. And to Brew A Better World™. Employees protecting our waterways through tree planting efforts. 26 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 More More resources. Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder How We Engage Samples, Initiatives and Outcomes in Fiscal 2017 Employees ‣‣ Quarterly Town Hall meetings ‣‣ Learning and development ‣‣ 78% of employees engaged in a ‣‣ 48% of employees volunteered through ‣‣ “Source trips” to coffee-growing Programming sustainability program or education company programs Approximately 5,300 initiative communities ‣‣ Peer-to-peer behavioral safety ‣‣ Employee Match Program observation programs in ‣‣ 60 employees participated in source ‣‣ Employee volunteerism manufacturing facilities trips in five countries Community ‣‣ Employee volunteerism ‣‣ Targeted our grantmaking in ‣‣ 428 employees gathered to remove ‣‣ Sponsorships two areas to holistically address 16K lbs of trash from our waterways — We have significant facilities in ‣‣ Product donations challenges: serve and grow including 154 tires — and to plant 5 U.S. states and 4 Canadian 100 shrubs provinces Suppliers ‣‣ Annual Quality and Manufacturing ‣‣ Outreach and collaboration in ‣‣ Held Intercambio in Honduras, where ‣‣ Hosted top 100 suppliers event based Summit certifying to Keurig Green Mountain we gathered suppliers to discuss on dollar amount of spend, how critical 5,000+ coffee appliance suppliers ‣‣ Supplier assessments and Responsible Sourcing Supplier our business and quality standards suppliers are to our business, and their continuous improvement plans Guidelines and assure suppliers that Keurig is compatibility with our future strategy invested in their operations Consumers/Customers ‣‣ Direct engagement with consumers ‣‣ Grounds to Grow On™ program ‣‣ Introduced recyclable K-Cup® pods ‣‣ Consumers who live near our corporate for education and awareness-raising ‣‣ Regular consumer surveys in 2016; instructions for recycling our facilities can drop off their used ‣‣ At-home and away-from-home on sustainability issues, including recyclable K-Cup® pods are included K-Cup® pods at our retail store at coffee and other beverage recyclability on the product packaging the Burlington Mall in Burlington, consumers Massachusetts, and our Visitor Center ‣‣ Retailers, grocers, etc., that and Café in Waterbury, Vermont sell our products to consumers Non-Government Organizations ‣‣ Regular collaboration with NGOs operating communities and support ‣‣ Partnered with CRS to continue the ‣‣ Invested in Keep America Beautiful's that improve conditions in recycling education and consumer efforts to teach sustainable water Restoration and Resiliency Fund to agricultural supply chain awareness resource management practices provide support after the devastating communities, support local impact of Hurricanes Harvey, Irene, and Marie 27 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More UNGC and CEO Water UNGC Principle Report Section Mandate Index Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Coffee: Not just beans but brewers, too (page 13) Keurig Green Mountain has been human rights. Earth: Water Stewardship (page 21-22) a signatory to the United Nations 2 Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Global Compact (UNGC) since Labor Standards 2004. With this Communication 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and effective Coffee: Not just beans but brewers, too (page 13) on Progress, we reaffirm our recognition of the right to collective bargaining. GRI Index: view here commitment to the Global Compact 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and and its principles. This update compulsory labor. also serves as our commitment 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. on progress for the CEO Water 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Mandate. and occupation. Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Targets (page 4) 8 Businesses should undertake initiative to promote greater Earth (page 14-22) environmental responsibility. Appendix (page 27-30) GRI Index: view here 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Coffee: Not just beans but brewers, too (page 13) extortion and bribery. CEO Water Mandate Communication on Progress Report Section Direct Operations Earth: Water Stewardship (page 21-22) Supply Chain and Watershed Management Earth: Water Stewardship (page 21-22) Collective Action Coffee: Cultivating Strong Coffee Communities (page 11) Earth: Water Stewardship (page 21-22) Public Policy Keurig Website: www.keuriggreenmountain.com/Sustainability/ ReportsAndDisclosures/WaterPolicy.aspx Community Engagement Community (page 23-26) Transparency Earth: Water Stewardship (page 21-22) 28 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Introduction About Targets Coffee Earth Community More Diversity of Governance Bodies and Employees Health and Safety Male/Female Diversity by Management Level (U.S. & Canada) EMPLOYEE SAFETY* FISCAL 2017 GENDER MANAGEMENT NON-MANAGEMENT GRAND TOTAL MANAGEMENT NON-MANAGEMENT GRAND TOTAL Female 244 1622 1866 5% 32% Injury severity (Days Away Restricted or 1.18 Male 414 2766 3180 8% 55% Transferred, DART) rate Unreported 0 5 5 0% 0% Incidence frequency (Total Recordable 1.49 Grand total 656 4393 5051 13% 87% 100% Incidence, TRI) rate Ethnic Diversity by Management Level (U.S. Only not reported on in Canada) Industry DART rate (coffee and tea)** N/A MANAGEMENT NON-MANAGEMENT GRAND TOTAL MANAGEMENT NON-MANAGEMENT GRAND TOTAL Minority 29 570 599 1% 16% Industry TRI rate** N/A Non-Minority 438 2630 3068 12% 71% Grand total 467 3200 3667 13% 87% 100% Occupational fatalities 0 • Average Number of Employees for FY17 (Not Including Temps or On Leave): 5,280 * Includes all company data for manufacturing and non-manufacturing sites. • FY17 Year-End Number of Employees: 4,978 ** Industry data for 2017 not yet available at time of publication. • Voluntary Retention Rate: 88.7% • 25.95% of our people have been with us for 3 years or less. 29 Keurig Green Mountain Sustainability Report Fiscal 2017 About This Report of the 10 principles of the UNGC and our support of activities, we use an average number of full-time broad U.N. development goals, including Sustainable employees during the fiscal year as the denominator in This report covers fiscal 2017, from September 25, Development Goals (SDGs). Please see the UNGC index the calculation. We calculate this number by adding the 2016, to September 30, 2017. portion of our appendix in addition to the reports and number of full-time employees at the beginning of the Our most recent report was published in June 2017, disclosures page of our website for more information. fiscal year to the number at the end of the fiscal year covering our 2016 fiscal year. and dividing by two. The data cited refers to fiscal 2017 or the last day of This report has been prepared in accordance with the fiscal 2017 unless otherwise indicated. Data are for our We welcome your feedback on this report at Global Reporting Initiative's (GRI) Standards Core wholly owned business units. In addition, we provide sustainability@keurig.com. option. It also serves as our annual Communication selected data and other information about our supply on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact chain activities globally. For all references to an average (UNGC), providing an overview of our implementation or a percentage of employees participating in certain Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. 33 Coffee Lane, Waterbury, VT 05676 1.800.545.2326 sustainability@keurig.com brewabetterworld.com Content Write On Network writeonnetwork.com Design Celery Design Collaborative celerydesign.com © 2018 Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. All rights reserved. Keurig Green Mountain Fiscal 2017 Sustainability Report Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index GRI Reporting Disclosure Location / Direct Response / Omission Standard Status GRI 101: Foundation GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Fully About (pp. 4-7) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Fully About (pp. 4-7) http://www.keuriggreenmountain.com/OurCompany/OurLocati 102-3 Location of the organization’s headquarters Fully ons/Vermont.aspx http://www.keuriggreenmountain.com/OurCompany/OurLocati 102-4 Location of operations Fully ons.aspx 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form Fully About (pp. 4-7) 102-6 Markets served Fully About (pp. 4-7) About (pp. 4-7) 102-7 Scale of the organization Partially As a privately held company, we do not report information on net sales, net revenue, debt and equity. More (pp. 27-30) 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Partially All of our employees are in North America. About (pp. 4-7) 102-9 Supply chain Fully In May 2017, we announced the closing of our Castroville, CA plant. Introduction (pp. 2-3) Significant changes to the organization and its supply 102-10 Fully chain In May 2017, we announced the closing of our Castroville, CA plant. GRI Reporting Disclosure Location / Direct Response / Omission Standard Status Keurig Green Mountain supports the precautionary principle to 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Fully guide its actions; we routinely evaluate a wide range of risks and take precautionary steps where warranted. Coffee (pp. 9-13) Earth (pp. 14-22) 102-12 External initiatives Fully Community (pp. 23-26) More (pp. 27-30) Earth (pp. 14-22) More (pp. 27-30) We belong to a number of industry, multi-stakeholder groups and associations not included directly in the above noted sections. The following are additional memberships of 102-13 Membership of association Partially strategic importance to our sustainability strategy: • Circular Economy 100 (CE100) • Circular Economy Lab • Specialty Coffee Association of America • Vermont Business for Social Responsibility Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Fully Introduction (pp. 2-3) Introduction (pp. 2-3) About (pp. 4-7) 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Fully Keurig CDP Response: https://www.cdp.net/en/responses/40297 Keurig Green Mountain Website: Climate Change Policy Ethics and Integrity GRI Reporting Disclosure Location / Direct Response / Omission Standard Status Introduction (pp. 2-3) About (pp. 4-7) Keurig Green Mountain Website: 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Fully Code of Conduct Environmental Policy Climate Change Policy Water Policy Responsible Sourcing Guidelines Keurig Green Mountain Website: 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Fully Code of Conduct Governance 102-18 Governance structure Fully About (pp. 4-7) 102-19 Delegating authority Fully About (pp. 4-7) Executive-level responsibility for economic, 102-20 Fully About (pp. 4-7) environmental, and social topics About (pp. 4-7) Consulting stakeholders on economic, 102-21 Fully Earth (pp. 14-22) environmental, and social topics More (pp. 27-30) Keurig Green Mountain Website: 102-25 Conflicts of interest Fully Code of Conduct Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Fully More (pp. 27-30) The number of employees covered by collective bargaining 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Fully agreements is not significant Coffee (pp. 5-9) Earth (pp. 10-18) 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Fully Community (pp. 23-26) More (pp. 27-30) GRI Reporting Disclosure Location / Direct Response / Omission Standard Status Coffee (pp. 5-9) Earth (pp. 10-18) 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Fully Community (pp. 23-26) More (pp. 27-30) Coffee (pp. 5-9) Earth (pp. 10-18) 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Fully Community (pp. 23-26) More (pp. 27-30) Reporting Practices Entities included in the consolidated financial After March 2016, as a private company, we no longer release 102-45 Partially statements public financial statements. 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Fully About (pp. 4-7) 102-47 List of material topics Fully About (pp. 4-7) Explanations of restatements, where relevant, are included as 102-48 Restatements of information Fully notes to the data charts and tables. 102-49 Changes in reporting Fully About (pp. 4-7) 102-50 Reporting period Fully More (pp. 27-30) 102-51 Date of the most recent report Fully More (pp. 27-30) 102-52 Reporting cycle Fully More (pp. 27-30) 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Fully More (pp. 27-30) Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 102-54 Fully More (pp. 27-30) Standards 102-55 GRI content index Fully This index 102-56 External assurance Fully No external assurances were provided on this report GRI 200: ECONOMIC GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts GRI Reporting Disclosure Location / Direct Response / Omission Standard Status Coffee (pp. 9-13) 103 Disclose on Management Approach Fully Community (pp. 23-26) Coffee (pp. 9-13) 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Fully Community (pp. 23-26) Coffee (pp. 9-13) 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Fully Community (pp. 23-26) GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL GRI 301: Materials 103 Disclose on Management Approach Partially Earth (pp. 14-22) Specific percentages of recycled input materials used to Partially manufacture our products are not currently available at this 301-2 Recycled input materials used reason for time, except for our pod boxes which contain 35% postomission consumer recycled content. GRI 302: Energy 103 Disclose on Management Approach Fully Earth (pp. 14-22) Total Therms (kWh) % of total use • Propane/oil 2,738 0.03% 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Fully • Natural gas 4,322,550 51.97% • Electricity 3,171,217 38.12% • Distribution fuel 821,579 9.88% About (pp. 4-7) 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Fully Earth (pp. 14-22) GRI 303: Water 103 Disclose on Management Approach Fully Earth (pp. 14-22) 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Fully Earth (pp. 14-22) GRI 304: Biodiversity 103 Disclose on Management Approach Fully Direct response below GRI Reporting Disclosure Location / Direct Response / Omission Standard Status The primary biodiversity impacts of our business are indirect, occurring far down in our supply chain in the process of coffee growing. We are working to understand and minimize these impacts. For example, we purchase coffee through various certification and verification organizations, which require farms to meet rigorous environmental, social, and economic criteria including conserving wildlife and safeguarding soils and Significant impacts of activities, products, and waterways. Through our coffee farmer engagement and 304-2 Fully services on biodiversity supply chain outreach programs we are also working to reduce environmental impacts of coffee cultivation. For example, we have outreach programs that help coffee farmers engage in sustainable watershed and habitat management. We are also working to better assess our suppliers and understand their framing practices. This will also help us understand and minimize biodiversity impacts of coffee growing. GRI 305: Emissions 103 Disclose on Management Approach Fully Earth (pp. 14-22) 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Fully Earth (pp. 14-22) 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Fully Earth (pp. 14-22) 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Fully Earth (pp. 14-22) GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 103 Disclose on Management Approach Fully Earth (pp. 14-22) 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Fully Earth (pp. 14-22) GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 103 Disclose on Management Approach Fully Coffee (pp. 9-13) Coffee (pp. 9-13) New suppliers that were screened using 308-1 Fully environmental criteria Keurig Green Mountain Website: Responsible Sourcing Guidelines GRI Reporting Disclosure Location / Direct Response / Omission Standard Status About (pp. 4-7) Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 308-2 Fully Coffee (pp. 9-13) and actions taken Earth (pp. 14-22) GRI 400: SOCIAL GRI 401: Employment 103 Disclose on Management Approach Fully Direct response below Regular, part-time employees who are scheduled to normally work 20 or more hours per week are eligible for medical, Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 401-2 Fully dental and vision benefits after one year of employment provided to temporary or part-time employees (different rates apply for PT employees), in addition to the well-being and employee assistance program. GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 103 Disclose on Management Approach Fully More (pp. 27-30) Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 403-2 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of Fully More (pp. 27-30) work-related fatalities GRI 404: Training and Education 103 Disclose on Management Approach Fully Direct response below Percentage of employees receiving regular 404-3 Fully 100% of employees receive regular performance reviews. performance and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103 Disclose on Management Approach Partially More (pp. 27-30) More (pp. 27-30) Partially 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees reason for Employee age is confidential. Minority group data is not omission available for our Canadian employees. GRI 408: Child Labor GRI Reporting Disclosure Location / Direct Response / Omission Standard Status 103 Disclose on Management Approach Partially Direct response below Our Responsible Sourcing Supplier Guidelines outline our expectations for our suppliers with regard to child and forced labor in our supply chain. We enforce these Guidelines through supplier audits in our appliance supply chain and Partially Operations and suppliers at significant risk for through purchases of certified/verified coffee. We use a risk 408-1 reason for incidents of child labor assessment process to prioritize audits and other supply chain omission engagements. You can find out more about these programs in our Sustainability report and on our company website. Please also see our Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement. GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 103 Disclose on Management Approach Partially Direct response below Our Responsible Sourcing Supplier Guidelines outline our expectations for our suppliers with regard to child and forced labor in our supply chain. We enforce these Guidelines through supplier audits in our appliance supply chain and Partially Operations and suppliers at significant risk for through purchases of certified/verified coffee. We use a risk 409-1 reason for incidents of forced or compulsory labor assessment process to prioritize audits and other supply chain omission engagements. You can find out more about these programs in our Sustainability report and on our company website. Please also see our Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement. GRI 411: Right of Indigenous Peoples 103 Disclose on Management Approach Fully Direct response below Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous We received zero reports of incidents of violations involving 411-1 Fully peoples rights of indigenous people in fiscal 2017. GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment Coffee (pp. 9-13) 103 Disclose on Management Approach Fully Keurig Green Mountain Website: Responsible Sourcing Supplier Guidelines GRI Reporting Disclosure Location / Direct Response / Omission Standard Status Coffee (pp. 9-13) Operations that have been subject to human rights 412-1 Fully reviews or impact assessments Keurig Green Mountain Website: Responsible Sourcing Supplier Guidelines GRI 413: Local Communities Coffee (pp. 9-13) 103 Disclose on Management Approach Fully Earth (pp. 14-22) Community (pp. 23-26) Coffee (pp. 9-13) Operations with local community engagement, 413-1 Fully Earth (pp. 14-22) impact assessments, and development programs Community (pp. 23-26) GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment Coffee (pp. 9-13) 103 Disclose on Management Approach Fully Keurig Green Mountain Website: Responsible Sourcing Supplier Guidelines Coffee (pp. 9-13) New suppliers that were screened using social 414-1 Fully criteria Keurig Green Mountain Website: Responsible Sourcing Supplier Guidelines GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 103 Disclose on Management Approach Partially Direct response below We maintain a commitment to product safety and quality Partially Assessment of the health and safety impacts of throughout our sourcing and manufacturing processes. We do 416-1 reason for product and service categories not track the specific percentage of products assessed for omission health and safety impacts and improvements. GRI 418: Customer Privacy 103 Disclose on Management Approach Partially Direct response below GRI Reporting Disclosure Location / Direct Response / Omission Standard Status Keurig is committed to protecting customer data privacy. View Partially Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of our online privacy policy here. 418-1 reason for customer privacy and losses of customer data omission Specific data about customer privacy breaches is confidential.
