Corporate Social Responsibility Progress Report Smart Software Solutions for the Environment 2017 1. Letter from the CEO 2. Scope of Reporting 3. Environmental Factors 4. Environmental Policy Index 5. 6. 7. Social Factors Equal Opportunities and Diversity Human Right and Labour Practices 8. Health & Safety at Klappir 9. Governance Attachment. ESG Statement Letter from the CEO 3 We provide environmental consulting services and environmental management software to individuals, households, corporations in all industries and governments at all levels. Klappir services and solutions enable our clients to reduce their environmental footprints, guide processes of legal compliance, increase environmental transparency and create environmental accounting and transparency in a robust way. Our services and solutions also enable authorities to monitor environmental progress at local, national and international levels. The Iceland people form a cohesive, educated community with a modern economy which relies on harnessing natural resources. This framework offers unique opportunities to develop comprehensive solutions for environmental management. Iceland is a perfect location for Klappir to develop its solutions. It offers numerous opportunities to bring together skills and know-how, companies, international corporations, individual users, households, local authorities, national government and other stakeholders to develop and implement solid methodologies and software solutions for all the complex environmental tasks that lie ahead. In this scenario, Klappir has the capability to apply robust methodologies using cost-effective software solutions that it has in its portfolio, making the company highly attractive in a world that is moving away from the carbon economy. Our customers and partners will need environmental services and software to help fulfil their undertakings, as will other companies which join this group in the coming months and years. The services and software provided by the group enable those companies to honor their commitments laid out in the declaration. Klappir plans to reach out to international markets in 2018 in close cooperation with Icelandic companies that operate internationally. We support the UN Global Compact and its ten principles Klappir has a strong local network of collaborators and partners in Iceland. We cooperate closely with Festa, the Icelandic Centre for Corporate Social Responsibility and The City of Reykjavik to provide extended services to 104 companies that are signatories of the above-mentioned declaration containing the commitment to the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Klappir also cooperates with The Environmental Agency of Iceland and Icelandic Transport Jon Agust Thorsteinsson Authorities in developing software to support shipping and fishing companies as they focus on legal compliance. Our Klappir CEO environmental platform is used by more than 200 entities in Iceland, and that number is growing. Scope of Report 4 This report contains an overview of the company’s approach to CSR, as well as key measurements and an assessment of progress (see also Klappir ESG statement). It discusses various aspects of social responsibility and how we approach the subject. Critical focus areas are identified; related projects, scope and initiatives are addressed. The report and especially the ESG statement include data to demonstrate the progress Klappir has made in addressing CSR. Klappir aims to incorporate the Global Compact principles into its strategies, policies and procedures, and to establish a culture of integrity. Nasdaq ESG guidelines This report is based on Nasdaq Nordic Stock Exchange’s ESG Reporting Guide, which contains voluntary guidelines for environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) disclosure to support companies listed on these exchanges. The guidelines were published in March 2017. They build on United Nations recommendations from 2015 which focus on the 33 ESG metrics that the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) has recommended to stock exchanges around the world. The metrics are divided into three main categories of corporate responsibility along with subcategories. UN Global Compact In October 2017 Klappir became a participant in the UN Global Compact corporate responsibility initiative. The company has thereby declared that it will, along with other companies, home and abroad, work against pollution, improve governance skills and protect human rights. As a member of the UNGC, Klappir is obliged to deliver a yearly CoP report to the UN (Communication on progress). This Corporate Social Responsibility Progress Report is published together with an ESG Statement which together give a comprehensive numerical overview of Klappir’s progress in various fields of operation. The report and the ESG Statement serve as a COP report for Klappir Green Solutions. Environmental Factors 5 Environmental management Environmental responsibility Refers to is one of the foremost premises the methods and actions companies for a sustainable future and institution use to effectively, systematically, and in a measurable manner, keep Iceland participates in various international agreements on the protection an overview of the impact of the environment, and the national government has signed conventions they have that put obligations on legal entities. on the The core function of the company is to assist business operators environment. who are subject to environmental laws to successfully meet their environmental responsibilities and obligations. Furthermore, Klappir aims to assist operators who will become subject to these laws in the future. Thereby, Klappir is a direct participant and contributor to Iceland’s drive to achieve its goal This means of reducing greenhouse gas emission. making decisions concerning Klappir’s principal activity is environmental management. procedures for monitoring environmental The collection and management of data and the provision of comprehensive information to factors, organising actions, setting goals stakeholders creates the foundation for successful environmental management. for improvement and measuring resaults. This is the goal for many companies and institutions today. 6 Klappir´s contribution to the field of Corporate Environmental Responsibility Environmental Management Although Klappir’s operation is not subject to the Icelandic Law no. 55/2012 on • We develop environmental management software solutions for private and public Corporate Environmental Responsibility, the companies and institutions that simplify the monitoring of emitting factors in their company nevertheless fulfils all the operation and increase information transparency. requirements of the legislation as it seeks to • We build strong, long-term relationships with our customers and other be pioneers in the field. stakeholders. • We offer courses to enhance knowledge and understanding of environmental issues. Klappir’s impact on the environment is • We participate actively in discussions on environmental issues in Iceland. small compared to manufacturing and • We encourage and initiate communication and collaboration between our transport companies. customers regarding environmental management. The company’s carbon footprint is mainly • Our products and services are based on internationally accepted procedures and the result of waste, the employees’ methodologies. transport along with electricity and heating of office space. TRANSPORT Meeting all SAFE applicable Environmental environmental Use environmentally friendly heating water and electricity compliance Policy obligations transport, el-cars, busses and bicyckles in the office and Klappir has written an thorough Environmental Policy commitments Use suppliers who are working on their own which will be introduced and published on the homepage for our environmental management and who are offering in the winter 2018 2019. brand activities. environmentally friendly goods, f.ex. cleaning products. Some of the highlights in the policy WASTE Use the printer as little as possible and use paper wisely Preventing, Reducing and Controlling the waste. Support and encourage each other Use Phone-Meeting-equipment Reduce to keep the environment in mind in all and Skype as much as possible our actions, to participate in waste the use of management in the office and practice rather then plastic waste classification at home, consider driving to the customers/partners or buying sustainable cars and use travel by airplaines environmentally friendly transport. Social factors The Klappir Team • Strong team of three generations combines modern approach and solid experience of business success • Solid knowledge base with software, finance, engineering, policy, law and computing and proven experience in building up global company • Entrepreneurs with up to 30 years of experience in the technology sector Health and safety at Klappir At Klappir, we emphasize relaxed and casual working environment and Klappir complies with Icelandic law no. 46/1980 on working condition, take a range of measures hygiene and safety in the workplace and has written an elaborate health policy with a plan of health care as is laid down in the act. to care for our employees This policy will be introduced to the employees in 2018 and published on and guests. the company’s website. No work-related illnesses or injuries were recorded in 2017 (nor in 2016) such as in inflammation, headaches, back injuries or stress related mental illness. The company respects the family perspective and offers support for employees’ family lives. A family policy has been written which will be presented and published in early 2019. Klappir complies with legislation (Law no. 95/2000 on birth and parental leave/vacation), which is incorporated in both the health and family policies. The company’s code of conduct is work in progress which will be Lukka published in 2019. Our health &well being supervisor 12 Human rights and labor practices Klappir respects human rights and freedom of association in No children work directly or indirectly accordance with Icelandic law and supports peoples’ pursuit of for Klappir. If the company becomes physical and psychological health, fair treatment, acceptable and aware of the possibility that forced favorable working conditions and equal rights. labor can be found in its value chain, then it will look closely into any such occurrences, especially when entering We support the fight against all discrimination, violence against foreign markets. women, children and old people and we will fight against degrading and inhuman treatment of people everywhere. In 2017, the number of board members increased from three at the beginning of the year to seven during the middle Klappir has not violated human rights and does not know of any of the year. All board members are violations in its value chain. The company expects general shareholders and three of them are respect for human rights in its value chain and will react women. appropriately if any violation is discovered. The company’s human rights policy will be introduced and published in early 2019 13 • Klappir Green Solutions is an Icelandic company listed on Nasdaq, First North Iceland. • As a listed company, Klappir communicates Governance with its shareholders and other stakeholders about the company’s financial and business development in an open and honest manner. • Klappir provides investors, analysts and other stakeholders with timely and accurate information. Every year, Klappir holds a shareholder’s meeting. • As a listed company, Klappir complies with all relevant rules and regulations, and follows the Icelandic legislation (Law no. 2/1995 on corporations), the articles of association of the company and the board´s rules of procedure. Governance 15 The CEO is a member of the board. He is a founder of the company along with three other board members. Three new members joined the board in 2017, and they are all related parties (shareholders). Information on voting is not made public. The results of voting are recorded in the board’s minutes, which are accessible for inspectors should they request information. Klappir complies with Icelandic financial legislation (Laws no. 19/1940) and with international standards on bribery and corruption. Klappir has zero tolerance for corrupt activities and has begun incorporating formal policies into the company’s code of conduct related to anti-bribery and anti-corruption expectations for company employees and representatives. Furthermore, an evaluation of suppliers will take place in early 2019; a suppliers’ code of conduct will follow in 2019. The company is aware of the importance of responsible and ethical procurement and is writing it´s procurement policy. These policies will be implemented during 2019 along with various related procedures. They will be published on Klappir’s website Governance 16 Klappir has not paid incentive payments to directors to encourage them This Corporate Social Responsibility Progress Report and the ESG to perform on ESG. This subject has never been discussed by the board. statement together form a standalone report published on the company’s website. The ESG statement shows numbers taken directly from the software Klappir supports Icelandic legislation (Law no.80/1938 on Unions and along with general information gathered from the various sources during collective organization of workers). company operations. According to paragraph 74 of the Icelandic Constitution, people have the The reports and the ESG statement are accessible for everybody on the right to establish companionship for every legal purpose as well as company’s website. unions. However, according to article 2 of the paragraph 74, no person is obliged to join a union. The company’s employees may freely join unions. A description of the software and the methodology is accessible on the Approximately one third of the employees are members of unions. company’s website. Reports based on the software can create a foundation for other, extensive reports on corporate sustainability, such Klappir is an Icelandic corporation and is liable for Icelandic taxes only, as COP reports for UNGC and GRI reports. (Law no. 90/2003 on Income tax, Article 2). Annual and interim financial statements are made by Klappir in accordance with legislation (Law no. 3/2006 on annual reports) and published on the company’s website. Klappir entered the Nasdaq First North market in September 2017. Transparency and access to information for authorities, stakeholders and inspectors is secured if requested. Information on Klappir’s financial matters can be found on the company’s website.
