Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact 1 2017 Table of Contents of the Report : • Brief about Sudatel Group. • About this report. • About Sudatel Group. • Company premises. • Community Service • Implementing the principles of the Global Compact • Human rights. • Principles and labor rights. • Environment protection. • Combating bribery and corruption. 2 Company Name: Sudatel Telecom Group. Company Address : Sudatel Tower Khartoum Postal Code : 55111 Telephone No. + 249183775686 + 249183782322 +249 0120600 12 E-mail address: info.sudatel.sd Number of employees: 2327 women represent %21 Country: Sudan Contact person: a. Magdi Makki Al Mardi Person’s position : Director of International Relations Period covered by the Report : January December 2017 3 Message from CEO “ of Sudatel Group Towards a better life for all, through sustainability and good usage of resources, we aim to consider the interests of all the parties to which we are linked, both within and outside the country, in order to realize sustainable development that will guarantee a balanced, peaceful life and equitable sharing of resources for us and for future generations. We operate within a global system through the UN-sponsored Global charter, which advocates human rights, labor, environmental protection, combating bribery and corruption. We work hard to ensure that the values of governance, transparency, legal compliance and the consideration of stakeholders remain the basis that govern our activity and essential in the culture of our institution, in harmony with our strategy to become an integral part thereof. We are working towards the implementation of the goals of sustainable development 2030. We reaffirm our commitment to the principles of the Global Compact in all our processes, taking into account human rights, labor, environmental protection, combating bribery and corruption. For a better life for us and for the future generations, preserving the Earth for the happi“ ness of all humankind. 4 Report Objective: This report is the third report presented by the SUDATEL Group after its accession to the Global Compact initiative, The report covers activity concerned by applying the principles of the Global Compact and making it an integral part of the administrative operations and its strategy towards stakeholders, it equally covers the year 2017. The report has taken into account the broad dialogue with the A stakeholders where their opinions have been taken as a guide, as they constitute the main pillar in the movement of the company towards implementation of its objectives for achieving its objectives that embody the interest of all parties. Period and scope of the report: This report was based on the company’s data in the period from January 2017 to December 2017, which measures the progress made in the application of the Global Compact constituted in the initiative in its ten principles of human rights, labor, environment and combating bribery and corruption, as well as the completed programs and the social responsibility and community services projects in the scope of the company›s work and its efforts to enforce sustainable development goals 2030. Principles of the report: This report was formulated in accordance with the principles of the Global Compact initiative in a manner to enable observing the progress made and the broad work done in the reporting period. One can refer to the company’s website www.sudatel.sd for more information which are integrated with what the report addressed. . We can also be in contact the social responsibility team through the contact numbers mentioned in the beginning 5 of the report. S About Sudatel Our vision To be the best in providing ICT services in the region Our Mission To provide innovative ICT services to enrich people›s lives, generate rewarding returns for shareholders, and initiate capacity, creativity and distinction across the enterprise. Our values  Immediate Response.. We are committed to perform our tasks as soon as possible.  Transparency ... We believe that clarity is the foundation of the trust we seek  Diversity ... We accept difference and welcome variation  Development ... Ready for change and innovate distinctive solutions.  Communicate ...We communicate in a spirit full of interest and appreciation 6 About Sudatel Since its establishment in 1993, Sudatel constituted the most successful story of the privatization project adopted by the State. It has emerged as a creative national project through its main activity in the field of communications which constituted the spearhead in the comprehensive development that spread out in our beloved country in all aspects of life, as it managed to introduce modern technologies in the field of information, data and voice transmission according to the latest systems and the highest international standards and started where others ended, the matter that made the country reserve its position in this area in the regional and global space, built different networks nationwide, it possesses one of the largest fiber optics networks in Africa, where the intension of its founders was that the company should only remain a national company but they also planned to make it expand in the regional and global space. The company operates communications in three African countries, including Senegal, Guinea and Mauritania, where it led business diplomacy through communications technology the matter that African countries supported economic integration projects between the African countries and 7 supported communication between their peoples; it also contributes in international maritime cables which made the Sudan a gateway to global communications noting that Port Sudan has become one of the most important cities of communications in the world. The company also connected its network with neighboring countries linking Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Ethiopia, Chad and other countries on this route. This approach carries social responsibility features that the company adopts in its strategy, and is working to enforce seriously and persistently to achieve a better life for all stakeholders based on virtuous values, common interests and one destiny. We all live on one planet and we are all responsible for protecting it. Sudatel is one of the largest investment repositories in the country with a total of 10,000 investors. It has attracted investors from abroad and from within the country representing different banks, companies and institutions. It is the first Sudanese com8 pany whose shares are exchanged in regional stock markets such as Kuwait and Abu Dhabi. Moreover, Sudatel shares are the most exchanged ones in the Khartoum stock markets. The huge infrastructure built by Sudatel has contributed to the development of the business world in Sudan by facilitating the work of large companies in the field of petroleum, mining, banks and other industries besides small investments. They all need means of communication and information technology to grow, flourish and develop, creating thousands of jobs opportunities, which contributed mainly in combating unemployment in the country. Sudatel has also contributed to the establishment of the e-government project through its extensive networks and its huge data center, the most distinct in Africa. The e-commerce movement has flourished as the Sudanese economy is connected to the global economy. Banks operate electronically through networking through all their branches. Most State’s institution are 9 providing their online electronic services such, the Civil Registry, registration for admission at universities, registration for Hajj, getting the results of the Sudanese certificate together with the registration for admission at Sudanese universities. Technology has got a share even the mobility through the means of transportation, paving the way for the Internet exchange through journey of humanity towards further welfare of mankind, saving time and effort. This makes communication services the biggest environmental friend, as they reduce resource consumption and reduce pollution. In its journey towards achieving good citizenship, Sudatel has adopted the concept of social responsibility in an integrated manner, in social, economic and environmental aspects. It embraced ethical behavior, contributing to sustainable development,improving the quality of life for its employees and their families, the community and society as a whole, protecting the environment. The company has incorporated the approach of thinking internationally while implementing locally, supporting the international approach towards realizing companies’ good citizenship. In this regard the company signed the initiative of the Global Compact agreement which constitutes 10 the ten principles of social responsibility which are human rights, basic labor rights and principles and environmental protection, combatting bribery and corruption, along with supporting the Millennium goals since the year 2000 as well as supporting and contributing to implementing the sustainable development goals currently via its commitment to this Charter. The company submits an annual report to the UN reflecting the realized progress in these ten areas. Since Sudatel is committed to global compliance with the laws and the establishing standards in the field of work, it is keener to abide by local laws in accordance with its religious and moral commitment, as it is bound by the laws of operating the telecommunications such as license, technical specifications of equipment and the safety of the community in which it operates, in addition to its internal ethical charters. It is currently working to issue the Code of Corporate Social Responsibility, in a manner that establishes rights and duties transparently and fairly. Equally, Sudatel follows a governance system that defines the relations among its various components, with clear objectives, means of implementation and monitoring methods for equitable verification at all levels. Sudatel is a leader of excellence in the business environment. It is operating in the field of advanced technologies that requires providing a valid and excellent environment for its employees in 11 the first place, and for the equipment used. It also continued to issue the report of the National Telecommunications Corporation in the public services centers through which service is provided to its subscribers. Even though the communication Service is the largest community responsibility project as a major contributor to the well-being of the community, its shareholders have decided since 1998 to deduct 2 million US Dollars from net profits to support projects in health, water, education and orphan care, which contributed to realizing Sustainable Development Goals. Sudatel has started this activity even before the United Nations set the Millennium Goals in 2000, which addressed in the same areas selected by Sudatel. Sudatel is convinced that social responsibility starts from within, so it has given attention to its employees: the stakeholders by providing rewarding wages, realizing a fair system of promotion, providing fair opportunity for training and developing of skills and capacities in a manner that realizes the company›s objectives and benefits the society. Sudatel has become attractive for expertise and skills, It gives concern for the employee and his family through providing med12 ical treatment for all family members in an affordable manner as well as facilitating installment sales services, organized by the Workers’ Trade Union which operates in harmony with the Administration to achieve a good working environment and appropriate remuneration that enables workers to live in dignity. Sudatel possesses one of the most outstanding training academies in the region; it is one of the centers of excellence of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). It trains Sudatel employees internally and externally. It also provides services to government institutions and companies in the field of information technology and communication, administrative and other technical aspects. It is being visited by more than 800 trainees on a daily basis. It also contributes by a de facto of community responsibility to the eradication of technical illiteracy besides preparing of grad13 uates for the labor market. Communication services are environmentally friendly as they contribute to saving time and effort and conservation of natural resources by reducing mobility and use of fossil energy, which is considered as one of the largest environment pollutants. Sudatel contributes to more than 500 water projects to encourage trees growing, preserving vegetation, noting that providing water in the rural areas has contributed to Changing the pattern of building that depended on trees and straws as it turned into permanent solid materials, thus reducing cutting of trees. A change has also taken place in the pattern of food through the cultivation of vegetables and fruits. The availability of water has affected the movement of different aspects of life. Equally, there was an expansion in schools, which reduced school dropouts. The population income increased with the availability of water for livestock which decreased mortality rate. Sudatel has adopted innovation for its products and services in response to subscribers’ wishes and needs and sought t o identify their expectations. Sudatel’s communications services have provided a platform for community creativity by producing services in different aspects of life which encouraged young innovators through the Scientific Creativity Sponsoring Corporation. 14 World Heart Day 15 Sudatel Strategy Themes A smoother Institution Through achieving a high degree of smoothness via development of the capabilities of the institution and ensuring the recovering financial position of the company towards rapid transformation or adaptation in response to changes in the market. Develop customer experience Building a solid customer base consisting of culture, systems, processes and procedures to ensures that Sudatel becomes as close as possible to its customers. Accelerating business growth Driving growth, developing institutional capacity and expanding into neighboring markets to diversify growth opportunities. Build a rich communication base Providing a rich communication base in all branches of Sudatel Group of Companies. Establishing the human resources and the culture of the institution Creating solid ground and methods that fosters the employees’ environment to enhance innovation, design and implement new initiatives that support sustainable development goals 16 Our career: 1993 Sudatel was established and the number of fixed-line subscribers at the time was 42,000. 1995 The beginning of the operation of the World ITC And operation of Intelsat station 1996 The beginning of the implementation of the optical link, fiber optic, the beginning of the entry of the mobile telephone service in the Sudan. 1998 Completion of the establishment of data and Internet networks, actual launch of data transmission and Internet services to the public and institutions  2001 The beginning of linking of Sudanese banks with a unified data network using the DATA CLOUD network.  2003 Completion of the laying of the sea cable SAS1 Port Sudan Jeddah. 17 Developing data services over the fixed network and launching of DSL service  2005 Installation of Sudani mobile phone network with a primary capacity of one million lines.  2010 Launching of the 3G service in Senegal, completion of the Omdurman-Al-Obeid ring link and the entry of the submarine cable ESSY into service. 2011 Completion of coverage of most of the states of Sudan through fiber optic network length of 10,230 km. 2012 The number of Sudanese subscribers attained 7 millions.  2014 The commercial opening of the Sudatel data center to be the largest in Sudan and the second largest center in Africa.  2016 Launching of the fourth generation service 4G and Sudatel was awarded the State’ Social Responsibility Award.  2107 Sudatel won the best award in Africa for optical fiber networking between Sudan and Chad. 18 Business Areas: Sudatel currently operates telecommunications in four African countries other than the Sudan (Mauritania, Senegal, Ghana and Guinea) in the areas of mobile, fixed line and data services. 19 Community Service: Through its community responsibility, SUDATEL has sponsored all activities and programs that contribute to the happiness of the people of Sudan, supporting the steps towards achieving pioneering, prosperity, growth and development. SUDATEL is effectively present in supporting the fields of water, health, education, culture, sports and other vital life paths. The moral values that the I lamic religion has championed constitute the most important foundation for Sudatel, being guided by the good humanitarian experiences, aiming at bringing happiness to the people of the planet, protecting the environment to ensure a better life for all through the sustainability and rationalization of resources. Sudatel acts as good citizen observing the interest of all the Parties that are linked to its activity and movement within and outside the country, to realize sustainable development which guarantees a life full of balance, peace and equitable sharing of resources for us and for the future generations. SUDATEL has been working to raise the value of human rights, labor rights, environmental protection, combating bribery and corruption in all its forms, and has endeavored to ensure that the values of governance, transparency, legal obedience and stakeholder awareness remain governing and active in its institutional culture and strategy. It has been operating within the Millenni20 um goals which ended the year 2015, through projects and ambitious programs that brought happiness to the society and deepened reach out with its various components. Now it is working with the world to achieve the goals of sustainable development that ends in 2030. Therefore, the harvest of the year 2017 is now between your hands, where Sudatel partnerships have diversified among various groups. The report included many themes, where spending on development projects amounted to about 2,300,000 American dollars. 21 “ Promoting Awareness The promotion of community awareness is one of the biggest concerns of Sudatel, where we seek an aware and responsible society under the slogan “we are responsible”, to raise awareness and knowledge in order to ensure the advancement of society in its various institutions, which started with our lectures for the new arrivals at Sudatel at the customer service center. In a long-term partnership with the Ministry of Social Development in Khartoum State, great coordination was established between us, where all the localities of Khartoum State were trained on social responsibility approach, finally, those activities led to the 22 organization of the Khartoum State Social Responsibility Forum including its associated exhibitions where its cost amounted to 34,300 US Dollars. Water: Clean water is one of Sudatel›s most important projects in support of sustainable development. It started in 1998 with more than 500 water projects (networks, wells, excavations and others) in the various states of Sudan. This year is a continuation of previous years, where several water networks were extended in Gudarif, River Nile, the Northern, State, Al Gazera, and White Nile States at a cost of 250, 000 US dollars. Health: Good health constitutes the third item of sustainable development goals, which we are aiming to achieve. activities this year included health awareness, medical treatment convoys, providing services medical equipment where work was carried out in the Khartoum, Blue Nile, South Kordofan, Gedaref, and Al Gazera States, where activities totaled attained 300, 954 US Dollars. 23 • Education: Education is the fourth item of the goals of sustainable development 2030, which we pay special attention due to importance in terms of nations’ renaissance and progress, the matter that led to announcing more than one year to be marked as the year of education, the latest was the year 2017, which included many activities related to the creation of a sound educational environment, which has had an effective impact in Increase the learning percentage, reducing school dropout and creating an adequate educational environment. In a qualitative initiative, via partnership with the Foundation of the Sudanese Youth, about 50 young men and women who were Basic School dropouts were trained. They were trained on a sophisticated rehabilitation program. Equally, 20 persons with hearing disability were trained, to be prepared for the labor market, 24 namely in restaurants, where several restaurants showed willingness to employ them. Moreover, Our Company sponsored the Conference on the quality of higher education for achieving good education. The program has been continued to sponsor female university student, under which our company is committed to sponsor a number of female students and pay the monthly financial support for them, where the company now sponsors 240 female university students, noting that 500 female university students has graduated sine the year 2009. Our company is also working on a student breakfast project in cooperation with Mujadidoon Organization, through which the company has provided more than 650 breakfast meals per year since the year 2015. For the seventh consecutive year, the company has sponsored the “Ener Darby” “Cast Light on my way” Project, through which, and via Zilal Al Rahmah Organization, we are collecting old school textbooks, restoring them and redistributing them to schools that do not receive school textbooks. As for students seating, it 25 is one of the most important projects that we are working on, so that our children enjoy seating in schools. We are targeting a high percentage of beneficiaries from that, where about half a million students have benefited from that project at all the states of Sudan over the past nine years, which has a positive impact on the learning process through improving the educational environment on both the teacher and the student, where 3,900 Basic School students have been seated this year, the company also built some of the classrooms and a lecture hall at Al-Dea›in University , East Darfur State , where the total cost of the education axis amounted to about 720, 529 US dollars. • Poverty Eradication: , Poverty eradication is a concern for us, work with civil society organizations to reduce poverty and to have a clear role where we established an onion drying plant in the Northern countryside of Khartoum State as it is an onions production area. The plant is to be operated by women in order to earn a decent living, In Kassala State, through Tallaweet Organization, funding was provided for establishment a farm for vegetable production to run by women from the Eastern Sudan, where we are working to change the lifestyle of women in the Eastern Sudan and transforming them into agricultural production, which provides self-sufficiency of vegetables and sell the extra production. Our Company also distributed rations to more than 2,300 poor families during the month of Ramadan in partnership with the Zilal Al Rahmah Charitable Organization besides preparing breakfast meals for 12 thousand people for the road passengers in Ramadan at the breakfast time in order to reduce traffic jams and avoid traffic accidents in coordination with Shabab Al Najda and Sudani offices in Al Gazera and White Nile States, at a total cost of 50, 250 US Dollars. 26 “Ener Darby” 27 Cast Light on my way Project People of inspiration: They are those from whom we are inspired by the willpower and determination to challenge the disability, which did not prevent them from living normal life, but rather to provide support and coordination to non-disabled persons. Our partnership with the Organization of Challengers of Disability, which constitutes one of the arms of the Company in cooperation with The Foundation of People of inspiration, via the program of the International Day of Disability, through which the rights and duties of People of inspiration is reaffirmed through the Mobile Podium. Our Foundation also participated in coordination with the British Council in celebrating the International Day of Disability under the title of “Give Me an Opportunity”, through which people listened to hear experiences of many persons who were not prevented by Disability to become distinguished and to raise the will of others. Currently, the customer service halls are being designed to meet requirements of entry and exit of people with Disability. 28 Community partnerships Networking and partnerships between economic institutions, the government sector and civil society organizations remain the primary guarantor and the cornerstone of the success of Society Responsibility programs and projects because they are essentially based on integration, cooperation and harmony that brings good and benefits all parties in the community living in a single area. Therefore, Sudatel has focused to throughout its long history on building strong partnerships with civil society organizations and managed to prepare them well in a manner that enabled them to build a track record of achievements. These organizations have been involved in consulting roles in projects outside the scope of the Sudatel specialty, besides playing important administrative roles that contributed to the success of the projects and programs, in addition to enabling Sudatel to save effort and time. Sudatel also managed to qualify its cadres and employees in the various fields of voluntary and humanitarian work, noting that harnessing the expertise, talents and skills of employees to serve the community is the core of applying the concept of responsibility, in a manner that contributed to the employees’ self-satisfaction and realized manifestation of social happiness of a wide sector of Sudanese society. The total amounts which the civil society organizations benefited from attained, 550, 000 US dollars. 29 International Day of Disability 30 Application of the Principles of the Global Charter: Overview: Through social responsibility, SUDATEL has sponsored all activities and programs that contribute to the happiness of the people of Sudan and support the steps towards achieving leadership, prosperity, growth and development. SUDATEL is effectively present in the fields of water, health, education, culture, sports and other vital life paths. The basics and moral values that the Islamic religion has championed constitute the most important foundation for Sudatel, being guided by the good humanitarian experiences, aiming at bringing happiness to the people on Earth, protecting the environment to ensure a better life for all through the sustainability and rationalization of resources. Sudatel acts as good citizen, observing the interest of all the Parties that are linked to its activity and movement within and outside the country, to realize sustainable development which guarantees a life full of balance, peace and equitable sharing of resources for us and for the future generations. In its global trend, Sudatel has become an integral part of the UN-sponsored Global agreement, which advocates observing human rights, labor rights, environment protection, combating bribery and corruption in all its forms. Sudatel has endeavored to ensure that the values of governance, transparency, legal compliance and observing stakeholders remain governing of its activity and dynamism as well as being basic in its institutional culture and strategy. Equally Sudatel has endeavored to enforce the Millennium Goals, which ended in the year 2015, through ambitious projects and programs that have brought hap31 piness to the society and deepened communication with its various components, and is now working with the world to realize the goals of sustainable development that ends in the year 2030. Human Rights: Principle 1: commercial institutions must support, protect and respect internationally proclaimed human rights. Sudatel has not only committed itself to the fundamental rights of human beings, but its work in providing communications through its integrated system constitutes one of the basic guarantees for achieving and sustaining it, because it is an activity that supports the global trends aiming at achieving human well-being and human Happiness, noting that communication technologies constitute the basic driving force for any development in the sectors of vital life and diverse areas of human activity, to provide millions of jobs opportunities for people, whether in government institutions, business organizations or civil society organizations, by facilitating the flow of information, ensuring its confidentiality and enhancing and disseminate knowledge,, promote freedom to share experiences and promote good practices. This activity constitutes a basic guarantee for the spreading of fundamental human rights. Communication techniques provided more freedom for the humankind and provided him with means of expression without tutelage from any location in the world, enabled him to obtain knowledge and access information, thus enhancing knowledge of his rights in the political, social and cultural fields, and this is what Sudatel is doing through realizing the slogan of communication right for all, through its work in the Sudan and the countries in where it operates communications in Africa such as Senegal, Mauritania and Ghana, in addition to its contribution in International communications projects, for example the Marine Cable Isi, which constitutes the last link in the se32 “ ries of submarine cables, which extends from the Sudan to South Africa beside the cable ECI, which connects West Africa with Europe, besides linking the neighboring countries Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Ethiopia and Chad. This work has contributed to bridging the digital gap in Africa and paved the way for Africa to access the information society, in addition to its active support for the economic integration projects between the countries of the continent and cooperation and communication between their peoples. Principle 2: It must ensure that it is not involved in human rights violations. SUDATEL has been working in a sound environment that has made human rights a fundamental value and has not been implicated in violations of human rights, and has affirmed its credibility by adhering to these principles and its perseverance in working within the framework of the Compact at the local and global levels, 33 The work: Principle 3: Commercial institutions must respect the freedom of association and effectively recognize their right to collective bargaining. SUDATEL is a public joint stock company with multiple stakeholders, to respond to their needs and maintain their interest, it has adopted a clear governance approach that is manifested through its core values , administrative, financial and accounting systems, which are based on international standards and freedom of trade unions, which opens the door to collective bargaining and recognition of the rights of all. The workers union in Sudatel constitutes the eye of workers and works according to a sound vision based on dialogue and taking into account the rights of stakeholders with the administration, which contributed to improving the wages, promotion conditions, providing medical treatment for worker and their Families, improving the Work environment along with access to various loans in addition to improving the conditions of end of service returns, noting that there are societies and associations which are supported by the Company, such as the Working Women Association, which has wonderful initiatives that contribute to supporting the employees’ stability and providing a decent life for them. Principle 4: All forms of forced labor must be eliminated. The company has a transparent working system, clear contractual terms and a moral code which we discussed in our previous reports. There is no forced labor, within the structure of the company or the partners that it deals with in its basic projects. Principle 5: it must effectively abolish child labor: Sudatel is inspired by the values of a decent religion and operates in a virtuous society that celebrates childhood. It combats against child labor. There are no activities in the structure that abuse children or exploit them. Rather, the company carries out activities 34 that benefit the children through poverty combating projects and providing them with healthcare and paternal care projects in the areas of health and education that support the goals of sustainable development, which will be mentioned in the social work part of the report. Principle 6: It must eliminate discrimination in employment and professions. In Sudatel, all are equal in terms of employment. There is no discrepancy in employment and professions between men and women where they work side by side to achieve the company’s goals in an environment of love, affection and mutual respect. The environment: Principle 7: Commercial institutions should promote a precautionary approach towards environmental challenges. Communication activity is one of the most friendly activities to the environment where humans can communicate, the matter that reduce effort and time, limit mobility of public and private 35 “ vehicles, reduce the use of non-renewable energy resources and reduce pollution produced by fossil energy, which contributes to reducing global warming, which cause catastrophic impacts on the future of human life. Principle 8: They should undertake initiatives to expand responsibility for the environment. The company’s serious thinking started through the specialized administration to expand the use of renewable energy (solar energy) to provide communications stations with energy for a safe environment for the conservation of non-renewable sources of energy, built by nature over millions of years, where non-rationalized use caused catastrophic environmental problems. There is a thinking to use technologies in the company’s buildings to contribute to reducing energy and water consumption. Moreover, the Green Offices Charter has been published to promote environmental awareness among employees. Principle 9: They should promote the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. An initiative has been put in place, namely the safe disposal of energy-saving batteries in Sudatel, where a contract was initiated with leadextraction plant to be done properly and recycled scientifically instead of conventional methods used by bidders to dispose of batteries. The Company has stopped battery sales through 36 “ auctions, where it is now run through the Society Responsibility Section where the return will be allocated to children’s medical treatment projects. Combating Corruption: Principle 10: Commercial institutions must combat all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. SUDATEL has been actively implementing the Code of Ethics and Conduct in the procurement and contracting processes outlined in the previous report. Its provisions focus on commitment, dedication, confidentiality, transparency, fairness and equity. These provisions are strictly adhered to by the employees, where they complemented the company’s strict financial system, designed according to the latest international financial programs that ensure transparency, integrity and speed of procedure 37 38
