Communication on Progress 5 May 2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Qualcomm Incorporated reaffirms our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact relating to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Steve Mollenkopf Chief Executive Officer Communication on Progress 5 May 2018 Our Commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles and Key Accomplishments Qualcomm is committed to respecting human rights and avoiding complicity in any human rights abuse, throughout our company, our operations and our communities. Our efforts are informed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our full membership in the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), formerly the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), and our participation in BSR’s Human Rights Working Group and the UN Global Compact further augment our efforts. Working with other companies in these multi-industry groups provides us with an opportunity to share best practices and discuss challenges in developing companywide solutions to address human rights concerns. We completed our first formal corporate human rights impact assessment to align our programs with our corporate priorities in 2016. Over the past year, we have continued to make progress on these commitments. In addition, we conducted our annual legal and compliance risk assessment of our worldwide operations, which included the analysis, review and prioritization of company risks by a cross-functional group of key representatives from our legal, compliance, finance, human resources and internal audit teams. Our Commitment to Human Rights details our commitment to respecting human rights and avoiding complicity in any human rights abuse throughout our company, our operations and our communities. Our 2017 Qualcomm Sustainability Report summarizes progress made on our sustainability priorities and key accomplishments towards achieving our 2030 sustainability vision and 2020 sustainability goals during fiscal 2017. We also highlight how our various programs and activities help support the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Our sustainability website features detailed information about our programs on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption, as well as other sustainability topics, and provides opportunities for our stakeholders to contact us directly. Our Sustainability Policy articulates our sustainability mission and overarching commitments to innovate responsibly. The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct serves as a reference guide to articulate our company values and help us navigate the ethical and legal situations we face on a daily basis. It highlights the laws and regulations employees must know and follow, and it describes our common responsibilities—to our customers and business partners, to our stockholders, to our company and to one another. It covers a wide range of topics, including anticorruption, conflicts of interest, proper record-keeping, workplace safety and security, import-export controls, ethical selection of suppliers, human rights, our environmental responsibility and more. We provide The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct training to all employees worldwide and require them to acknowledge that they’ve read, understand and will comply with this key overarching Policy. Our internal website makes it easy for employees worldwide to access country-specific policies and frequently asked questions. In keeping with our open-door culture, each page of the site also invites employees to ask questions or raise concerns, with the option of doing so in-person, via email or via our Business Conduct Hotline, which is available 24 hours a day and can be used anonymously wherever permitted by law. We respond to reports of misconduct as quickly and as confidentially as possible. Since its inception in 2006, Qualcomm® Wireless Reach™ has collaborated with more than 660 stakeholders on 119 programs in 47 countries—benefitting more than 13 million people globally. These advanced wireless programs strengthen economic and social development with a focus on education, entrepreneurship, health care, the environment and public safety. To promote its long-term success, Wireless Reach is aligned with our broader business goals as well as global government and policy agendas. We were proud to receive a 100 percent score on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. Information about our other awards related to the UN Global Compact Principles is available here. Our policies, implementation efforts and outcomes related to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact for the past year are detailed below. For more information on Qualcomm's commitments, please contact humanrights@qualcomm.com. Communication on Progress 5 May 2018 Global Compact Principles Qualcomm’s Commitments Human Rights Policies and Implementation The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct Principle 1: Businesses should support and Responsible Business Alliance Code of respect the protection of internationally Conduct proclaimed human rights; and Our Commitment to Human Rights Qualcomm Sustainability Policy Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Outcomes 2017 Qualcomm Sustainability Report, including GRI Content Index Qualcomm Sustainability Website Labour Policies and Implementation The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Conduct freedom of association and the effective Responsible Business Alliance Code of recognition of the right to collective Conduct bargaining; Our Commitment to Human Rights Qualcomm Sustainability Policy Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative forced and compulsory labour; Action Principle 5: The effective abolition of child Outcomes labour; and 2017 Qualcomm Sustainability Report, including GRI Content Index Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination Qualcomm Sustainability Website in respect of employment and occupation. Environmental Policies and Implementation The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct Principle 7: Businesses should support a Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct precautionary approach to environmental Our Commitment to Human Rights challenges; Qualcomm Sustainability Policy Our Environmental Guiding Principles Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Outcomes 2017 Qualcomm Sustainability Report, including GRI Principle 9: Encourage the development and Content Index diffusion of environmentally friendly Qualcomm Sustainability Website technologies. Qualcomm Wireless Reach™ Qualcomm Products Qualcomm Solutions Communication on Progress 5 May 2018 Global Compact Principles Qualcomm’s Commitments Anti-Corruption Policies and Implementation The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct Principle 10: Businesses should work against Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct corruption in all its forms, including extortion Our Commitment to Human Rights and bribery. Qualcomm Sustainability Policy Code of Ethics Corporate Governance Outcomes 2017 Qualcomm Sustainability Report, including GRI Content Index Qualcomm Sustainability Website
