2017 Company Report NON FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN RIGHTS Code of Conduct Hilti strives to consistently improve ethical and social conditions associated with business. The company also mandates that its suppliers observe international requirements and ethical standards. In case of serious violations of the Code of Conduct for Suppliers, such as employing child or forced labor, Hilti is authorized to terminate any agreement. Anti-discrimination Hilti believes there is an inseparable connection between business success and corporate responsibility. Building on the existing Code of Conduct and a culture of integrity, respect and anti-discrimination, Hilti has implemented specific anti discrimination guidelines in 2017 which will generate increased transparency and further reduce the risk of workplace discrimination. The guidelines were communicated to all employees worldwide to promote inclusive behavior across the company. ANTI-CORRUPTION ACTIVITIES ignificant non financial performance indicators Organization The Compliance Management System (CMS) that was established over previous years was further institutionalized Health and safety taken to contribute to the in 2017. It is further developed in close cooperation with the topics covered in formal effective abolition of child various regions on an ongoing basis. In strategic terms, the agreements with trade labor unions CMS is based on the guidelines contained in ISO 19600 and H 6 Operations and supISO 37001. H 2 Total hours of empliers identified as ha ing ployee training on human significant ris for incidents rights policies or proceof forced or compulsory Prevention dures concerning aspects labor, and measures to Hilti employees are regularly trained to observe the comof human rights that are contribute to the eliminapany’s internal anti-corruption guidelines. During the year relevant to operations, tion of all forms of forced including the percentage of or compulsory labor under review, Hilti further strengthened its Compliance unit employees trained and studied new approaches in prevention and detection. E Energy consumption Additionally, possible corporate acquisitions are subject H 5 Operations and supwithin the organization pliers identified as ha ing to appropriate prevention and inspection measures which significant ris for incidents E 6 Reduction of energy meet the company’s high level of compliance requirements. of child labor, and measures consumption ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Reducing CO2 emissions Hilti works to reduce its ecological footprint in a targeted manner. Emissions per employee were reduced in the year under review by 5.3 percent across the entire Group. The most significant factors influencing CO 2 emissions are energy usage at the various locations and the fuel consumption of Hilti s worldwide ehicle fleet. Energy efficiency Energy efficiency also plays a significant role at Hilti. The company’s Kaufering, Germany, location, for example, introduced energy management software which is capable of quickly identifying abnormally high energy usage which may be caused by defective production machinery. In addition to many other direct energy-saving measures the company has implemented, this leads to a reduction in energy consumption. Several hundred thousand kWh of energy were saved in Hilti’s production facilities alone in 2017. You can find an o er iew of the most significant en ironmental figures online under www.hilti companyreport.com. SOCIAL AND EMPLOYEE MATTERS Corporate culture The Hilti Way describes the employeeand performance-oriented corporate culture that is characterized by common values, exemplary management and the conviction that corporate growth and employee development go hand in hand. In 2017, employees spent 32,000 working days on corporate culture workshops. Occupational safety Accident prevention is a central point of occupational safety. Over the past several years, a program known as “nearmiss management” was established in the manufacturing E Total water withE 2 Extent of impact facilities, warehouses and tool service centers as part of drawal by source mitigation of environmental a comprehensive lean initiative. The target is to identify impacts of products and dangerous situations or near misses and to implement E 15 Direct greenhouse services gas (GHG) emissions corresponding preventive measures. The consistent imDMA General informaplementation has resulted in a reduction of the severity of E 16 Energy indirect tion on the management accidents and in the number of lost workdays. greenhouse gas (GHG) approach emissions 4 Communication and Employee health E 1 Reduction of greentraining on anti-corruption In 2017, Hilti once again implemented a number of meahouse gas (GHG) emissions policies and procedures sures and campaigns aimed at promoting better health at E 2 Total weight of various locations around the world. In addition to measures waste by type and disposal which are required legally, many local organizations also method offer proactive initiatives focusing on sport, nutrition and medical and psychological counselling. 60–61
