Better Together Annual Report 2017 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 02 We are Ahold Delhaize Ahold Delhaize is one of the world’s largest food retail groups and a leader in both supermarkets and e-commerce. Our family of great local brands serves over 50 million customers each week, in Europe, the United States and Indonesia1. Our brands are at the forefront of sustainable retailing, sourcing responsibly, supporting local communities and helping customers make healthier choices. 1 Joint venture operations. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 03 We are Better Together The food retail industry is rapidly changing and highly competitive. Advancing technologies and shifting consumer behaviors are transforming the way people shop – but we are meeting these challenges head-on through our Better Together strategy. We are Better Together. And better positioned to meet the challenges of the future. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 04 In this year’s report 05 Message 28 Our Better Together 49 Our response to  59 Group financial 121 Financial from our CEO strategy stakeholder needs review statements 05 Message from our CEO Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Who we are 28 Our Better Together strategy 83 Our Management Board 121 Financial statements 251  Introduction 30 Our purpose and Executive Committee 123 Consolidated income statement 252 Progress towards 2020 10 Group highlights 32 Our sustainable business model 85 Our Supervisory Board 124 Consolidated statement of 254 Scope and methodology 11 Our value chain 38 Our promises 88 Corporate governance comprehensive income 255 Sustainable Retailing data 13 Our great local brands 46 Our values 94 Supervisory Board report 125 Consolidated balance sheet 263 Definitions 20 Where we operate Our response to 49  Remuneration 101  126 Consolidated statement 267 GRI Index of changes in equity The world around us stakeholder needs How we manage risk 108  272 Assurance report of the Group key financial indicators 58  Non-financial information 118  127 Consolidated statement independent auditor 22 Market overview of cash flows Group financial review 59  and diversity 25 Our stakeholders Notes to the consolidated Definitions – performance 80  120 Declarations 128  Investors financial statements measures 278 Share performance 228 Parent company financial statements 279 Shareholder returns 230 Notes to the parent company 280 Key dates financial statements 281 Shareholder structure 240 Other information 282 Five-year overview 284 Contact information For more information visit our website at 285 Cautionary notice www.aholddelhaize.com Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 05 Message from our CEO Our Better Together strategy continued to help us to drive advances in shopping and delight our customers in today’s transforming retail environment. Dear reader, Key highlights of the year Our first full year as Ahold Delhaize was one of Pro forma net sales rose change, both for our company and our industry. 1.7% As we further increased focus on our great local brands and substantially completed the integration of our company, our Better Together strategy continued to help us to drive advances at constant rates in shopping and delight our customers in today’s In 2017, net consumer online sales were rapidly transforming retail environment. €2.8bn During the year, we introduced a new brandcentric organizational structure in our U.S. businesses – Stop & Shop, Food Lion, Giant On track to deliver close to €5 billion Landover, Hannaford, Giant Carlisle and Peapod in online sales by 2020 – better positioning them to deepen their connection to local communities and put the customer at the center of all they do. On January 1, 2018, we established Ahold Delhaize USA as the parent company for the U.S. local brands as well as Retail Business Services (RBS), the shared services company providing support to these brands. We also finished integrating our group offices while teams in the Netherlands and Belgium made great progress on synergy savings through negotiations with suppliers. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 06 Message from our CEO continued Financial performance In 2017, we sent out close Driving changes in retail And there is more to do. The pace of change in the retail landscape and in customers’ shopping In 2017, our great local brands delivered to 2.5 billion personalized Today, as in years past, we play a central role habits continues to gain speed, and competition another strong performance, with rising sales offers to our customers, in both identifying consumers’ needs and is spreading far beyond the supermarket channel and expanding margins driven by synergies. making the online and helping to shape them. As a family of trusted – to discounters, online players and meal-kit Pro forma net sales rose 1.7% at constant local retail brands with 150 years serving exchange rates to €62.7 billion, primarily driven in-store experience more customers, it’s something we’re very good at. providers, to name a few. Technologies like by The Netherlands, Delhaize America, and relevant and personal. robotics, artificial intelligence and voice ordering Our innovations are making shopping more are accelerating the changes taking place. Central and Southeastern Europe. Our brands convenient, for example with a faster checkout grew market share in most of their markets. While customers remain focused on value and experience, and more personal, leveraging Full-year pro forma underlying convenience, they also want a personalized The synergy delivery is ahead of schedule, digital loyalty programs targeted at individual operating margin shopping experience tailored to fit their busy with €268 million net synergies realized for 2017. customer preferences. In 2017, we sent out close 3.9% lives. Customers expect retailers to anticipate I’m pleased to report that thanks to teams across to 2.5 billion personalized offers to our customers, their specific needs and then enable them to our businesses, we are able to increase the making the online and in-store experience more shop exactly how they want – which, more than amount of gross synergies we are committing to relevant and personal. ever, means using their mobile devices. And with deliver from €500 million to €750 million by 2019. with the increase this year driven Our efforts to expand our online businesses the increasing use of technology, retailers are We will reinvest €250 million in the business. by synergies that came in ahead resulted in €2.8 billion in net consumer online sales putting a strong focus on cyber-security and of schedule Our full-year pro forma underlying operating in 2017, more than €1 billion of which was in food. protecting customer data. €62.7bn margin was 3.9%, driven by synergies, compared I’m pleased to report that we’re on track to deliver In this atmosphere of change, there’s only to 3.7% in 2016. We delivered a strong free cash close to €5 billion in online sales by 2020. As part one way to thrive – by embracing, and driving, flow of €1.9 billion and we continued to invest in our of this drive, we’re making significant investments change ourselves. stores and online channels, while returning excess to further support our e-commerce growth and liquidity to shareholders. We completed a €1 billion Full-year pro forma sales build our online warehouse capacity. share buyback and launched a new €2 billion We are also supporting and encouraging the program for 2018. shift to healthier diets, using the power of our own With our strong balance sheet, we are pleased brands to offer new and exciting choices in fresh to propose a dividend of €0.63 per share, and provide affordable organic products. And the an increase of 10.5% compared to last year’s strength of our combined company is helping us dividend. It represents a payout ratio of 47% do all of this – and more – even better than before. of pro forma underlying income from continuing operations, reflecting our ambition to sustainably grow the dividend per share. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 07 Message from our CEO continued A year of being better together We continued to invest in e-commerce and digital This year, our Albert Heijn Our own brands are also differentiating our solutions to let customers shop when and how they businesses in the minds of today’s value-focused Since its launch, our Better Together strategy Foundation, which invests in want, and to drive sales growth. A highlight for me customers. We are investing to optimize our ownhas positioned us to drive the trends in our came when bol.com opened a new automated local community initiatives for brand portfolios and leveraging expertise from markets. In 2017, all our brands continued to its fruit, vegetable and flower fulfillment center to facilitate growth, expand its both sides of the Atlantic to provide healthy and innovate with the goal of providing a seamless online and in-store experience tailored to assortment and ensure even faster delivery to suppliers in Africa, celebrated convenient choices for our customers. Albert Heijn customers’ needs – to make shopping easier, customers. The brand already offers customers its 10th anniversary. In the past improved the quality of hundreds of own-brand the option to get many popular items on their decade, over 30,000 children products during the year. We introduced our hassle-free and more personal. doorsteps hours after ordering. Dutch Etos health and beauty care brand at In the Netherlands, Albert Heijn to go is and adults in 10 African supermarkets across Europe following a launch launching a checkout-free concept for stores, In 2017, Albert Heijn took another step forward countries have benefited from in the U.S. in 2016. In the U.S., our “free from” and in satisfying increasingly busy customers when the Foundation’s investment in where customers can tap a card on the shelf organic lines are popular with health-focused it started to test a new online service called label to purchase products without going through “Rappie,” that promises delivery in as little as two education alone and this year customers, and in 2017, our U.S. brands exceeded a checkout line. We call it “tap to go.” Peapod, we plan to expand its activities $1 billion in sales from these products. We are now hours. Our brands are also delivering more value our online grocer in the U.S., introduced a voicemerging the Nature’s Promise and Nature’s Place enabled ordering tool. And Giant is experimenting and convenience to customers through meal kits to South America. lines and expect the combined brand to achieve that contain all of the pre-measured ingredients to with robots in its stores. sales of $1.5 billion by 2020. cook a nutritious meal. The customer response at Across the company, we are developing and Peapod, for example, has been very positive, with To make all of this possible, we continue to look further enhancing our digital loyalty programs meal kits sales up over 60% in the past year and for smarter and better ways of doing things and ability to provide personalized offers customers giving them an average rating of more while savings from our “save for our customers” and promotions to customers. For example, than four out of five stars on Peapod’s website. programs are being reinvested in the businesses. Hannaford launched its My Hannaford Rewards We are investing in unique experiences in our Caring for communities near and far loyalty program and Food Lion enriched its supermarkets – for example at Albert, which loyalty program with a digital Shop & Earn Sustainable retailing remains very close to our completely remodeled its flagship store in Prague program during the year, both offering rewards hearts and an integral part of our Better Together with an inspiring new fresh market concept that and personalized savings to customers. strategy. We have committed to reduce food waste is achieving double-digit growth. Busy customers And AB Vassilopoulos in Greece made in our own operations by 20% between 2016 also look to our brands’ supermarkets to do the great improvements in its existing customer and 2020, and I’m pleased to report that two of cooking for them – Hannaford has been adding loyalty program. our brands – Albert Heijn and Delhaize Belgium Hannaford Kitchen locations that provide freshly – already recycle 100% of food waste. One way made, grab-and-go meal options from stir fry we reduce waste is by donating unsold food to and hand-battered fried chicken to signature local food banks. Delhaize in Belgium continues sandwiches. They have proved to be popular to work towards its pledge to redistribute at least with customers. In Romania, Mega Image half of all unsold food to people in need by 2020 in opened its first Mega Apetit convenience store, partnership with about 200 food banks and other where customers can buy ready-made meals for charitable associations in its communities. immediate consumption. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 08 Message from our CEO continued Hannaford and Food Lion continue to support A strong leadership team In April, Stephanie Shern stepped down from Outlook local food bank initiatives and donated 40,735 our Supervisory Board, and later in the year Having the right leadership team in place is Looking ahead to 2018, we confirm our target of tonnes of food in 2017. Stop & Shop made a we announced that Jack Stahl would also step important for driving our strategy. We’ve had realizing €420 million in net synergies. Free cash $780,000 donation to 810 public and private down, due to other business commitments. several leadership changes during the year that flow was exceptionally strong in 2017, and we schools in Connecticut through its school Board member René Hooft Graafland agreed I’d like to mention. Wouter Kolk, Brand President expect it to be at a similar level in 2018 after taking fundraising program. to take over his duties as Chairman of the Audit, of Albert Heijn, has joined our Executive Committee into account a cash benefit of around €200 million Finance and Risk Committee. We are grateful for Our brands have also launched initiatives outside as Chief Operating Officer the Netherlands and resulting from the U.S. tax reforms. Our capital their years of service and the contributions they of their markets. This year, our Albert Heijn Belgium. As of January 1, 2019, he is also expenditure is expected to increase to €1.9 billion made to the merger process and establishing Foundation, which invests in local community proposed to succeed our Chief Operating in 2018, focused on improving our store network, our new company. initiatives for fruit, vegetable and flower suppliers Officer Europe and Indonesia, Pierre Bouchut, expanding our omni-channel offering and further in Africa, celebrated its 10th anniversary. In the who retired this year and will remain available Our associates are key developing our digital capabilities. Following tax past decade, over 30,000 children and adults as an advisor and for specific initiatives until reforms in the U.S. and Belgium, we expect the to our success in 10 African countries have benefited from July 1, 2018. I am pleased with Wouter’s effective tax rate for the company to move to the the Foundation’s investment in education alone expanding role and grateful for the important We rely on hundreds of thousands of dedicated low 20% range going forward. and this year we plan to expand its activities contributions Pierre made throughout the merger. associates to be the human face of our local to South America. brands to customers, suppliers and communities In closing As part of the creation of Ahold Delhaize USA, every day. This is why our promise to become I would like to close by thanking associates I was proud that, as a result of these and other we appointed Kevin Holt as Chief Executive a better place to work is so fundamental. I’m for their dedication to local customers across activities, we ranked again among industry Officer Ahold Delhaize USA. In this new role, happy to say that our latest company-wide survey all our brands, and for embracing change and leaders in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index he remains a member of our Management showed a strong participation rate and an overall innovation so that we can keep getting better (DJSI) World list with a score of 73 in the Food Board and Executive Committee. I’m confident engagement rate among associates of 78%. together. I would also like to thank customers for and Staples Retailing sector – well above the that Kevin is the right person to guide our U.S. In years to come we hope to continue to build on inspiring us every day. And, of course, I want to industry average score of 45. You can read businesses through this time of continuous these good results. It is also why we feel it is so thank our shareholders for their continued support more about our sustainable retailing activities change and evolving customer expectations. important that the diversity of our customer base of our company. in this Annual Report, including our performance is reflected in our own businesses. We have many We have also welcomed another new member on our 2020 targets and how we continue to work initiatives to support diversity and inclusion; one All the best, to our Executive Committee – our Global Chief in line with the UN Global Compact principles. highlight for me is the progress our Food Lion and Information Officer Ben Wishart – and created Dick Boer We also recognize the importance of the UN Hannaford brands are making, both in learning a new role, Chief Digital Officer, to be responsible President and CEO Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and and development opportunities for associates for driving digital transformation and innovation. support multiple SDGs through our sustainability and in their offerings to diverse customers. This new role will replace the role of Chief efforts as part of our Better Together strategy. Their good work was recognized with several eCommerce and Innovation Officer, formerly held by Hanneke Faber, who left the company external awards in 2017. in December. I thank Hanneke for the great contribution she made in defining and carrying out our digital and omni-channel growth strategy. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 09 Who we are More than 50m customers served 20 great local brands are at the 1 6,637 stores serving our local communities every week heart of our business in Europe and the United States For more information on For more information on our great For more information on where our value chain, see page 11 local brands, see page 13 we operate, see page 20 1 Including the brands of our joint venture partners. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 10 Group highlights Net sales Underlying operating income Underlying operating margin Net income €62.9bn (+26.6%) €2.5bn (+29.3%) 3.9%(+0.1%) €1,817m (+118.9%) Pro forma net sales Pro forma underlying operating income Pro forma underlying operating margin Pro forma net income €62.7bn Pro forma net sales (+0.6%) €2.5bn Pro forma underlying operating income (+6.9%) 3.9% Pro forma underlying operating margin (+0.2%) €1,828m Pro forma net income (+69.6%) 62.7 2.5 1,828 3.9% 62.3 2.3 2.2 3.7% 60.9 1,203 1,078 3.5% 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Pro forma net consumer online sales Free cash flow1 Pro forma underlying income per share Dividend per common share €2.8bn €1.9bn €0.63 from continuing operations 2016: €2.3bn (+21.1%) 2016: €1.4bn (+33.7%) €1.272016: €1.17 2016: €0.57 (+10.5%) (+8.5%) Own-brand sales from healthy products Associate engagement score Dow Jones Sustainability Index Carbon-equivalent emissions per m2 46% 2016: 42% 78% Industry benchmark: 81% 73 Industry average: 45 467kg 2016: 504 kg (+9.5%) Retail trade area benchmark: 69% (-7.3%) 1 In 2017, after €1.7 billion capital expenditure (2016: after €1.7 billion capital expenditure). For the definition of pro forma and other alternative performance measures, see Definitions – performance measures section. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 11 Our value chain Ahold Delhaize’s impact goes beyond what happens in our stores Suppliers Ahold Delhaize and distribution centers. From farm to fork, we partner with numerous stakeholders to increase value and 82% Of own-brand coffee 59% Of own-brand production 91% Of own-brand 78% 27% Associate CO2 reduction is certified against an locations in high-risk production locations engagement compared improve sustainability throughout acceptable standard countries are audited are food safety-certified score to 2008 the full supply chain. for working conditions As a food retailer, we can have a significant impact on making the value chain more sustainable. To focus our efforts, we have identified the Raw materials Production Distribution areas where we can have the most influence. We are committed to partnering with our suppliers We sell products that come from Our products are made from raw Products are delivered to our and others to make a meaningful contribution farms and natural resources around materials and packaged for sale. warehouses and prepared for in these areas and build on our promises to be the world and in our own communities. transport to stores or pick-up points. In partnership with suppliers a better place to shop, a better place to work, Our strong product safety and we innovate to drive sustainable We reduce our carbon footprint and a better neighbor. sustainability standards help us production practices, reduce through energy efficient conserve resources right from the food waste, and push for high distribution centers and For more information, see Sustainable Retailing data start of our value chain. safety standards. transportation. in the Sustainability performance section in this report 369 505 thousand Pick-up 29m Loyalty card members Customers Associates points Shop now Open 46% Of own-brand sales are 52,731 Tonnes of from healthy products food donated Retail operations Online Retail stores Consumption Communities Customers can shop with us Over We do what we can to make sure We support local communities 23.4% 50m in stores and online. our products are consumed in ways in all stages of the value chain, The diverse teams of associates that benefit our customers and from sourcing local products in at our brands are empowered support healthier communities neighborhoods around our stores to improve the health and Increase in customers by helping people eat better to working on projects with sustainability of our operations, net consumer in our stores and reduce food waste. suppliers in Africa. supporting our long-term success. online sales per week Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 12 Our value chain continued Sourcing more sustainable coffee Coffee is one of the seven commodities we recognize as “critical,” which means it is an area of focus for us in driving more sustainable production. Today, 82% of our own-brand coffee is certified, ensuring that the coffee our brands buy is sourced from farmers who receive fair pay under decent labor conditions and is responsibly produced with modest use of fertilizers, pesticides, water and energy. Product sustainability For a company like ours with a global spread Telling the story of where food of suppliers, production locations and farmers, In addition, we are working on an upcoming To drive sustainability throughout comes from this is an ongoing challenge – and opportunity. project to develop drought-resistant trees in the global value chain, Ahold Tanzania and provide local farmers with highMaxi in Serbia put local One challenge we are tackling is to make it easier Delhaize has implemented several quality seedlings at a lower price. We are also producers in the spotlight for our customers to maintain healthy diets and performance indicators and targets eat fresh foods. However, fresh products have proud to have joined up with the Sustainable through its Small Farmer Project at each of the chain’s stages. Coffee Challenge, which aims to make coffee to help build customer trust in its a shorter shelf life and can lead to more waste, the first fully sustainable agricultural product. For example, we have put in place sustainable both in our own operations and in our customers’ fruit and vegetable assortment. homes. We reduce our own waste by preventing sourcing targets for seven critical commodities The campaign focused on authentic stories it in the first place through inventory management (coffee, tea, cocoa, seafood, palm oil, soy and of local families that produce food for Maxi and by sharing best practices to redistribute wood fiber). To reach these targets, we partner stores. It was named the most memorable unsold food and we also provide advice to help with farmers, suppliers and industry groups to corporate campaign in Serbia and helped customers to prevent food waste at home. drive more sustainable production. increase customer perception of the quality In addition, our online sales are increasing of Maxi’s fruits and vegetables. It requires a continuous effort to map and and these bring new environmental and social understand the global food supply chain so we challenges around sustainable packaging, can assess how natural resources are used, for customer service and more environmentallyinstance, or how good working conditions are friendly transportation. One way we are monitored and ensured. addressing these challenges is by moving Increasing the transparency of environmental towards cleaner, quieter and more economical and social impacts in our own business and (electric) trucks in urban areas. along the value chain helps us evaluate where and how we can improve. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 13 Our great local brands Our strong and trusted local brands are leaders in their markets and are at the heart of our businesses. We have been selling great food 109,000 95,000 Total associates Total associates 102,000 Total associates for 150 years, and today we meet Ahold USA Delhaize America The Netherlands the changing needs of shoppers with our omni-channel offering. Customers can shop whenever and however is most convenient for them through our network of stores and online businesses. We offer customers a wide range of choices, with great quality and value and an easy and inspiring shopping experience. We make it simpler than ever for them to bring home healthy products to their families. All our local brands are committed to being sustainable retailers 14,000 49,000 369,000 and better neighbors by making meaningful contributions in the communities they serve. For more information about our brands, visit our website at www.aholddelhaize.com Total associates Total associates Total associates Belgium Central and Ahold Delhaize Southeastern Europe Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 14 Our great local brands Ahold USA 1 Market Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Market Pennsylvania, Maryland, area Jersey, New York and Rhode Island area Virginia and West Virginia Formats Supermarkets, superstores, Formats Supermarkets, superstores, online shopping online shopping Stores 414 Stores 171 Customer My Stop & Shop helps me save Customer Dedicated to providing proposition money, save time and eat well proposition a great shopping experience, from food to fuel to pharmacy, through exceptional quality, value and service 2 Market Delaware, District of Columbia, Market 12 states across the U.S. area Maryland and Virginia area East Coast and Midwest plus the District of Columbia Formats Supermarkets, superstores, Formats Online grocery shopping online shopping Stores 167 Stores Online store Customer My Giant helps me save money, Customer We make life easier. We give proposition save time and eat well proposition our customers the time back to do the things they love 1 Also referred to as Giant Carlisle. 2 Also referred to as Giant Landover. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 15 Our great local brands Delhaize America Market Delaware, Georgia, Kentucky, Market Maine, Massachusetts, area Maryland, North Carolina, area New Hampshire, New York Pennsylvania, South Carolina, and Vermont Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia Formats Supermarkets, online shopping Formats Supermarkets, online shopping Stores 1,027 Stores 181 Customer Easy, Fresh & Affordable… Customer The full shop… fresh, local, proposition You Can Count on Food Lion proposition priced right, healthy, Every Day! great service Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 16 Our great local brands The Netherlands Market The Netherlands, Belgium Market The Netherlands area and Germany area Formats Supermarkets, convenience stores, Formats Drugstores, online shopping online shopping Stores 1,010 Stores 552 Customer Everybody Appie Customer The best drugstore with the best proposition proposition and affordable solutions for Health, Beauty, Care & Baby Market The Netherlands Market The Netherlands, Belgium area area Formats Wine and liquor stores, Formats Online shopping for online shopping general merchandise Stores 601 Stores Online store Customer Everyone an expert Customer The store for all of us proposition proposition Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 17 Our great local brands Belgium Market Belgium and Luxembourg area Formats Supermarkets, convenience stores, online shopping Stores 764 Customer On the side of life proposition Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 18 Our great local brands Central and Southeastern Europe Market Czech Republic Market Serbia Market Serbia area area area Formats Supermarkets, Formats Supermarkets, convenience stores, Formats Hypermarkets compact hypers online shopping Stores 329 Stores 394 Stores 20 Customer It is worth it to eat better Customer Always fresh, always near, Customer Always in action proposition proposition always Maxi proposition Market Greece Market Greece Market Romania area area area Formats Supermarkets, convenience stores, Formats Cash and carry Formats Supermarkets, convenience stores, online shopping online shopping Stores 396 Stores 16 Stores 595 Customer The joy of offering the best Customer Your partner for Customer Enjoy your life proposition proposition competitive grocery proposition Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 19 Our great local brands Joint ventures Market Portugal Market Indonesia area area Formats Supermarkets, convenience stores, Formats Compact supermarkets, online shopping supermarkets, online shopping Stores 422 Stores 157 Customer It tastes good to pay so little Customer Fresher, affordable, closer proposition proposition Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 20 Where we operate United States Europe Asia 61% 39% Food Lion Giant Albert Heijn Maxi Super Indo2 Stop & Shop Peapod Delhaize Tempo 369,000 Hannaford Etos AB net sales Giant / Martin’s net sales Gall & Gall ENA bol.com Mega Image Albert Pingo Doce2 associates For more information on our For more information on our U.S. brands, see pages 14 and 15 European brands, see pages 16 to 19 6,637 stores worldwide 11 countries1 1 Including the countries where our joint venture partners operate (i.e., Portugal and Indonesia). 2 Joint venture brands. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 21 The world around us Open Customer needs are We identify what’s most Being a sustainable retailer changing fast, and technology important to our stakeholders means engaging with the people is transforming how people shop. and integrate it into our strategy, our businesses impact. For more information on to help us run successful, For more information on our markets, see page 22 sustainable businesses. our stakeholders, see page 25 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 22 Market overview The world around us is moving Macro trends Economics Resource availability fast and consumer needs keep Everywhere we operate, consumers remain focused The changing climate and a growing global changing – in response, retailers on value. In the United States, economic growth demand for food are putting natural resources are transforming the shopping is expected to continue at a moderate pace in increasingly under pressure all over the world. experience with new formats, 2018. While the U.S. unemployment rate continues As resources such as water and soil nutrients products and technologies. to decline, consumer confidence levels are above become scarcer, this will likely continue those of the peak in 2007. Europe’s forecast remains We have designed our Better Together strategy to affect agriculture and our ability to source positive, though growth is expected to slightly to ensure our great local brands stay ahead certain products in the future. “Commodity decelerate when compared to previous years. of these changes, build customer loyalty and crunches” could substantially impact food In the Netherlands, growth in purchasing power attract new shoppers. The trends we focus on retailers because many of the products we remains relatively low, despite a growing GDP fall under three main categories: macro trends, sell are based on raw materials like corn, and decreasing unemployment rate. In Belgium, consumer trends and industry trends. wheat and rice. the economy is expected to continue to grow moderately and inflation is expected to normalize Technology from the high levels we saw in 2017. A common The pace of technological change is increasing theme for the Central and Southeastern Europe at an extraordinary rate, and this has direct region will be the continued upward pressure on implications for our industry and the way people wages resulting from low unemployment and / or shop. More of the objects that people use regulatory measures. More specifically, the Greek every day, such as televisions, refrigerators and market is expected to continue its slow recovery, personal wearables, are getting connected while Romania’s growth might slightly decelerate to the Internet, and are tracking and compared to previous years. The Czech Republic collecting data. and Serbia are expected to face continued growth and normalizing inflation. Companies are using this data to develop closer relationships with shoppers by understanding Demographics their personal preferences and being able Population growth is slowing in all our markets, to cater to them – or even predict new ones. especially in Europe, and the consumer base This wealth of data supports the development is aging. This impacts retailers as older customers of artificial intelligence and automated devices show preferences for more luxurious and healthy such as self-driving trucks and warehouse foods, meal solutions and home delivery and can robots. The exponential development of require more in-store assistance. In addition, our technologies will impact the labor force and communities are becoming increasingly diverse companies have already started to think about in terms of ethnicity, household composition, how to ensure associates have the right skills affluence and urban versus suburban, all of which going forward. mean that customers are demanding more diverse offerings from retailers. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 23 Market overview continued Consumer trends Value Health and well-being Transparency and sustainability Nearly a decade after the 2008 economic Consumers are more aware of the relationship In our markets, we believe food is safer today downturn, we are still feeling its effects, as between the food they eat and their overall health than ever before. Nevertheless, consumers evidenced by a continued focus on value and well-being; at the same time, diet-related remain concerned about food safety. They want and budget-consciousness and the growth diseases – such as heart disease, diabetes and more information on where their food comes of low-cost players operating stores and online. malnutrition – remain a growing issue worldwide. from and how their buying decisions can impact Consumers are also redefining what value means Customers want more transparency about what the environment and lives of people all over to them as something much more personal than is in their food, and want to understand the health the world, for example, through climate change in the past. They are less loyal to brands and effects of, for example, additives like sweeteners or working conditions. They expect retailers formats, and have the technology to quickly and and artificial colors, or the use of plastics in to help them make sustainable choices, and easily compare offers – so providing great value packaging and antibiotics to prevent disease in to ensure the integrity of the supply chain for money remains a license to operate. animals. Consumers who are inspired to strive wherever they can. for healthier and cleaner lifestyles are prioritizing But being affordable increasingly means being New technologies, such as blockchain, are fruits, vegetables, nuts and grains or even able to present customers with the right offers, offering retailers and manufacturers opportunities adopting vegetarian or vegan diets. We are seeing personalized to their needs, at the right time. to improve supply chain transparency and a rapidly emerging trend towards personalized traceability. Convenience nutrition, where consumers receive individual Customers have busy lifestyles and are advice based on elements such as their own Connection and communities DNA, gut bacteria or habits. increasingly pressed for time. While they are People everywhere are searching for a feeling more conscious of the need to eat healthier, they of community and personal connection. They have less time and ability to cook nutritious food. are getting involved in their local neighborhoods, This is especially true of the Millennial generation. buying more local products and supporting local businesses. In parallel, they connect with others As a result, fresh ready meal offerings that can who share their interests and values on social be eaten immediately or quickly prepared at media and in online communities. home continue to grow in popularity. The need for a fast and easy shopping experience also extends to format choice, with customers looking for smaller stores that are quicker to shop, convenient locations that reduce their travel time and cost, and multiple delivery options for their online orders. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 24 Market overview continued Industry trends Consolidation Online and mobile Own brands There is a great deal of consolidation today, The total e-commerce market continues to The importance of own brands continues to in both the retail and consumer packaged expand. It is expected to grow by 10-15% each grow, driven by factors that include Millennials’ goods industries, where companies seek year through 2020 – and food e-commerce pursuit of better value for money. While own scale advantages in sourcing and other is expected to grow even faster. With their brands used to be inferior to national brands areas. In addition to this, corporations are broad store base, traditional retailers are wellin quality and packaging design, they are increasingly cooperating with start-ups for positioned to serve the rising expectations achieving tremendous improvements in these a number of reasons, among others to boost of customers who expect ever greater areas, and at a lower price-point compared to growth and protect themselves from disruption. convenience and faster delivery, including equivalent national brands. This is particularly Through partnerships and mergers and same-day. Stores may become more hybrid true in the case of product lines focused on acquisitions activities, companies are able by catering to the needs of the traditional organic or health and well-being. to secure access to new products, services shopper while also serving as micro fulfillment Own brands continue to offer retailers an and / or capabilities, while serving both centers. In addition to offering their own last-mile opportunity to distinguish their brands from existing and new customers. services (through stores, pickup points and the competition and to build customer loyalty. home delivery), traditional retailers are starting Diversification to deepen their relationships with third-party Channel and format diversification remains delivery services, especially to fulfill customers’ prevalent in the retail industry. More and more, need for immediate gratification. customers shop for food at multiple retailers Pure online companies are looking for physical in multiple segments – they want to get their touchpoints to connect with consumers and favorite products at the best possible price and enhance the convenience and service they can in the most efficient way. In the continuing effort provide. They are launching often innovative to respond to these customer needs, retailers store-based formats that push the boundaries are developing their existing formats and adding of creating a more frictionless customer new ones, leading to increased competition. experience. New interfaces, such as voice, Smaller household sizes and urbanization are increasingly popular, making it important mean that, in addition to value, customers are for retailers to have a multi-channel strategy. showing a preference for stores that are easily accessible. They are moving away from large weekly grocery shopping trips and shopping more often, visiting nearby supermarkets and convenience stores more frequently. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 25 Our stakeholders Our stakeholders help us to get During 2017, we invited key internal and external Celebrating centuries of serving customers stakeholders to give us their feedback on Ahold better every day by challenging us, Delhaize’s most material economic, social and giving us insight into their concerns, environmental impacts. We have shared the results offering feedback on how we are of this feedback in our updated materiality matrix. doing, and collaborating with us In 2015, United Nations member states around to solve the problems and issues the world adopted a set of goals to end poverty, we all face. We engage with them protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all in both formal and informal ways as part of their sustainable development agenda. throughout the year. For these Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to be reached, governments, the private sector As an international retailer, our list of stakeholders and civil society needs to act together. Along with is extensive. We consider three stakeholder our stakeholders we recognize the importance of groups – customers, associates and communities this undertaking, and we support multiple SDGs – as the ones most critical to serve to ensure we Our oldest brand, Delhaize Belgium, To mark its 130th anniversary, through our sustainability efforts as part of our are being the best retailer we can be. These are Better Together strategy. As a food retail company, the stakeholders to whom we link our promises to celebrated its 150th anniversary Albert Heijn organized a special we have identified the SDGs on which we can be a better place to shop, a better place to work, in 2017 with activities including symposium called “All the ingredients have the biggest impact and make a difference and a better neighbor. In addition, we commit a donation to the Make-A-Wish for better living. For everyone.” for society in the long term. to transparency and high integrity with a broad Foundation for each Delhaize Approximately 200 guests attended, list of stakeholders that have a strong interest in See Our response to stakeholder needs and own-brand product sold with the including associates and representatives from Sustainability performance sections (pages 49 our company, including shareholders, suppliers “150-years-Make-A-Wish” symbol. business, politics and industry organizations and 250 respectively) for more information on (many of whom are part of our local communities), our progress on SDG-related targets – for roundtable discussions on themes governments and NGOs. Delhaize also held a successful wine fair like the future of food; work and shopping; highlighting its 150 years of wine experience. For more information on how we respond technological developments; and sustainable to our stakeholders’ needs see page 49 society. The day led to many valuable ideas and insights that were incorporated into Albert Heijn’s strategy and bundled in a commemorative book to keep inspiring for years to come. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 26 Our stakeholders continued Customers Associates Communities Shareholders Customers are the lifeblood of our Associates in our local brands Our brands touch the lives of millions We strongly believe that by businesses. Our great local brands bring our strategy to life every day of people every day and are in serving customers, associates and engage with them every time they for customers. continuous dialogue with members communities well, our businesses visit the stores or shop online. How we engage with our associates of the broader communities where will prosper and our shareholders How we engage with our customers They work together in collaborative, teamthey operate. will benefit. We stay tuned in to what they want through thirdbased settings in local stores, warehouses, These communities are made up of many Our shareholders put their trust in us by investing party surveys, consumer studies, focus groups, and corporate offices. All our brands leverage different stakeholders, including governments, in Ahold Delhaize financially, and we respect their and through the immediate feedback they provide formal touchpoints to engage associates such civic organizations, schools, research institutes, input because it helps us become a better retailer. to our customer service departments, associates, as a regular performance review process, industry bodies, charitable organizations, websites and social media. recognition and reward programs, and interactive How we engage with our shareholders franchisees and affiliates, and of course, suppliers. training programs. Shareholders monitor our company closely and How we are listening to our customers How we engage with our communities support and challenge us on our strategy and how Customers tell us they want competitive prices In 2017, we conducted an associate engagement We engage with communities in person, through we manage our businesses. We communicate and a great shopping experience. They want survey using a common platform across all partnerships, memberships, sponsorships, with them through quarterly disclosures and healthier eating to be more accessible, more fun of our Ahold Delhaize brands. We had a strong and in dialogue with key organizations that both financial and non-financial performance and more delicious, and they want high-quality participation rate of 85% and saw an overall overlap with our work as food retailers. With our briefings – such as during our annual General products that are made with respect for people, engagement rate of 78%. Associates are proud suppliers, we maintain multiple communication Meeting of Shareholders and capital market days animals and the planet. of our businesses and likely to recommend channels, including face-to-face meetings, online – presentations and exchanges with analysts them as good places to work. They enjoy a work communication and supplier events. At a local and investors. See examples of how we respond to our customers’ environment with a strong sense of purpose and needs in: Our purpose page 30, Our sustainable and global level, we play an active role in industry a high level of resources and support, where How we are listening to our shareholders business model page 32, and Our promises page 38 associations and other bodies. diversity is valued. Associates would like to see To demonstrate our commitment to long-term a continued focus on training, development and How we are listening to our communities success, our disclosures cover our financial well-being. Our community stakeholders provide valuable performance and our progress on our Better feedback, for example, on how we can be a Together strategy, including our targets to build How we are listening to our associates stronger partner in creating healthier communities. a more sustainable business. We aim to run strong businesses that offer Input from our suppliers, both local and global, stable jobs and great careers and provide helps us to create better products for customers, For more information on our financial performance, working environments where associates are see page 58 find new ways to reduce food waste and increase respected and appreciated. Our businesses are economic, social and environmental value for committed to the principles of equal employment the communities we source from throughout the opportunities, freedom of association, and supply chain. respecting legal rights to collective bargaining. See examples of our projects to build better See examples of great initiatives for and by associates communities in: Our promises page 38 in: Our promises page 38, and Our values page 46 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 27 Business review €62.9bn Net sales 78% Our associate engagement score 50% We aim to increase sales of healthy own-brand products #1 We aim to be the #1 or #2 supermarket brand in every in 2017 to 50% by 2020 local market For more information on our financial For more information on For more information on our For more information on our sustainable performance, see page 58 our promises, see page 38 material topics, see page 50 business model, see page 32 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 28 Our Better Together strategy Ahold Delhaize’s strategy is empowering our great local brands to offer the best to customers, associates, communities and shareholders. Our strategy defines the kind of group we want to Better Together builds on strengths shared be, what drives us, and how our brands will win in across the group while enabling each brand all our markets. We based our strategy on the most to apply those strengths according to the significant issues for our business as well as the specific and unique local needs of its customers. needs of our key stakeholders. We measure the execution of our strategy using a series of metrics, including financial and Our brands each face different market conditions non-financial performance metrics. and customer needs while sharing common challenges and opportunities. The following section will take you through all the elements of our strategy. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 29 Our Better Together strategy continued Our Better Together strategy guides our decisions and actions in today’s Our purpose fast-changing environment. The different elements of our strategy Together, we build Great Local Brands, bringing Fresh Inspiration Every Day are closely interconnected and work together to help us offer the best to our key stakeholders. Our sustainable business model Our promises Our purpose, sustainable business model, promises and values give associates in all our brands a common language for talking about the business and reinforce our shared commitment to sustainability. Save for our customers: Invest in our customer • Buy better ...D proposition: A better Our business model ensures our great local .. ri • Operate smarter o. •A ffordable for all place to brands have the resources and direction to invest ve t sa m • Waste less ve •B est own brands shop in the right areas to help us grow together, and our Sa •Fresher & healthier group-wide focus on creating value for customers, e store sales •M ost local & associates, communities and shareholders will personal service Every drive our long-term success. Fund growth Day in key channels: A better A better • Supermarkets ... place to ... An neighbor • eCommerce df work u nd • Smaller formats grow th... For more information on how we deliver against For more information on how we meet our sustainable business model, see page 32 our promises, see page 38 Our values For more information on our values, Courage Integrity Teamwork Care Humor see page 46 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 30 Our purpose Together, we build Great Local Brands, bringing Fresh Inspiration Every Day. We strive to live up to our purpose Fresh Inspiration: Our brands are known not in everything we do. only for their fresh offerings – from fruits and vegetables to delicious prepared meals – but also Together: Across all our brands and functions, for their innovative spirit. They inspire customers we learn from each other, share best practices, with new and exciting products and services and realize the benefits of our scale. to help them solve the everyday challenge Great Local Brands: We operate local retail of bringing affordable, healthy and tasty meals businesses, active on three continents, each to the table. under its own brand name that is well-known Every Day: Our brands fulfill customers’ daily and well-loved by local customers. needs and are there for them every single day. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 31 Our purpose Fresh inspiration Fresh stores, fresh inspiration Food Lion is remodeling stores in its markets in the Southeast United States as part of the rollout of its strategy: “Easy, Fresh and Affordable … You Can Count on Food Lion Every Day.” What’s on Appie Today? The remodels enable Food Lion to bring fresh inspiration to their customers and make specific Albert Heijn launched an strategy elements come alive in ways that interactive online channel customers can see and experience. In addition with programs made for and to freshening up the look and feel of the stores, by customers and associates in the brand is upgrading checkouts to make it faster and easier for customers to get in and an innovative effort to connect out quickly. Coupled with improved customer with people and reach out to service through the brand’s shift to a “count younger consumers. on me” culture, the changes are yielding Appie Today consists of daily shows, impressive results, fueling sales growth at the documentaries, and series about life both brand. In 2017, Food Lion remodeled a total within and outside the supermarket, on of 164 stores. topics including food, trends, current affairs, 164 bloopers, and even love. The channel is part of Albert Heijn’s goal to create a social video platform, that will someday be fully autonomous. It makes Albert Heijn one of Food Lion stores the first supermarkets in the world to go into remodeled in 2017 online television, claiming a special position in the media landscape. 25million Number of Appie Today views in 2017 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 32 Our sustainable business model Our sustainable business model is a continuous cycle that describes how we create value for all our stakeholders – including customers, associates, communities and shareholders. We work to find savings in each area of our Our business model guides brand strategies businesses and then invest these savings to and priorities, enabling us to move in the same benefit customers and keep building our direction as a group while simultaneously meeting omni-channel offering. local customer needs and market challenges. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 33 Our sustainable business model continued Save for our I nvest in our Fund growth customers customer proposition in key channels To jump-start this continuous cycle, Our brands invest the money we save Fresher and healthier Ahold Delhaize seeks to fund growth into the local customer proposition Across Ahold Delhaize we believe our brands in three key channels – supermarkets, we always look for ways to save for have an opportunity and a responsibility to our customers. We evaluate every to provide a great overall shopping make healthier eating easy, tasty, affordable and e-commerce and smaller formats – so area of our businesses to see where experience that meets customers’ rewarding for customers – especially through that our brands can be there wherever we can do things smarter and better changing needs and continues to broad fresh and healthier product assortments. and however customers shop. to save money, conserve resources build loyalty to our brands. For more information on how we are providing Supermarkets and reduce waste. Affordable for all a fresher and healthier offering as part of our Supermarkets are the core channel and the main promise to be a better place to shop, see page 41 We want every family in our trading areas to focus of our investments. Our brands work to keep Buy better be able to do their weekly shopping with one Most local and personal service their stores regularly refreshed and remodeled Our brands cultivate long-term partnerships of our brands, regardless of their budget, so Each great local brand works to build stronger so they remain appealing to customers. Across with suppliers, working together to innovate our local businesses continue to make pricing relationships with customers – through the service the group we aim to be the #1 or #2 supermarket and develop own-brand product ranges. more competitive. provided by every associate in every store and brand in every local market where we operate. They also achieve savings through buying alliances. In sourcing practices, we aim to through best-in-class personalized offerings, For more information on how we are expanding Best own brands our supermarket business, see page 36 always operate in a competitive and fair way. enabled by technology. Our brands target their Each of our great local brands focuses on assortments to the needs of people in their Operate smarter building innovative own-brand product ranges, E-commerce neighborhoods and sell a wide range of products Our local businesses are streamlining operations such as our organic and free from lines, to keep Across our brands, we continue to invest in from local suppliers. By supporting the causes to achieve cost efficiencies. differentiating itself from other retailers and e-commerce, to make shopping more convenient, that local customers and associates care about, maintain its competitive edge. affordable, personal and inspiring. Our great local For more information on how we are operating each brand deepens its involvement in the smarter to streamline shopping, see page 34 For more information on how we are fulfilling local community. brands constantly improve the quality of their customer needs with our own brands as part service, tailor the assortment to meet or exceed of our promise to be a better place to shop, For more information on how we are providing a Waste less personalized shopping experience for customers, customer expectations, and make online shopping see page 40 Our brands are reducing shrink through see page 35 available to more people. inventory controls, and through resourceful For more information on how we are growing initiatives, such as donating food that would our e-commerce business, see page 37 otherwise be wasted, to help people in need. For more information on our efforts to reduce Smaller formats food waste, see page 45 Our brands are continuously developing their small formats and testing new ones, to fulfill customers’ growing demand for convenience. For more information on how we are bringing our business model to life, please visit our website at https://www.aholddelhaize.com/en/strategy/ Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 34 Our sustainable business model in action Operate smarter Save for our customers The context Our response How we are delivering Our Dutch brand, Albert Heijn to go, is launching on our strategy new technology that streamlines the shopping Retail has always been a We set the wheel of our business experience and takes grab-and-go convenience competitive industry, and customer model in motion by saving for our Our U.S. brands are testing a unique new store to the next level. Called “tap to go,” it allows needs and new technologies are customers – and one important way assistant – Marty the robot. With a friendly look and customers to pay for items in a store without googly eyes, Marty maneuvers around, performing driving transformative change we do this is by operating smarter. checks that help the store run more smoothly going through a checkout line. Using a card today more than ever. – and in the future a smartphone – customers We are always looking for new ways of doing and safely for both customers and associates. can select an item, tap an electronic shelf card Across channels, retailers are striving to offer things that streamline our operations and improve The robot can scan the floor for slip or trip hazards and go. better, more innovative products and services our customers’ shopping experience. In doing and page for clean-up assistance, and eventually at a great value. Consumer expectations so, we are driven by our objectives to save costs, will be able to look for errors in shelf pricing and are rising too. Shoppers want better quality save time and make life easier for both customers identify out-of-stocks so that associates can and more convenience – and all at affordable and associates. replenish the shelves and customers can find what prices. Retailers have to be smarter than they need. Marty is currently roaming the aisles ever in order to give their customers what of four Giant Carlisle stores during a pilot program, they want and stay ahead of the competition and could be rolled out to additional stores across while operating in a sustainable way. the U.S. brands in 2018. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 35 Our sustainable business model in action Most local and personal service Invest in our customer proposition The context Our response How we are delivering Albert Heijn is rolling out a time-saving smart on our strategy shopping list online, using knowledge shared In all our markets, people are Our brands are finding new ways by our Peapod brand. Customers can request looking for a sense of connection, to create an emotional connection Hannaford launched a new loyalty program and that the website compile a personal shopping with others across the world and with customers, often assisted Food Lion enhanced its loyalty program in 2017. list for them based on their regular purchases – With Food Lion’s digital Shop & Earn program, within their local communities – by technology. customers can save $20 or more each month they can simply check the list and add or delete even when they shop. items, then order for pickup or delivery. We are building our digital capabilities and through personalized offers based on their 29million They want to buy products made close to expertise and continue to invest to offer customers shopping behavior. Hannaford launched My home and that make them feel part of the a personalized experience, both in our stores Hannaford Rewards, unique for a loyalty program community. They expect retailers to know and online. We rely on the use of data that enables because it doesn’t rely on two-tiered pricing. them and understand their individual needs. our brands to make it easier for customers to All Hannaford customers pay the same when they Number of active save money, save time and eat healthier. shop, but customers participating in the all-digital loyalty cards program receive a 2% reward when they purchase own-brand products, plus personalized coupons and special offers on the products they love. Ope n Pick up Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 36 Our sustainable business model in action Supermarkets Fund growth in key channels The context Our response How we are delivering Number of stores Even with the rapid growth of To drive our business model, we on our strategy other shopping channels, including fund growth in three channels, but Mega Image is one of the leading supermarket 6,637 online, supermarkets continue to supermarkets have always been chains in Romania with a clear number one 6,556 position in Bucharest. It continues to expand thrive, functioning as the physical our core format. beyond its core market by consolidating its touchpoint where retailers can Our brands have a strong heritage of presence in existing markets and moving into interact with their customers on operating leading supermarkets for 150 years. promising new ones – such as Cluj-Napoca a day-to-day basis. Supermarkets are still key to our strategy, in 2017. Mega Image opened 69 new stores enabling us to inspire and connect with our this year, including 28 supermarkets outside 2016 2017 Today’s customers go to the supermarket customers on a personal level. Our objective Bucharest, nine of which were in Cluj-Napoca, not just to shop but to get information and is to be a leading supermarket brand in every bringing more customers a better place to inspiration on how to eat better and live local market. shop. The new stores are colorful and lively, with healthier lives. Evolving from their traditional a wide assortment and a focus on quality fresh, role, stores are also increasingly serving as natural and organic items. Dedicated associates hubs that give people in local communities facilitate the shopping experience for customers, the opportunity to gather and connect. and an optimized checkout process lets shoppers pay quickly and be on their way. As a result, Mega Image has found that once customers come into their stores, they keep coming back. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 37 Our sustainable business model in action E-commerce Fund growth in key channels The context Our response How we are delivering Bol.com recently opened a new automated on our strategy fulfillment center to support its growth. The new As technological advances We have the ambition to deliver center is helping bol.com ensure even faster and race forward and online retail close to €5 billion in online sales by Peapod built a voice ordering capability for a more reliable delivery to customers and expand continues to expand, customers 2020, and are well on track to reach popular home device after discovering that over its assortment of in-stock products – to one 50% of the voice-activated devices are kept in are demanding more and more our goal. peoples’ kitchens. To make the experience as million items! The facility manages fulfillment from online shopping. with an in-house last-mile parcel sorter, Our omni-channel strategy is aimed at helping easy as possible, they kept the functionality simple. to increase efficiency and reduce carbon They expect a broad assortment of products our brands provide a seamless online and in-store Customers can add items or remove them from emissions. Built with sustainability as a top to choose from, an easy shopping experience experience and make shopping easier and more their Peapod order, reorder their last purchase, priority, it has already received an international and ever-faster delivery – sometimes entertaining. We continue to accelerate investment or check on their scheduled delivery time. BREEAM award for its sustainable design within the same day or even within hours. in our e-commerce businesses to enable and operation. As part of their aim to make grocery shopping Retailers are rising to meet these needs with customers to shop when and how they want, more convenient and more affordable for new and innovative devices and services and to drive sales growth. customers, our brands are offering delivery that are revolutionizing shopping. Pro forma net consumer online sales subscriptions. By paying a fixed fee, customers € million can get unlimited free deliveries for a certain period of time. Both Peapod and Albert Heijn 2,814 + offer delivery subscription services – Peapod’s “PodPass” and Albert Heijn’s “Bezorgbundel.” Customer response has been very positive 2,324 since the launch of these services, and the percentage of customers who are enrolled increases month after month. 2016 2017 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 38 Our promises We promise customers, associates and communities that we will always work to be a better place to shop, a better place to work, and a better neighbor – every day. All of our brands share these promises and each fulfills them according to what’s best for their local markets. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 39 Our promises continued As a group, we started in 2017 to measure the performance on each promise according to the following criteria: Compensation and awards for associates are tied to and dependent on delivering our strategy and promises in a sustainable way. The performance criteria in our incentive plans for management associates include Performance Indicators related to all three promises. For more information see the Remuneration section, on page 101 A  better place  better place A A  better to shop to work neighbor Net promoter score, which Associate engagement, as Progress against our Sustainable gauges customers’ willingness measured by an annual survey Retailing targets and the assessment to recommend our great local of all associates company-wide of our sustainability performance by brands to others. by an external vendor. the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. For more information on how we are becoming For more information on how we are becoming For more information on how we are becoming a better place to shop, see page 40 a better place to work, see page 42 a better neighbor, see page 44 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 40 Our promises in action Best own brands A  better place to shop The context Our response How we are delivering Our Dutch health and beauty brand Etos has a on our strategy long history of innovation and helping customers Through own brands, retailers are Our local businesses have made live healthy and happier lives. In recent years, able to develop product lines that own brands a critical component of Our “free from” and organic own-brand lines Etos has invested substantially in its own-brand fit the needs of customers in their their strategies – some of them even are highly differentiating and strategically lines. After our U.S. businesses brought Etos important for the U.S. brands, so they set a goal local markets while at the same achieve more than half of all sales to reach $1 billion in sales by the end of 2017. products to customers the previous year, time providing good value. from their own-brand assortments. they were introduced in our stores in Belgium, At Stop & Shop, Giant Landover and Giant Carlisle, Romania, Greece, and Czech Republic in These product lines continue to grow in These product lines are tailored to local customer the own-brand teams accelerated product 2017 – a great example of how we’re becoming popularity as customers seek to get more for preferences, with an increasing focus on being development and innovation on their Nature’s better together. their money – whether more, to them, means healthier and more sustainable. Now more than Promise brand and expanded the range to include quality, taste, health, sustainability, or even ever, we are sharing own brands across our baby, health and beauty care, pet and household. benefits to society. Retailers who develop businesses to capitalize on the strength of our At the same time, they improved the safety distinctive own brands are able to differentiate brands, and we are using our scale to drive and sustainability and began rating own-brand themselves and build customer loyalty. change in the supply chain and provide more products against the Guiding Stars nutritional sustainable products at lower prices. criteria. By year-end, the range of Nature’s Promise included around 1,450 items and annual To help us source smarter and keep improving sales reached a record high of $727 million. our own brands, we are partnering with buying Combined sales of Nature’s Promise and the alliance AMS in Europe and have created an Nature’s Place brand at Food Lion and Hannaford own-brands center of excellence to serve all reached the billion dollar goal in 2017. During our brands in the U.S. 2018, the two own-brand lines will be combined into one, Nature’s Promise, and offered across our U.S. market area. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 41 Our promises in action Fresher and healthier  better place A to shop Healthy own-brand sales as percentage of total own-brand food sales (%) 50 46 42 2016 2017 2020 Target The context Our response How we are delivering Albert Heijn is reformulating own-brand products on our strategy by reducing sugar, salt and saturated fat. As health conditions such as heart We believe our food retail brands have For example, the brand is helping customers disease and diabetes remain an opportunity and a responsibility Hannaford rewarded customers for buying cut sugar consumption by reducing the sugar on the rise across the globe, to make healthier eating tasty, healthy products by donating more than $400,000 content in all of its fresh fruit drinks by as much to local food banks during a popular campaign we are becoming more aware affordable and rewarding last summer. Whenever customers purchased as 30% and has expanded its “Friswijzer” sugar of the link between nutrition for customers. navigation system to include child-portioned nutritious products earning at least one Guiding beverage packs. A color-coded shelf sign and overall health. They do this by providing quality fresh assortments Star from its nutrition navigation program, the shows how much sugar a product contains and – particularly through own brands – transparent brand made a donation to hunger relief. Eating healthier, fresh food is a growing what type of sweetener it uses, helping parents priority for people in all our markets, but they nutritional labeling, healthy ideas and recipes, Prediabetes affects 84 million Americans and can manage their families’ sugar intake. Our U.S. also demand convenience and great value. and educational programs. lead to type 2 diabetes. In 2017, Giant Landover brands are also reformulating their own-brand Consumers have more choices than ever for Due to great progress in 2017, and applying launched a Diabetes Prevention Program in eight products to offer healthier choices to customers. how they procure and prepare meals, driven the Guiding Stars and Choices nutritional criteria stores. Taught by the brand’s in-store nutritionists, They removed nearly half a million kilograms by the growth of options like e-commerce across more of our brands, we have exceeded it is a year-long lifestyle change program of sugar from these products last year. and meal kit delivery. They look for retailers to our original 2020 target of 45% healthy own-brand championed by the Center for Disease Control. provide inspiration and help them put delicious food sales and raised our ambition to reach 50% Participants learn about healthy eating, label and nutritious meals on the table in an easy by 2020. reading, energy balance, physical activity, and and affordable way. stress management. We believe our company is leading among retailers in tracking, reporting and setting targets on healthy product sales. By supporting good health in our communities, we support the longterm health of our business. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 42 Our promises in action Associate development A  better place to work The context Our response How we are delivering Stop & Shop partnered with the Energy Project on our strategy on a program aimed at optimally managing Retail is a people business – All of our brands have the goal to personal energy – physical, emotional, mental having engaged associates who put in place a strong learning culture. Delhaize Belgium organizes Top Chef Top Team and purpose-driven. Through the program, love what they do and are able to trainings, where chefs and experts from the stores The ambition is to help our associates love what more than 130 managers were trained, an are able to build an even more solid knowledge build relationships with customers they do by making learning a part of everyday base on products in an experiential way through energy council was created and a follow-up makes it possible for a company work, with inspiring and innovative learning energy audit was conducted. The pilot group supplier visits, workshops, and tasting events such approaches. People are connecting so they can demonstrated improved store performance to thrive in today’s challenging, as a recent seafood trip. They can bring these and higher energy levels overall. learn from each other and our brands are helping fast-paced environment. learnings back to their teams, with the help of leaders grow and know how to develop their training tips and tricks; in this way, associates have And employees want more out of a job teams. All of our brands are working on new ways the opportunity to develop while at the same time than just a paycheck – they want to feel like to bring a learning culture and strong leadership better serving our customers. they are growing, learning and making a development opportunities to life. difference. Companies that give their people Albert Heijn created the Warm Welcome project the opportunity to grow and develop are likely to ensure the nearly 35,000 new associates joining to be more successful in the long term. the company each year quickly feel at home, know what is expected of them and can work within their teams to make a great store for customers. They developed a welcome package to use for onboarding, including a virtual reality welcome movie and app and an intranet page for managers to share best practices. Feedback has been great, with 100% of associates saying they experienced a warm welcome. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 43 Our promises in action Diversity and inclusion  better place A to work The context Our response How we are delivering These efforts have led to 87% of associates on our strategy saying they feel the brands are committed We are living in an increasingly We recognize that diversity and to diversity and inclusion in the workplace. global world, with populations inclusion are critical to our company’s Food Lion and Hannaford in the U.S. For seven consecutive years, Delhaize America becoming ever more diverse. success – they make us better together continued to focus on diversity and inclusion, has received a perfect score of 100 on the providing expanded learning and development Consequently, we believe it is more important and increase associate engagement. opportunities this year to more than 1,350 Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index (CEI) and won a number of awards, than ever for retailers to be adaptable and Therefore, we have made them a key priority associates. Hannaford started a new Business such as The 2017 Diversity Best Practices innovative. Having a business that embraces in our promise to be a better place to work, and Resource Group (BRG): Veterans & Military, Above & Beyond Award, for Business Impact. diversity and inclusion is not only the right have initiatives across our businesses focused bringing the total number of BRGs for both 78% thing to do but also strategically important on creating an inclusive work environment and brands to 13. Working with the BRGs, Food to retailers. promoting diversity. Lion updated the ethnic haircare and Hispanic specialty product assortments to better serve diverse customers – and achieved increased Associate engagement sales. Both Food Lion and Hannaford also according to 2017 survey participated in events supporting the LGBT community and launched LGBT greeting cards in their stores. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 44 Our promises in action Supporting communities A better neighbor Food donations Tonnes of food donated 52,731 50,286 2016 2017 The context Our response How we are delivering During times of acute need – such as extreme on our strategy weather situations – our local brands do what Food retailers often operate at We partner with stakeholders at they can to be there for their communities and the center of the communities they the local level to create healthier, As food retailers, we are well-positioned and support causes that customers care about. serve – they provide customers more sustainable communities for committed to supporting hunger relief in our Following Hurricane Harvey, Giant Carlisle, communities. In 2017, Food Lion remodeled and with the staples of daily life and future generations. stocked the shelves of 60 local food pantries Giant Landover and Stop & Shop donated a meeting place to come together $250,000 (€209,700) in cash, food and supplies The Ahold Delhaize brands have a strong legacy across its 10-state operating area in the Southeast to help with relief and recovery efforts and and connect. of investing in the communities we serve by U.S. during its third annual “The Great Pantry offered stores to serve as collection points for working with local organizations, and donating Makeover” initiative. The remodeling ranged from We believe that the success of a food retailer customer food donations. The same brands money, products and even time through associate installing shelves, painting and cleaning pantries is closely connected to the success of its donated an additional $250,000 to the American volunteers. We also work further afield to help to installing equipment enabling the pantries community. Customers expect food retailers Red Cross after Hurricane Irma. our supplier communities in places like Africa. to expand capacity for fresh fruits, vegetables to act responsibly and support causes that and other products. During the four-month effort, In Greece, Alfa Beta provided support following are locally important. See the Sustainability performance section Food Lion donated more than 2.5 million meals dangerous flash floods that devastated for more information on page 251 and 2,000 volunteer hours as part of its largest areas around Athens. AB donated €500,000 24% associate volunteer initiative. to provide food and supplies to more than 2,000 households. Unsold food donated Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 45 Our promises in action Reducing food waste A better neighbor Food waste Tonnes of food waste per food sales (t/MEUR) 5.31 5.32 4.25 2016 2017 2020 Target *Target is a 20% reduction from 2016 The context Our response How we are delivering Teams at Delhaize Belgium have excelled on our strategy at preventing food from becoming waste by Globally, food waste is a serious Since 2016, we have been measuring optimizing the use of automated warehouses to problem – approximately one-third food waste at all our brands, using the Hannaford’s efforts to reduce food waste were minimize the time between receipt and delivery of food is wasted each year. industry’s Food Loss & Waste Protocol. highlighted in a major study commissioned of fresh products, adjusting the assortment in by the Rockefeller Foundation and the the stores and donating unsold food to charities This has a negative impact on communities This has enabled us to start better managing the Initiative for a Competitive Inner City (ICIC). – resulting in the lowest food waste per sales that miss out on valuable nutrients, but also on issue company-wide, and we have committed Hannaford exemplifies our three-pronged among all our brands. the environment, since food waste is one of the to reduce our own food waste by 20% between approach – first preventing food waste in its stores, largest sources of greenhouse gases. For this 2016 and 2020. then donating all safe and unsold food through Two of our brands – Albert Heijn and Delhaize reason, the UN Sustainable Development a partnership with Feeding America, and finally Belgium – recycle 100% of food waste through We take a three-pronged approach to reducing Goals set a global target to cut food waste in recycling the remaining food waste or turning it the various means available in each market. food waste in our own operations, focusing on half worldwide by 2030. Positioned between into energy. Their efforts enabled them to reduce prevention, donation and recycling. In addition, In 2017, we used the waste reduction model suppliers and customers in the value chain, food waste in their operations by 30%. we partner with suppliers to reduce food waste developed by the Environmental Protection retailers have the potential to drive new habits and encourage customers to reduce waste after Agency to estimate the impact of all of our food that produce less food waste and contribute they bring the food home. waste reduction activities on our greenhouse gas to this goal. emissions. The model suggests we prevented However, it can be a challenge to balance approximately 224,000 tonnes of equivalent food waste reduction and other priorities. CO2 emissions, or 5% of our total emissions. For example, as retailers work to reduce unnecessary packaging, they need to make sure that food is still safe and protected. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 46 Our values Our great local brands have a set of values that reflects their strengths, how they want to work and who they want to be in years to come. Values are important for success – they guide decision-making and drive behavior. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 47 Our values continued Courage Integrity Teamwork We drive change and are open-minded, We do the right thing and Together, we take ownership, bold, and innovative. earn customers’ trust. collaborate, and win. Care Humor We care for our customers, We are humble, down-to-earth, our colleagues, and our and we don’t take ourselves communities. too seriously. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 48 Our values in action Our values support an ethical Anti-corruption and bribery culture and are the foundation Being a trustworthy retailer of choice is very important to us. We are committed to of our commitment to conduct our conducting business with integrity, in an ethically business by doing the right thing, responsible manner and complying with the every day. law in all countries and jurisdictions in which we operate. Ahold Delhaize prohibits all activity that constitutes bribery or corruption. Our Code of Ethics describes our commitment to integrity Protecting our information and ethical business practices and specifically through Living Data includes compliance with laws relating to anticorruption and bribery in the countries in which As technology-driven innovation our businesses operate or which are applicable contributes to our company’s to their operations. growth, we are increasingly For more detailed information on the vigilant against cyber-attacks. Code of Ethics and Anti-corruption and bribery policy, visit our website Bringing our values to life We care about the information people trust us with. An important piece of the puzzle Human rights Because we believe it is so essential is ensuring that associates know what to do We are committed to respecting the human rights for associates to understand our to protect our systems. We launched “Living of associates, customers, communities and the values and what they mean to their Data,” a company-wide information security people who work throughout our supply chains. daily work, in 2017, we rolled out awareness program that aims at protecting all This commitment is based on our collective belief our data, especially information our associates that all people should be treated with dignity our shared values in ways that fit and respect and is derived from international and customers share with us. The program our different internal audiences. includes a campaign on preventing phishing, principles, such as the UN Universal Declaration For example, our global support office hosted annual “Living Data Day” events at our of Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles a values week to build awareness, and made corporate locations, a computer-based on Business and Human Rights. Key elements it engaging, informal and fun, in line with our training for store managers and corporate of our Human Rights Position are incorporated “humor” value – such as through selfies with associates and real-time notifications warning into our Code of Ethics. Local “ethics helplines” values role models and communicating the of impending threats. Associates throughout are free, confidential and secure services that values through food. We also integrated the the company have embraced the program. enable our associates and the public to raise values into our formal processes and practices concerns about improper behavior or possible to embed them within the organization. violations of law or policy. For more information visit our website Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 49 Our response to stakeholder needs To ensure that our strategy continues to address the issues that pose significant risks or opportunities to our businesses and our broad group of stakeholders, each year we perform a materiality assessment that evaluates the relevance of economic, social, and environmental topics. Through it, we confirm and update our list of Some of our material topics overlap with material topics and identify emerging topics that the key business risks we identified through are important for our company to consider when our Enterprise Risk Management process; developing future strategy. see How we manage risk for more information. Ope n Pick up Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 50 Our response to stakeholder needs continued During 2017, we invited internal + Economic Product safety and external stakeholders to give performance and quality Price of products us their feedback on the issues most Affordable and important to them, and the areas healthy products Carbon emissions where they feel Ahold Delhaize has the most significant impact Local sourcing on society. and production Influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions We used the UN SDGs as input for the list Healthy and of potential material topics. The outcome of this sustainable diets Deforestation exercise is presented in our materiality matrix. and biodiversity Following the matrix are the topic descriptions and information on how we are managing them. Responsible tax Associate Associate safety, The overall outcome of the materiality assessment wages health and well-being Impact on local is that it reconfirmed our focus areas, such as communities promoting healthier eating and providing safe Diversity of Human rights and high quality products, produced with respect our workforce in supply chain for people and the environment. These topics have been managed as part of our sustainability strategy since the merger and have specific Climate change performance indicators and targets that were impact on sourcing Food waste Transparency set in 2016. The assessment also provided insights into Personal data / additional topics where our business has privacy a strong societal impact, but that do not yet Animal welfare in impact decision-making for a wide segment of supply chain Automation and Plastics our stakeholders. These topics – such as “animal socio-economic impact Sustainable agriculture based protein,” “plastics” and “sustainable agriculture” – are ones we have identified as needing further strategic review to understand Animal based protein if our current management approach is robust enough. For more information see also the Sustainability – performance section on page 250 as well as our website – Significance of Ahold Delhaize’s economic, environmental and social impacts + Stakeholder groups who are primarily influenced by the material topics Investors Associates Community Consumers Suppliers Environment All Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 51 Our response to stakeholder needs continued The following table presents a description of our most material topics – those with a high influence on stakeholder decisions and on which Ahold Delhaize has a significant impact – and how we manage them. Also included is a reference to the primary SDGs supported by our efforts. Our Ahold Delhaize brands report on sustainability performance indicators, achievements, and challenges on a quarterly basis. Local teams monitor progress and discuss it with the Executive Committee, highlighting areas for best practice sharing among our brands. For more information on our performance indicators and progress against 2020 targets, see the Sustainability performance section of this report. Topic Description Management approach SDG ref Product safety The safety and quality of Selling safe, high-quality products is critical to maintaining customer trust. Our product integrity policies and products we sell procedures set high standards for both safety and quality with our own-brand suppliers. Our operations and quality (GRI Aspect: 416 Customer Health policies ensure strong safety and quality management within our distribution centers and through to our stores, and Safety) including regular facility audits by third parties to confirm compliance. We require all our suppliers to go beyond what is legally required for food safety practices. Achieving stringent certifications is challenging, particularly for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises. We work with those suppliers to help them achieve an acceptable level of assurance and to identify areas for improvement. 2020 target: • 100% of own-brand food production sites certified against GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative), or in compliance with an acceptable level of assurance standard. Affordable and The affordability and Offering affordable, healthy products is a key component of our Better Together strategy. For tracking accessibility of products we sell purposes, we designate healthy own-brand products as those that meet nutritional criteria (using the Guiding healthy products that meet the dietary needs and Stars system in the U.S. and the Choices criteria in Europe and Indonesia). We drive our target through product preferences of customers and innovation, assortment changes, promotions and pricing. Supporting customers in shifting to a healthier diet is help them lead active and not an easy task. To help them make healthier choices, our brands research customer health needs in their healthier lives markets and assess the effectiveness of their initiatives to help customers shift to a healthier diet. In response (GRI Aspect: 416 Customer Health to consumer demand, we are also increasing our organic range and offering more products that do not contain and Safety) artificial ingredients. 2020 targets: • 50% of own-brand food sales from healthy products • 100% of own-brand products with front-of-pack nutritional labeling Price of products Product pricing compared Being “Affordable for all” is a key component of our Better Together strategy. Consumer price perception is to the competition and consumer based on many factors – not only on actual prices – therefore it is important to measure it regularly in all our perception on price levels markets. Local price strategies are influenced by various local market specifics, our competitors and our perceived and desired brand position in these markets. Our brands monitor and analyze pricing to perform competitively in their local markets, drive economic performance and market share, and ensure healthy food remains affordable. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 52 Our response to stakeholder needs continued Topic Description Management approach SDG ref Carbon emissions Impact on the climate emissions Our brands are actively improving energy-efficiency, reducing refrigerant leakages, increasing the use of our supply chain and own of natural refrigerants, and improving transport efficiencies. We also recognize food waste and global operations (stores, distribution deforestation as significant contributors to climate emissions, so have set targets to cut food waste and centers and logistics) to source sustainably for commodities linked to deforestation (palm oil, soy, and wood fibers). (GRI Aspects: 302 Energy, Our brands are also taking steps to reduce supply chain emissions, including through projects with suppliers 305 Emissions, 306 Effluents to develop and transport products to us with fewer emissions. Measuring emissions along our value chain has and Waste) been a challenge, and one that we are working to solve so that we can further reduce climate impact. 2020 targets: • 30% reduction in CO2 equivalent emissions (compared to 2008) from our own operations • 100% certified sustainable sourcing of palm oil, soy, and wood fibers in own-brand products • 20% food waste reduction compared to 2016 (tonnes / € million food sales) Local sourcing Buying products from Our local brands have a long history of sourcing local products, in response to customer demands for fresh, local suppliers to increase seasonal food and traditional products from their regions. and production the availability of fresh food We manage local sourcing in a variety of ways ranging from operating programs like “Close to Home” at and support local economies Hannaford that facilitates sourcing from local producers to offering own-brand product lines focused on local (GRI Aspect: 204 Procurement items, such as “Close to Greek Nature” at Alfa Beta and “Gusturi Romanesti” at Mega Image. This is not an Practices) area that we measure and monitor globally, as it is fully managed by our brands in their local markets. Deforestation The impact of our products Driving sustainability in the supply chain is a difficult challenge for a single retailer to solve, but we take our on global deforestation and responsibility seriously and play an active role in the Consumer Goods Forum together with other partners in and biodiversity biodiversity the industry. In addition, we take an active role in global roundtables (such as the Roundtable on Sustainable (GRI Aspect: 304 Biodiversity) Palm Oil) to help the global market shift more quickly to sustainable practices. We continue our long-standing commitment to source sustainable seafood in order to protect biodiversity in oceans and rivers. Our brands work directly with suppliers, particularly for fruits and vegetables, to encourage the use of practices that protect biodiversity (such as Integrated Pest Management). 2020 targets: • 100% certified sustainable sourcing of palm oil, soy, wood fibers, tea, coffee and cocoa in own-brand products • 100% of own-brand seafood product sales certified as sustainable Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 53 Our response to stakeholder needs continued Topic Description Management approach SDG ref Healthy and The impact of our products, Our brands are committed to promoting healthier eating among customers and associates. To meet these services, and the information commitments, the brands are driving innovation towards healthier products (such as by reducing sugar, salt, sustainable diets that we provide on facilitating and fat in own-brand products), introducing new product lines (such as new vegetarian and vegan offerings), healthier and more sustainable and improving product sustainability (through sustainable sourcing requirements for suppliers). In addition, diets for our customers and the brands offer services to help customers shift their diets, such as employing dietitians in the stores to give associates advice on developing healthier eating habits. (GRI Aspect: 416 Customer Health The brands also provide information to customers and associates on healthier diets through websites, local and Safety) magazines, social media, and in-store guidance. Addressing the move to more sustainable diets is newer for our brands. In 2017, Giant Landover successfully rolled out the “How Good” product rating system, which scores products on their sustainability impacts and makes it easy to find more sustainable options. While the products, services, and information aimed at customers also helps inform our associates, we have committed to increasing our focus on supporting associates in moving toward healthier habits, with each brand developing annual plans to improve their work in this area. 2020 targets: • 50% of own-brand food sales from healthy products • 100% sustainable sourcing for seven commodities in our own-brand products (tea, coffee, cocoa, seafood, palm oil, soy, wood fibers) • 80% of own-brand production units meeting social compliance standards Additional KPIs: • Percentage of total food sales from certified-organic products • Sales from free-from or organic own-brand product lines Economic The financial performance of The financial performance of the company is essential for operating a sustainable business and is closely the company and our economic managed by executive management at group and brand level. We have a clear financial framework to performance impact on communities support our strategy and aim to maintain a high return on capital. Our brands are active supporters of (GRI Aspect: 201 Economic the economies they operate in, through providing jobs, purchasing from local suppliers and supporting Performance) valuable community programs. See Group financial review for more information and specific financial performance indicators. As part of our promise to be a better neighbor, we seek to make a positive impact in the communities in which our brands operate. One way Ahold Delhaize does this is through the taxes we pay. In this respect we take into consideration social and corporate responsibility and the interest of all our stakeholders. Our overall tax approach is in line with Ahold Delhaize’s overall business principles and code of ethics. Our tax policy is published on our website. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 54 Our response to stakeholder needs continued Topic Description Management approach SDG ref Associate wages The adequacy and equality Ahold Delhaize employs 369,000 associates in nine countries. In determining the employment conditions of wages we pay, and the of associates, we set compensation and benefits levels in line with associates’ job levels and local market impact this has on the practices. The remuneration practices in each of our local markets are regularly reviewed to take into account communities we operate in the market dynamics and economic conditions. We are committed to the key principle of fair and equitable treatment of all associates as we determine remuneration policies. We believe associates are the core of our business and we assess their well-being and opinions on various topics each year through our associate engagement survey. KPIs: • Associate engagement survey score • Percentage of associates who work part-time and full-time Associate Safety of our associates at work, We measure and monitor accidents, occupational illness and related absenteeism and set annual targets to and the impact of our actions on further increase safety measures for our associates. We integrate safe working conditions into our workplace safety, health associate health and well-being designs, equipment purchases and operational procedures. We build visibility and awareness with our and well-being (GRI Aspect: 403 Occupational leaders and associates on the impact of life-altering injuries and fatalities. Health and Safety) We support associates’ health and well-being through brand-level programs, such as the associate social support program “Alfa Beta Social Services” at our Greek brand and “Healthy Albert Wednesday” through which associates in the Czech Republic are offered fresh fruit and the opportunity to taste healthy own-brand products. An example of a program that embeds safety into work practice is the “Safety Lead Certification” program at Stop & Shop in the U.S. Emerging leaders participate in a multi-faceted program to support their understanding of injury prevention and their role in keeping people safe. 2020 target: • Score of 75 on index of healthy workplace questions in associate engagement survey Additional KPIs: • Rate of lost days due to accidents • Rate of occupational illnesses per million hours worked • Associate engagement survey index on “healthy workplace” Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 55 Our response to stakeholder needs continued Topic Description Management approach SDG ref Human rights in How human rights are We require our suppliers in high-risk countries to be audited against the amfori BSCI Standard to respected along our supply chain ensure good working conditions within our supply chain. Ahold Delhaize and each of our local brands are the supply chain (GRI Aspects: 407 Freedom of committed to maintaining a high standard of business ethics and regard for human rights throughout the Association and Collective supply chain. In 2017, we adopted a position on Human Rights that outlines our commitment to respecting Bargaining, 408 Child Labor, human rights. Supplier requirements are defined in our Standards of Engagement, which are mandatory for 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor, all own-brand suppliers. 414 Supplier Social Assessment) Even with multiple measures and controls in place, we realize that challenges remain for our industry, due to lengthy supply chains that often span the world and are not always fully transparent. For this reason, we joined the work of the Consumer Goods Forum on forced labor as well as the Seafood Task Force on human trafficking and forced labor in off-shore fishing. With respect to wages in our supply chain, we are analyzing, in close collaboration with UTZ, the effects of introducing a living wage for coffee production workers in Kenya. These results will help us realistically and constructively deal with the wage gap in developing countries, which we can then apply to other products and regions. Both our Position on Human Rights and the Standards of Engagement can be found on our website. 2020 target: • 80% of own-brand production units meeting social compliance standards (ambition of 100% after 2020) Impact on local Impact of our business We promise to be a better neighbor to the communities in which we operate. Our brands deliver on this on the communities where promise, for example, by creating great places to work, reducing waste, buying from local suppliers, and communities our brands operate building green facilities that support more sustainable communities. In our charitable contributions and (GRI Aspect: 413 Local community investments, we focus on promoting healthier eating, fighting hunger and strengthening Communities) communities. Our brands engage with local communities through a diverse set of programs, including partnerships with local food banks, sponsorship of educational programs on healthier eating for children, direct involvement with local charitable organizations and through associate volunteering events. For more information on our Framework for Community Connections and examples of our actions, see our website. 2020 target: • 20% food waste reduction (tonnes / € million food sales) • 80% total waste recycled Additional KPIs: • Cash donations by the company to charities • Cash equivalent donations by the company to charities • Cash and cash equivalent donations by customer to charities, facilitated by Ahold Delhaize brands • Tonnes of food donated Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 56 Our response to stakeholder needs continued Topic Description Management approach SDG ref Diversity of The diversity of our associates We measure associate perception on diversity through an annual associate engagement survey and set (including age, gender, ethnicity annual targets to drive progress. We are committed to creating an inclusive workplace by hiring and retaining our workforce and sexual orientation) and how a diverse population of associates that reflects the communities that our brands serve every day. We it reflects the diversity of the integrate diversity and inclusion into our associates’ value proposition through hiring practices and leadership communities where we operate development programs and we regularly provide innovative training to drive a more inclusive workplace (GRI Aspect: 405 Diversity and culture. In 2017, our U.S. businesses were recognized for their commitment by earning a perfect score on Equal Opportunity) the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index – the only retail grocery company to do so. 2020 target: • Score of 79 on the index of inclusive workplace questions in the associate engagement survey Additional KPIs: • Percentage of female and male associates • Percentage of females on the Executive Committee and Supervisory Board • Percentage of associates by generation Food waste Food that goes to waste (is not We minimize food waste in our own operations through prevention and re-directing unsold food to feed eaten by people) along the value people (through donations or new business models such as the “InStock” food rescue restaurants in the chain: in the supply chain, Netherlands). For the food waste that we cannot eliminate, we continue to expand recycling. To prevent food distribution, stores and in waste, we focus on optimizing store replenishment and on-shelf management. Our brands identify new ways customers’ homes to partner with food banks in all our markets to redistribute more unsold food to people in need. For example, (GRI Aspect: 306 Effluents and Delhaize Belgium brought together more than 200 members from their local communities to mark the fifth Waste) anniversary of their fresh food donation program, which redistributes unsold fresh food from all of their stores to people in need. 2020 target: • 20% food waste reduction (tonnes / € million food sales) • 90% food waste recycled Additional KPIs: • Tonnes of food waste sent to disposal per food sales • Percentage of unsold food donated to feed people For more information on specific KPIs related to the material topics see the Sustainability performance section. Also, for additional information, see Our value chain, Our stakeholders, and the case studies included in Our promises or visit our website for more information on the UN SDGs. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 57 Our response to stakeholder needs continued We closely monitor the following topics identified Topic Description through the materiality assessment, particularly when they have a high influence on stakeholders’ Transparency The degree to which we are transparent to customers about products, their supply chains decisions or they are areas on which Ahold and their health and sustainability impacts Delhaize has a significant impact. In addition, Sustainable agriculture Sustainable farming practices that safeguard natural resources (soil, water, ecosystems) we are evaluating the efficacy of our current and reduce impact on climate change management approaches, as some may provide opportunities or threats for our business in the Personal data / privacy The protection of personal data from consumers and associates near future. Plastics The life-cycle impact of our use of plastics in products and packaging (including shopping bags) Animal-based protein The impact on the environment and human health from animal-based protein products Automation and socio-economic impact The impact of automation and new technologies on our workforce Responsible tax Paying a sufficient, responsible level of tax in proportion to our profit Animal husbandry The treatment of animals along our product supply chain Climate change impacts on sourcing The changing availability of our products (such as fruits and vegetables, commodity crops) due to climate change Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 58 Group key financial indicators These are the key indicators that IFRS results Shareholders help us to monitor our progress 2017 2016 % 2017 2016 % € million € million change € € change towards our goals and measure Net sales 62,890 49,695 26.6% Net income per common share our financial success. We include Operating income 2,225 1,584 40.5% (basic) 1.45 0.81 79.0% them to help give readers a better Underlying EBITDA1 4,249 3,259 30.4% Pro forma underlying income from understanding of our company’s Underlying operating income 2,456 1,899 29.3% continuing operations per share3 1.27 1.17 8.5% overall performance. Dividend payout ratio4 47% 48% (1.0)% pt Underlying operating margin 3.9% 3.8% 0.1% pt Dividend per common share 0.63 0.57 10.5% Income from continuing operations 1,817 830 118.9% Total shareholder return (5.7)% 5.5% (11.2)% pt Net income 1,817 830 118.9% Underlying income from continuing operations 1,582 1,230 28.6% Other information 2017 2016 Change versus € million € million prior year Pro forma results Net debt 2,503 3,244 (22.8)% 2017 2016 % Free cash flow (combined)5 1,926 1,377 39.9% € million € million change Capital expenditures included Net sales 62,694 62,331 0.6% in cash flow statement Operating income 2,236 1,974 13.3% (excluding acquisitions) Underlying EBITDA 2 4,247 4,063 4.5% (combined)5 1,698 1,694 0.2% Underlying operating income 2,456 2,298 6.9% Credit rating / outlook BBB / BBB / Underlying operating margin 3.9% 3.7% 0.2% pt Standard & Poor’s stable stable — Income from continuing operations 1,828 1,078 69.6% Baa2 / Baa2 / Net income 1,828 1,078 69.6% Credit rating / outlook Moody’s6 positive positive — Underlying income from 3 For more information on underlying income from continuing operations, see Group financial review continuing operations 1,582 1,486 6.5% in this section. 4 The dividend payout ratio for 2017 and 2016 is based on underlying income from continuing 1 Being underlying operating income adjusted for depreciation and amortization to the amount operations (on a pro forma basis). of €1,793 million (refer to Note 8). 5 Free cash flow and capital expenditure including the Delhaize Group for the full year 2016. 2 Being pro forma underlying operation income adjusted for pro forma depreciation and amortization to the amount of €1,791 million . 6 As of February 2018, the credit rating assigned by Moody’s was upgraded to Baa1, with a stable outlook. Certain key performance indicators contain alternative performance measures (previously known as non-GAAP measures). The definitions of these measures are described in the Definitions – performance measures section of this Annual Report. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 59 Group financial review On July 24, 2016, the merger This review also provides numbers and analysis Group performance on an IFRS basis between Ahold and Delhaize on a pro forma basis. The pro forma data is Change based on the assumption that the merger versus prior Group became effective. From became effective on the first day of Ahold’s € million 2017 2016 year % change a legal standpoint, the merger was 2015 financial year. This provides a comparative Net sales 62,890 49,695 13,195 26.6% implemented by Delhaize Group basis, for illustrative purposes, to facilitate Cost of sales (46,121) (36,317) (9,804) (27.0)% NV/SA merging into Koninklijke assessment of the current performance of the Gross profit 16,769 13,378 3,391 25.3% Ahold N.V., with the entity renamed combined Company. Operating expenses (14,544) (11,794) (2,750) (23.3)% as Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. We made the following main adjustments to Operating income 2,225 1,584 641 40.5% the combined historical data to arrive at the Net financial expense (297) (541) 244 45.1% Consequently, Delhaize Group’s financial results Income before income taxes 1,928 1,043 885 84.9% pro forma information: have been included in our consolidated financial Income taxes (146) (247) 101 40.9% statements since the merger date, affecting • Exclusion of the performance of remedy comparability of the 2017 financial results to the stores and other divestments Share in income of joint ventures 35 34 1 2.9% 2016 results. Due to the significance of Delhaize Income from continuing operations 1,817 830 987 118.9% • Exclusion of merger transaction costs Group’s results to the Company, the Delhaize Income (loss) from discontinued • Inclusion of purchase price allocation effects Group sales and operating expense categories operations – — – — on Delhaize assets and liabilities, impacting that are included for the full year in 2017 are the Net income 1,817 830 987 118.9% depreciation and amortization, net interest main drivers of the changes in results of operations expense and rent when compared to the 2016 results. Operating income 2,225 1,584 641 40.5% • Alignment of Global Support Office functions and related costs Adjusted for: Impairments 64 104 (40) • Alignment of foreign exchange rates for consolidation of foreign group entities (Gains) losses on the sale of assets (47) (22) (25) Restructuring and related charges and other items 214 233 (19) Underlying operating income 2,456 1,899 557 29.3% Underlying operating income margin 3.9% 3.8% 0.1% pt Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 60 Group financial review continued Net sales Comparable Net sales in the financial year ended December 31, 2017, were €62,890 million, an increase of Sales Comparable sales growth million 2017 2016 growth sales growth1 ex gas1 €13,195 million, or 26.6%, compared to net sales of €49,695 million for the financial year ended Ahold USA ($) 25,986 26,377 (1.5)% 0.3% (0.1)% January 1, 2017. At constant exchange rates, net sales were up by €14,101 million or 28.9%. Delhaize America ($) 17,371 7,746 124.3% 1.3% 1.3% Change versus prior € million year at % change at Ahold USA 23,045 23,845 (3.4)% 0.3% (0.1)% Change constant constant versus prior exchange exchange Delhaize America 15,395 7,065 117.9% 1.3% 1.3% € million 2017 2016 year % change rates rates The Netherlands 13,706 13,101 4.6% 4.5% 4.5% Net sales 62,890 49,695 13,195 26.6% 14,101 28.9% Belgium 4,953 2,199 125.2% (0.2)% (0.2)% Of which gasoline sales 977 919 58 6.3% 74 8.2% Central and Southeastern Europe 5,791 3,485 66.2% 0.9% 1.0% Net sales excluding gasoline 61,913 48,776 13,137 26.9% 14,027 29.3% Total 62,890 49,695 26.6% 1.4% 1.3% Gasoline sales increased by 6.3% in 2017 to In addition to the merger, sales growth was driven 1 For the definition of comparable sales (excluding gas) see Definitions – performance measures at the end of this section. €977 million. At constant exchange rates, sales by new store openings and comparable sales increased by 8.2%, due to an increase in gasoline growth. Comparable sales growth was driven Ahold Delhaize continued to see strong sales growth in its online businesses. The Company’s online prices while volume was slightly down. by sales growth in our e-commerce businesses businesses contributed €2,376 million to Ahold Delhaize’s net sales in 2017 (2016: €1,991 million). and Albert Heijn’s strong growth during the year, Ahold Delhaize’s net consumer online sales amounted to €2,814 million and increased in 2017 by Net sales excluding gasoline increased in 2017 24.1% at constant exchange rates. with a higher average purchase amount per visit by €13,137 million, or 26.9%, compared to 2016. in the Netherlands. Comparable sales growth at At constant exchanges rates, net sales excluding Net sales Online sales our brands in the United States was adversely € million € million gasoline increased in 2017 by €14,027 million, impacted by the deflationary environment in the 62,890 2,376 or 29.3% compared to 2016. This increase beginning of the year. In Belgium, comparable 1,991 was primarily driven by the merger with the 49,695 sales declined as the performance of company28.9 1,646 Delhaize Group. 38,203 32.3 owned stores was only partly offset by the better 32,615 32,774 1,267 performance of the affiliated stores and the stores 1,086 2.3 4.3 in Luxembourg. In the Central and Southeastern 2.0 3.3 3.9 4.0 3.8 Europe (CSE), the good performance in all four 0.8 markets was partly offset by Greece, since Greece recorded an exceptionally strong sales 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 performance in 2016 and the fourth quarter Net sales growth at constant rates1 (%) Contribution to Ahold Delhaize’s net sales (%) of 2015 as result of competitive disruption. 1 Sales growth in 2016 and 2015 is adjusted for the impact of week 53. The group’s sales growth was partly offset by closed stores. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 61 Group financial review continued Gross profit Operating expenses Impairment of assets Gains and losses on the sale of assets Ahold Delhaize’s gross profit increased by In 2017, operating expenses increased by Ahold Delhaize recorded the following Ahold Delhaize recorded the following gains €3,391 million, or 25.3%, compared to 2016. €2,750 million, or 23.3%, to €14,544 million, impairments and reversals of impairments (losses) on the sale of non-current assets in 2017 At constant exchange rates, gross profit increased compared to €11,794 million in 2016. At constant of assets in 2017 and 2016: and 2016: by €3,645 million, or 27.8%. This increase was exchange rates, operating expenses increased € million 2017 2016 € million 2017 2016 primarily driven by the merger with the Delhaize by €2,972 million, or 25.7%. This increase was Ahold USA (59) (78) Ahold USA 41 26 Group. Gross profit margin (gross profit as a primarily driven by the inclusion of the full year Delhaize America (2) (2) Delhaize America (2) – percentage of net sales) for 2017 was 26.7%, results of the former Delhaize Group operations. The Netherlands 2 (21) The Netherlands 16 (2) a decrease of 0.2 percentage points compared As a percentage of net sales, operating expenses to 26.9% in 2016. decreased by 0.6% to 23.1%, compared to Central and Belgium (8) 2 23.7% in 2016. Excluding gasoline sales and Southeastern Europe (5) (3) Central and This decrease was primarily driven by the inclusion Total (64) (104) Southeastern Europe – 1 at constant exchange rates, operating expenses of the full year results of the former Delhaize Global Support Office — (5) as a percentage of net sales decreased by Group operations. Delhaize America and Belgium Impairment charges in 2017 were €64 million, 0.6 percentage points. Total 47 22 operate with a lower gross margin and with lower down by €40 million compared to 2016. operating expenses as a percentage of sales. This decrease of 0.6 percentage points is mainly The impairments in 2017 were primarily related The 2017 net gains and losses in The Netherlands This was in part offset by higher gross margins due to the addition of the former Delhaize Group to underperforming stores and the closure of mainly related to the sale of a store portfolio. as result of synergies. operations and by lower impairments, higher gains bfresh locations at Ahold USA. In 2016, these The 2017 and 2016 gains and losses at Ahold USA on the sale of assets, lower transaction cost related primarily related to remedy stores and other were mainly due to the sale of remedy stores. to the merger and restructuring charges. divestments at Ahold USA (€46 million) and to Operating expenses include impairments, gains other store operations. (losses) on the sale of assets, restructuring and related charges, and other items that management believes can distort an understanding of the trend related to the development of our underlying business. Impairments, gains (losses) on the sale of assets and restructuring and related charges are summarized below. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 62 Group financial review continued Restructuring and related charges and Restructuring and related charges and other items Operating income Income taxes other items in 2017 were €214 million, down by €19 million Operating income in 2017 increased by In 2017, income tax expense excluding the impact Restructuring and related charges and other items compared to 2016. €641 million, or 40.5%, to €2,225 million of tax rate changes due to the U.S. and Belgian in 2017 and 2016 were as follows: compared to €1,584 million in 2016. The increase tax reforms was €553 million, up by €306 million In 2017, the restructuring and related charges € million 2017 2016 of €641 million is the difference between the compared to €247 million in 2016. This increase of €214 million included €107 million of integration Ahold USA (101) (66) higher gross profit of €3,391 million and higher in income tax expense is mainly the result of costs related to the merger between Ahold and Delhaize America (41) (32) operating expenses of €2,750 million. The changes increased earnings before tax and one-time Delhaize, €36 million related to the divestment in gross profit and operating expenses are items in 2017. The effective tax rate, calculated The Netherlands (25) (35) of the remedy stores and other divestments explained above. as a percentage of income before income tax, Belgium (17) (7) and €40 million related to the set-up of the U.S. excluding the impact of tax rate changes due to Central and brand-centric organization. The 2017 integration Net financial expenses the U.S. and Belgian tax reforms, was 28.7% in Southeastern Europe (1) – cost included a one-time €25 million benefit Net financial expenses in 2017 decreased by 2017 (2016: 23.7%). The increase in the effective Global Support Office (29) (93) related to an alignment of pension benefits at €244 million, or 45.1%, to €297 million compared tax rate from 23.7% to 28.7% is mainly the result our U.S. operations. to €541 million in 2016. This primarily related Total (214) (233) of a change in the geographical mix of earnings to a decrease in Other financial expenses In 2016, the restructuring and related charges and one-time items in 2017. (€252 million) mainly due to the one-off finance of €233 million included €38 million of transaction cost of €243 million in 2016 relating to the buyback The 2017 tax expense, including the one-time costs and €107 million of integration costs related of the JPY 33,000 million notes. impact of tax rate changes due to the U.S. to the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, as and Belgian tax reforms, was €146 million. well as €26 million related to the divestment of the The effective tax rate, calculated as a percentage remedy stores and other divestments. In 2016, of income before income tax, including the this also included a lump-sum compensation one-time impact of tax rate changes due to the for a reduction in benefits for employees in the U.S. and Belgian tax reforms, was 7.6% in 2017 Netherlands and at the Global Support Office (2016: 23.7%). (€35 million). Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 63 Group financial review continued Share in income of joint ventures The changes in underlying operating income, Underlying operating income and underlying operating income margin for 2017 and 2016 were Ahold Delhaize’s share in income of joint ventures, excluding the impact of the merger with Delhaize as follows: which relates primarily to our 49% shareholding in Group, are mainly a reflection of the realization Underlying operating income Underlying operating margin JMR and 51% share in Super Indo, was €35 million of synergies resulting from the merger with million 2017 2016 % change 2017 2016 % pt change in 2017, up by €1 million compared to last year. Delhaize Group. Ahold USA ($) 1,061 1,034 2.6% 4.1% 3.9% 0.2% pt For further information about joint ventures, see Delhaize America ($) 673 275 144.7% 3.9% 3.6% 0.3% pt Tight cost management remains a core objective Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. of our business model. This enables us to continue € million Underlying operating income and underlying to invest in our competitive position and, at the Ahold USA 940 936 0.4% 4.1% 3.9% 0.2% pt operating income margin same time, provides our businesses benefit Delhaize America 595 252 136.1% 3.9% 3.6% 0.3% pt Underlying operating income was €2,456 million with optimized store processes and improved The Netherlands 676 636 6.3% 4.9% 4.9% —% pt in 2017, up €557 million, or 29.3%, versus sourcing conditions. Belgium 111 56 98.2% 2.2% 2.5% (0.3)% pt €1,899 million in 2016. Underlying operating Underlying operating income Central and income margin in 2017 was 3.9%, compared € million Southeastern Europe 242 127 90.6% 4.2% 3.6% 0.6% pt to 3.8% in 2016. At constant exchange rates, 2,456 underlying operating income was up by Global Support Office (108) (108) —% 1,899 Total 2,456 1,899 29.3% 3.9% 3.8% 0.1% pt €595 million, or 32.0%, compared to 2016, mainly as result of the merger with Delhaize 1,379 1,461 1,267 Group and higher profits in The Netherlands. 4.2 3.9 3.9 3.8 3.8 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Underlying operating margin (%) Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 64 Group financial review continued Group performance on a pro forma basis Net sales On a pro forma basis, net sales increased by 0.6% to €62,694 million, or by 1.7% at constant exchange The following is a summary of Ahold Delhaize’s 2017 and 2016 consolidated income statements on a rates. Sales growth was driven by new store openings and comparable sales growth and in part offset pro forma basis. The pro forma information in this financial review presents a picture of what the financial by closed stores. Growth was mainly the result of sales growth at our online businesses, Albert Heijn’s results would have been if the merger between Ahold and Delhaize Group had occurred on the first strong growth during the year, with a higher average purchase amount per visit in the Netherlands, and day of Ahold’s 2015 financial year, using the fair values established as of the July 23, 2016, merger sales growth at Central and Southeastern Europe (CSE). Delhaize America grew comparable sales date as the basis for the purchase price allocation effects and related amortization on the identified and Ahold USA’s comparable sales growth was flat despite the deflationary environment in the United fair value changes. The information is not intended to revise past performance, but instead to provide States during the first part of the year. In Belgium, comparable sales were down 0.2%. In CSE, the good a comparative basis for the assessment of current performance. performance in all four markets was partly offset by Greece, since Greece recorded an exceptionally % change € million, except per share data Pro forma 2017 Pro forma 2016 % change constant rates strong sales performance in 2016 and the fourth quarter of 2015 as a result of competitive disruption. Net sales 62,694 62,331 0.6% 1.7% Total net sales growth was partly offset by closed stores. Operating income 2,236 1,974 13.3% 14.9% % change Comparable Comparable constant sales sales growth Income from continuing operations 1,828 1,078 69.6% 72.7% million 2017 2016 % change rates growth1 ex gas 1 Basic income from continuing operations Ahold USA ($) 25,823 25,790 0.1% 0.1% 0.4% —% per share 1.46 0.85 71.8% 75.9% Delhaize America ($) 17,371 17,156 1.3% 1.3% 1.3% 1.3% Underlying EBITDA 4,247 4,063 4.5% 5.9% € million Underlying EBITDA margin 6.8% 6.5% Ahold USA 22,894 23,316 (1.8)% 0.1% 0.4% —% Underlying operating income 2,456 2,298 6.9% 8.4% Delhaize America 15,395 15,501 (0.7)% 1.3% 1.3% 1.3% Underlying operating margin 3.9% 3.7% The Netherlands 13,672 13,015 5.0% 5.0% 4.5% 4.5% Underlying income from continuing Belgium 4,942 4,942 —% —% (0.2)% (0.2)% operations per share 1.27 1.17 8.5% 10.4% Central and Southeastern Europe 5,791 5,557 4.2% 3.4% 0.9% 1.0% Total 62,694 62,331 0.6% 1.7% 1.4% 1.3% 1 For the definition of comparable sales (excluding gas) see Definitions – performance measures at the end of this section. Pro forma net sales Pro forma online sales Pro forma net sales contribution Pro forma online net sales contribution € million € million by segment by category 2,376 Ahold USA 36.5% Food 52.6% 62,694 Delhaize America General 62,331 2,035 24.6% merchandise 1,701 The Netherlands 47.4% 21.8% 3.8 2.8 3.3 Belgium 7.9% 60,881 0.5 2.1 1.7 Central and Southeastern Europe 9.2% 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Net sales growth at constant exchange rates1 (%) Contribution to Ahold Delhaize’s net sales (%) 1 Sales growth in 2016 is adjusted for the impact of week 53. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 65 Group financial review continued Operating income Underlying operating income and underlying Pro forma underlying operating income Underlying operating income excludes On a pro forma basis, operating income in operating income margin € million impairments, gains (losses) on the sale of 2017 increased by €262 million, or 13.3%, to On a pro forma basis, underlying operating assets, restructuring and related charges €2,236 million, compared to €1,974 million in 2016. income was €2,456 million, up €158 million, or and other items that management believes can 2,456 At constant exchange rates, income increased 6.9%. At constant exchange rates, pro forma distort an understanding of the trend related to by 14.9%. The changes in pro forma profit underlying operating income was up 8.4%. 2,298 the development of our underlying business. and expenses are summarized in the segment The increase was mainly driven by the realization Pro forma impairments, gains (losses) on the sale reviews below. of synergies as a result of the merger between 2,155 of assets and restructuring and related charges 0.5 3.9 Ahold and Delhaize Group. 3.5 3.7 are summarized in the segment reviews below. In 2017, net synergies of €268 million were 2015 2016 2017 Pro forma underlying operating delivered: an additional €246 million of synergies Underlying operating margin (%) income contribution by segment1 compared to 2016. The integration of the two Ahold USA 36.8% corporate head offices into one Global Support Delhaize America Office resulted in synergy savings of €31 million 23.2% In 2017, the following net synergy savings during the year. In the United States, the creation The Netherlands were delivered: 26.3% of Retail Business Services (RBS) – which enables € million 2017 2016 Belgium 4.3% efficiencies in the back office and support functions and builds retail expertise in own brand, United States 159 8 Central and Southeastern Europe digital and IT – is progressing well. Our brands Europe 78 7 9.4% in the U.S., The Netherlands and Belgium Global Support Office 31 7 harmonized their terms and conditions of both Total 268 22 1 Before Global Support Office costs. goods for resale and goods not meant for resale. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 66 Group financial review continued Ahold USA on a pro forma basis In 2017, pro forma net sales were €22,894 million, Pro forma operating income decreased by Change % change at down by 1.8% or €422 million compared to 2016. €35 million, or 4.1%, to €819 million compared versus prior constant At constant exchange rates, pro forma net sales to 2016. Underlying pro forma operating income € million 2017 2016 year % change rates were up by 0.1%. rose by €22 million and is adjusted for the following Net sales 22,894 23,316 (422) (1.8)% 0.1% items, which impacted operating income: Comparable sales growth excluding gasoline —% 0.7% Pro forma net sales growth was affected by higher gasoline sales, due to an increase in gasoline • Impairments: In 2017, impairment charges Operating income 819 854 (35) (4.1)% (2.1)% prices. Excluding gasoline, pro forma net sales amounted to €53 million, while in 2016 they Adjusted for: at constant rates were down 0.3% compared to amounted to 32 million. The impairments in Impairments 53 32 21 2016. The decrease was mainly driven by flat 2017 related primarily to underperforming stores (Gains) losses on the sale of assets (3) (8) 5 comparable sales growth due to price deflation and the closure of bfresh locations. In 2016, they Restructuring and related charges in the first months of 2017 and the New York primarily related to underperforming stores and and other items 74 43 31 market cycling competitive closures in the prior investment properties. Underlying operating income 943 921 22 2.4% 4.6% year. At the end of the second quarter, Ahold USA • (Gains) losses on the sale of assets: Underlying operating income margin 4.1% 4.0% also announced new price investments in ownNo individually significant gains or losses were Underlying EBITDA margin 7.0% 6.8% brand products, produce, milk and eggs. recorded in 2017 or 2016. During the year, the Ahold USA brands • Restructuring and related charges and strengthened their digital capabilities, other items: The 2017 charges increased by investing in digital coupons, new websites, €31 million compared to 2016. In 2017, these mobile app improvements and a new recipe charges mainly related to integration costs center. Our online business, Peapod, continued as a result of the merger (€28 million) and the to invest in marketing its “Podpass” membership set-up of the U.S. brand-centric organization that offers free delivery at a fixed fee, resulting in (€29 million). The 2017 integration costs more members subscribing. Podpass members included a one-time €25 million benefit related order more frequently and spend more in total to an alignment of pension benefits at our U.S. than other customers. operations. In 2016, these charges mainly related to integration costs as a result of the merger (€33 million). In 2017, pro forma underlying operating income was €943 million, up by €22 million or 2.4% compared to last year. At constant rates, pro forma underlying operating income increased by 4.6%. Ahold USA’s pro forma underlying operating income margin in 2017 was 4.1%, up 0.1 percentage points compared to 2016. Strong synergy savings were partly offset by lower sales leverage due to price deflation, price investments, increased promotional spend and lower pharmacy margins. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 67 Group financial review continued Delhaize America on a pro forma basis On a pro forma basis, net sales in 2017 were Pro forma operating income was €550 million, up Change % change at €15,395 million, down by 0.7%, or €106 million, 19.8% or €91 million. Underlying operating income versus prior constant compared to 2016. At constant exchange rates, is adjusted for the following items, which impacted € million 2017 2016 year % change rates sales were up by 1.3%. The increase was mainly operating income: Net sales 15,395 15,501 (106) (0.7)% 1.3% driven by comparable sales growth of 1.3% Comparable sales growth 1.3% 2.1% • Impairments: Impairments amounted to and adversely impacted by the deflationary €2 million. No individually significant impairments Operating income 550 459 91 19.8% 22.7% environment in the first months of the year. were recorded in 2017 or 2016. Adjusted for: Sales growth at Food Lion was fueled by the brand’s “Easy, Fresh & Affordable” strategy. • (Gains) losses on the sale of assets: No Impairments 2 6 (4) Food Lion relaunched 93 stores in the Greensboro individually significant gains or losses were (Gains) losses on the sale of assets 2 7 (5) market area in August and 71 stores in the recorded in 2017 or 2016. Restructuring and related charges Richmond market area in October after extensive • Restructuring and related charges and other and other items 41 66 (25) remodeling during the year. Previously launched items: 2017 charges of €41 million were mainly Underlying operating income 595 538 57 10.6% 13.2% “Easy, Fresh & Affordable” stores in the North related to integration costs of €42 million due to Underlying operating income margin 3.9% 3.5% Carolina markets of Charlotte, Wilmington, the merger, €11 million related to the set-up of Underlying EBITDA margin 7.2% 6.6% Greenville and Raleigh continue to perform the U.S. brand-centric organization and partly according to plan. offset by income from legal settlements. In 2016, charges were mostly related to integration costs During the year, Food Lion launched “Shop & of €37 million due to the merger. The charges Earn,” a digital loyalty program offering customers also included the settlement of the share-based the opportunity to receive personalized savings payment plan prior to the merger (€15 million) on the products and categories they shop the and costs due to Hurricane Matthew in Q4 most. The program has been well-received by (€11 million). Food Lion’s customers and will be launched in phases, with a full rollout in the first quarter of 2018. On a pro forma basis, underlying operating In addition, Hannaford introduced a fully digital income in 2017 was €595 million, up by loyalty program called “My Hannaford Rewards” €57 million compared to last year. At constant that offers new and personalized ways for rates, underlying operating income increased customers to save when they shop. The program by 13.2%. Delhaize America’s underlying will be fully rolled out in January 2018. operating income margin in 2017 was 3.9%, up 0.4 percentage points compared to 2016. The increase reflects strong synergy savings as well as “save for our customers” programs that were partly offset by higher depreciation expenses related to the rollout of “Easy, Fresh & Affordable” investments at Food Lion, the purchase price allocation, price investments and higher labor costs. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 68 Group financial review continued The Netherlands on a pro forma basis Pro forma operating income increased by In 2017, pro forma underlying operating Change €93 million, or 16.1%, to €671 million, affected income in The Netherlands was €674 million, versus prior by the following items that Ahold Delhaize adjusts up by €45 million or 7.2% from €629 million in € million 2017 2016 year % change for to arrive at underlying operating income: 2016. The underlying operating margin of The Net sales 13,672 13,015 657 5.0% Netherlands was 4.9% in 2017, up 0.1 percentage Comparable sales growth 4.5% 4.1% • Impairments: The 2016 impairment points compared to 2016. Margins mainly charges included an impairment charge Operating income 671 578 93 16.1% improved as a result of synergies realized from the of €9 million for a write-down of prepaid Adjusted for: merger with the Delhaize Group and good cost consideration for stores transferred back to Impairments — 15 (15) control; these were partly offset by higher pension Jumbo (related to the transfer of stores from (Gains) losses on the sale of assets (17) 2 (19) costs due to lower interest rates, and the higher Jumbo in 2012). The remaining impairment dilutive impact of our online businesses as a result Restructuring and related charges charges in 2016 mainly related of their continued strong sales growth. Our online and other items 20 34 (14) to underperforming stores. businesses in the Netherlands operate at a lower Underlying operating income 674 629 45 7.2% • (Gains) losses on the sale of assets: In 2017, margin, so their accelerated growth has a dilutive Underlying operating income margin 4.9% 4.8% The Netherlands sold assets with an aggregate impact on the segment’s overall margin. Underlying EBITDA margin 7.1% 7.0% gain of €17 million and in 2016 with an aggregate loss of €2 million. Excluding bol.com, the underlying operating On a pro forma basis, net sales in 2017 were Albert Heijn also launched Appie Today, the income margin was 5.6% in 2017, up by 0.2 • Restructuring and related charges and other €13,672 million, up by 5.0% or €657 million first supermarket online TV channel, during the percentage points compared to 2016. items: In 2017, The Netherlands recorded compared to 2016. year. Appie Today is a new and innovative way to €9 million of integration costs and it also included Our net sales in The Netherlands consist of connect with customers and colleagues by offering restructuring costs related to the closure of sales to consumers and to franchise stores. This increase was mainly driven by the 4.5% daily shows on food, culture, trends and news. stores in Germany. The charges in 2016 related Franchise stores operate under the same growth in comparable sales and was fueled by double-digit sales growth at our e-commerce For the full year, market share at Albert Heijn mainly to costs associated with a lump-sum format as Ahold Delhaize-operated stores. operations. During the year, Albert Heijn continued increased to 35.3% (Source: Nielsen). compensation for a reduction in benefits for Franchisees purchase merchandise primarily making quality and assortment improvements to employees in the Netherlands (€28 million) from Ahold Delhaize, pay a franchise fee and Bol.com delivered strong double-digit growth in and integration costs (€4 million). receive support services, including management its own-brand product lines. These improvements net consumer online sales of 28.8%. The business training, field support and marketing and were recognized externally with several “Best Buy” in Belgium and the Plaza platform – which offers administrative assistance. awards. The brand’s attractive promotions were a marketplace to merchant partners – remain also recognized externally for providing great value important growth drivers. In addition, customers for customers. Albert Heijn Online expanded the are shopping more often and for a wider range of availability of its subscription model to additional products. During the year, bol.com introduced the geographical areas and opened a fourth “Home “Select” subscription service for faster, lower-cost Shop Center” to support its strong growth. delivery as well as an e-book subscription service. In September, bol.com opened a new fulfillment center, a more than €100 million investment, to increase innovation and growth capacity and ensure even more reliable delivery of e-commerce orders in the Netherlands and Belgium. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 69 Group financial review continued Belgium on a pro forma basis On a pro forma basis, net sales in 2017 Pro forma operating income decreased by Change were €4,942 million, flat compared to 2016, €4 million compared to 2016 to €93 million. versus prior and comparable sales declined by 0.2%. Underlying operating income is adjusted for the € million 2017 2016 year % change While performance in the affiliated network following items, which impacted operating income: Net sales 4,942 4,942 — —% and stores in Luxembourg was solid, comparable Comparable sales growth (0.2)% 1.7% • Impairments: No individually significant gains sales growth in the company-operated stores or losses were recorded in 2017 or 2016. Operating income 93 97 (4) (4.1)% was negative, mainly driven by a lower basket Adjusted for: size. Delhaize.be, our online business in • (Gains) losses on the sale of assets: No Belgium, grew home delivery sales by 21%. individually significant gains or losses were Impairments — 14 (14) Customer satisfaction increased as a result of recorded in 2017 or 2016. (Gains) losses on the sale of assets — (4) 4 higher product availability and on-time delivery • Restructuring and related charges and other Restructuring and related charges following further improvements in fulfillment items: The charges in 2017 mainly related to and other items 17 14 3 and logistics. integration costs of €4 million and restructuring Underlying operating income 110 121 (11) (9.1)% costs of €12 million. In 2016, charges mainly Underlying operating income margin 2.2% 2.4% Our market share in Belgium for the year declined related to integration costs of €7 million and Underlying EBITDA margin 5.2% 5.4% to 23.8% from 24.1% last year (Source: Nielsen). restructuring costs of €7 million. Delhaize celebrated its 150th anniversary, On a pro forma basis, underlying operating highlighting its important Belgian heritage with income in 2017 was €110 million, down by special promotions and offers. During the year, 9.1%, or €11 million, compared to last year. 92 company-owned and affiliated stores were Underlying operating income margin in 2017 optimized. This included remodelings, extensions, was 2.2, down 0.2 percentage points compared relocations and uplifts. In addition, the focus for to 2016. Underlying operating income was lower, 2017 was on strengthening the commercial plan, mainly because synergy savings were more increasing the impact of promotional activities and than offset by an increased level of promotional improving the customer experience. activities, higher shrinkage in company-owned stores and higher logistic costs. Our net sales in Belgium consist of sales to consumers and to affiliate stores. Affiliates receive goods at a wholesale price that includes a markup on our purchase price. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 70 Group financial review continued Central and Southeastern Europe on a pro forma basis In 2017, net sales on a pro forma basis in Central Serbia also expanded its store network by opening Change % change at and Southeastern Europe (CSE) were €5,791 11 new stores, a total of 414 stores at the end of the versus prior constant million, up by 4.2% or €234 million compared to year. In addition, the brand invested in remodeling € million 2017 2016 year % change rates 2016. At constant exchange rates, net sales were and upgrading 35 stores to further strengthen Net sales 5,791 5,557 234 4.2% 3.4% up by 3.4%. its portfolio. Comparable sales growth 0.9% 5.5% Operating income 236 215 21 9.8% 9.3% Sales growth was driven by comparable sales Pro forma operating income increased by Adjusted for: growth of 0.9% and by the net addition of 112 €21 million compared to 2016, to €236 million. stores in 2017, which contributed 2.5% to sales Underlying operating income is adjusted for the Impairments 5 7 (2) growth. Comparable sales growth was driven following items, which impacted operating income: (Gains) losses on the sale of assets — 2 (2) by our businesses in the Czech Republic, Restructuring and related charges Romania and Serbia, while Greece saw its • Impairments: No individually significant gains and other items 1 7 (6) comparable sales growth decline as a result or losses were recorded in 2017 or 2016. Underlying operating income 242 231 11 4.8% 4.5% of the normalization of market circumstances, • (Gains) losses on the sale of assets: No Underlying operating income margin 4.2% 4.2% which had been impacted by competitive individually significant gains or losses were Underlying EBITDA margin 7.0% 6.8% disruptions during the last two years. Our Greek recorded in 2017 or 2016. brand expanded its store network by 34 stores, • Restructuring and related charges and other operating a total of 412 at the end of the year. items: No individually significant charges were Alfa Beta also started piloting digital personalized recorded in 2017 or 2016. communication with its AB Plus loyalty scheme. 2017 pro forma underlying operating income in In the Czech Republic, Albert invested in CSE was €242 million, up by €11 million or 4.8% remodeling and upgrading 70 stores to further from €231 million in 2016. Pro forma underlying optimize its supermarket portfolio. The brand also operating income margin was 4.2%, which was flat strengthened its logistics network by opening versus 2016. The Czech Republic, Romania and a third distribution center. Serbia reported higher margins, while Greece’s margin decreased, due to sales deleverage. Mega Image, our brand in Romania, expanded to a new geographical area and, at the start of the second quarter, opened its first store in Cluj-Napoca, one of Romania’s largest cities, in the heart of Transylvania. Mega Image operated 595 stores at year-end. In November, the brand launched its own online store providing customers in the Bucharest area with home delivery and instore pickup. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 71 Group financial review continued Global Support Office on an IFRS basis Global Support Office on a pro forma basis Change versus Pro forma Change versus € million 2017 2016 prior year % change € million 2017 2016 prior year % change Global Support Office costs (137) (206) 69 33.5% Global Support Office costs (133) (229) 96 41.9% of which Unusual items (29) (98) 69 70.4% of which Unusual items (25) (87) 62 71.3% Underlying Global Support Office costs (108) (108) – – Underlying Global Support Office costs (108) (142) 34 23.9% of which related to self-insurance activities 40 22 18 81.8% of which related to self-insurance activities 40 23 17 73.9% Underlying Global Support Office costs Underlying Global Support Office costs excluding self-insurance (148) (130) (18) (13.8)% excluding self-insurance (148) (165) 17 10.3% Global Support Office costs in 2017 were Underlying Global Support Office costs On a pro forma basis, Global Support Office Underlying pro forma Global Support Office €137 million, down €69 million compared to were €108 million, unchanged versus 2016. costs in 2017 were €133 million, down €96 million costs in 2017 were €108 million, down €34 million. last year. Global Support Office costs were Excluding the impact of our self-insurance compared to last year. Global Support Office Excluding the impact of our self-insurance impacted by unusual items that amounted to activities, underlying Global Support Office costs were impacted by unusual items amounting activities, underlying Global Support Office €29 million in 2017, or €69 million lower than last costs were €148 million, or €18 million higher to €25 million in 2017, which was €62 million costs were €148 million, or €17 million lower than year. This decrease was mainly driven by lower than last year, driven by the inclusion of the lower than last year, mainly due to lower last year, mainly as a result of the realization of integration and transaction costs in 2017 related Delhaize Group’s Global Support Office integration costs. synergies related to the merger with Delhaize. to the merger with Delhaize. functions for the full year. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 72 Group financial review continued Earnings and dividend per share The increase in the weighted average number of Pro forma Pro forma common shares was marginally affected by shares € million 2017 2016 Income from continuing operations per common that were issued under employee share-based Income from continuing operations 1,828 1,078 share (basic) was €1.45, an increase of €0.64 or compensation programs. Adjusted for: 79.0% compared to 2016. The main drivers of this increase were the higher operating income Impairments 60 74 Pro forma income from continuing operations (€641 million), in part because, as in 2016 only the per common share (basic) was €1.46, an increase (Gains) losses on the sale of assets (18) 4 post–merger income from the former Delhaize of €0.61 or 72% compared to 2016. This increase Restructuring and related charges and other items 178 246 operations was taken into account, the tax rate was driven by higher income from continuing Unusual items in net financial expense1 – 246 changes due to local tax reforms (€407 million) and operations of €750 million. Tax effect of unusual items (59) (162) the one-off finance cost (€246 million) incurred in Tax rate changes due to local tax reforms2 (407) – 2016. In addition, the weighted average number Our dividend policy is to target a payout ratio in the range of 40-50% of underlying income from Underlying income from continuing operations 1,582 1,486 of common shares increased from 1,022 million in 2016 to 1,251 million in 2017 as a result of continuing operations (on a pro forma basis). shares issued to effect the merger, partially As part of our dividend policy, we adjust income Income per share from continuing operations offset by a €1 billion share buyback executed from continuing operations for impairments of attributable to common shareholders 1.46 0.85 during 2017 (see Note 20 to the consolidated non-current assets, gains and losses on the sale Underlying income per share from continuing operations financial statements for more information on the of assets, restructuring and related charges, attributable to common shareholders 1.27 1.17 share movements) and the full-year impact of the and other unusual items. Pro forma underlying €1 billion capital repayment and reverse stock income from continuing operations amounted to 1 Unusual items in net financial expense consists mainly of the one-off finance cost of €243 million relating to buying back the JPY 33,000 million notes; see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for more information. split transaction executed in 2016. €1,582 million and €1,486 million in 2017 and 2016, 2 The tax rate changes as a result of local tax reforms show the impact of recalculating Ahold USA’s, Delhaize America’s and respectively, and was determined as follows: Delhaize Belgium’s deferred tax positions, applying the reduced U.S. and Belgian corporate income tax rates; see Note 10 Income from continuing operations to the consolidated financial statements for more information. per common share (basic) € Reflecting the confidence we have in our strategy Dividend per common share and our ability to generate cash, we propose a (2017 includes proposed dividend) cash dividend of €0.63 per common share for € the financial year 2017, up 10.5% from last year. 1.45 This reflects our ambition to sustainably grow the 0.90 1.04 0.79 0.81 dividend per share and represents a payout ratio 0.63 0.5 of 47%, based on the expected dividend payment 0.52 0.57 on pro forma underlying income from continuing 0.47 0.48 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 operations, which is in line with our dividend policy. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 73 Group financial review continued Financial position Property, plant and equipment decreased by Gross and net debt €1,081 million, primarily due to the the weakening € billion Ahold Delhaize’s consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2017, and January 1, 2017, are of the U.S. dollar against the euro, while capital 7.6 7.3 summarized as follows: expenditures were offset by depreciation and December 31, January 1, € million 2017 % of total 2017 % of total impairments. Intangible assets decreased by 3.0 3.2 3.5 3.2 Property, plant and equipment 10,689 31.6% 11,770 32.4% €913 million, primarily due to the weakening 1.3 1.1 2.5 of the U.S. dollar against the euro. Intangible assets 11,634 34.3% 12,547 34.6% (0.9) 1.9 Other non-current assets 1,578 4.7% 1,981 5.5% Group equity decreased by €1,106 million. 2.4 Cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits This decrease was mainly driven by the 4.0 4.3 4.7 and similar instruments, and current portion completion of the €1 billion share buyback and of available-for-sale financial assets 4,747 14.0% 4,317 11.9% the 2017 dividend of €720 million and a negative 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Inventories 3,077 9.1% 3,288 9.1% currency translation impact of €1,309 million. Gross debt This was partially offset by the current year’s Other current assets 2,146 6.3% 2,372 6.5% Cash, short-term deposits and similar instruments net income. Net debt Total assets 33,871 100.0% 36,275 100.0% Group equity 15,170 44.8% 16,276 44.9% In 2017, gross debt decreased by €311 million Our defined benefit plans showed a net deficit Non-current portion of long-term debt 5,174 15.3% 5,570 15.3% to €7,250 million, primarily due to the redemption of €567 million at year-end 2017 compared of £250 million and $172 million notes on maturity, to a net deficit of €659 million at year-end 2016. Pensions and other post-employment benefits 567 1.7% 659 1.8% the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, This decrease was the result of a weakening Other non-current liabilities 2,655 7.8% 3,373 9.3% and regular payments on finance lease and of the U.S. dollar (€45 million), €33 million of Short-term borrowings and current portion financing transaction liabilities. This was partially actuarial remeasurements, and €14 million of long-term debt 2,077 6.1% 1,991 5.5% offset by the issuance of the €750 million bond. of excess contributions over annual expenses. Payables 5,277 15.6% 5,389 14.9% Ahold Delhaize’s net debt was €2,503 million as A significant number of union employees in the Other current liabilities 2,951 8.7% 3,017 8.3% of December 31, 2017 – a decrease of €741 million United States are covered by multi-employer Total equity and liabilities 33,871 100.0% 36,275 100.0% from January 1, 2017. The decrease in gross plans. With the help of external actuaries, we have debt (€311 million) and our strong free cash flow updated the most recent available information generation (€1,926 million), were mainly offset by that these plans have provided (generally as of the completion of the €1 billion share buyback and January 1, 2016) for market trends and conditions payment of common stock dividend (€720 million). through the end of 2017. We estimate our Net debt does not include our contractual proportionate share of the total net deficit to be commitments under operating lease $912 million (€760 million) at year-end 2017 (2016: contracts, which, on an undiscounted basis, $910 million or €865 million). These amounts are amounted to €7,590 million at year-end 2017 not recognized on our balance sheet. While this (2016: €8,450 million). The off-balance sheet is our best estimate based on the information operating lease commitments impact our available to us, it is imprecise and not necessarily capital structure. reliable. For more information see Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 74 Group financial review continued Liquidity and cash flows Group credit facility Credit ratings Ahold Delhaize has access to a €1.0 billion Maintaining investment grade credit ratings is a Liquidity committed, unsecured, multi-currency and cornerstone of Ahold Delhaize’s strategy because Ahold Delhaize views available cash balances syndicated credit facility that was amended such ratings serve to lower the cost of funds and funds from operating activities as its primary and extended in February 2015, whereby the and facilitate access to a variety of lenders and sources of liquidity, complemented with access Company reduced the size of the credit facility markets. Ahold Delhaize’s current credit ratings to external sources of funds when deemed to be from €1.2 billion to €1.0 billion (providing for the from the solicited rating agencies are as follows: required. Ahold Delhaize manages short-term issuance of $275 million in letters of credit). At the liquidity based on projected cash flows. As of • Standard & Poor’s: corporate credit rating BBB, same time, the facility was extended to 2020 with December 31, 2017, the Company’s liquidity with a stable outlook as of June 2009 (previous two potential extensions after 12 and 24 months position primarily consisted of €3,380 million of rating BBBassigned in 2007). that would take the facility to 2021 and 2022 cash (including short-term deposits and similar • Moody’s: issuer credit rating Baa1, with a stable respectively. The Company successfully agreed instruments and current portion of assets available outlook as of February 2018 (previous rating both extensions with the lenders. for sale, adjusted for cash held under a notional Baa2 assigned in August 2015). cash pooling arrangement), and the undrawn The credit facility contains customary covenants portion of the €1 billion revolving credit facility. and is subject to a financial covenant that requires Ahold Delhaize, in the event that its corporate Based on the current operating performance and rating from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s is liquidity position, the Company believes that cash lower than BBB / Baa2, respectively, not to exceed provided by operating activities and available a maximum leverage ratio of 4.0:1. During 2016 cash balances will be sufficient for working capital, and 2017, the Company was in compliance with capital expenditures, interest payments, dividends, these covenants. As of December 31, 2017, there the announced €2 billion share buyback program, were no outstanding borrowings under the facility and scheduled debt repayments for the next other than letters of credit to an aggregate amount 12 months and the foreseeable future. In addition, of $156 million (€130 million). the Company has access to the amount available on its revolving credit facility and to the debt capital market on its current credit ratings. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 75 Group financial review continued Cash flows Free cash flow, at €1,926 million, increased Ahold Delhaize’s consolidated cash flows for 2017 and 2016 are as follows: by €485 million compared to 2016. Operating cash flows from continuing operations were € million 2017 2016 higher by €802 million. At constant exchange Operating cash flows from continuing operations 3,700 2,898 rates, operating cash flows from continuing Purchase of non-current assets (1,698) (1,302) operations were higher by €872 million, or 30.8%. Divestment of assets / disposal groups held for sale 142 104 The purchase of non-current assets was higher Dividends from joint ventures 70 19 by €396 million, or €424 million higher at constant Interest received 32 15 exchange rates. Interest paid (320) (293) Free cash flow Free cash flow 1,926 1,441 In 2017, the main uses of free cash flow included: Proceeds from long-term debt 747 – • Completion of the announced €1 billion buyback Repayments of loans (474) (347) program, for a total amount of €992 million in Repayments of finance lease liabilities (190) (141) the financial year 2017. The trades executed Changes in short-term loans 212 209 on December 28 and December 29, totaling Dividends paid on common shares (720) (429) 328,631 shares of €6 million equivalent, were Capital repayment — (1,001) only contractually settled on January 2 and Share buyback (992) — January 3, 2018 respectively. In total, 55,166,939 common shares were repurchased under this Acquisition / divestments of businesses, net of cash (53) 2,201 program in 2017. Acquired available for sale financial assets and restricted cash – 202 • Common stock dividend at €0.57 per share Other cash flows from derivatives 262 (260) resulting in a cash outflow of €720 million. Other 9 17 Change in cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits and similar instruments, and the current portion of available for sale financial assets (before impact of exchange rates) 727 1,892 Changes in short-term deposits and similar instruments, the current portion of available for sale financial assets and changes in restricted cash 100 222 Net cash from operating, investing and financing activities 827 2,114 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 76 Group financial review continued Capital investments and property overview As of December 31, 2017, Ahold Delhaize operated 6,637 stores. The Company’s total sales area amounted to 9.3 million square meters in 2017, a decrease of 0.5% from the prior year. The total number Capital expenditure (including acquisitions), which includes new finance leases, amounted to of stores (including stores operated by franchisees) is as follows: €1,822 million in 2017 and €16,775 million in 2016. Opening Opened / Closed / Closing Change versus % balance acquired sold balance € million 2017 2016 prior year of sales Ahold USA 776 2 (26) 752 Ahold USA 452 513 (61) 2.0% Delhaize America 1,214 2 (8) 1,208 Delhaize America 498 229 269 3.2% The Netherlands1 2,163 35 (35) 2,163 The Netherlands 363 389 (26) 2.6% Belgium 765 20 (21) 764 Belgium 192 83 109 3.9% Central and Southeastern Europe 1,638 121 (9) 1,750 Central and Southeastern Europe 182 141 41 3.1% Total number of stores 6,556 180 (99) 6,637 Global Support Office 36 22 14 Total regular capital expenditures1 1,723 1,377 346 2.7% 1 The number of stores as of December 31, 2017, includes 1,153 specialty stores (Etos and Gall & Gall) (January 1, 2017: 1,152 specialty stores). Acquisition capital expenditures2 99 15,398 (15,299) Total Ahold Delhaize 1,822 16,775 (14,953) 2.9% The total number of retail locations, including the 5,510 stores owned or leased by Ahold Delhaize and 19 pick-up points in stand-alone locations, was 5,529 in 2017, higher by 49 compared to 2016. 1 Including new finance leases. Ahold Delhaize Franchisees Total 2 Including conversion expenditure of acquired stores and acquired finance leases. Number of stores leased or owned 5,510 1,127 6,637 Capital investments were primarily related to the Capital expenditures Number of stores subleased to franchisees (524) 524 — construction, remodeling and expansion of our € billion 16.8 Number of stores operated 4,986 1,651 6,637 stores and supply chain (including online), as well Number of stand-alone pick-up points 19 – 19 as IT infrastructure improvements. Under IFRS, Total number of retail locations 5,005 1,651 6,656 1.8 the merger with the Delhaize Group is accounted 1.2 for as a business combination following the 1.0 0.8 acquisition method. In 2016, acquisition capital 2.8 2.7 expenditures included the merger with the 2.5 2.3 2.1 Delhaize Group. 0.8 0.7 0.8 1.4 1.7 Excluding acquisitions, capital expenditures in 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 were €1.7 billion. The increase, compared Regular capex to 2016, mainly relates to 2017 being the first Acquisition capex full year of operations of the merged Company. Regular capex as % of sales Including full year Delhaize Group capital expenditures, total capital expenditures in 2016 amounted to €1.8 billion. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 77 Group financial review continued Franchisees operated 1,651 stores in the The following table breaks down the ownership Ahold USA Delhaize America Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg, 1,127 structure of our 5,529 retail locations (inclusive Number of stores 2017 2016 Number of stores 2017 2016 of which were either owned by the franchisees of stores subleased to franchisees) and 1,119 Stop & Shop New England 215 217 Food Lion 1,027 1,033 or leased independently from Ahold Delhaize. other properties as of December 31, 2017: Stop & Shop New York Hannaford 181 181 Retail Other At the end of 2017, Ahold Delhaize operated % of total locations properties Metro 199 200 Total Delhaize America 1,208 1,214 505 pick-up points, which was 21 more than Company-owned 22% 50% Giant Landover 167 168 Sales area of in 2016. These were either stand-alone, in-store Giant Carlisle 171 191 own-operated stores Leased, of which 78% 50% or office-based. Total Ahold USA 752 776 (in thousands of square Finance leases 12% 8% Ahold Delhaize also operated the following Sales area of meters) 2,963 2,980 Operating leases 66% 42% other properties as of December 31, 2017: own-operated stores (in thousands of square At the end of 2017, Delhaize America operated Warehouse / distribution centers / Our leased properties have terms of up to 25 meters) 2,890 2,960 six fewer stores than the year before as a result of production facilities/offices 124 years, or in limited instances up to 30 years, two openings and eight closings. Properties under construction / with renewal options for additional periods. Store rentals are normally payable on a monthly Ahold USA ended the year with 24 fewer stores, A total of 175 stores were remodeled or development 53 basis at a stated amount or, in a limited number net of two openings and 26 closings, of which 17 expanded in 2017 as part of the regular process Investment properties 942 of cases, at a guaranteed minimum amount plus relate to remedy stores. Peapod closed one pickof maintaining and modernizing the business Total 1,119 up point, bringing the total to 209 in 2017. a percentage of sales over a defined base. property portfolio. The investment properties consist of buildings In addition to departmental upgrades, the Ahold Delhaize America operated 41 pick-up points and land. The vast majority of these properties USA divisions remodeled, expanded, relocated at the end of 2017. were subleased to third parties. Of these, most or reconstructed 26 stores in 2017 as part of the continuous focus on keeping stores fresh and Total investments at Delhaize America, postwere shopping centers containing one or more up-to-date. Total investments at Ahold USA merger, amounted to around 3.2% of sales. Ahold Delhaize stores and third-party retail units generating rental income. amounted to around 2.0% of sales and ranged from new stores to investment in IT, distribution centers and minor construction work in the stores. At the end of 2017, Ahold USA operated 222 fuel stations, which was seven fewer than last year. The majority of these stations are located in the Giant Carlisle and Stop & Shop New England market areas. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 78 Group financial review continued The Netherlands Belgium Central and Southeastern Europe Number of stores 2017 2016 Number of stores 2017 2016 Number of stores 2017 2016 Albert Heijn: the Delhaize Belgium 764 765 Czech Republic 329 330 Netherlands 884 884 Total Belgium 764 765 Greece 412 378 Albert Heijn: Belgium 37 42 Sales area of Serbia 414 404 Albert Heijn to go: own-operated stores Romania 595 526 the Netherlands 78 74 (in thousands of square Central and Albert Heijn to go: meters) 282 282 Southeastern Europe 1,750 1,638 Germany 11 11 Sales area of Etos 552 547 In 2017, our brands in Belgium operated 764 own-operated stores Gall & Gall 601 605 stores, one fewer than the year before as a result (in thousands of square of 20 openings and 21 closings. During the meters) 1,231 1,203 Total The Netherlands 2,163 2,163 year, 27 stores were remodeled or expanded. Sales area of In addition to these remodels, our Belgian own-operated stores At the end of 2017, our operations in the Czech brands optimized 65 stores to modernize the (in thousands of square Republic, Greece, Serbia and Romania held a customer experience. meters) 996 998 portfolio of 1,750 stores, including 112 net additions Belgium operated 128 pick-up points at the compared to the prior year. During the year, 69 In 2017, our brands in The Netherlands opened end of 2017, 11 more than the year before. stores were remodeled or expanded as part of the 35 stores and closed another 35, keeping the total Company’s continued process of maintaining and Total investments in Belgium amounted to around modernizing our store network. unchanged at 2,163. 3.9% of sales. Albert Heijn Online opened seven pick-up points, Central and Southeastern Europe operated 66 bringing the total to 61 at the end of 2017. pick-up points at the end of 2017. A total of 107 stores were remodeled, expanded, Total investments in Central and Southeastern relocated or reconstructed in the past year as Europe amounted to around 3.1% of sales. part of the regular process of maintaining and modernizing the business property portfolio. Total investments in the Netherlands amounted to around 2.6% of sales, allocated to the opening of new stores and investments in IT, distribution centers and minor construction work in the existing stores. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 79 Group financial review continued Key financial and non-financial information The key financial and non-financial information per segment for 2017 and 2016 is presented below: Ahold USA Delhaize America The Netherlands Belgium Central and Southeastern Europe 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Net sales (€ millions)1 23,045 23,845 15,395 7,065 13,706 13,101 4,953 2,199 5,791 3,485 Net sales ($ millions)1 25,986 26,377 17,371 7,746 Net sales growth in local currency (1.5)% 0.1% 124.3% 4.6% 3.2% 125.2% 63.9% 96.7% Comparable sales growth 0.3% (0.1)% 1.3% 1.5% 4.5% 4.1% (0.2)% 0.8% 0.9% 3.1% Comparable sales growth (excluding gasoline sales) (0.1)% 0.6% 1.3% 1.5% 4.5% 4.1% (0.2)% 0.8% 1.0% 3.3% Operating income (€ millions) 821 818 550 218 669 578 86 51 236 125 Operating income ($ millions) 926 902 622 239 Underlying operating income (€ millions) 940 936 595 252 676 636 111 56 242 127 Underlying operating income ($ millions) 1,061 1,034 673 275 Underlying operating margin 4.1% 3.9% 3.9% 3.6% 4.9% 4.9% 2.2% 2.5% 4.2% 3.6% Number of employees / headcount (at year-end in thousands) 109 114 95 95 102 100 14 14 49 47 Number of employees / FTEs (at year-end in thousands) 80 82 56 56 32 32 12 12 44 43 Contribution to Ahold Delhaize net sales 36.6% 48.0% 24.5% 14.2% 21.8% 26.4% 7.9% 4.4% 9.2% 7.0% Contribution to Ahold Delhaize underlying operating income2 36.7% 46.6% 23.2% 12.6% 26.4% 31.7% 4.3% 2.8% 9.4% 6.3% 1 Net sales from former Delhaize segments are included as of July 24, 2016. 2 Before Group Support Office costs. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 80 Definitions – performance measures The financial information included Comparable sales Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation Global Support Office costs in this Annual Report is prepared Comparable sales are net sales, in local currency, and amortization, or EBITDA Global Support Office (GSO) costs relate from exactly the same stores and online sales Ahold Delhaize defines EBITDA as operating to the responsibilities of the Global Support in accordance with International in existing market areas for the most recent income / (loss) plus depreciation and amortization. Office, including Finance, Strategy, Mergers Financial Reporting Standards comparable period plus net sales from stores EBITDA is considered to be a useful measure for & Acquisitions, Internal Audit, Legal & Compliance, as adopted by the European that are replaced within the same market area. investors to analyze profitability by eliminating Human Resources, Information Technology, Union, as explained in Note 2 For markets that sell gasoline, Ahold Delhaize the effects of financing (i.e., net financial Insurance, Tax, Treasury, Communications, Basis of preparation and Note 3 also calculates the comparable sales, excluding expense), capital investments and the impact of Investor Relations, Sustainable Retailing, gasoline sales, to eliminate gasoline price volatility the purchase price allocation (i.e., depreciation and the majority of the Executive Committee. Significant accounting policies in the comparison. Ahold Delhaize measures a and amortization). Global Support Office costs also include results to the consolidated financial store for comparable sales after being open for from other activities coordinated centrally but not statements, unless otherwise Free cash flow a full 56 weeks. allocated to any subsidiary. Underlying Global Ahold Delhaize defines free cash flow as operating indicated. Support Office costs exclude impairments of Comparable sales and comparable sales cash flows from continuing operations minus net non-current assets, gains and losses on the sale The definitions of non-financial performance excluding gasoline sales are not reflected in capital expenditures and net interest paid plus of assets, and restructuring and related charges measures included in the Annual Report can Ahold Delhaize’s financial statements. However, dividends received. Ahold Delhaize has included and other items, including business acquisition be found in the Sustainability performance – the Company believes that disclosing comparable free cash flow as the Company believes it is a transaction costs. Definitions section. sales and comparable sales excluding gasoline useful measure for investors, because it provides sales provides additional useful analytical insight into the cash flows available to, among Gross rent This Annual Report also includes alternative information to investors regarding the operating other things, reduce debt and pay dividends. Gross rent comprises all of the rent that Ahold performance measures (also known as non-GAAP performance of Ahold Delhaize as it neutralizes Free cash flow is derived from the financial Delhaize is required to pay to third parties and is measures). The definitions of these alternative the impact of, for example, newly acquired stores statements; however, this is not a measure not corrected for rental income Ahold Delhaize performance measures can be found below. in the calculation of sales growth. calculated in accordance with IFRS and may not receives from other third parties. Management believes that these alternative be comparable to similar measures presented Net consumer online sales performance (non-GAAP) financial measures by other companies. Accordingly, free cash flow Total online sales to customers, excluding sales allow for a better understanding of Ahold should not be considered as an alternative to taxes and value-added taxes, but including Delhaize’s operating and financial performance. operating cash flow. sales of third parties via bol.com’s Plaza. These alternative performance measures should Ahold Delhaize’s management believes that this be considered in addition to, but not as substitutes measure provides more insight into the growth for, the most directly comparable IFRS measures. of our online businesses. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 81 Definitions – performance measures continued Net debt Net sales in local currency Return on capital Underlying income from Net debt is the difference between (i) the sum of In certain instances, net sales are presented in Return on Capital (RoC) is calculated as continuing operations loans, finance lease liabilities, cumulative preferred local currency. Ahold Delhaize’s management Underlying Operating Income before Depreciation, Ahold Delhaize defines underlying income from financing shares and short-term debt (i.e., gross believes this measure provides a better insight Amortization and Rent Expense divided by the continuing operations as income from continuing debt) and (ii) cash, cash equivalents, current into the operating performance of Ahold Delhaize’s annual rolling average of the sum of Property, operations adjusted for impairments of non-current portion of available-for-sale financial assets, foreign subsidiaries. Plant and Equipment at purchase price, Intangible assets, gains and losses on the sale of assets, and short-term deposits and similar instruments. assets at purchase price, Operating Working restructuring and related charges, and other Operating income in local currency In management’s view, because cash, cash Capital components and Rent Expense, divided items considered not to be directly related to the In certain instances operating income is presented equivalents, current portion of available-for-sale by 8%. underlying operating performance, as well as in local currency. Ahold Delhaize’s management financial assets, and short-term deposits and material non-recurring finance costs and income believes this measure provides better insight into Total shareholder return similar instruments can be used, among other tax expense, and the potential effect of income tax the operating performance of Ahold Delhaize’s Total shareholder return (TSR) is the sum of the things, to repay indebtedness, netting this against on all these items. foreign subsidiaries. change in share price and dividends paid to show gross debt is a useful measure for investors to the total return to the shareholder expressed as an Underlying income per share judge Ahold Delhaize’s leverage. Net debt may Pro forma annualized percentage. from continuing operations include certain cash items that are not readily Ahold Delhaize defines the pro forma information Underlying income per share from continuing available for repaying debt. as the combined results of Ahold and Delhaize Underlying operating income operations is calculated as underlying income in accordance with International Financial and margin Net sales at constant exchange rates from continuing operations, divided by the Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the Total operating income, adjusted for impairments Net sales at constant exchange rates exclude weighted average number of shares outstanding. International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) of non-current assets, gains and losses on the the impact of using different currency exchange and as adopted by the European Union (EU). sale of assets, restructuring and related charges, Underlying earnings before interest, rates to translate the financial information of These combined results are adjusted for: and other items considered not to be directly taxes, depreciation and amortization, Ahold Delhaize subsidiaries or joint ventures to related to the underlying operating performance. or underlying EBITDA and margin euros. Ahold Delhaize’s management believes • Exclusion of the performance of remedy stores Ahold Delhaize’s management believes this Ahold Delhaize defines underlying EBITDA as this measure provides a better insight into the and other divestments measure provides better insight into the underlying underlying operating income plus depreciation operating performance of Ahold Delhaize’s • Exclusion of merger transaction costs operating performance of Ahold Delhaize’s and amortization. Underlying EBITDA is foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures. • Inclusion of Purchase Price Allocation operations. Underlying operation income margin considered to be a useful measure for investors (PPA) effects is calculated as underlying operating income as to analyze profitability by eliminating the effects • Alignment of Global Support Office functions a percentage of net sales. of financing (i.e., net financial expense), capital and related costs investments and the impact of the purchase price allocation (i.e., depreciation and amortization). • Alignment of foreign exchange rates used Underlying EBITDA margin is calculated as in the translation of foreign group entities underlying EBITDA as a percentage of net sales. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 82 Governance Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 83 Our Management Board and Executive Committee Our Management Board Executive Committee diversity2 Gender 1 8 Female Male Dick Boer Frans Muller Jeff Carr Kevin Holt President and Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer Chairman Management Board and Chief Integration Officer Member Management Board Ahold Delhaize USA and Executive Committee Member Management Board and Executive Committee Member Management Board Nationality and Executive Committee and Executive Committee Dick Boer has served as Chief Executive Officer Jeff Carr has served as Chief Financial Officer of Ahold Delhaize since July 24, 2016. Prior to Frans Muller has served as Deputy Chief of Ahold Delhaize since July 24, 2016. Prior to Effective January 1, 2018, Kevin Holt became the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, he Executive Officer and Chief Integration Officer the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, Jeff Chief Executive Officer Ahold Delhaize 1 4 had served as CEO of Ahold, appointed by the of Ahold Delhaize since July 24, 2016. He was joined Ahold on November 14, 2011, as acting USA. Kevin had been Chief Operating Belgian Dutch Supervisory Board on September 29, 2010, with responsible for Delhaize America, including member of the Management Board and CFO. Officer Ahold USA since October 2016, after an effective date of March 1, 2011. Before that, Food Lion and Hannaford, on an interim basis Ahold’s shareholders appointed him to the serving as Chief Operating Officer Delhaize Dick had served as Chief Operating Officer from October 2016 until January 2018. Prior to Management Board on April 17, 2012. America since July 24, 2016. Prior to the 2 Ahold Europe since November 6, 2006. the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, Frans merger between Ahold and Delhaize, he was British He began his career at Unilever, and held Dick joined Ahold in 1998 as CEO of Ahold served as President and CEO of Delhaize Group senior roles in finance at Associated British Executive Vice President of Delhaize Group Czech Republic and was appointed President from 2013. Before joining Delhaize Group, Frans Foods, Reckitt Benckiser and Grand and Chief Executive Officer of Delhaize 2 had worked for German retailer Metro AG for American and CEO of Albert Heijn in 2000. In 2003, he Metropolitan. From 2005 to 2009, he was America, starting in 2014. over 15 years. From 2006 until 2013, he was a became President and CEO of Ahold’s Dutch group finance director and a member of the Before joining Delhaize Group, Kevin member of the Metro AG Management Board, businesses and on May 3, 2007, shareholders board at easyJet. Jeff was then appointed served as president of retail operations serving as CEO of Metro Cash & Carry from 2 Including the members of the appointed him to the Management Board. to the role of group finance director and a for SuperValu. During his tenure there, the 2008 until 2013. Management Board. member of the board at FirstGroup, the leading company owned the Albertsons, JewelPrior to joining Ahold, Dick spent more than Earlier, he served in various positions at Metro transport operator in the UK and the United 17 years in various retail positions for SHV Osco and Save-A-Lot chains and was the AG including managing director of Makro, States Jeff has lived and worked in Europe Holdings N.V. in the Netherlands and abroad third largest food retailing company in the member of the board of Metro Cash & Carry and the United States. and for Unigro N.V. United States. International, regional director for Eastern Dick is a board member of the Consumer Europe and Russia, president for Asia Pacific Age: 56 Prior to SuperValu, Kevin worked for three Goods Forum (CGF) and co-sponsor of and Russia / Ukraine and CEO of Metro Group Nationality: British years with Sears Holding Company and the CGF Health and Wellness pillar. He is a Buying. From 1988 to 1997, Frans held various 14 years with Meijer, serving in various member of the advisory board of fashion retailer management and executive positions at leadership positions, including executive G-Star RAW. At the World Economic Forum, KLM Cargo in Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Vienna vice president of retail operations and senior he is governor of the Consumer Industries and Singapore. vice president of information technology / Community and steward of the Future of Frans is president of the European Retail Round services and strategic planning. Health and Healthcare System. Furthermore, Table and serves on the board of directors of Before joining the retail industry, Kevin spent Dick is a member of the supervisory board of the Food Marketing Institute Inc. and Vlerick nine years at NCR delivering technology the Royal Concertgebouw in the Netherlands. Business School. solutions to large and complex organizations. The duties of the Management Board Age: 60 Age: 56 Age: 59 are described under Corporate governance in this Annual Report Nationality: Dutch Nationality: Dutch Nationality: American Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 84 Our Management Board and Executive Committee Our Executive Committee Wouter Kolk Abbe Luersman Jan Ernst de Groot Marc Croonen Ben Wishart Chief Operating Officer Chief Human Resources Officer Chief Legal Officer Chief Sustainability, Transformation Global Chief Information Officer the Netherlands and Belgium Member Executive Committee Member Executive Committee and Communications Officer Member Executive Committee Member Executive Committee1 Abbe Luersman was appointed as Chief Jan Ernst de Groot has served as Chief Legal Member Executive Committee Ben Wishart became a member of the Wouter Kolk was appointed Chief Operating Human Resources Officer and member Officer since July 24, 2016. Prior to the merger Marc Croonen has been Ahold Delhaize’s Executive Committee, effective January 1, Officer the Netherlands and Belgium and of Ahold Delhaize’s Executive Committee, of Ahold and Delhaize, he was appointed Chief Sustainability, Transformation and 2018. Ben joined Ahold in 2013 in the role member of the Executive Committee of effective July 24, 2016. She is responsible for Chief Legal Officer and member of Ahold’s Communications Officer since July 24, 2016. of Global Chief Information Officer and has Ahold Delhaize on September 8, 2017. Global Human Resources, including Talent Executive Committee effective February 1, Prior to the merger between Ahold and continued in this role for Ahold Delhaize since and Diversity; Leadership and Development; 2015. He is responsible for Ahold Delhaize’s Delhaize, he was Executive Vice President and the merger in 2016. He previously served as Wouter re-joined Ahold in 2013 as EVP Organizational Effectiveness and Design; and legal affairs, governance and compliance Chief Human Resources Officer at Delhaize CIO of Morrisons plc and Whitbread plc and Specialty Stores and New Markets at Total Rewards. Prior to the merger between functions and product integrity. Group starting in 2014. held various senior Information Technology Albert Heijn following a six-year period as Ahold and Delhaize, Abbe had served as Before joining Ahold, Jan Ernst was general roles at Tesco plc. CEO of international retailer WE Fashion. Before joining Delhaize Group, Marc Ahold’s Chief Human Resources Officer and counsel and managing director at TNT Age: 55 He became Chief Executive Officer Albert was human resources director for Europe, member of the Executive Committee from Express. Prior to that, he worked for KLM Heijn in January 2015 and will continue to the Middle East and Africa at International Nationality: British November 1, 2013. Royal Dutch Airlines in a wide range of lead Albert Heijn. He first started at Ahold Paper from 2012. Between 2010 and 2012, in 1991, and over the next 16 years served Before that, Abbe worked for Unilever, business and corporate roles, most recently he was chief human resources officer at Dexia. in several international commercial and where she held various HR leadership roles, as managing director and a member Marc began his career with the former Artois general management roles, including most recently as head of human resources of the board of management. Jan Ernst brewery. After serving as human resources Commercial Director Asia-Pacific based in for Unilever Europe. Prior to Unilever, Abbe started his career at law firm De Brauw manager there for nine years, he became Singapore, Regional Director Albert Heijn, worked at Whirlpool Corporation, holding Blackstone Westbroek. head of human resources and communication General Manager Gall & Gall and General a number of senior roles in human resources, Jan Ernst is chairman of the supervisory at Volkswagen Belgium in 1995. In 1999, Manager of Etos. Wouter is a member of the both in the United States and internationally. council of Hivos, a supervisory board member he joined Danone as human resources director supervisory boards of the Hortus Botanicus Abbe is a member of the Network of of ADG Dienstengroep and a board member for Northern Europe. From 2001 until 2010, Amsterdam and concert hall Paradiso. Executive Women board of directors, the of the Hermitage Museum Amsterdam. Marc was employed by AB Inbev, including as Age: 51 Catalyst advisory board and the Netherlands Age: 54 head of human resources for Western Europe American Chamber of Commerce board from 2005 onwards. Nationality: Dutch Nationality: Dutch of directors. Age: 57 Age: 50 Nationality: Belgian Nationality: American 1 Wouter Kolk will be nominated for appointment to the Management Board at the 2018 annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 85 Our Supervisory Board Supervisory Board diversity Gender 2 10 Female Male Mats Jansson Jan Hommen Jacques de Vaucleroy René Hooft Graafland Chairman Vice Chairman Vice Chairman Chairman of the Audit, Mats Jansson has served as Chairman Jan Hommen has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Jacques de Vaucleroy has served on Ahold Finance and Risk Committee of Ahold Delhaize’s Supervisory Board Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and is Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, René Hooft Graafland has served on Ahold Nationality since July 24, 2016, and is a member of its a member of the Governance and Nomination 2016, and is a member of the Audit, Finance Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, Governance and Nomination Committee. Committee and the Audit, Finance and Risk and Risk Committee and the Governance and 2016, and is Chairman of the Audit, Finance Prior to the merger between Ahold and Committee. Prior to the merger between Ahold Nomination Committee. Prior to the merger and Risk Committee. Prior to the merger Delhaize, he served as Chairman of and Delhaize, he served as Chairman of Ahold’s between Ahold and Delhaize, he served on between Ahold and Delhaize, he was 1 Canadian 2 Delhaize’s Board of Directors starting in 2012. Supervisory Board since 2013. Delhaize’s Board of Directors starting in 2005 appointed to the Ahold Supervisory Board 1 American Mats was CEO of the Scandinavian airline Jan was previously Vice Chairman of Ahold’s and was Chairman of its Governance and on April 16, 2014, with effect from January Swedish SAS from 2006 to 2010. Prior to that, he Supervisory Board and served as Chairman Nomination Committee. 1, 2015. served as president and CEO of Axel Johnson of the Audit Committee from 2003 to 2007. Jacques has spent most of his career within René previously held the position of CFO AB, CEO of Axfood, CEO of Karl Fazer Oy and He is the former CEO of KPMG the Netherlands the ING group, where he was a member and member of the executive board of CEO of Catena / Bilia. Mats began his career and was CEO of ING Group N.V., CFO and of the executive board and CEO of ING Heineken N.V. until April 2015. Before being with ICA, holding positions of increasing vice chairman of the board of management Insurance and Investment Management appointed as a member of Heineken’s 4 responsibility over a period of more than of Royal Philips Electronics N.V. and CFO of Europe. Jacques was a member of AXA executive board in 2002, he held various 4 Belgian Dutch 20 years and serving as president of ICA Aluminum Company of America Inc. Group’s management committee and CEO of international management positions with the Detaljhandel and deputy CEO and chairman Currently Jan is chairman of the supervisory the company’s Northern, Central and Eastern company in Europe, Asia and Africa. of the group from 1990 to 1994. board of Koninklijke VolkerWessels N.V., Europe business unit from 2010 until 2016. René is vice chairman of the supervisory Currently Mats is a member of the JPMorgan chairman of the board of United World College He also assumed global responsibility for board and chairman of the audit committee European Advisory Council, advisor to Prime Nederland, and a member of the supervisory the AXA Group’s life and savings and health of Wolters Kluwer N.V. Furthermore, he Public Communications i Sverige AB and board of ProteoNic B.V. He also serves as businesses from 2011 until 2016. is a member of the supervisory board advisor to Advent Capital Management LLC. an advisor to Advent International PLC and Currently Jacques is a member of the board and of the audit committee of Koninklijke Age: 66 BlackRock Netherlands. of directors of Swiss Re Ltd, Swiss Re Europe, FrieslandCampina N.V. He is also chairman Age: 74 Fidelity International Ltd and Zabka Polska. of the supervisory board of Royal Theatre Nationality: Swedish He is also a member of the advisory boards Carré and chairman of the board of Nationality: Dutch of Artexis Easyfairs and CVC Belgium. Stichting African Parks Foundation. Age: 57 Age: 62 Nationality: Belgian Nationality: Dutch Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 86 Our Supervisory Board continued Ben Noteboom Bill McEwan Rob van den Bergh Mark McGrath Mary Anne Citrino Chairman of the Governance Chairman of the Chairman of the Sustainability Mark McGrath has served on Ahold Mary Anne Citrino has served on Ahold and Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee and Innovation Committee Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and is a member of the Governance 2016, and is a member of the Audit, Finance Ben Noteboom has served on Ahold Bill McEwan has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Rob van den Bergh has served on Ahold and Nomination Committee and the and Risk Committee. Prior to the merger Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and is Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, Remuneration Committee. between Ahold and Delhaize, she was 2016, and is Chairman of the Governance and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and 2016, and is Chairman of the Sustainability appointed to the Ahold Supervisory Board on Nomination Committee and a member of the a member of the Sustainability and Innovation and Innovation Committee and member of the He was first appointed to the Ahold Supervisory Board on April 23, 2008. Mark is March 14, 2016. Remuneration Committee. Prior to the merger Committee. Prior to the merger between Ahold Remuneration Committee. Prior to the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, he was first and Delhaize, he served on Delhaize’s Board of between Ahold and Delhaize, he was first a director emeritus of McKinsey & Company. Mary Anne is a senior advisor to Blackstone. appointed to the Supervisory Board on April Directors as of 2011 and was Chairman of the appointed to the Ahold Supervisory Board on He led the firm’s Americas Consumer Goods She joined the Blackstone Advisory Partners 28, 2009. Remuneration Committee. April 20, 2011. Practice from 1998 until 2004, when he retired Group as senior managing director in 2004. from the company. Mark is a former director Mary Anne was employed at Morgan Stanley Ben is former CEO and chairman of the Bill is the former president and CEO of Rob is former CEO of VNU N.V. Prior to that, he of GATX and Aware Inc. executive board of Randstad Holding N.V., Sobeys Inc., and was a member of the board held various other executive positions within for over 20 years, during which she served to which he was appointed in 2001. He had of directors of its parent company, Empire VNU; he was a member of the executive board Mark serves on the advisory council of the as the global head of consumer products first joined Randstad in 1993 and held various Company Limited. from 1992 and was appointed CEO in 2000. University of Chicago’s Booth Graduate investment banking, co-head of healthcare senior management positions during his time School of Business. He is a trustee and serves services investment banking, and as a Between 1989 and 2000, Bill held a variety Rob is a member of the supervisory boards on the executive committee of the Chicago mergers and acquisitions analyst. with the company. of progressively senior marketing and of Pon Holdings B.V., Iddink Groep B.V. Symphony Orchestra Association. Currently Mary Anne is a director of Dollar Ben is chairman of the supervisory board merchandising roles with Coca-Cola Limited and Novamedia. He is also a member of the of Koninklijke Vopak N.V., chairman of its and Coca-Cola Bottling as well as with The advisory board of CVC Capital Partners and Age: 71 Tree, Inc. and member of its audit committee selection and appointment committee and Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company (A&P), member of the Netherlands Committee of Nationality: American and nominating and corporate governance a member of its remuneration committee. both in Canada and in the United States. Human Rights Watch. committee. She is a director of Alcoa, He is also a member of the supervisory Bill served as president of A&P’s Canadian Inc. and a member of its governance and Age: 67 nominating committee and public issues board of Aegon N.V., chairman of its operations before his appointment as president remuneration committee and a member of and chief executive officer of the company’s Nationality: Dutch committee. Mary Anne is also chair of the its risk committee. In addition, he serves U.S. Atlantic Region. audit committee and member of the finance, as a member of the supervisory board investment and technology committee of Bill is a member of the board of Agrifoods Hewlett Packard, Inc. and audit committee of Wolters Kluwer International Cooperative Ltd and Aimia Inc. N.V., and as a member of the boards of the Age: 58 Holland Festival Foundation and the Cancer Age: 61 Nationality: American Center Amsterdam. Nationality: Canadian Age: 59 Nationality: Dutch Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 87 Our Supervisory Board continued Johnny Thijs Patrick De Maeseneire Dominique Leroy Johnny Thijs has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Patrick De Maeseneire has served on Ahold Dominique Leroy has served on Ahold Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, is a member of the Remuneration Committee. 2016, and is a member of the Audit, Finance 2016, and is a member of the Sustainability Prior to the merger between Ahold and and Risk Committee. Prior to the merger and Innovation Committee. Prior to the merger Delhaize, he served on Delhaize’s Board of between Ahold and Delhaize, he served on between Ahold and Delhaize, she served on Directors starting in 2014. Johnny was the Delhaize’s Board of Directors starting in 2015. Delhaize’s Board of Directors starting in 2015. former CEO of Belgian Post from 2002 to 2014 Patrick has been the CEO of Jacobs Holding Dominique began working at Belgacom and served as CEO of TerBeke from 2000 AG, major shareholder of Barry Callebaut AG, SA in 2011 as vice president of sales for the to 2002. since 2015. He is also chairman of the board consumer division. In 2012, she held the Johnny started his career in 1974 at of directors of Barry Callebaut. Patrick served position of executive vice president of the Vanderelst N.V. (Rothmans group) as product as CEO of Adecco from 2009 to 2015, and as consumer business unit of Belgacom and was and marketing manager for Belgium. In 1981, CEO of Barry Callebaut from 2002 to 2009. a member of the management committee of he was appointed to the role of marketing and Patrick started his professional career in Belgacom Group. sales manager at Masterfoods N.V. (Mars Inc.) 1980 as a consultant at Arthur Andersen. Prior to this, Dominique worked for 24 years for Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and Between 1980 and 1997, he held executive at Unilever. She was managing director at France. In 1986, Johnny moved to Côte d’Orpositions at Wang, Apple, Sun International Unilever (Belgium) and a member of the Jacobs Suchard. Five years later he joined and the Belgian TV station VTM. Unilever Benelux management committee. Interbrew N.V. as executive vice president before becoming CEO for Europe, Asia Age: 60 Dominique has been the CEO of Proximus Pacific and Africa from 1995 to 1999. Nationality: Belgian (formerly Belgacom) and a member of the board of directors of Proximus since 2014. Johnny is chairman of the board of directors She also serves as a board member at the of Spadel SA, Corialis, HospitalLogistics and Proximus subsidiaries BICS, Be-Mobile and Recticel, a member of the board of directors Proximus Art. of H. Essers and an advisor to CVC Belgium and Lazard Frères Benelux. In addition, Dominique serves as a board member at Lotus Bakeries and is chair Age: 65 of the international advisory board of the Nationality: Belgian Solvay Brussels School of Economics and Management. She also serves as a member of the supervisory board of Saint Gobain. Age: 53 Nationality: Belgian Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 88 Corporate governance We have designed our corporate Governance structure Governance structure governance structure to best Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. (“the Company” support our business, meet the or “Ahold Delhaize”) is a public company under General Meeting of Shareholders Audit, Finance and Risk Committee needs of our stakeholders and Dutch law, structured to execute our strategy and to balance local, regional and global Governance and Nomination Committee comply with laws and regulations. decision-making. Supervisory Board This section contains an overview of our corporate Remuneration Committee In 2017, our Company comprised a Global Support governance structure and includes information Office and five reportable segments: Ahold USA, required under the new Dutch Corporate Management Board Sustainability and Innovation Committee Delhaize America, The Netherlands, Belgium Governance Code, effective January 1, 2017 and Central and Southeastern Europe (CSE) – Executive Committee (Dutch Corporate Governance Code). each of which are made up of a number of local brands. From 2018 onwards, in line with the new management structure effective January 1, 2018, we will combine the Ahold USA and Delhaize Central and Ahold Delhaize The America reportable segments into one reportable Belgium Southeastern USA1 America1 Netherlands segment: Ahold Delhaize USA. See also Note 6 to Europe the consolidated financial statements. 1 Ahold USA and Delhaize America reportable segments have been combined into one reportable segment, Ahold Delhaize USA, Ahold Delhaize has a two-tier board structure with effect from January 1, 2018. with a Supervisory Board and Management The diagram above shows Ahold Delhaize’s The Management Board and Executive Committee Board that are accountable to our shareholders. governance structure. A list of subsidiaries, joint together support our business, meet the needs Our Management Board has ultimate responsibility ventures and associates is included in Note 36 of our stakeholders and ensure we comply with for the overall management of Ahold Delhaize. to the consolidated financial statements. relevant rules and regulations. The Supervisory Board supervises and advises the Management Board. Management Board For a more detailed description of the and Executive Committee responsibilities of the Management Board and the The Executive Committee comprises our Executive Committee, see the Rules of Procedure Management Board and other key officers of the Our Management Board has the responsibility in the Governance section of Ahold Delhaize’s Company, led by the Chief Executive Officer. for the overall management of the Company public website at www.aholddelhaize.com. The Executive Committee has been established to and oversees corporate governance. It is also involve a broader leadership team in the decisionresponsible for the actions and decisions of the making process in order to optimize strategic Executive Committee, which manages our general alignment and operational execution while affairs and ensures effective implementation having the flexibility to adapt to developments of the strategy and achievement of the in the business and across the Company and Company’s objectives. the industry. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 89 Corporate governance continued Composition of the Management Board and the Management Board and the combined Management Board members are appointed Supervisory Board and Executive Committee experience and expertise of their members for four-year terms and may be reappointed The Supervisory Board is responsible for According to our Articles of Association, the should reflect the profile of the Company as it for additional terms not exceeding four years. supervising and advising our Management Board Management Board must consist of at least three relates to nationality, age, education, gender and The Supervisory Board may at any time suspend and overseeing the general course of affairs, members. The current members are: Dick Boer, professional background. This aim for the best a Management Board member and Executive strategy, operational performance and corporate President and Chief Executive Officer; Frans fit, in combination with the availability of qualified Committee member. The other members of the governance of the Company. The Supervisory Muller, Deputy Chief Executive Officer and candidates, has resulted in Ahold Delhaize, as of Executive Committee are appointed, suspended Board is guided in its duties by the interests of the Chief Integration Officer; Jeff Carr, Chief Financial February 27, 2018, having a Management Board in and dismissed by the Supervisory Board, at the Company and the enterprise connected with the Officer; and Kevin Holt, Chief Executive Officer which all four members are male and an Executive proposal of the CEO. Company, taking into consideration the overall Ahold Delhaize USA1. The current members of Committee in which one member is female and Remuneration good of the enterprise and the relevant interests the Executive Committee are the members of the eight members are male. We seek to identify On April 19, 2016, Ahold Delhaize’s General of all its stakeholders. The Supervisory Board Management Board along with Wouter Kolk, Chief potential Board members who would enhance the Meeting of Shareholders adopted our current is responsible for monitoring and assessing its Operating Officer the Netherlands and Belgium; diversity of the Boards in the above-mentioned remuneration policy for Management Board own performance. Abbe Luersman, Chief Human Resources Officer; areas. In order to meet our diversity ambitions members. On April 12, 2017, Ahold Delhaize’s Jan Ernst de Groot, Chief Legal Officer; Marc and comply with statutory guidelines for gender Ahold Delhaize’s Articles of Association require General Meeting of Shareholders adopted an Croonen, Chief Sustainability, Transformation diversity in the coming years, we continue to the approval of the Supervisory Board for certain individual exception to this policy. You can find and Communications Officer; and Ben Wishart1, work to ensure we build robust development and major resolutions proposed to be taken by the details of this policy in Remuneration. For detailed Global Chief Information Officer. succession plans; generate diverse, balanced Management Board, including: information on the individual remuneration of slates; and take the necessary actions to retain On January 1, 2018, Pierre Bouchut stepped Management Board members, see Notes 31 • Issuance of shares our current diverse talents so we can build our down from the Management Board and Executive and 32 to the consolidated financial statements. • Acquisitions, redemptions, repurchases talent pipeline and drive greater diversity at all Committee. He will remain available as an adviser of shares, and any reduction in issued levels in our organization. Possible reappointment schedule and for specific initiatives until July 1, 2018. As of and outstanding capital Management Board January 1, 2018, Ben Wishart became a member Appointment, suspension and dismissal Date of first Year of possible • Allocation of duties within the Management of the Executive Committee. On April 11, 2018, The General Meeting of Shareholders can appoint, Name appointment reappointment Board and the adoption or amendment of the at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders, suspend or dismiss a Management Board Dick Boer May 3, 2007 2019 Rules of Procedure of the Management Board Wouter Kolk will be nominated for appointment to member by an absolute majority of votes cast, Jeff Carr April 17, 2012 2020 and the Executive Committee the Management Board. upon a proposal made by the Supervisory Board. Frans Muller March 14, 20162 2020 • Significant changes in the identity or the nature If another party makes the proposal, an absolute At Ahold Delhaize, we believe that a diverse and Kevin Holt March 14, 20162 2020 of the Company or its enterprise majority of votes cast, representing at least onefully representative Management Board and 2 Effective July 24, 2016. third of the issued share capital, is required. If this Presidium Executive Committee contributes to well-balanced qualified majority is not achieved, but an absolute Evaluation Following the merger between Ahold and decision-making processes and the optimal majority of the votes exercised was in favor of the The Management Board and the Executive Delhaize, a Presidium was introduced that meets functioning of both the Management Board and proposal, then a second meeting may be held. Committee conducted a self-assessment by on a monthly basis with the Chief Executive Officer the Executive Committee. In accordance with In the second meeting, only an absolute majority means of a structured dialogue chaired by the and the Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Chief provision 2.1.5 of the Dutch Corporate Governance of votes exercised, regardless of the number of CEO. Items that were assessed and discussed Integration Officer. The Presidium is composed Code, Ahold Delhaize’s diversity policy states shares represented at the meeting, is required to included the composition of the Boards, meeting of the Chairman and first Vice Chairman of the that the composition of the Executive Committee adopt the proposal. processes and procedures, discussions and 1 Effective January 1, 2018. decision-making, and team dynamics. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 90 Corporate governance continued Supervisory Board, Mats Jansson and Jan Conflict of interest Shares and shareholders’ rights Adoption of resolutions Hommen. Its main task is to prepare the agenda of Each member of the Supervisory Board is Subject to certain exceptions provided by Dutch General Meeting of Shareholders Supervisory Board meetings, deal with the content required to immediately report any potential law or our Articles of Association, resolutions Ahold Delhaize’s shareholders exercise their of Supervisory Board meetings and to stay in close conflict of interest to the Chairman of the are passed by an absolute majority of votes cast rights through annual and extraordinary General contact with the CEO and Deputy CEO. Supervisory Board and provide all relevant without a requirement for a quorum. Meetings of Shareholders. We are required information. In the event of a potential conflict More detailed information on the Supervisory to convene an annual General Meeting of Proposals submitted to the agenda by of interest, each member of the Management Board can be found in the Supervisory Board Shareholders in the Netherlands each year, shareholders require an absolute majority Board is required to immediately report this to report. The Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory no later than six months after the end of the of votes cast at the annual General Meeting the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and Board are available in the Governance Company’s financial year. Additional extraordinary of Shareholders representing at least one-third to the other members of the Management Board section of Ahold Delhaize’s public website General Meetings of Shareholders may be of the issued shares. If this qualified majority and provide them with all relevant information. at www.aholddelhaize.com. convened at any time by the Supervisory Board, is not achieved but an absolute majority of the Should a conflict of interest arise, the Supervisory the Management Board, or by one or more votes exercised was in favor of the proposal, Appointment shareholders representing at least 10% of the Board or the relevant Management Board then a second meeting may be held. In the The General Meeting of Shareholders can issued share capital. member may not participate in the discussions second meeting, only an absolute majority of appoint, suspend or dismiss a Supervisory Board and decision-making process on subjects or votes exercised is required to adopt the proposal, member by an absolute majority of votes cast, The agenda for the annual General Meeting transactions relating to the conflict of interest. regardless of the number of shares represented upon a proposal made by the Supervisory Board. of Shareholders must contain certain matters at the meeting (unless the law or our Articles If another party makes the proposal, an absolute We will record any such transactions in the as specified in Ahold Delhaize’s Articles of of Association provide otherwise). majority of votes cast, representing at least oneannual report for the relevant year, with reference Association and under Dutch law, including the third of the issued share capital, is required. If this to the conflict of interest and a confirmation that adoption of our annual financial statements. A resolution to amend the Articles of Association qualified majority is not achieved but an absolute we have complied with best practice provisions The General Meeting of Shareholders is also that would change the rights vested in the holders majority of the votes exercised was in favor of the 2.7.3 and 2.7.4 of the Dutch Corporate Governance entitled to vote on important decisions regarding of a particular class of shares requires the prior proposal, then a second meeting may be held. Code. During 2017, no member of the Supervisory Ahold Delhaize’s identity or character, including approval of a meeting of that particular class. In the second meeting, only an absolute majority Board or the Management Board had a conflict major acquisitions and divestments. A resolution to dissolve the Company may of votes exercised, regardless of the number of of interest that was of material significance to Shareholders are entitled to propose items for be adopted by the annual General Meeting shares represented at the meeting, is required. the Company. the agenda of the annual General Meeting of of Shareholders following a proposal of the A Supervisory Board member is appointed for a In addition, no transactions between the Shareholders provided that they hold at least Management Board made with the approval of four-year term and may be reappointed for another Company and legal or natural persons who 1% of the issued share capital or the shares that the Supervisory Board. Any proposed resolution four-year period. The Supervisory Board member hold at least 10% of the shares in the Company they hold represent a market value of at least to wind up the Company must be disclosed in may subsequently be reappointed again for a occurred in 2017, corresponding to the best €50 million. Proposals for agenda items for the the notice calling the annual General Meeting period of two years, which may be extended by, practice provision 2.7.5 of the Code. annual General Meeting of Shareholders must of Shareholders at which that proposal is to at most, two years. be submitted at least 60 days prior to the date be considered. of the meeting. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 91 Corporate governance continued Voting rights Cumulative preferred financing shares Cumulative preferred shares SCAD and the members of its board are Each common share entitles its holder to cast one All outstanding cumulative preferred financing As of February 27, 2018, no cumulative preferred independent from the Company. As of February vote. Dutch law prescribes a record date to be shares have been issued to SAPFAA. Holders shares are outstanding. In March 1989, the 27, 2018, the members of the board of SCAD are: set 28 days prior to the date of the annual General of depositary receipts can obtain proxies Company entered into an agreement with the Name Principal or former occupation Meeting of Shareholders to determine whether a from SAPFAA. Dutch foundation Stichting Continuïteit Ahold W.G. van Hassel, Lawyer and former chairman person may attend and exercise the rights relating Delhaize (SCAD, previously named Stichting chairman of Dutch Bar Association In accordance with its articles, the board of to the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Ahold Continuïteit), as amended and restated G.H.N.L. Chairman of Detailhandel SAPFAA consists of three members: one A Shareholders registered at that date are entitled to in April 1994, March 1997, December 2001, van Woerkom Nederland member, one B member and one C member. attend and to exercise their rights as shareholders and December 2003 (the Option Agreement). The A member is appointed by the general J. van den Belt Former CFO Océ in relation to the annual General Meeting of The Option Agreement was designed to, in meeting of depositary receipt holders, the B B. Vree Former CEO APM Terminals Shareholders, regardless of a sale of shares after accordance with the purpose of SCAD under its member is appointed by the Company and the C Europe the record date. Shareholders may be represented articles, potentially exercise influence in the event member is appointed by a joint resolution of the by written proxy. of a public offer or a potential change of control A member and the B member. As of February 27, For details on Ahold Delhaize’s cumulative over the Company, to safeguard the interests We encourage participation in our General 2018, the members of the board of SAPFAA are: preferred shares, see Note 20 to the consolidated of the Company and all stakeholders in the Meetings of Shareholders. We use Deutsche financial statements. The related documents are Member A: J.L. van der Giessen Company and to potentially avert, to the best of Bank Trust Company Americas, the Depositary available on our website www.aholddelhaize.com. Member B: C.W. de Monchy its ability, influences that might conflict with those for the Company’s American Depositary Receipt Member C: R. ter Haar, chairman interests by affecting the Company’s continuity, Issuance of additional shares (ADR) facility, to enable ADR holders to exercise independence or identity. and preemptive rights their voting rights, which are represented by the Ahold Delhaize pays a mandatory annual dividend Shares may be issued following a resolution by the common shares underlying the ADRs. Pursuant to the Option Agreement, SCAD has on cumulative preferred financing shares, which General Meeting of Shareholders on a proposal been granted an option for no consideration Neither Ahold Delhaize nor any of its subsidiaries is calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Management Board made with the approval to acquire cumulative preferred shares from may cast a vote on any share they hold in the of article 39.4 of the Company’s Articles of of the Supervisory Board. The General Meeting the Company from time to time until December Company. These shares are not taken into Association. For further details on cumulative of Shareholders may resolve to delegate this 2018. The Option Agreement provides for the account for the purpose of determining how many preferred financing shares and the related authority to the Management Board for a period possibility of extension by both parties’ consent. shareholders are represented or how much of voting rights, see Note 22 to the consolidated of time not exceeding five years. A resolution of the At Ahold Delhaize, a decision to extend the Option the share capital is represented at the General financial statements. General Meeting of Shareholders to issue shares, Agreement is at the discretion of the Management Meeting of Shareholders. or to authorize the Management Board to do so, Board, subject to the approval of the Supervisory is also subject to the approval of each class of Holders of depositary receipts of cumulative Board. In December 2017, the Company and shares whose rights would be adversely affected preferred financing shares may attend the SCAD commenced discussions on a possible by the proposed issuance or delegation. On April General Meeting of Shareholders. The voting extension of the Option Agreement, in accordance 12, 2017, the General Meeting of Shareholders rights on the underlying shares may be exercised with its terms which require such discussions to approved a delegation of this authority to the by the Stichting Administratiekantoor Preferente start at least one year prior to the expiration date. Management Board, relating to the issuance and Financierings Aandelen Ahold (SAPFAA), No conclusion has been reached at this time. / or granting of rights to acquire common shares a foundation organized under the laws of up to a maximum of 10% of the issued common the Netherlands. shares through October 12, 2018, and subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 92 Corporate governance continued Upon the issuance of new common shares, 1. Shareholders’ equity minus the payment Major shareholders The following table lists the shareholders on record holders of Ahold Delhaize’s common shares required to make the acquisition is not less Ahold Delhaize is not directly or indirectly owned in the AFM register on February 27, 2018, that hold have a preemptive right to subscribe to common than the sum of paid-in and called-up capital or controlled by another corporation or by any an interest of 3% or more in the share capital of shares in proportion to the total amount of their and any reserves required by Dutch law or government. The Company does not know of any the Company1. existing holdings of Ahold Delhaize’s common Ahold Delhaize’s Articles of Association; and arrangements that may, at a subsequent date, • BlackRock, Inc – 4.49% shareholding (6.14% shares. According to the Company’s Articles of 2. Ahold Delhaize and its subsidiaries would result in a change of control, except as described voting rights) disclosed on June 21, 2017 Association, this preemptive right does not apply not, as a result, hold a number of shares under Cumulative preferred shares. to any issuance of shares to Ahold Delhaize • DeltaFort Beleggingen I B.V. – 10.82% exceeding a total nominal value of 10% of Significant ownership of voting shares associates. The General Meeting of Shareholders shareholding (3.43% voting rights) disclosed the issued share capital. According to the Dutch Financial Markets may decide to restrict or exclude preemptive on July 25, 20162 The Management Board has been authorized Supervision Act, any person or legal entity who, rights. The General Meeting of Shareholders • NN Group N.V. – 4.89% shareholding (2.54% to acquire a number of common shares in the directly or indirectly, acquires or disposes of may also resolve to designate the Management voting rights) disclosed on August 9, 20172 Company or depositary receipts for shares, as an interest in Ahold Delhaize’s capital or voting Board as the corporate body authorized to restrict • Stichting Administratiekantoor Preferente permitted within the limits of the law and the rights must immediately give written notice to the or exclude preemptive rights for a period not Financierings Aandelen Ahold – 14.42% Articles of Association and subject to the approval Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets exceeding five years. shareholding (5.03% voting rights) disclosed of the Supervisory Board. Such acquisition of (Autoriteit Financiële Markten or AFM) if the On April 12, 2017, the General Meeting of shares, at the stock exchange or otherwise, will acquisition or disposal causes the percentage of on August 9, 20173 Shareholders delegated to the Management take place at a price between par value and 110% outstanding capital interest or voting rights held by 1 In accordance with the filing requirements, the percentages shown include both direct and indirect capital interests and Board, subject to the approval of the Supervisory of the opening price of the shares at Euronext that person or legal entity to reach, exceed or fall voting rights and both real and potential capital interests and Board, the authority to restrict or exclude the Amsterdam by NYSE Euronext on the date of their below any of the following thresholds: voting rights. Further details can be found at www.afm.nl. preemptive rights of holders of common shares acquisition. The authorization takes into account 3% 5% 10% 15% 20% 2 The interest on record for DeltaFort Beleggingen I B.V. and NN upon the issuance of common shares and / the possibility to cancel the repurchased shares. Group N.V. includes the indirect and / or potential interest from 25% 30% 40% 50% 60% depositary receipts, as well as the direct and real interest from or upon the granting of rights to subscribe for This authorization is valid through October 19, common shares. common shares through October 12, 2018. 2018. Ahold Delhaize may acquire shares in its 75% 95% 3 SAPFAA holds all outstanding cumulative preferred financing capital for no consideration or for the purpose Repurchase by Ahold Delhaize of its The obligation to notify the AFM also applies when shares and it issued corresponding depositary receipts to of transferring these shares to associates investors that were filed under DeltaFort Beleggingen I B.V. own shares the percentage of capital interest or voting rights and NN Group N.V. Therefore, in relation to the outstanding through share plans or option plans, without such Ahold Delhaize may only acquire fully paid shares referred to above changes as a result of a change cumulative preferred financing shares, disclosures are authorization. The share buyback program of made by both SAPFAA (for the shares) and by DeltaFort of any class in its capital for a consideration in Ahold Delhaize’s total outstanding capital or €1 billion that started on January 9, 2017, was Beleggingen I B.V. and NN Group N.V. (for the corresponding following authorization by the General Meeting voting rights. In addition, local rules may apply depositary receipts). successfully completed on December 29, 2017. of Shareholders and subject to certain provisions to investors. In total, 55,166,939 of the Company’s own shares For details on the number of outstanding shares, of Dutch law and the Company’s Articles were repurchased at an average price of €18.13 see Note 20 to the consolidated financial of Association, if: per share. On January 2, 2018, the Company statements. For details on capital structure, listings, commenced the €2 billion share buyback program share performance and dividend policy in relation that was announced on November 8, 2017. to Ahold Delhaize’s common shares, see Investors. The program is expected to be completed before the end of 2018. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 93 Corporate governance continued Articles of Association External independent auditor The information required by the Decree Article 10 • The information concerning compliance with the Our Articles of Association outline certain of the The General Meeting of Shareholders appoints EU Takeover Directive is included in this Corporate Dutch Corporate Governance Code, as required Company’s basic principles relating to corporate the external independent auditor. The Audit, governance section, in the Investors section, as by article 3 of the Decree, can be found in the governance and organization. The current text Finance and Risk Committee recommends to well as in the notes referred to in these sections or section Compliance with the Dutch Corporate of the Articles of Association is available at the the Supervisory Board the external independent included in the description of any relevant contract. Governance Code. Trade Register of the Chamber of Commerce and auditor to be proposed for (re)appointment by the • The information concerning Ahold Delhaize’s Industry for Amsterdam and on our public website General Meeting of Shareholders. In addition, the Compliance with Dutch Corporate diversity policy, as required by article 3a at www.aholddelhaize.com. Audit, Finance and Risk Committee evaluates and, Governance Code sub d of the Decree, can be found in the where appropriate, recommends the replacement Ahold Delhaize complies with the relevant Management Board and Executive Committee The Articles of Association may be amended by of the external independent auditor. principles and best practices of the Dutch and Supervisory Board sections of Corporate the General Meeting of Shareholders. A resolution to amend the Articles of Association may be On April 12, 2017, the General Meeting of Corporate Governance Code applicable to the governance as well as in the Supervisory Board adopted by an absolute majority of the votes Shareholders appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers Company, in 2017, as reported in the Governance report. cast upon a proposal of the Management Board. Accountants N.V. as external independent auditor section. The Dutch Corporate Governance Code • The information concerning Ahold Delhaize’s risk If another party makes the proposal, an absolute for the Company for the financial year 2017. can be found at www.mccg.nl. management and control frameworks relating to majority of votes cast representing at least oneAt the Extraordinary General Meeting of the financial reporting process, as required by third of the issued share capital is required. If this Decree Article 10 EU Shareholders on March 3, 2004, our shareholders article 3a sub a of the Decree, can be found in qualified majority is not achieved but an absolute Takeover Directive consented to apply the Dutch Corporate the relevant section under How we manage risk. majority of the votes is in favor of the proposal, According to the Decree Article 10 EU Takeover Governance Code. Ahold Delhaize continues to • The information regarding the functioning then a second meeting may be held. In the second Directive, we have to report on, among other seek ways to improve its corporate governance, of Ahold Delhaize’s General Meeting of meeting, only an absolute majority of votes, things, our capital structure, restrictions on including by measuring itself against international Shareholders and the authority and rights of our regardless of the number of shares represented voting rights and the transfer of securities, best practice. shareholders, as required by article 3a sub b of at the meeting, is required. significant shareholdings in Ahold Delhaize, the the Decree, can be found in the relevant sections rules governing the appointment and dismissal Corporate Governance statement under Shares and shareholders’ rights. The prior approval of a meeting of holders of a particular class of shares is required for a proposal of members of the Management Board and The Dutch Corporate Governance Code requires • The information regarding the composition and to amend the Articles of Association that makes the Supervisory Board and the amendment of companies to publish a statement concerning functioning of Ahold Delhaize’s Management any change in the rights that vest in the holders the Articles of Association, the powers of the their approach to corporate governance and Board, Executive Committee and Supervisory of shares of that particular class. Management Board (in particular the power to compliance with the Code. This is referred to in Board and its committees, as required by article issue shares or to repurchase shares), significant article 2a of the decree on additional requirements 3a sub c of the Decree, can be found in the Right of inquiry agreements to which Ahold Delhaize is a party and for management reports “Besluit inhoud relevant Management Board and Executive The thresholds for shareholders to exercise the which are put into effect, changed or dissolved bestuursverslag” last amended on January 1, Committee and Supervisory Board sections right of inquiry (het enquêterecht) are based on upon a change of control of Ahold Delhaize 2018 (the Decree). The information required to be included in Corporate governance as well as in article 346 sub clause 1 under c of the Dutch following a takeover bid, and any agreements included in this corporate governance statement the Supervisory Board report. Civil Code, regardless of the current nominal between Ahold Delhaize and the members of as described in articles 3, 3a and 3b of the share capital of the Company. More information the Management Board or associates providing • The information concerning the inclusion of the Decree, which are incorporated and repeated on the nominal value of shares can be found for compensation if their employment ceases information required by the Decree Article 10 EU here by reference, can be found in the following in Note 20 and Note 22 to the consolidated because of a takeover bid. Takeover Directive, as required by article 3b of sections of this Annual Report: financial statements. the Decree, can be found in the section Decree Article 10 EU Takeover Directive. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 94 Supervisory Board report Dear shareholder, The Supervisory Board operates Composition of the Supervisory independently and is responsible Board I am pleased to present our Supervisory Board for supervising and advising our Ahold Delhaize’s Supervisory Board determines report for 2017. Management Board as well as the number of its members. The Supervisory During our first full year as Ahold Delhaize, the overseeing the general course of Board profile is published on Ahold Delhaize’s Supervisory Board fulfilled its responsibilities public website at www.aholddelhaize.com to supervise and advise the Management affairs, long-term strategy and and is updated regularly. Board and oversee the activities and operational performance of the In accordance with provision 2.1.5 of the Dutch Mats Jansson performance of the Company for the benefit Company. The Supervisory Board is Corporate Governance Code, Ahold Delhaize’s Chairman of the Supervisory Board of all our stakeholders. guided in its duties by the interests diversity policy states that the composition of the The Board put particular focus on delivering of the Company and the enterprise Supervisory Board and the combined experience the synergies we committed to at the time of the connected with the Company, taking and expertise of its members should reflect the merger and overseeing further achievements into consideration the overall good profile of the Company as it relates to nationality, on the Better Together strategy. During 2017, of the enterprise and the relevant age, education, gender and professional the Management Board provided us with background. In addition, the composition of interests of all its stakeholders. the Board, including its members’ combined detailed information on the performance of the business as well as strategic and operational experience, expertise and independence should developments. Throughout the year, we reflect the best fit for Ahold Delhaize’s profile and thoroughly reviewed, discussed and approved strategy. This aim for the best fit, in combination the strategic options presented to us by the with the availability of qualified candidates, has Management Board. resulted in Ahold Delhaize currently having a Supervisory Board in which two members are We also focused on supporting the female and 10 members are male. In order to Management Board in delivering a solid set of meet our diversity ambitions and comply with full year results and are pleased to report that statutory guidelines for gender diversity in the Ahold Delhaize is on track with its integration coming years, we pay close attention to gender and fulfilling its synergy targets. You can find diversity in selection process for new Supervisory more details on our 2017 focus areas and Board members. meetings in this Supervisory Board report. On behalf of the Supervisory Board, Mats Jansson Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 95 Supervisory Board report continued Rules of Procedure Ongoing education Evaluation The Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board New members of our Supervisory Board attend a The Supervisory Board conducted a selfstate that if a member is concurrently a member of multiple-day induction program at our businesses assessment in early 2018. The Board assessed the another company’s supervisory board, the main in the U.S. and the Netherlands as well as at the performance of its committees and its individual duties arising from and / or the number and nature Global Support Office in Zaandam. During the members, as well as the performance of the of any other supervisory board memberships onboarding program, new Supervisory Board Management Board and its individual members, must not conflict or interfere with that individual’s members are briefed on their responsibilities and during a private meeting. The Supervisory Board duties as a member of Ahold Delhaize’s informed by senior management on the financial, was positive, overall, about the performance Supervisory Board. social, corporate responsibility, human resources, of its committees, the Management Board and Appointment governance, legal and reporting affairs of our satisfied with the performance of the Supervisory At the annual General Meeting of Shareholders Company and its businesses. Throughout the year, Board. The Board determined that it has made on April 12, 2017, Jan Hommen was reappointed all members of our Supervisory Board visit several good progress in its continuous development as for his second four-year term and Ben Noteboom of our brands, operations and other segments of a team, has a balanced composition that suits was reappointed for his third four-year term. the Company to gain greater familiarity with senior the Company in its current stage and works well In addition, Stephanie Shern stepped down from management and to develop deeper knowledge together in an open atmosphere. As part of the the Supervisory Board after the annual General of local operations, opportunities and challenges outcome of the assessment, the Supervisory Meeting on April 12, 2017, after having served for of the business. In addition, multiple in-depth Board will keep a continuous focus on its own size 12 years. On August 8, 2017, Jack Stahl resigned workshops are held on various topics to allow and structure in order to comply with the highest from the Supervisory Board after having served the Supervisory Board members to gain greater standards of excellence and governance. one year at Ahold Delhaize and eight years on the insight into key priorities of Ahold Delhaize. Board of Directors of Delhaize. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 96 Supervisory Board report continued Supervisory Board profile Experience Core competencies General business Social/ Name management International Retail Consumer goods Online / digital Finance employment Sustainability Disclosure Marketing IT Mats Jansson * * * * * Jan Hommen * * * * * * Jacques de Vaucleroy * * * * René Hooft Graafland * * * * * * Ben Noteboom * * * * * * Bill McEwan * * * * * * * Rob van den Bergh * * * * * Mark McGrath * * Mary Anne Citrino * * * Johnny Thijs * * * * * * Patrick De Maeseneire * * * * * * * Dominique Leroy * * * * * * * Supervisory Board possible reappointment schedule 1 Name Date of first appointment Reappointment for second and third term End of current appointment Mats Jansson March 14, 20163 2020 Jan Hommen October 1, 2013 2017 2021 Jacques de Vaucleroy March 14, 20163 2020 René Hooft Graafland April 16, 20142 2018 Ben Noteboom April 28, 2009 2013 / 2017 2021 Bill McEwan March 14, 20163 2020 Rob van den Bergh April 20, 2011 2015 2019 Mark McGrath April 23, 2008 2012 / 2016 2020 Mary Anne Citrino March 14, 2016 2020 Johnny Thijs March 14, 20163 2020 Patrick De Maeseneire March 14, 20163 2020 Dominique Leroy March 14, 20163 2020 1 In its decision to nominate its members for reappointment, the Supervisory Board will take into account their tenure in the Board of Directors of the former Delhaize Group, prior to their appointment to the Supervisory Board. 2 Effective January 1, 2015. 3 Effective July 24, 2016. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 97 Supervisory Board report continued Meetings of the Supervisory Board • January 2017: The Supervisory Board held a The Supervisory Board also discussed next • June 2017: During a meeting, the Supervisory conference call to discuss Ahold Delhaize’s Q4 steps for the implementation of the new Dutch Board was updated on developments in the During 2017, the Supervisory Board met on / full year 2016 trading statement and receive an Corporate Governance Code. The Board United States and the Company’s strategic eight occasions, of which six meetings were integration update following the merger. On the received an update on the overall integration and view and main focus areas. They received a held in person and two meetings by means of a same date, the Board of Directors of Delhaize the performance of Delhaize Belgium, including financial update on the previous month and conference call. The Management Board attended Group approved the Delhaize Group NV/SA the brand’s progress on its Transformation Plan. quarterly results to date and an outlook for Q2 these meetings and the other members of the statutory accounts and board report for the Lastly, the Supervisory Board was updated on 2017. The Supervisory Board also discussed Executive Committee, as well as other senior period from January 1, 2016, up to and including Ahold Delhaize’s enterprise risk management the financing strategy of the Company and management, were regularly invited to be present. July 23, 2016. system, IT performance systems and significant approved the Euro Commercial Paper program The Supervisory Board also held several private • February 2017: During a two-day meeting, legal proceedings with potential impact on and Ahold Delhaize’s first public debt offering to meetings without other attendees to independently the Supervisory Board met to discuss and the Company. the debt capital markets. review certain issues and to discuss matters related to the functioning of the Management and approve Ahold Delhaize’s Q4 / full year 2016 • April 2017: The Supervisory Board discussed • June 2017: During another meeting, the Supervisory Boards. The external independent results, as well as the Annual Report 2016 the performance of Delhaize Belgium. They also Supervisory Board received an extensive auditor attended the meeting of February 28, 2017, and the supplementary report for Sustainable received an update on Ahold Delhaize’s U.S. update on the integration efforts and progress. at which the 2016 Annual Report and financial Retailing 2016. In addition, the Supervisory businesses, as well as a separate update on the The implementation of the customer savings statements were recommended for adoption by Board approved the dividend proposal and performance of Peapod, including its strategic initiative was presented to the Board and the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. the 2020 Sustainable Retailing key targets. roadmap and future business opportunities. market developments across Ahold Delhaize’s During the same meeting, the agenda and Lastly, a financial update was given on the Q1 businesses were discussed. The Board also In addition to the scheduled meetings, the explanatory notes were approved for the 2017 estimates. addressed strategic initiatives across the members of the Supervisory Board review specific annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be brands, as well as the future IT Roadmap to • May 2017: During a conference call, the operations or activities of the Company; in 2017, held in April 2017. The proposal to amend the support the strategic framework of each of Supervisory Board discussed reports from the the Supervisory Board reviewed matters related individual performance ratings for the Executive the brands. external independent auditor and internal auditor to all aspects of the activities, results, strategy and Committee members was also approved by as well as the internal control report and the • August 2017: The Q2 2017 interim results were management of the Company. During its meetings the Board. On the recommendation of the governance, risk and control report. The Board presented and subsequently approved by throughout the year, the Supervisory Board Remuneration Committee, the Supervisory approved the initiation of the SEC deregistration the Supervisory Board. The Board discussed reviewed reports from its various committees Board resolved to approve the 2016 Executive at the end of July 2017. They also discussed the external and internal audit reports and the and regularly assessed the functioning of the Committee Incentive Plan Payout, in addition to and approved the Q1 2017 Interim Report. overall broadening and strengthening of the Management Board, the organizational strategy, the approval of the adjustment of the base salary In addition, the Board was informed that the control environment. Furthermore, the Board was talent management and succession planning. levels of the Executive Committee members. integration is fully on track, and the Company is updated on the U.S. organization, including the In addition, the Board members have regular In addition, the Supervisory Board received delivering its synergies. The Board received an establishment of Retail Business Services, which contact with associates in various levels of an update on the divestments in the United update on divestments in the U.S. and Belgium was reportedly on track to be up and running on management. These informal consultations ensure States and Belgium as a result of the anti-trust and was given background on IT service January 1, 2018. They received an update on the that the Supervisory Board remains well-informed processes following the merger. In light of the performance, information security and vendor IT Roadmap and priorities regarding information about the Company’s day-to-day operations. revised Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the management during Q1 2017. In addition, they security in relation to data protection; privacy Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board, received a review on post investments including and cyber-defense monitoring were highlighted. Management Board and Executive Committee store expansions, relocations and remodels. were updated and approved. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 98 Supervisory Board report continued • September 2017: The Supervisory Board held Attendance Independence Remuneration a meeting in which they reviewed strategic Except for a limited number of occasions, and for The Supervisory Board confirms that during 2017 The annual remuneration of the members of the initiatives and market developments across valid reasons, all Supervisory Board members as well as on February 27, 2018, all Supervisory Supervisory Board was determined by the annual Ahold Delhaize’s brands. They received a attended all Supervisory Board meetings in 2017. Board members were independent within the General Meeting of Shareholders on April 12, 2017. financial update and discussed the long-term In all cases, the Supervisory Board members meaning of provision 2.1.10 of the Dutch Corporate Remuneration is subject to annual review by the strategy of the Company. who were not able to attend made sure they were Governance Code. Supervisory Board. • November 2017: During a two-day meeting, represented. All Supervisory Board members Chairman Supervisory Board €220,000 the Supervisory Board approved the Q3 2017 made adequate time available to give sufficient interim results, together with the Company’s Vice Chairman (and member attention to matters concerning Ahold Delhaize. long-term business and finance plans, and of the presidium) €180,000 Number of Number of annual budget plan for 2018. meetings meetings Vice Chairman €125,000 Board attendance held attended • Throughout the year 2017, the Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board €90,000 Mats Jansson 8 6 Chairman Audit, Finance and visited multiple stores and distribution centers. Jan Hommen 8 8 Risk Committee €30,000 Jacques de Vaucleroy 8 8 Member Audit, Finance and Jack Stahl 6 6 Risk Committee €15,000 René Hooft Graafland 8 8 Chairman Other Committee €20,000 Ben Noteboom 8 8 Member Other Committee €12,500 Bill McEwan 8 8 Travel compensation intercontinental Rob van den Bergh 8 7 per round trip €7,500 Stephanie Shern 3 2 Travel compensation continental Mark McGrath 8 8 per round trip €2,500 Mary Anne Citrino 8 8 Johnny Thijs 8 8 Patrick De Maeseneire 8 7 Dominique Leroy 8 7 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 99 Supervisory Board report continued Committees of the Supervisory Board Audit, Finance and Risk Committee The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee also The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee assists the discussed items including: The Supervisory Board has four committees to which certain tasks are assigned. The committees Supervisory Board in its responsibility to oversee have advisory powers and provide the Supervisory Board with regular updates on their meetings. • Quarterly interim reports Ahold Delhaize’s financing, financial statements, The composition of each committee is detailed in the following table. • Ahold Delhaize’s 2016 Annual Report including financial reporting process and system of internal Governance and Sustainability and business controls and risk management. The Chief the financial statements Audit, Finance and Nomination Remuneration Innovation Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief • Review and approval of the internal audit plan Mats Jansson (Chairman) Member Legal Officer, Senior Vice President Internal Audit, • Lease accounting IFRS 16 Jan Hommen (Vice Chairman) Member6 Member Senior Vice President Accounting, Reporting, Risk • The findings in the internal audit letter and Jacques de Vaucleroy & Controls and representatives of the external the external independent auditor’s findings (Vice Chairman) Member Member independent auditor are invited to, and attend, the in relation to the internal controls over René Hooft Graafland Chairman6 Audit, Finance and Risk Committee meetings. financial reporting Ben Noteboom Chairman Member The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee • The Company’s finance structure Bill McEwan Chairman Member determines how the external independent auditor • Treasury Rob van den Bergh Member Chairman should be involved in the content and publication of financial reports other than the financial • Taxation, including the accounting Mark McGrath Member statements. The Management Board and the for tax reforms Mary Anne Citrino Member Audit, Finance and Risk Committee report to the • Guarantees Johnny Thijs Member Supervisory Board annually on their cooperation • Self-insurance programs Patrick De Maeseneire Member with the external independent auditor, including Dominique Leroy Member • Recognition of vendor allowances the auditor’s independence. The Supervisory Board takes these reports into account when • Impairment testing of goodwill 6 René Hooft Graafland was appointed Chairman of the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee after Jack Stahl stepped down from the Supervisory Board on August 8, 2017. Jan Hommen was appointed as a member of the AFRC as per August 8, 2017. deciding on the nomination for the appointment of • Employee benefit plan measurement an external independent auditor, that is submitted and disclosures to the General Meeting of Shareholders. • Appointment of the external independent auditor In 2017, the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee • Ahold Delhaize Code of Ethics held two meetings in person, and three meetings The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee via conference calls. The attendance rate of and the Chairman of the Audit, Finance and the members of this Committee was 100%. Risk Committee also held private meetings Throughout the year, the Audit, Finance and together with the Chief Financial Officer, Senior Risk Committee closely monitored the financial Vice President Internal Audit and external closing process and reviewed the publication independent auditor. of quarterly results. Updates on internal controls were provided during all Audit, Finance and Risk Committee meetings. The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee was informed regularly on compliance and reviewed and received regular updates on the Company’s whistleblower programs. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 100 Supervisory Board report continued With the resignation of Jack Stahl from the Remuneration Committee Conclusion Supervisory Board, René Hooft Graafland was In 2017, the Remuneration Committee held five The Supervisory Board is of the opinion that during assigned Chairman of the Audit, Finance and Risk meetings in person and one via conference the year 2017, its composition, mix and depth of Committee on August 8, 2017. Jan Hommen was call, all of which the Chief Executive Officer was available expertise; working processes; level and appointed as a member of the Audit, Finance and invited to attend. The attendance rate of the Board frequency of engagement across all prominent Risk Committee, effective August 8, 2017. members of this Committee was 97%. During the Company activities; and access to all necessary meetings, the Committee prepared proposals for and relevant information and the Company’s The Supervisory Board has determined that the Supervisory Board on an individual exception management and staff were satisfactory and René Hooft Graafland, Jan Hommen and Patrick to the remuneration policy for the Management enabled it to carry out its duties towards all the de Maeseneire are “Audit Committee Financial Board, to be adopted by the General Meeting Company’s stakeholders. Experts” within the meaning of the Dutch of Shareholders. In addition, the Remuneration Corporate Governance Code, provision 2.1.4. The Supervisory Board wishes to express its Committee prepared proposals for the individual gratitude to Stephanie Shern and Jack Stahl for Governance and Nomination Committee remuneration of members of the Management their efforts and contributions to the Company. In 2017, the Governance and Nomination Board. Lastly, the Committee gave advice on Committee held three meetings in person and one the level and structure of compensation for The Supervisory Board would also like to via conference call, all of which the Chief Executive senior personnel other than members of the thank Ahold Delhaize’s shareholders for their Officer was invited to attend. The attendance rate Management Board. support and trust in the Company and its of the Board members of this Committee was management. Finally, the Board wishes to See Remuneration for more information on our 90%. The Committee’s main areas of focus were express its appreciation for the continued remuneration policy, which aims to help us attract, long-term succession planning for the Supervisory dedication, commitment and excellent work motivate and retain the best-qualified workforce, Board and management development. of the Management Board and all of Ahold in a cost-effective way. The Committee was also involved in organizational Delhaize’s associates during 2017. and management changes and overall succession Sustainability and Innovation Committee Supervisory Board and management development processes During the course of 2017, the Sustainability and Zaandam, the Netherlands as well as governance matters. Innovation Committee held three meetings in February 27, 2018 person, all of which the Deputy Chief Executive Officer was invited to attend. The attendance rate of the Board members of this Committee was 100%. The Committee’s main areas of focus were Ahold Delhaize’s Sustainable Retailing and e-commerce strategies. In addition, digitalization and personalization data analytics were addressed in the meetings. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 101 Remuneration Dear shareholder, For the majority of our associates, remuneration We have calculated the pay ratio between is based on collective bargaining agreements the Total Remuneration of the respective I am pleased to present our 2017 Remuneration structured primarily as fixed annual salaries or Management Board members and the average report. As one of the world’s leading food retail hourly wages. In addition, store managers and remuneration of all Ahold Delhaize associates groups, Ahold Delhaize employs 369,000 general management associates are eligible to over 2016 and 2017 to convey the year-overassociates in nine countries. In determining the receive an annual performance-based bonus. year changes. The average remuneration employment conditions of our associates, we Associates in senior management positions are of all associates in 2016 is calculated on the set compensation and benefits levels in line with eligible for performance-based annual bonuses basis of pro forma (full year 2016) labor costs. associates’ job level and local market practices. Bill McEwan The remuneration practices in each of our local as well as Ahold Delhaize performance share The average remuneration of all associates is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee grants that are linked to the long-term goals of calculated as the total labor costs (see Note 8 to markets are regularly reviewed to take into of the Supervisory Board the Company. the consolidated financial statements) divided by account the market dynamics and economic the number of associates on an FTE basis (see conditions. We are committed to the key principle The Supervisory Board’s Remuneration Five-year overview). The average remuneration of fair and equitable treatment of all associates Committee closely monitors developments in of all associates amounted to €39,572 for 2016 as we determine remuneration policies. We apply the global, regional and local labor markets and and €40,225 for 2017. The total compensation the same principles in the determination of the takes these developments into account when of the CEO, Deputy CEO, CFO and CEO Ahold Remuneration Policy for the Management Board. making recommendations on the Management Delhaize USA can be found in Note 31 to the Board compensation to the Supervisory Board As outlined in our Remuneration Policy, consolidated financial statements. for consideration and approval. Management Board remuneration is targeted at or near the median of the labor market peer The following table shows the pay ratio of the group, consisting of six AEX, six European, Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive and six U.S. peer companies. During the past Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief year, the Management Board’s remuneration Executive Officer Ahold Delhaize USA compared was implemented in accordance with our to the average remuneration of all Ahold Remuneration Policy. This policy is in compliance Delhaize associates. with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code Pay ratio 2017 2016 and was adopted at the annual General Meeting CEO 114 119 of Shareholders on April 19, 2016. It became Deputy CEO1 135 – effective on July 24, 2016, the first calendar CFO 71 71 day after the merger of Ahold and Delhaize was finalized. An individual exception to the CEO Ahold Delhaize USA1 74 – remuneration policy for the CEO Ahold Delhaize 1 Since the Deputy CEO and the CEO Ahold Delhaize USA USA (former Chief Operating Officer Ahold USA) joined the Company on July 24, 2016, full year numbers for 2016 are not available. was adopted at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders on April 12, 2017. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 102 Remuneration continued As set forth in the Remuneration Policy, the Therefore, to put Ahold Delhaize’s pay ratios into In 2017, the Company announced the total compensation of our Management perspective, the graph illustrates Ahold Delhaize’s upcoming retirement of Pierre Bouchut from Board members is positioned at the median position compared to its peers in the European the Management Board as well as the intended level of the peer group we’ve selected for and U.S. markets as well as the AEX companies appointment of Wouter Kolk to the Management U. benchmarking (see page 103). The following in the peer group. The ratios mentioned in the S. Board. The latter appointment will be brought table illustrates the pay ratio of our CEO table and the graph are derived from the publicly Eu er s forward for shareholder approval at the annual ro pe compared to the pay ratios of other CEOs in disclosed 2016 annual reports of the respective pe General Meeting of Shareholders on April 11, the peer group. It is important to note that pay companies. For comparison purposes the an 2018. The implementation of these Management ratios across industries are impacted by the ratios have been calculated using the same ers Board changes will be in accordance with our pe different mix of functions from one industry methodology as used for Ahold Delhaize’s Remuneration Policy. to another. Even within the same industry, pay ratio. A The Remuneration Committee also conducted comparing pay ratios is challenging due to EX Pay ratio Ahold Delhaize CEO compared to interviews on Management Board remuneration different market conditions (a mix of highand pay ratios of other CEOs in the peer group 0 200 300 400 and its link to the Company’s overall strategy low-paying countries). (2016 figures) with each of the members of the Management Our remuneration policy remains unchanged Average Board. The Remuneration Committee will Average European Average for 2018. At the Supervisory Board’s discretion, continue to monitor and review Ahold Delhaize’s Ahold Delhaize AEX peers peers U.S. peers effective in 2018, two replacements have been 119 115 179 238 Remuneration Policy to ensure that it continues to made in the labor market and Total Shareholder be aligned to support the strategy and long-term 103.5% 66.5% 50% Return (TSR) peer groups due to corporate growth of the Company, the needs of all internal actions at Metro and Staples. Metro demerged into The average pay ratio for the CEO position in the and external stakeholders, and our commitment Ceconomy and Metro Cash & Carry. The former full peer group is 188. The graph illustrates Ahold to making a sustainable contribution to society Metro has been replaced in each of the two peer Delhaize’s position versus the labor market peer at large. If the Supervisory Board determines groups by Metro Cash & Carry. Staples was group as defined in the Remuneration Policy. that changes to the existing Remuneration Policy delisted as a consequence of its purchase by are appropriate and required, we will seek Sycamore and has been replaced by Lowe’s The Supervisory Board will continue to monitor shareholder approval at future General Meetings. Companies in each of the two peer groups. the development of pay ratios both within the Company and in comparison with the peer group. I look forward to presenting this Remuneration report for discussion with all our shareholders at our upcoming annual General Meeting of Shareholders on April 11, 2018. Bill McEwan Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of the Supervisory Board Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 103 Remuneration continued Ahold Delhaize’s remuneration Remuneration policy The annual cash incentive is focused on the key European peers U.S. peers AEX policy was prepared in accordance financial metrics of a retail organization: sales Tesco Kroger Unilever Remuneration philosophy growth, operating margin and operating cash Carrefour Costco Philips with the Dutch Corporate Ahold Delhaize’s remuneration policy is aligned flow. Our focus and goal is to expand market Governance Code. It was adopted at with the Company’s strategy and supports a Metro Target Heineken share, while at the same time grow margins to the General Meeting of Shareholders strong and aligned performance culture. Our Casino Guichard Walgreen Randstad increase profitability and manage capital spending remuneration policy aims at attracting, motivating Perrachon Boots Alliance on April 19, 2016. The remuneration and expenses prudently to secure strong and and retaining the best-qualified talent. J Sainsbury Best Buy Akzo Nobel policy became effective on July 24, sustainable cash flow. Management Board remuneration policy W M Morisson Staples Relx 2016, the first calendar day after the The Supervisory Board designed the Management The long-term incentive is measured against (i) merger of Ahold and Delhaize was Board’s remuneration policy to align with the our internal measure on Return on Capital (RoC), In anticipation of potential changes to the finalized. An individual exception Company’s strategy and to support its pay-for(ii) our external measure of the Company’s share labor market peer group due to delisting, mergers performance relative to that of its peers: Total or other extraordinary circumstances, the to the remuneration policy was performance culture, while aiming to be effective, transparent and simple. While developing the Shareholder Return (TSR) and (iii) the Company’s Supervisory Board has the discretion to substitute adopted at the General Meeting contribution to society through sustainability remuneration policy, we conducted scenario comparable companies. In general, geographical of Shareholders on April 12, 2017. objectives. Performance for our long-term composition leads in the determination of a analyses to determine the risks to which variable remuneration may expose the Company. incentives is measured over a revolving threereplacement company: for example, if a U.S.year period. based company drops out, it is replaced The basic elements of the Total Direct by another U.S.-based company. Compensation provided to Management The structure of our remuneration policy aligns Board members are (1) a base salary, (2) an the focus of the Management Board with the The composition (risk profile) of the Total Direct annual cash incentive and (3) a long-term interests of the Company’s shareholders, Compensation levels is also taken into account equity-based program. In line with our overall our local communities and society at large. when benchmarking base salary levels. The target remuneration philosophy, the Management Compensation and awards are tied to and Total Direct Compensation level is typically around Board’s Total Direct Compensation is structured dependent on the delivery of our strategy in a the median, with base salary levels slightly below and more heavily weighted on variable annual responsible and sustainable way. the median and long-term incentives at the and long-term incentives tied to the realization Market competitive pay higher end of the market to support the pay-forof financial and societal performance criteria. The competitiveness of the Management Board performance culture and long-term focus. These performance criteria are a cornerstone remuneration is benchmarked annually against An individual exception to the remuneration policy of the Company’s strategy. a labor market peer group that reflects the of the Management Board applies for the CEO Company’s geographic operating areas and the Ahold Delhaize USA (Kevin Holt). The Supervisory markets most relevant in relation to the recruitment Board determines the remuneration for the CEO and retention of top management. Since Ahold Ahold Delhaize USA on the basis of a local Delhaize is a Dutch-headquartered company, the reference market, the U.S. retail labor market AEX market practice in the Netherlands is included. reference group comprising 14 companies. The peer group consists of 18 companies, including peer companies in Europe and the United States as well as AEX-listed companies. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 104 Remuneration continued Base salary Long-term equity-based program: Linked to TSR In anticipation of potential changes to the The level of the Management Board members’ Global Reward Opportunity Another 40% of the total GRO award is linked performance peer group due to delisting, base salary is derived from the benchmarking of The Management Board members participate to TSR (share price growth and dividends paid mergers or other extraordinary circumstances, Total Direct Compensation. Adjustment of the base in the Company’s long-term incentive program: over the performance period), with performance the Supervisory Board has the discretion to salary is at the discretion of the Supervisory Board. Global Reward Opportunity (GRO). Under the at vesting benchmarked against the TSR include substitute comparable companies. GRO program, shares are granted through performance of a peer group. The number Annual cash incentive plan: Linked to Sustainable Retailing a three-year program. The vesting of these of shares that vest depends on the Company’s Executive Committee Incentive Plan For the remaining 20% of the total GRO award, performance shares is subject to performance relative ranking in the peer group. An independent The Management Board members participate the performance at vesting is measured against over a three-year period. The GRO program external adviser determines the ranking in the Executive Committee Incentive Plan sustainable retailing targets. This measure relates employs two financial measures: RoC (40%) based on TSR performance. No shares will (EIP). The EIP is an annual cash incentive plan to the Company’s Sustainable Retailing strategic and TSR (40%). In addition, a non-financial vest to Management Board members if the that employs three equally weighted financial ambitions. The targets set under this non-financial performance measure (20%) related to Sustainable Company ranks below the seventh position in measures: sales growth (30%), underlying performance measure are both qualitative Retailing targets is included. the performance peer group. The table below operating margin (30%) and operating cash and quantitative. Dependent on performance, indicates the percentage of performance shares flow (30%), as well as personal objectives (10%). In line with market practice, the target value of the the number of shares that may vest may range that vests based on the Company’s ranking. The at-target payout as a percentage of base long-term incentives granted under the program between zero and a maximum of 150% of the Shares that will vest as % salary is 100%, contingent on full achievement differs by role. For the CEO, the target value is Company ranking of originally granted amount number of shares granted. of the objectives, with a cap at 150% of the base 235% of base salary; for the Deputy CEO and Ranking 1 175% Shareholding requirements and salary in the event of above-target performance. CEO Ahold Delhaize USA, the target value is Ranking 2 150% ownership guidelines 200% of base salary; for the CFO, the target value Ranking 3 125% Management Board members must retain is 175% of base salary; and for the COO Europe Ranking 4 110% the shares awarded under the GRO program the target value is 150% of base salary. Ranking 5 100% for a period of at least five years from the grant The total GRO award is comprised of three date. The sale of a portion of the shares is Ranking 6 80% portions of shares, linked to RoC, TSR and permissible to finance taxes due at the date of sustainability targets, respectively. Ranking 7 50% vesting. All members of the Management Board Ranking 8 – 14 0% are required to hold shares in the Company with Linked to RoC a value equal to at least 150% of their base salary. Of the total GRO award, the first 40% is linked TSR performance peer group The holding may accumulate by retaining all to a three-year RoC target. Dependent on Tesco Kroger after-tax shares from the GRO program and does performance, the number of shares that eventually Carrefour Costco not require personal share purchases. vest may range between zero and a maximum Metro Target of 150% of the number of shares granted. Casino Guichard Walgreen Perrachon Boots Alliance J Sainsbury Best Buy W M Morisson Staples Walmart Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 105 Remuneration continued Claw-back Loans Future outlook Base salary A claw-back provision is applicable to the Ahold Delhaize does not provide loans or In light of changes to the labor market reference thousands Management Board members’ annual cash advances to members of the Management Board. group and TSR peer group due to the demerger €1,037 incentive plan (EIP) as well as the long-term equity Nor does the Company issue guarantees to the of Metro Group and delisting of Staples, the CEO €1,013 incentive program (GRO). benefit of members of the Management Board. Supervisory Board will include substitute €1,000 comparable companies. For benchmarking Pensions and other contract terms Additional arrangements €1,027 purposes, from 2018 onwards, Metro Cash & Deputy Pension In addition to the remuneration of the Management €446 Carry will replace Metro Group, and Lowe’s CEO1 All existing pension arrangements in the Board members, a number of additional Companies will replace Staples in the labor market Netherlands have been brought in line with the arrangements apply. These include expense and €732 peer group. For relative TSR measurement, this applicable fiscal pension regulations. The pension relocation allowances, medical insurance and CFO €675 substitution comes into effect for the 2016 and plan for Management Board members is accident insurance, use of company cars and, €666 2017 GRO awards and to-be-granted GRO calculated similarly to that of all other associates if applicable, expatriate allowances, which apply share awards. CEO €858 of the Company in the Netherlands and is referred to other senior associates and are in line with AD €329 to as a defined benefit plan, based on career local market practice. In addition, third-party tax 2017 Management Board USA1,2 average salary. The retirement age (in 2017) is services will be provided to ensure compliance Remuneration 0 400 800 1,200 67. The pensionable salary is capped at around with the relevant legislative requirements. €100,000 (2017: € 98,995). Each Management The Management Board remuneration for 2017 Base salary 2017 (Service) Agreements is in accordance with the Management Board Base salary 2016 Board member working on a Dutch contract The term of appointment for all Management Board remuneration policy. This policy was adopted Base salary 2015 pays a pension premium contribution identical members is four years. If the Company terminates at the General Meeting of Shareholders on to that of all other Ahold Delhaize associates in 1 For the members appointed to the Management Board in 2016, the (service) agreement of any member of the April 19, 2016, and an individual exception was the 2016 base salary reflects a partial year. the Netherlands. In addition, Management Board Management Board, the severance payment is adopted at the General Meeting of Shareholders members receive a gross (age-dependent) 2 For 2017, CEO AD USA refers to the COO Ahold USA. limited to one year’s base salary. The same applies on April 12, 2017. The salary of the CEO AD USA has been converted from pension allowance and can choose to participate if an initial (service) agreement for four years is not U.S. dollars into euros using the 2017 year-to-date average in a Net Pension Arrangement by investing the net 2017 Base salary $ / € exchange rate of 0.8868. continued in the event the Management Board (after tax) amount. The Net Pension Arrangement The base salaries of members of the Management member is not reappointed. The agreement may For 2016, CEO AD USA refers to the COO Delhaize America is identical to that of all other associates of the Board were adjusted effective January 2017, for the period up to October 1, 2016, and the COO Ahold USA be terminated by the Company with a notice Company in the Netherlands whose pensionable and for the CEO Ahold Delhaize USA effective for the period starting October 1, 2016. The salary of the CEO period of 12 months and by the Management AD USA has been converted from U.S. dollars into euros using salary exceeds the cap. Participation in this Net May 2017 in accordance with the adoption of the Board member with a notice period of six months. the 2016 year-to-date average $ / € exchange rate of 0.912519. Pension Arrangement is voluntarily. individual exception by the General Meeting of Members of the Management Board working on Shareholders on April 12, 2017. a non-Dutch contract are offered pension plans in line with local practices. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 106 Remuneration continued 2017 Annual cash incentive plan: EIP Actual EIP 2017 Long-term equity-based program: GRO The EIP uses three equally weighted financial thousands The Management Board members participate in Ahold Delhaize’s long-term equity-based incentive measures: sales growth (30%), operating margin €991 program, GRO. The 2017 GRO award was made the day after the 2017 annual General Meeting (30%) and operating cash flow (30%). In addition, CEO €1,271 of Shareholders. personal objectives (10%) are included. €1,350 The vesting of the GRO performance shares is subject to performance over a period of three years Ahold Delhaize does not disclose the €981 and the GRO program employs two financial measures: Return on Capital (40%) and Total Shareholder Deputy €323 actual targets per performance measure, CEO1 Return (40%). In addition, a non-financial performance measure (20%) is included related to Sustainable as this is considered to be commercially Retailing targets. For this purpose, performance is measured on the basis of both an external and an sensitive information. €699 internal target. The Dow Jones Sustainability Index (the external target) measures how the Company CFO €773 performs on sustainability against peers in the sector. The percentage of healthy own-brand food sales 2017 EIP Performance measures €899 of total own-brand food sales (the internal target) is the measure we use to drive performance in pursuit Sales growth 30% CEO €820 of our company objective to facilitate healthier eating. AD €252 Operating margin USA1,4 2017 GRO grant 30% Operating cash flow To calculate the number of shares to be granted, the at-target value of the award is divided by the six0 350 700 1,050 1,400 30% month average share price preceding the annual award date, calculated over the fourth quarter of 2016 Personal 10% Actual EIP 20172,3 and the first quarter of 2017. Scenario analyses are prepared regularly to estimate the possible future Actual EIP 2016 payout levels. Actual EIP 2015 At-target grant and maximum vesting performance shares 1 For the members appointed to the Management Board in 2016, Performance shares the 2016 EIP reflects a partial year. RoC TSR Sustainability Total at-target Total maximum The at-target payout as a percentage of base 2 2017 EIP represents accrued annual cash incentives to be (40%) (40%) (20%) grant vesting salary is 100%, contingent on full achievement paid in 2018 and subject to shareholder approval of the CEO 94% 94% 47% 235% 376% financial statements. of the objectives, with a cap at 150% of the base Deputy CEO 80% 80% 40% 200% 320% salary in the event of above-target performance. 3 The overall 2017 financial performance multiplier was 93%. This reflects our financial results being modestly below target. CFO 70% 70% 35% 175% 280% The individual EIP amounts also include the component linked CEO AD USA 80% 80% 40% 200% 320% to individual performance. COO EU 60% 60% 30% 150% 240% 4 For 2017, CEO AD USA refers to the COO Ahold USA. The EIP of the CEO AD USA has been converted from U.S. dollars into All percentages constitute a percentage of base salary. euros using the 2017 year-to-date average $ / € exchange rate of 0.8868. For 2016, CEO AD USA refers to the COO Delhaize America for the period up to October 1, 2016, and the COO Ahold USA for the period starting October 1, 2016. The 2016 EIP of the CEO AD USA has been converted from U.S. dollars into euros using the 2016 year-to-date average $ / € exchange rate of 0.912519. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 107 Remuneration continued 2017 GRO share grant calculation – Example CEO Number of shares granted (award At-target Award value value divided by share grant (base salary1 six-month average (% of base salary) at-target grant %) share price) RoC performance shares 94% 975.118 48,819 TSR performance shares 94% 975,118 48,819 Sustainability performance shares 47% 487,560 24,410 235% 2.437.796 122.048 1 Table assumes base salary of €1,037,360 and six-month average share price of €19.97. 2017 GRO share grant calculation – Example CFO Number of shares granted (award At-target Award value value divided by share grant (base salary2 six-month average (% of base salary) at-target grant %) share price) RoC performance shares 70% 512,578 25,662 TSR performance shares 70% 512,578 25,662 Sustainability performance shares 35% 256,289 12,831 175% 1,281,445 64,155 2 Table assumes base salary of €732,254 and six-month average share price of €19.97. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 108 How we manage risk Taking risks in a responsible way Governance, Risk Management & Compliance Framework Risk appetite is key to being able to fulfill our Our risk appetite is defined by our Supervisory stakeholders’ expectations Board and Management Board and is integrated into the businesses through our strategy, global In order to meet our Better Together objectives, we Values, strategy policies, procedures, controls, and budgets. must be agile and entrepreneurial so that we can & objectives Our appetite for each risk is determined by respond quickly and effectively to rapid changes considering our business objectives as well as in the retail landscape and take advantage of potential threats to achieving those objectives and business opportunities whenever and wherever can be categorized as follows: they exist. Meeting these challenges requires us to Leadership & Monitor & Assurance Identify & manage risk take risks in a responsible way. Having a proactive risk culture Strategic approach to risk management that is embedded In pursuing our Better Together strategy, Ahold in our business processes benefits our decisionDelhaize is prepared to take risks in a responsible making and helps us create and preserve value. way that takes our stakeholders’ interests into Managing risks and unpredictable conditions in Policies & Procedures account. Through our annual strategic cycle, a timely way increases the likelihood that we will we follow a logical and systematic process of achieve our business objectives, while ensuring analysis, dialogue and planning to optimize our compliance with internal and external requirements. decision-making. We use a fact-based analysis of our different markets and brands to support We strive for a culture of openness and transparency in which risks are identified and Risk management risks and risk management practices with the our strategic decision-making process in a way addressed proactively. Risk management is an and internal control Management Board as a regular part of the that considers financial, economic, social and business planning and performance cycle. political developments that may impact our integral part of responsible leadership. Enterprise risk management Additionally, the Management Board considers ability to achieve our objectives. Generally, the Ahold Delhaize’s enterprise risk management At Ahold Delhaize, we have created a Governance, the risks impacting the Company from a strategic Company’s risk appetite is between average and (ERM) program is designed to provide executive Risk Management and Compliance (GRC) perspective and provides complementary above average. management with an understanding of the Framework that allows us to effectively identify, insights into existing and emerging risks, which Company’s key business risks and associated risk Operational assess and manage our risks. This GRC Framework are subsequently included in the consolidated management practices. Within each business, Operational risks include unforeseen incidents consists of global policies and controls as well as ERM process. Ahold Delhaize’s enterprise risk management identifies the principal risks to that could result from failures in internal processes a GRC committee structure that functions as a management program influences the formation the achievement of the business objectives or systems, human error, or adverse external platform to address relevant risks across functional of policies, procedures and controls; the and the actions needed to mitigate these risks. events that could negatively impact the day-toareas of our Company. In 2017, we implemented scope of internal audit activities; and the focus Senior brand and global executives periodically day operation of our business. Our risk appetite the GRC committee structure at the local brand of the business planning and performance review these risks and the related mitigation related to the management and execution of level and continued to integrate and harmonize process. During 2017, we fully integrated our practices. The observations are aggregated our day-to-day business is generally low, as our policy and control framework across the Ahold risk management program into one consistent into an enterprise risk management report that we seek to minimize the downside impact of Delhaize businesses. We are constantly reviewing approach for both the former Ahold and former is presented to the Management Board and operational failures. and updating our global policies, procedures Delhaize group companies. Supervisory Board, as required by the Dutch and controls to ensure consistency in our overall Corporate Governance Code. Our local brand compliance and to support the successful management is required to review their principal execution of our strategy. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 109 How we manage risk continued Financial Scenario Associated principal risks Description In the table to the left are two extreme scenarios With respect to financial risks, Ahold Delhaize Competitive • Competitive environment Failure to design and execute our strategic promises that are considered severe but possible. None of has a prudent financial strategy, the principles of pressure could result in not achieving the anticipated benefits these scenarios individually threaten the viability which are governed by the treasury policy. We are of price repositioning and cost savings programs of the Company, however, the compound impact committed to maintaining an investment-grade or other strategic initiatives. of these scenarios has been evaluated as the most credit rating and are averse to any risks that could severe stress scenario. jeopardize the integrity of our financial reporting. Failure over a long period of time to adapt to new market dynamics and consumer behaviors These scenarios are hypothetical and purposefully Our financial risk management, risk appetite and could also lead to loss of market share to new severe for the purpose of illustrating outcomes that sensitivities are further detailed in Note 30 of the market entrants or new shopping channels. could have the ability to threaten the viability of the consolidated financial statements. Company. In the case of these scenarios arising, Compliance These factors may have a material adverse effect mitigation plans at global and brand level have At Ahold Delhaize, an essential part of our on the Company’s financial position, results of been defined, and if applicable, various options strategic framework is behaving according to operations and liquidity. are available to the Company to maintain liquidity our values. One of Ahold Delhaize’s values is Information • Business continuity In the event of a successful data breach, and support ongoing operations. These options “Integrity,” which means that the Company and all security, and / the Company could be subject to material monetary include: accessing new external funding early, • Information security its associates do the right thing to earn customers’ or data breach penalties, loss of customers and damage to our more radical short-term cost-reduction actions and privacy trust. We strive for full compliance with laws and and business corporate reputation; it could also lead to potential and adjustments to capital allocation. regulations and with our policies and procedures • Strategic initiatives disruption litigation. Control framework everywhere we do business. Consequently, our The Ahold Delhaize control framework risk appetite in this area is very low. incorporates risk assessment, control activities Three lines of defense model Sensitivity analysis and monitoring into our business practices at At Ahold Delhaize, we follow closely the impact of entity-wide and functional levels. A three lines different internal and external risk factors on our Management Board Audit, Finance & of defense model has been adopted to provide operations. The purpose of our sensitivity analysis Executive Committee Risk Committee/ reasonable assurance that risks to achieving is to assess these risks on the Company’s current Senior Management Supervisory Board important objectives are identified and mitigated. strategy to determine their impact on our business Three lines of defense model and the viability of our business model, as well as 1st Line of Defense: 2nd Line of Defense: 3rd Line of Defense: In a time of significant transition and change, our ability to meet our financial liabilities and other Group and Risk Management, Control, Internal Audit Ahold Delhaize has carried forward the obligations. Our strategy is based on assumptions Business Management Compliance and other unwavering commitment to integrity that was relating to: the global economic climate, changes specialized functions at the core of Ahold and Delhaize Groups prior in consumer behaviors, competitor actions, market to the merger. dynamics and our current and planned structure, Role Role Role among other factors. Own and manage Facilitate, support and Provide the risk challenge in implementing independent effective risk management assurance Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 110 How we manage risk continued In early 2017, we launched the Ahold Delhaize Monitoring and assurance While the Company will no longer be subject Governance, Risk management and Code of Ethics, which is based on four We use a comprehensive business planning to the Sarbanes Oxley Act regulations related Compliance Committee ethical principles: and performance review process to monitor the to control over financial reporting, we are still The global Governance, Risk and Compliance Company’s performance. This process covers subject to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, (GRC) Committee is responsible for reviewing the • We respect each other the adoption of strategy, budgeting and the which is consistent with Sarbanes Oxley in spirit Company’s governance, risk management and • We follow the law reporting of current and projected results. and substance. Consequently, we have decided compliance processes. The GRC Committee is • We act ethically in all our relationships We assess business performance according to to keep our current internal control environment chaired by the Chief Legal Officer and (i) advises • We have the courage to speak up both financial and non-financial targets. In order in place. All of our businesses are required the Management Board and Executive Committee to meet business needs and the requirements to continue to maintain a sound internal control on matters concerning the GRC Framework, The Code of Ethics is intended to help each of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, we environment with robust policies, procedures, including an overall GRC vision and strategy, associate understand and follow relevant have a Group-wide management certification controls and a strong financial discipline, and (ii) oversees activities to develop and maintain compliance and ethical principles, and to know process in place, which requires that the executive to comply with our current internal controls a fit-for-purpose GRC Framework and (iii) engages when and where to ask for advice or report a management team members at each of our framework so that we can continue to provide with Ahold Delhaize’s senior management on compliance or ethics breach, which includes reporting entities send letters of representation a high level of assurance to our senior leadership, important developments in the context of GRC. the use of whistleblower lines, available to our to the Financial Disclosure Committee on Audit, Finance and Risk Committee, investors and To support local management and provide visibility associates in each of our locations. a quarterly basis. external regulators. regarding local risks to the global GRC Committee, In 2017, our brands’ whistleblower lines received each of our brands has a local GRC committee These letters confirm whether the reporting At the direction of the global Governance, Risk 6,817 reports. Approximately 34% of the reports that operates in parallel to the global GRC entities are in compliance with Ahold Delhaize’s & Compliance Committee, the GSO Compliance were made anonymously. On average, 94% committee process. Code of Ethics, policies on fraud prevention team along with the GSO Risks and Controls team of the reports were investigated and resolved and detection, accounting and internal control are finalizing their review of the current global During 2017, the global GRC Committee met on within the quarter in which they were received. standards, and disclosure requirements. policies, procedures and related internal control a quarterly basis. In addition to Ahold Delhaize’s In 2017, there were no substantiated reports of framework with the respective operational and Chief Legal Officer (Chairman), the Chief Executive significant financial reporting, accounting, fraud On July 31, 2017, Ahold Delhaize filed executive owners. Their aim is to ensure that the Officer and the Chief Financial Officer sit on the or ethical violations. a certification with the U.S. Securities and revised global standards address all relevant risks GRC Committee, along with other members of Exchange Commission (SEC) in connection The principles in the Code apply to all to the Company and that the control objectives are local and global management responsible for our with the deregistration of its ordinary shares, associates of Ahold Delhaize and its businesses. consistent, are applicable to all our business units governance, risk management, accounting and which has terminated the Company’s U.S. Associates of certain defined grade levels are and provide a robust level of assurance. Both our reporting, compliance and assurance functions. corresponding reporting obligations with trained in compliance with the Code on an annual Risk & Controls and Internal Audit functions the SEC. basis. The full Code is available in the corporate help to ensure that we maintain and improve the governance section of Ahold Delhaize’s public integrity and effectiveness of our system of risk website at www.aholddelhaize.com. management and internal control. Internal Audit undertakes regular risk-based, objective and critical audits. These functions also monitor the effectiveness of corrective actions undertaken by management. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 111 How we manage risk continued Declaration With respect to financial reporting based on Risk factors Our principal risks remain substantially unchanged the current state of affairs, it is justified that from 2016. The risk related to the Ahold Delhaize Annual declaration on risk management The principal risk factors that may impede the the financial reporting is prepared on a going merger has been updated to reflect the completion and control systems regarding financial achievement of Ahold Delhaize’s objectives concern basis and management has assessed of the merger and current focus on the integration. reporting risks with respect to strategy, operations, financial whether the risk management and control The aggregation of risks to the Ahold Delhaize Ahold Delhaize supports the Dutch Corporate and compliance matters are described in the systems provide reasonable assurance that the enterprise risk management report did not result in Governance Code and makes the following following section. The enterprise risk management 2017 financial statements do not contain any new principal risks, although nuances have been declaration in accordance with provision I.4.3: system, the governance and control standards material misstatements. This assessment was identified and processed. incorporated within our GRC Framework, and The Management Board is responsible for based on the criteria set out in COSO: Internal the monitoring systems described above are the The risks described below are not the only risks establishing and maintaining adequate internal risk Control – Integrated Framework 2013 and our principal means by which we identify and manage the Company faces. There may be additional risks management and control systems. Such systems internal control framework. It included tests of the these risks. Management is not aware of any of which we are currently unaware or risks that are designed to manage rather than eliminate design and operating effectiveness of entity-level critical failings in these systems during 2017. management believes are immaterial or otherwise the risk of failure to achieve important business controls, transactional controls at significant common to most companies, but which may in objectives, and can only provide reasonable locations, and relevant general computer controls. The following overview of risks relating to Ahold the future have a material adverse effect on Ahold and not absolute assurance against material Any control weaknesses not fully remediated Delhaize should be read carefully when evaluating Delhaize’s financial position, results of operations, misstatement or loss. Management is not at year-end were evaluated. Based on this the Company’s business, its prospects and the liquidity and the actual outcome of matters referred aware of any critical failings of these systems assessment, the Management Board determined forward-looking statements contained in this to in the forward-looking statements contained during 2017. that the Company’s financial reporting systems Annual Report. The following risks, which may or in this Annual Report. For additional information are adequately designed and operated may not materialize, could have a material adverse This report includes those material risks and regarding forward-looking statements, see the effectively in 2017 and provide reasonable effect on Ahold Delhaize’s financial position, uncertainties that are relevant to the expectation Cautionary notice. assurance that the financial statements are free results of operations and liquidity or could cause of the Company’s continuity for the period of of material misstatement. actual results to differ materially from the results twelve months after the preparation of the report. contemplated in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 112 How we manage risk continued Ahold Delhaize’s principal risks and uncertainties1 Risk Strategic area Key risk drivers Mitigating actions Potential consequences Business continuity (O) A better place • Dependence on IT (legacy) systems • Business continuity governance structure While Ahold Delhaize continues to maintain and invest in Disruption of critical business to shop • Centralized office and product • Business continuity strategic guidelines business continuity and disaster recovery plans, business processes may result in distribution facilities and tactical policy interruptions could have a material adverse effect on the non-availability of products Company’s financial position, results of operations, liquidity, • Dependence on logistics service providers • Business continuity framework with for customers customer perception and reputation. • Dependence on suppliers of strategic guidance and procedures own-brand products and services • Business continuity and disaster • Cyber threats recovery plans • Events of an exceptional nature • Insurance program • Network protection (firewall, intrusion detection / prevention systems, email filtering) • Cyber-defense monitoring Competitive environment Our sustainable • Consumer value perception • Research and monitoring of Ahold Delhaize is focused on the execution of its strategic and economic conditions (S) business model (price, assortment, quality) consumer behavior promises. Unforeseen effects could impair the effectiveness Changes to the competitive • Changing customer behavior • Price benchmarking competition of Ahold Delhaize’s strategy and reduce the anticipated landscape and a weak (e.g., online shopping) and competition benefits of its price repositioning and cost savings programs • Analysis of economic developments macroeconomic climate without or other strategic initiatives. These factors may have a • Lack of distinctiveness • Actively monitoring and developing appropriate response could material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, threaten Ahold Delhaize’s ability • Consumer purchasing power e-commerce business results of operations and liquidity. to achieve its strategic objectives under pressure • Approved strategies For more information see the Business review section. • Inflationary forces impacting cost • Promotional activities of goods sold • Building more personalized • Pressure on margin customer relationships • Strengthening own brands to meet changing customer expectations on quality, health, and sustainability 1 Risk objectives: strategic (S), operational (O), financial (F) and compliance (C) risks listed in alphabetical order. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 113 How we manage risk continued Risk Strategic area Key risk drivers Mitigating actions Potential consequences Information security and A better place • Consumer confidence • Strategic and tactical information security Ahold Delhaize’s business operations generate and privacy (O, C) to shop • Sensitivity of data policy and guidelines maintain confidential commercial and personal information A lack of security around, or • Information security and concerning customers, associates, suppliers and the A better place • Changing or conflicting privacy legislation non-compliance with, privacy privacy governance Company. Data breaches with disclosure of confidential to work or regulations requirements for customer or information to unintended third parties may negatively • Use of third parties to process • Control standards for information associate data might negatively impact Ahold Delhaize’s corporate reputation and and store data management and security impact strategic initiatives competitive position or result in litigation or regulatory relating to customer loyalty • Global security threats • Security and Privacy by Design action. This could have a material adverse effect on • Growth of online sales • Payment Card Industry (PCI) and privacy Ahold Delhaize’s financial position or reputation. compliant control framework • Lack of awareness of regulations and internal requirements • Information security capabilities • Information security and data privacy awareness programs • Cyber insurance coverage Labor (O) A better place • People management and • Associate engagement survey A work stoppage or other event due to the failure of one or Ahold Delhaize‘s brands to work associate engagement and response more of Ahold Delhaize’s brands to renegotiate a collective might not be able to negotiate • Expiring collective bargaining agreements • Performance management cycle bargaining agreement, or otherwise, could be disruptive to Our sustainable extensions or replacements our businesses, lead to adverse publicity and have a material business model • Relationships with the relevant trade unions • Contract negotiation process on acceptable terms, or face adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and unfavorable expectations • Functions that support relationships financial position. or demands from trade unions with trade unions • Contingency plans Legislative and regulatory Our sustainable • Increased focus on compliance, • Knowledge and awareness of regulations Ahold Delhaize’s activities are subject to various laws and environment (C) business model and enforcement • Monitoring, review and reporting regulations in each local market where it operates. The cost A changing legislative and • Public opinion / pressure on changes of compliance with any of these laws could impact Ahold regulatory environment might Delhaize’s operations and reduce its profitability. See further • International and national tax developments • Operational procedures and guidance increase the cost of doing discussion of the consequences of the legislative and business, tax levels and the • Local regulatory changes • Education of regulators and regulatory risks below. complexity of our operations • Diversity of jurisdictions public policymakers, e.g., through industry associations • Changing political climate • Tax policy • Unfavorable position of retail in the value chain • Engaging with stakeholders Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 114 How we manage risk continued Risk Strategic area Key risk drivers Mitigating actions Potential consequences Merger-related changes Our sustainable • Integration of the businesses more difficult • Governance structure with direct If Ahold Delhaize is unable to realize the organizational at Ahold Delhaize in business model or time-consuming than expected Management Board involvement and growth opportunities as well as other benefits after the United States (S) • Process and structural changes and Supervisory Board oversight implementing the new U.S. structure and organization, Our promises We could be unable to realize • Integration management office, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s • Key staff leaving the Company the expected benefits of the plans and processes reputation or have a material adverse effect on Ahold merger after the integration Delhaize’s financial position. • Monthly integration reviews • Synergy targets • The creation of Ahold Delhaize USA and one Retail Business Services organization to support our brand-centric strategy for the United States Pension plan funding (F) Our sustainable • Low interest rates • Governance structure with a CompanyA decrease in equity returns or interest rates may negatively Ahold Delhaize is exposed business model • Stock market performance wide pension committee responsible affect the funding ratios of Ahold Delhaize’s pension to the financial consequences for monitoring pension plan funding funds, which could lead to higher pension charges and • Changing pension laws of a number of defined benefit for Company-sponsored and multicontributions payable. According to Dutch law and / or pension plans covering a large • Longevity employer plans contractually agreed funding arrangements, Ahold Delhaize number of its associates in • Increasing U.S. healthcare costs may be required to make additional contributions to its the Netherlands and in the pension plans if minimum funding requirements are not met. United States In addition, a significant number of union associates in the United States are covered by multi-employer plans (MEPs). Significant increases in healthcare and pension funding requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity. See more details on risks related to MEPs in Other risks and uncertainties below and in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 115 How we manage risk continued Risk Strategic area Key risk drivers Mitigating actions Potential consequences Product safety (O, C) A better place • Internationalization of the supply chain • Product safety policies Though it has mitigating actions in place, Ahold Delhaize The consumption of own-brand to shop • Incidents across the world • Control standards for food may face product safety problems, including disruptions products or other food or and non-food products to the supply chain caused by food-borne illnesses and • Increased number of own-brand products non-food products could result negative consumer reaction to incidents, which may have • Transparency and speed of • Standard operating procedures in our customers’ injury, illness a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation, or death, due to food fraud communications (social media) • Dedicated product integrity guidance results of operations and financial position. in the supply chain or other and controls in our brands developments • Monitoring of performance in the business • Tracing of product origins and conditions of production • Third-party certification • Insurance program • Participation in industry associations • Exploring new technologies (e.g., blockchain) Strategic initiatives (S) Our sustainable • Changing retail environment • Ahold Delhaize’s governance structure Ahold Delhaize is implementing its Better Together strategy. Activities are increasingly business model • Dependencies between projects • Approved strategies If the Company is not able to deliver on the objectives of its undertaken in the form of and operational activities underlying strategic projects, the realization of key elements Our promises • Program and project management projects. Ahold Delhaize might of its strategy may be at risk. This could have a material • Availability of required capabilities • Business review process not be able to deliver on the adverse effect on Ahold Delhaize’s financial position, results objectives of its strategic projects of operations and liquidity. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 116 How we manage risk continued Other risks and uncertainties Insurance programs (F) Pension funds and multi-employer plans (F) Other financial risks (F) Ahold Delhaize manages its insurable risks A significant number of union employees in the Other financial risks include foreign currency In addition to the principal risks and uncertainties through a combination of self-insurance and United States are covered by multi-employer translation risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, linked to our strategy above, the Company has commercial insurance coverage. A large part plans based on obligations arising from collective liquidity risk and contingent liabilities to third risks in the following areas: of our operations is self-insured for workers’ bargaining agreements. The risks to the Company parties relating to lease guarantees. Sustainable retailing (S, O) compensation, general liability, property, vehicle involved with participating in MEPs include For information relating to these financial risks, Increased regulatory demands, stakeholder accident and certain healthcare-related claims. the following: see Note 30 and Note 34 to the consolidated awareness and the growing sentiment that large Self-insurance liabilities are estimated based • The Company’s contributions to a multifinancial statements. retailers must address sustainability issues across on actuarial valuations. While we believe that employer plan in which it participates may be the entire supply chain mean that Ahold Delhaize’s the actuarial estimates are reasonable, they are Unforeseen tax liabilities (C) used to fund benefits to employees of other brands and reputation may suffer if it does subject to changes caused by claim reporting Because Ahold Delhaize operates in a number participating employers. not adequately address relevant sustainability patterns, claim settlement patterns, regulatory of countries, its income is subject to taxation in issues affecting the food retail industry. We have economic conditions and adverse litigation results. • If the Company seeks to withdraw from some differing jurisdictions and at differing tax rates. integrated Sustainable Retailing into our Better It is possible that the final resolution of some claims of its MEPs, it must obtain the agreement of the Significant judgment is required in determining Together strategy to ensure that it is part of our may require us to make significant expenditures applicable unions and, in connection with this, the consolidated income tax position. We seek daily business, and that we continue to improve in excess of our existing reserves. In addition, the Company may be required to pay those to organize our affairs in a sustainable manner, our performance, with a focus on three strategic third-party insurance companies that provide the plans an amount based on its allocable share taking into account the applicable regulations of areas: promoting healthier eating, reducing fronting insurance that is part of our self-insurance of the unfunded vested benefits of the plan, the jurisdictions in which we operate. As a result food waste and creating healthy and inclusive programs require us to provide certain collateral. referred to as a withdrawal liability. of Ahold Delhaize’s multi-jurisdictional operations, workplaces. Through the implementation of our We take measures to assess and monitor the • If another participating employer stops it is exposed to a number of different tax risks strategy, we aim to strengthen the communities financial strength and credit-worthiness of the contributing to an MEP in which the Company including, but not limited to, changes in tax laws where we operate. commercial insurers from which we purchase participates (e.g., due to bankruptcy), the or interpretations of such tax laws. The authorities insurance. However, we remain exposed to a Company and other remaining participating in the jurisdictions where Ahold Delhaize operates In addition to addressing risks to our brand and degree of counterparty credit risk with respect to employers may have to increase their may review the Company’s tax returns and may reputation, our Better Together and Sustainable such insurers. If conditions of economic distress contributions to fund the unfunded obligations of disagree with the positions taken in those returns. Retailing strategies will position us well against were to cause the liquidity or solvency of our the plan allocable to the withdrawing employer. An adverse outcome resulting from any settlement the following other risks: an inability to meet our counterparties to deteriorate, we may not be • An MEP in which the Company participates may or future examination of the Company’s tax returns customers’ changing needs or expectations for able to recover collateral funds or be indemnified become insolvent and the Company may be may result in additional tax liabilities and may healthy and sustainable products; increasing from the insurer in accordance with the terms required, in certain circumstances, to increase adversely affect its effective tax rate, which could costs due to waste or negative externalities in our and conditions of our policies. its contributions to fund the payment of benefits have a material adverse effect on Ahold Delhaize’s supply chain; negative impact to our associate by the MEP. financial position, results of operations and engagement if we do not support associates’ liquidity. In addition, any review by the authorities changing expectations of employers; lack of In addition, Ahold Delhaize may be required could cause Ahold Delhaize to incur significant suppliers able to meet improved food safety and to pay significantly higher amounts to fund U.S. legal expenses and divert management’s attention sustainability standards; and insufficient action associate healthcare plans in the future. from the operation of our businesses. to address climate change and its impact. For additional information, see Note 23 to the For more information see Our Better Together consolidated financial statements. strategy. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 117 How we manage risk continued Risks related to the legislative and regulatory From time to time, Ahold Delhaize and its environment and litigation (C) businesses are parties to legal and regulatory Ahold Delhaize and its businesses are subject proceedings in a number of countries, including to various federal, regional, state and local laws the United States, and may be subject to and regulations in each country in which they investigations or inquiries, including but not operate, relating to, among other areas: zoning; limited to investigations or inquiries by the land use; antitrust restrictions; workplace safety; competition authorities related to alleged violations public health including food and non-food of competition laws in jurisdictions where they safety; environmental protection; alcoholic conduct business. Based on the prevailing beverage, tobacco and pharmaceutical sales; regulatory environment or economic conditions in and information security. Ahold Delhaize and the markets in which Ahold Delhaize businesses its businesses are also subject to a variety of operate, litigation, investigations or inquiries may laws governing the relationship with associates, increase in frequency and materiality. These legal including but not limited to minimum wage, and regulatory proceedings may include matters overtime, working conditions, healthcare, disabled involving personnel and employment issues, access and work permit requirements. The cost personal injury, antitrust claims, data privacy of compliance, or the failure to comply with, and data protection claims, franchise claims and any of these laws could impact the operations other contract claims and matters, among others. and reduce the profitability of Ahold Delhaize We estimate our exposure to these legal and or its businesses and thus could affect Ahold regulatory proceedings and establish provisions Delhaize’s financial condition, reputation or results for the estimated liabilities where it is reasonably of operations. Ahold Delhaize and its businesses possible to estimate and where the potential are also subject to a variety of antitrust and similar realization of a loss contingency is more likely laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which than not. they operate, which may impact or limit Ahold The assessment of exposures and ultimate Delhaize’s ability to realize certain acquisitions, outcomes of legal and regulatory proceedings divestments, partnerships or mergers. involves uncertainties. Adverse outcomes of these legal proceedings, or changes in our assessments of proceedings, could potentially result in material adverse effects on our financial results. For further information, see Note 34 to the consolidated financial statements. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 118 Non-financial information and diversity The EU Directive on the disclosure of Theme Section Ahold Delhaize website Page non-financial and diversity-related Business model Our Better Together strategy defines Our Better Together strategy 28-29 information was published at the the kind of group we want to be, what Our purpose 30-31 end of 2014. It was transposed into drives us, and how our brands will Our sustainable business model 32-37 Dutch legislation before the end win in all our markets. Our promises 38-45 of 2016, resulting in two separate Our values 46-48 decrees: Disclosure of non-financial Environmental At Ahold Delhaize, we are reducing Our promises https://www.aholddelhaize.com/en/ 44-45 matters our energy intensity and emissions Our response to stakeholder needs sustainable-retailing/ 49-57 information (“Bekendmaking by assessing and reducing the How we manage risk sustainable-retailing-in-practice/ 108-117 niet-financiële informatie”) and environmental impact of our Sustainability performance climate-impact/ 250 Disclosure of diversity policy operations. We have already (“Bekendmaking diversiteitsbeleid”). uncovered plenty of opportunities: These decrees make it mandatory from the refrigerators, transport for companies to include nonmethods and energy we use, to how we dispose of waste. financial and diversity-related Social and We recognize that diversity Our promises https://www.aholddelhaize.com/en/ 42-43 information in their annual reports. personnel matters and inclusion are critical to our Our values sustainable-retailing/ 46-48 The information required under these decrees Company’s success – they Our response to stakeholder needs sustainable-retailing-in-practice/ 49-57 is incorporated throughout this report. The table make us better and increase How we manage risk create-an-inclusive-and-healthy108-117 to the right provides an overview of the key topics associate engagement. Sustainability performance workplace/ 250 to be addressed and where they can be found. Respect for We are committed to respecting Our promises https://www.aholddelhaize.com/en/ 38-45 human rights the human rights of our associates, Our values sustainable-retailing/sustainable46-48 our customers, our communities and Our response to stakeholder needs retailing-in-practice/create-an-inclusive49-57 the people who work throughout our and-healthy-workplace/our-position-onsupply chains. human-rights/ https://www.aholddelhaize.com/en/ about-us/code-of-ethics/ https://www.aholddelhaize.com/en/ about-us/code-of-ethics/our-standardsof-engagement/ Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 119 Non-financial information and diversity continued The information required under the two decrees is incorporated throughout this report. The table Theme Section Ahold Delhaize website Page to the right provides an overview of the key topics Anti-corruption Being a trustworthy retailer of Our values https://www.aholddelhaize.com/en/ 46-48 to be addressed and where they can be found. and bribery choice is very important for us. about-us/code-of-ethics/ We are committed to conducting business with integrity, in an ethically responsible manner and in compliance with the law in all countries and jurisdictions in which we operate. Diversity We strive to create a workplace Our promises 43 that reflects the diversity of our Our Management Board 83 communities and where each and Executive Committee 85 person feels valued and inspired Our Supervisory Board 255 to develop to their full potential. Sustainable Retailing data In the composition of our Management and Supervisory Boards, we aim for diversity of nationality, age, education, gender and professional background. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 120 Declarations Introduction Declarations This Annual Report, including the 2017 financial statements, which are audited by This 2017 Ahold Delhaize Annual Report The members of the Management Board, as PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V., dated February 27, 2018, (the Annual Report) required by section 5:25c, paragraph 2, under c has been presented to the Supervisory comprises regulated information within the of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision, confirm Board. The 2017 financial statements and the meaning of sections 1:1 and 5:25c of the Dutch that to the best of their knowledge: independent auditor’s report relating to the audit Act on Financial Supervision “Wet op het • The 2017 financial statements included in this of the 2017 financial statements were discussed financieel toezicht.” Annual Report give a true and fair view of the with the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee in For the consolidated and the parent company’s assets, liabilities, financial position and profit the presence of the Management Board and the 2017 financial statements “jaarrekening” within or loss of the Company and the undertakings external independent auditor. The Supervisory the meaning of section 2:361 of the Dutch Civil included in the consolidation taken as a whole. Board recommends that the General Meeting of Code, please refer to Financials. The members • The management report included in this Annual Shareholders adopts the 2017 financial statements of the Management Board and the Supervisory Report gives a true and fair view of the position included in this Annual Report and recommends Board have signed the 2017 financial statements of the Company and the undertakings included the proposal to pay a cash dividend for the pursuant to their obligation under section 2:101, in the consolidation taken as a whole as of financial year 2017 of €0.63 per common share. paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The following December 31, 2017, and of the development and Supervisory Board sections of this Annual Report together form the performance of the business for the financial Mats Jansson (Chairman) management report, or the “bestuursverslag” year then ended. Jan Hommen (Vice Chairman) within the meaning of section 2:391 of the Dutch • The management report includes a description Jacques de Vaucleroy (Vice Chairman) Civil Code: Message from our CEO, Who we of the principal risks and uncertainties that the René Hooft Graafland are, The world around us, Business Review, Our Company faces. Ben Noteboom Management Board and Executive Committee, Bill McEwan Our Supervisory Board, Corporate governance, Management Board Rob van den Bergh How we manage risk, Remuneration and the Dick Boer Mark McGrath subsection Remuneration included in the President and Chief Executive Officer Mary Anne Citrino Supervisory Board report. Frans Muller Johnny Thijs For other information, or “overige gegevens” within Deputy Chief Executive Officer Patrick De Maeseneire the meaning of section 2:392 of the Dutch Civil and Chief Integration Officer Dominique Leroy Code, please refer to subsection Other information Jeff Carr under Financials, and to the section Investors. Chief Financial Officer Kevin Holt Chief Executive Officer Ahold Delhaize USA Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 121 Financials Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 122 Financial statements Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 27 Other current liabilities 28 Cash flow Consolidated balance sheet 29 Earnings per share Consolidated statement of changes in equity 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments Consolidated statement of cash flows 31 Related party transactions Notes to the consolidated financial statements 32 Share-based compensation 1 The Company and its operations 33 Operating leases 2 Basis of preparation 34 Commitments and contingencies 3 Significant accounting policies 35 Subsequent events 4 Acquisitions 36 List of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 5 Assets and liabilities held for sale Parent company financial statements 6 Segment reporting Income statement 7 Net sales Balance sheet 8 Expenses by nature Notes to the parent company financial statements 9 Net financial expenses 1 Significant accounting policies 10 Income taxes 2 Expenses by nature 11 Property, plant and equipment 3 Employees 12 Investment property 4 Auditor fees 13 Intangible assets 5 Income taxes 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates 6 Intangible assets 15 Other non-current financial assets 7 Financial assets 16 Inventories 8 Receivables 17 Receivables 9 Other current financial assets 18 Other current financial assets 10 Shareholders’ equity 19 Cash and cash equivalents 11 Provisions 20 Equity attributable to common shareholders 12 Loans 21 Loans and credit facilities 13 Current liabilities 22 Other non-current financial liabilities 14 Derivatives 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 15 Related party transactions 24 Provisions 16 Commitments and contingencies 25 Other non-current liabilities 17 Distribution of profit 26 Other current financial liabilities 18 Subsequent events Other information Distribution of profit Independent auditor’s report Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 123 Consolidated € million, except per share data Net sales Note 7 2017 62,890 2016 49,695 income statement Cost of sales 8 (46,121) (36,317) Gross profit 16,769 13,378 Selling expenses (12,245) (9,876) General and administrative expenses (2,299) (1,918) Total operating expenses 8 (14,544) (11,794) Operating income 2,225 1,584 Interest income 32 15 Interest expense (294) (273) Net interest expense on defined benefit pension plans 23 (22) (18) Other financial income (expenses) (13) (265) Net financial expenses 9 (297) (541) Income before income taxes 1,928 1,043 Income taxes 10 (146) (247) Share in income of joint ventures 14 35 34 Income from continuing operations 1,817 830 Income (loss) from discontinued operations — — Net income attributable to common shareholders 1,817 830 Earnings per share 29 Net income per share attributable to common shareholders Basic 1.45 0.81 Diluted 1.43 0.81 Income from continuing operations per share attributable to common shareholders Basic 1.45 0.81 Diluted 1.43 0.81 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 124 Consolidated € million Net income Note 2017 1,817 2016 830 statement of comprehensive Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans Remeasurements before taxes–income (loss) 23 44 (146) income Income taxes Other comprehensive loss that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 10 (66) (22) 47 (99) Currency translation differences in foreign interests: Continuing operations (1,308) 408 Income taxes 10 (1) — Cash flow hedges: Fair value result for the year (3) (17) Transfers to net income 21 1 179 Income taxes 10 — (41) Non-realized gains (losses) on financial investments available for sale Fair value result for the period 4 (7) Income taxes 10 (1) 1 Other comprehensive income of joint ventures–net of income taxes: Share of other comprehensive income from continuing operations 14 — — Other comprehensive income (loss) reclassifiable to profit or loss (1,308) 523 Total other comprehensive income (loss) (1,330) 424 Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders 487 1,254 Attributable to: Continuing operations 487 1,254 Discontinued operations — — Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders 487 1,254 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 125 Consolidated € million Note December 31, 2017 January 1, 2017 balance sheet Assets Property, plant and equipment 11 10,689 11,770 Investment property 12 650 727 Intangible assets 13 11,634 12,547 Investments in joint ventures and associates 14 230 274 Other non-current financial assets 15 192 216 Deferred tax assets 10 436 700 Other non-current assets 70 64 Total non-current assets 23,901 26,298 Assets held for sale 5 14 50 Inventories 16 3,077 3,288 Receivables 17 1,606 1,588 Other current financial assets 18 238 677 Income taxes receivable 154 36 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 300 306 Cash and cash equivalents 19 4,581 4,032 Total current assets 9,970 9,977 Total assets 33,871 36,275 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to common shareholders 20 15,170 16,276 Loans 21 3,289 3,311 Other non-current financial liabilities 22 2,098 2,527 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 23 567 659 Deferred tax liabilities 10 1,105 1,596 Provisions 24 808 931 Other non-current liabilities 25 529 578 Total non-current liabilities 8,396 9,602 Liabilities related to assets held for sale 5 — 9 Accounts payable 5,277 5,389 Other current financial liabilities 26 2,210 2,178 Income taxes payable 136 87 Provisions 24 355 383 Other current liabilities 27 2,327 2,351 Total current liabilities 10,305 10,397 Total equity and liabilities 33,871 36,275 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 126 Consolidated Additional Currency Cash flow Other reserves including Equity attributable statement of Share paid-in translation hedging retained to common € million Note capital capital reserve reserve earnings1 shareholders Balance as of January 3, 2016 8 6,059 346 (123) (668) 5,622 changes in equity Net income attributable to common shareholders — — — — 830 830 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — 408 121 (105) 424 Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders — — 408 121 725 1,254 Dividends — — — — (429) (429) Issuance of shares 5 10,756 — — — 10,761 Capital repayment — (1,013) — — 12 (1,001) Share-based payments — — — — 74 74 Share in joint venture’s transactions with non-controlling interests 14 — — — — (5) (5) Balance as of January 1, 2017 20 13 15,802 754 (2) (291) 16,276 Net income attributable to common shareholders — — — — 1,817 1,817 Other comprehensive loss — — (1,309) (2) (19) (1,330) Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to common shareholders — — (1,309) (2) 1,798 487 Dividends — — — — (720) (720) Issuance of shares — 42 — — — 42 Share buyback — — — — (998) (998) Cancellation of treasury shares (1) (669) — — 670 — Share-based payments — — — — 83 83 Balance as of December 31, 2017 20 12 15,175 (555) (4) 542 15,170 1 Other reserves include the remeasurements of defined benefit plans. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 127 Consolidated € million Income from continuing operations Note 2017 1,817 2016 830 statement of Adjustments for: Net financial expenses 9 297 541 cash flows Income taxes Share in income of joint ventures 10 14 146 (35) 247 (34) Depreciation, amortization and impairments 8 1,857 1,464 Gains on the sale of assets / disposal groups held for sale 8 (47) (22) Share-based compensation expenses 32 79 61 Other changes to operating income (7) — Operating cash flows before changes in operating assets and liabilities 4,107 3,087 Changes in working capital: Changes in inventories (44) (29) Changes in receivables and other current assets (97) 68 Changes in payables and other current liabilities 272 171 Changes in other non-current assets, other non-current liabilities and provisions (58) (125) Cash generated from operations 4,180 3,172 Income taxes paid–net (480) (274) Operating cash flows from continuing operations 3,700 2,898 Operating cash flows from discontinued operations (5) (5) Net cash from operating activities 3,695 2,893 Purchase of non-current assets (1,698) (1,302) Divestments of assets / disposal groups held for sale 142 104 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 28 (50) 2,205 Divestment of businesses, net of cash divested 28 (3) (4) Changes in short-term deposits and similar instruments 100 432 Dividends received from joint ventures 14 70 19 Interest received 32 15 Other (3) 1 Investing cash flows from continuing operations (1,410) 1,470 Net cash from investing activities (1,410) 1,470 Proceeds from long-term debt 21 747 — Interest paid (320) (293) Repayments of loans 21 (474) (347) Changes in short-term loans 28 212 209 Repayments of finance lease liabilities 28 (190) (141) Dividends paid on common shares 20 (720) (429) Share buyback 20 (992) — Capital repayment 20 — (1,001) Other cash flows from derivatives 21 262 (260) Other 17 13 Financing cash flows from continuing operations (1,458) (2,249) Net cash from financing activities (1,458) (2,249) Net cash from operating, investing and financing activities 827 2,114 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year (excluding restricted cash) 28 3,990 1,819 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (275) 57 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (excluding restricted cash) 28 4,542 3,990 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 128 Notes to the 1 The Company and its operations consolidated The principal activity of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. (“Ahold Delhaize” or the “Company” or “Group” or “Ahold Delhaize Group”), a public limited liability company with its registered seat and head office in Zaandam, the Netherlands, is the operation of retail food stores and e-commerce primarily in the financial statements United States and Europe. The Company is registered with the Dutch Trade Register under number 35000363. As of July 24, 2016, Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. is the new name of Koninklijke Ahold N.V. following the completion of the merger between Koninklijke Ahold N.V. (“Ahold”) and Delhaize Group NV/SA (“Delhaize”). As a result of the legal structure of the merger, Delhaize merged into Ahold. Since Ahold is the surviving entity, the historical IFRS information prior to the merger is that of Ahold. Ahold Delhaize’s significant subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are listed in Note 36. 2 Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and also comply with the financial reporting requirements included in Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Historical cost is used as the measurement basis unless otherwise indicated. Ahold Delhaize’s financial year is a 52or 53-week period ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. Financial year 2017 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on December 31, 2017. The comparative financial year 2016 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on January 1, 2017. These consolidated financial statements are presented in euros (€) and rounded to the nearest million euro. The following exchange rates of the euro against the U.S. dollar ($), the Czech crown (CZK), the Romanian leu (RON), and the Serbian dinar (RSD) have been used in the preparation of these financial statements: 2017 2016 U.S. dollar Average exchange rate 0.8868 0.9038 Year-end closing exchange rate 0.8330 0.9506 Czech crown Average exchange rate 0.0380 0.0370 Year-end closing exchange rate 0.0391 0.0370 Romanian leu Average exchange rate 0.2189 0.2226 Year-end closing exchange rate 0.2142 0.2204 Serbian dinar Average exchange rate 0.0082 0.0081 Year-end closing exchange rate 0.0085 0.0081 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 129 2 Basis of preparation continued The preparation of financial statements requires management to make a number of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. All assumptions, expectations and forecasts used as a basis for certain estimates within these financial statements represent good faith assessments of Ahold Delhaize’s current and future performance for which management believes there is a reasonable basis. They involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause the Company’s actual future results, performance and achievements to differ materially from those forecasted. The estimates, assumptions and judgments that management considers most critical relate to: Vendor allowances (Notes 3 and 17) The Company must estimate the allowances that are earned based on the fulfillment of its related obligations, many of which require management to estimate the volume of purchases that will be made during a period of time. The Company must also estimate the amount of related product that has been sold and the amount that remains in ending inventories and allocate the allowance to cost of sales or inventories accordingly. Income taxes (Notes 3, 10 and 34) The ultimate tax effects of transactions may be uncertain for a considerable period of time, requiring management to estimate the related current and deferred tax positions. The Company recognizes liabilities for uncertain tax positions when it is probable that additional tax will be due. Judgment is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are realizable and therefore recognized in the balance sheet. Intangible assets (Notes 3, 4 and 13) Intangible assets acquired in a business acquisition are stated at fair value, as determined at the date of the acquisition. To determine the fair value at the acquisition date, judgments and estimates are required. Leases and sale and leaseback transactions (Notes 3, 22 and 33) The classification of leases as finance leases or operating leases requires judgments about the fair value of the leased asset, the split of the fair value between land and buildings, the economic life of the asset, whether or not to include renewal options in the lease term and the appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value of the minimum lease payments. Revenue recognition with respect to sale and leaseback transactions is dependent on management’s judgment of whether the Company transfers all risks and rewards to the buyer, does not maintain (or maintains only minor) continuing involvement in the property other than the lease payments and whether the transaction is established at fair value. Impairments (Notes 3, 6, 8, 11, 12 and 13) Judgments and estimates are required, not only to determine whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired, but also whether indications exist that impairment losses previously recognized may no longer exist or may have decreased (impairment reversal). After indications of impairment have been identified, judgments and estimates are also involved in the determination of the recoverable amount of a non-current asset. These involve estimates of expected future cash flows (based on future growth rates and remaining useful life) and residual value assumptions, as well as discount rates to calculate the present value of the future cash flows. Company and multi-employer pension obligations (Notes 3 and 23) The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of assumptions that are determined on an actuarial basis. The assumptions used in determining the net cost (income) for pensions include the discount rate that should be used to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligations. Other key assumptions comprise longevity and future salary and pension increases. Additional information is disclosed in Note 23. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 130 2 Basis of preparation continued Provisions and contingencies (Notes 3, 24 and 34) The recognition of provisions requires estimates and judgment regarding the timing and the amount of outflow of resources. The main estimates are as follows: • Self-insurance program: estimates and assumptions include an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported, historical loss experience, projected loss development factors, estimated changes in claim reporting patterns, claim settlement patterns, judicial decisions and legislation. • Loyalty programs: estimated cost of benefits to which customers participating in the loyalty program are entitled, which includes assumptions on redemption rates. These estimates and assumptions apply to all loyalty programs, irrespective of whether they are accounted for as sales deferrals or provisions for future payments made at redemption. • Claims and legal disputes: management, supported by internal and external legal counsel, where appropriate, determines whether it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle an obligation. If this is the case, the best estimate of the outflow of resources is recognized. • Severance and termination benefits: the provisions relate to separation plans and agreements and use the best estimate based on information available to management of the cash flows that will likely occur. The amounts that are ultimately incurred may change as the plans are executed. • Onerous contracts: mainly relate to unfavorable lease contracts and include the excess of the unavoidable costs of meeting the contractual obligations over the benefits expected to be received under such contracts. Fair value measurements For financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorized into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, which are described as follows: • Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company can access at the measurement date. • Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices). • Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 131 3 Significant accounting policies Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial figures of the Company and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has control. The Company controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated upon consolidation. Unrealized losses on intra-group transactions are eliminated, unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the assets transferred. Non-controlling interests are recorded, as appropriate, on the consolidated balance sheet, in the consolidated income statement, and in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the non-controlling shareholders’ share in the net assets and the income or loss of subsidiaries. Non-controlling shareholders’ interest in an acquired subsidiary is initially measured at the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognized. Ahold Delhaize does not have subsidiaries with non-controlling interests that are material to the Group. Business combinations The Company accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method when control is transferred to the Group. The consideration transferred in the acquisition is generally measured at fair value, as are the identifiable net assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred. Any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognized in profit or loss. Foreign currency translation The financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are prepared in their functional currencies, which are determined based on the primary economic environment in which they operate. Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the transaction dates. At each balance sheet date, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the entity’s functional currency at the then prevailing rates. Exchange differences arising on the settlement and translation of monetary items are included in net income for the period. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are considered as assets and liabilities denominated in the functional currency of the foreign entity. Upon consolidation, the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the euro are translated into euros using the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the respective periods. Exchange rate differences arising during consolidation and on the translation of investments in subsidiaries are included in other comprehensive income and in equity, in the currency translation reserve. Intercompany loans to and from foreign entities for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future are considered to increase or decrease the net investment in that foreign entity; therefore the exchange rate differences relating to these loans are also included in other comprehensive income and in equity, in the currency translation reserve. On the disposal of a foreign operation resulting in loss of control, loss of joint control or loss of significant influence, the related cumulative exchange rate difference that was included in equity is transferred to the consolidated income statement. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 132 3 Significant accounting policies continued Statement of cash flows The Company has chosen to prepare the statement of cash flows using the indirect method, which presents cash flows from operating activities as the income from continuing operations adjusted for non-cash transactions, deferrals or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or payments, and items of income or expense associated with investing or financing cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies have been translated using weighted average periodic exchange rates. Interest paid on loans is presented as a financing activity, while interest received is presented as an investing activity. Acquisitions and divestments of businesses are presented net of cash and cash equivalents acquired or disposed of, respectively. The Company has chosen to present dividends paid to its shareholders as a financing activity cash flow. Segmentation Ahold Delhaize’s operating segments are its retail operating companies that engage in business activities from which they earn revenues and incur expenses and whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments and to assess their performance. In establishing the reportable segments, certain operating segments with similar economic characteristics have been aggregated. As Ahold Delhaize’s operating segments offer similar products using complementary business models, and there is no discernible difference in customer bases, Ahold Delhaize’s policy on aggregating its operating segments into reportable segments is based on geography, functional currency and management oversight. The segments’ performance is evaluated against several measures, of which operating income is the most important. Intersegment sales are executed under normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties. Net sales Ahold Delhaize generates and recognizes net sales to retail customers at the point of sale in its stores and upon delivery of goods through its online channel. The Company also generates revenues from the sale of products to retail franchisees and affiliates that are recognized upon delivery. Ahold Delhaize recognizes fees to franchisees and affiliates as revenue as services are performed or the granted rights are used. Revenue from the sale of gift cards and gift certificates is recognized when the gift card or gift certificate is redeemed by the retail customer. Future discounts earned by customers in connection with bonus or loyalty cards and other Company-sponsored programs are deferred on the balance sheet at the time of the sale and subsequently recognized in the income statement when redeemed. Generally, net sales and cost of sales are recorded based on the gross amount received from the customer for products sold and the amount paid to the vendor for products purchased, excluding sales taxes and value-added taxes. However, for certain products or services, such as sales through bol.com’s seller platform, the sale of lottery tickets, third-party prepaid phone cards, stamps and public transportation tickets, Ahold Delhaize acts as an agent and consequently records the amount of commission income in its net sales. Net sales also reflects the value of products sold to customers for which the Company anticipates returns from customers, when such returns are considered to be material. Currently, customer returns are only considered material with regards to Ahold Delhaize’s online general merchandise sales. Past customer return practices provide the basis for determining the anticipated returns that the Company is exposed to at the balance sheet date. Cost of sales Cost of sales includes the purchase price of the products sold and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to the location and condition ready for sale. These costs include costs of purchasing; storing; rent; depreciation of property, plant and equipment; salaries; and transporting products to the extent that it relates to bringing the inventories to the location and condition ready for sale. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 133 3 Significant accounting policies continued Vendor allowances Ahold Delhaize receives various types of vendor allowances. The most common allowances vendors offer are (i) volume allowances, which are off-invoice or amounts billed back to vendors based on the quantity of products sold to customers or purchased from the vendor and (ii) promotional allowances, which relate to cooperative advertising and market development efforts. Volume allowances are recognized as a reduction of the cost of the related products as they are sold. Promotional allowances are recognized as a reduction of the cost of the related products when the Company has performed the activities specified in the contract with the vendor. If the contract does not specify any performance criteria, the allowance is recognized over the term of the contract. Vendor allowances are generally deducted from cost of sales, unless there is clear evidence that they should be classified as revenue or a reimbursement of costs. Ahold Delhaize recognizes vendor allowances only where there is evidence of a binding arrangement with the vendor, the amount can be estimated reliably and receipt is probable. The accounting for vendor allowances requires management to apply judgments and assumptions, mainly surrounding the timing of when performance obligations have been met, the volume of purchases that will be made during a period of time, the product remaining in ending inventory, and the probability that funds can be collected from vendors. Using these judgments and assumptions, management’s practice is to allocate earned vendor allowances between cost of sales and inventory based upon the amount of related product that was sold and the amount that remains in ending inventories. This practice is based upon the turnover of the inventories. Selling expenses Selling expenses relate to our store and online operations and consist of employees’ salaries and wages, store expenses, rent income and rent expense or depreciation related to stores, advertising costs and other selling expenses. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses consist of support office employees’ salaries and wages, rent and depreciation of support offices, impairment losses and reversals, gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale, restructuring costs, and other general and administrative expenses. Share-based compensation The grant date fair value of equity-settled share-based compensation plans is expensed, with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting periods of the grants. The cumulative expense recognized at each balance sheet date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Company’s best estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest. No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition (e.g., total shareholder return). Those are treated as vested irrespective of whether or not the market condition is ultimately satisfied, provided that all non-market conditions (e.g., continued employment) are satisfied. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 134 3 Significant accounting policies continued Income taxes Income tax expense represents the sum of current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognized in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognized directly in equity or other comprehensive income. Current tax expense is based on the best estimate of taxable income for the year, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and adjustments for current taxes payable (receivable) for prior years. Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable income. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are generally recognized for all temporary differences. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realized. Deferred tax assets, including deferred tax assets for tax loss carryforward positions and tax credit carryforward positions, are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available against which temporary differences, unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilized. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable income will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset on the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to income taxes levied by the same fiscal authority. Current income tax assets and liabilities are offset on the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset and when the Company intends either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The ultimate tax effects of some transactions can be uncertain for a considerable period of time, requiring management to estimate the related current and deferred tax positions. The Company recognizes liabilities for uncertain tax positions when it is probable that additional taxes will be due. These liabilities are presented as current income taxes payable, except in jurisdictions where prior tax losses are being carried forward to be used to offset future taxes that will be due; in these instances the liabilities are presented as a reduction to deferred tax assets. Interest accrued on uncertain tax positions is considered to be a financial expense of the Company. Any other adjustments to uncertain tax position liabilities are recognized within income tax expense. Earnings per share Basic net income per share is calculated by dividing net income attributable to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Basic income from continuing operations per share is calculated by dividing income from continuing operations attributable to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted income per share is calculated by dividing the diluted net income / diluted income from continuing operations attributable to shareholders by the diluted weighted average number of common shares outstanding. To determine the diluted income, net income and income from continuing operations are adjusted by the expense for preferred dividends on the cumulative preferred financing shares. This preferred dividend is reversed when the cumulative preferred financing shares have a dilutive effect on the earnings per share calculation. To determine the diluted weighted average number of common shares outstanding, the weighted average number of shares outstanding is adjusted for (i) the effect of the cumulative preferred financing shares and (ii) the conditional shares from the share-based compensation programs. The effect of the cumulative preferred financing shares is determined by calculating the number of common shares that would be issued upon conversion. However, the effect is only adjusted for if it has a dilutive effect on the income per share. Ahold Delhaize’s cumulative preferred financing shares are dilutive whenever their interest per common share obtainable on conversion is lower than basic income per share. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 135 3 Significant accounting policies continued Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. For this to be the case, the asset (or disposal group) must be available for immediate sale in its present condition and its sale must be highly probable. Non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the asset’s carrying amount or the fair value less costs of disposal. Depreciation or amortization of an asset ceases when it is classified as held for sale. Equity accounting ceases for an investment in a joint venture or associate when it is classified as held for sale; instead, dividends received are recognized in the consolidated income statement. A discontinued operation is a component of the Company that either has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale, and represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations. Results from discontinued operations that are clearly identifiable as part of the component disposed of and that will not be recognized subsequent to the disposal are presented separately as a single amount in the consolidated income statement. Results and cash flows from discontinued operations are reclassified for prior periods and presented in the financial statements so that the results and cash flows from discontinued operations relate to all operations that have been discontinued as of the balance sheet date for the latest period presented. Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset and borrowing costs incurred during construction. Where applicable, estimated asset retirement costs are added to the cost of an asset. Subsequent expenditures are capitalized only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Company and the costs can be measured reliably. All other subsequent expenditures represent repairs and maintenance and are expensed as incurred. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the items of property, plant and equipment, taking into account the estimated residual value. Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, each such part is depreciated separately. The assets’ useful lives are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted if appropriate. The ranges of estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment are: Land indefinite Buildings 30-40 years Certain structural components of buildings 10-20 years Finish components of buildings 5-10 years Machinery and equipment 3-15 years Other 5-10 years The useful lives, depreciation method and residual value are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted, if appropriate. Depreciation of assets subject to finance leases and leasehold improvements is calculated on a straight-line basis over either the lease term (including renewal periods when renewal is reasonably assured) or the estimated useful life of the asset, whichever is shorter. Investment property Investment property consists of land and buildings held by Ahold Delhaize to earn rental income or for capital appreciation, or both. These properties are not used by the Company in the ordinary course of business. The Company often owns (or leases under a finance lease) shopping centers containing both an Ahold Delhaize and third-party retail units. In these cases, the third-party retail units generate rental income, but are primarily of strategic importance for operating purposes to Ahold Delhaize in its retail operations. The Company recognizes the part of an owned (or leased under a finance lease) shopping center that is leased to third-party retailers as investment property, unless it represents an insignificant portion of the property. Land and buildings leased to franchisees are not considered to be investment property as they contribute directly to Ahold Delhaize’s retail operations. Investment property is measured on the same basis as property, plant and equipment. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 136 3 Significant accounting policies continued Leases and sale and leaseback transactions Leases Ahold Delhaize is a lessee of land, buildings and equipment under operating and finance lease arrangements. The Company classifies its leases as finance leases when the lease agreement transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to Ahold Delhaize. For leases determined to be finance leases, the asset and liability are recognized based on their values at the inception of the lease at an amount equal either to the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term, whichever is lower. Lease payments are apportioned between interest charges and a reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining liability balance. Contingent rentals are expensed as incurred. Leases that do not qualify as finance leases are classified as operating leases, and the related lease payments are expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term, including, as applicable, any rent-free period during which Ahold Delhaize has the right to use the asset. Payments made to Ahold Delhaize representing incentives to sign a new lease or representing reimbursements for leasehold improvements are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease as reductions to rental expense. For leases with renewal options where the renewal is reasonably assured, the lease term used to (i) determine the appropriate lease classification, (ii) compute periodic rental expense and (iii) depreciate leasehold improvements (unless their economic lives are shorter) includes the periods of expected renewals. Determining whether a lease agreement is a finance or an operating lease requires judgment on various aspects. These include the fair value of the leased asset, the split of the fair value between land and buildings, the economic life of the leased asset, whether or not to include renewal options in the lease term and the determination of an appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value of the minimum lease payments. Sale and leaseback The gain or loss on sale and operating leaseback transactions is recognized in the income statement immediately if (i) Ahold Delhaize does not maintain or maintains only minor continuing involvement in these properties, other than the required lease payments, and (ii) these transactions occur at fair value. Any gain or loss on sale and finance leaseback transactions is deferred and amortized over the term of the lease. In classifying the leaseback in a sale and leaseback transaction, similar judgments have to be made as described above under Leases. In some sale and leaseback arrangements, Ahold Delhaize sells a property and only leases back a portion of that property. These properties generally involve shopping centers that contain an Ahold Delhaize store as well as other stores leased to third-party retailers. In such situations, the Company recognizes a sale and the resulting profit on the portion of the shopping center that is not leased back to the extent that (i) the property is sold for fair value and (ii) the risks and rewards of owning stores that are not leased back to Ahold Delhaize have been fully transferred to the buyer. The leaseback of the Ahold Delhaize store and any gain on the sale of the Ahold Delhaize store is accounted for under the sale and leaseback criteria described above. In some sale and leaseback arrangements, Ahold Delhaize subleases the property to third parties (including franchisees) or maintains a form of continuing involvement in the property sold, such as earn-out provisions or obligations or options to repurchase the property. In such situations, the transaction generally does not qualify for sale and leaseback accounting, but rather is accounted for as a financing transaction (financing). The carrying amount of the asset remains on the balance sheet and the sale proceeds are recorded as a financing obligation. The financing obligation is amortized over the lease term. Once Ahold Delhaize’s continuing involvement ends, the sale is accounted for under the sale and leaseback criteria described above. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 137 3 Significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets Goodwill and impairment of goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the Company’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and assumed contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition, and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates is included in the carrying amount of the investment. For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the cash-generating units (or groups of cash-generating units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of a business combination. Goodwill is allocated to a cash-generating unit (or group of cash-generating units) representing the lowest level within the Company at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and is never larger than an operating segment before aggregation. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the cash-generating unit may be impaired. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates is assessed for impairment as part of the investment whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the cash-generating unit’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of a cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs of disposal or its value in use. An impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill and then to the other assets of the cash-generating unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. On the partial or complete disposal of an operation, the goodwill attributable to that operation is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal. Other intangible assets Separately acquired intangible assets and internally developed software are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment losses. Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognized at fair value at the date of acquisition (which is regarded as their cost). Brand names and customer, franchise, and affiliate relationships acquired in business acquisitions are stated at fair value determined using an income approach. Direct costs related to the development of software for internal use are capitalized only if the costs can be measured reliably, technological feasibility has been established, future economic benefits are probable, and the Company intends to complete development and to use the software. All other costs, including all overhead, general and administrative, and training costs, are expensed as incurred. Lease-related intangible assets, consisting primarily of favorable operating lease contracts acquired in business acquisitions, are measured at the present value of the amount by which the contract terms are favorable relative to market prices at the date of acquisition. Amortization is computed using the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives, which are as follows: Lease-related intangibles Remaining expected duration of the lease Software 3-10 years Customer relationships 7-25 years Brand names indefinite Franchise and affiliate relationships 14-40 years Other 5-indefinite The useful lives, amortization method and residual value are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted, if appropriate. Brand names and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are assessed for impairment annually, or whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 138 3 Significant accounting policies continued Investments in joint arrangements and associates Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations each investor has rather than the legal structure of the joint arrangement. Joint operations arise where Ahold Delhaize has both rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement and, therefore, the Company accounts for its share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Joint ventures arise where Ahold Delhaize has rights to the net assets of the arrangement and therefore the Company equity accounts for its interest. Associates are entities over which Ahold Delhaize has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Significant influence is defined as the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity but not control or joint control over those policies. Associates are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures and associates are measured initially at cost and subsequently adjusted for post-acquisition changes in Ahold Delhaize’s share of the net assets of the investment (net of any accumulated impairment in the value of individual investments). Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial figures of joint ventures and associates to ensure consistency with the accounting policies of the Company. Unrealized gains on transactions between Ahold Delhaize and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Company’s stake in these investments. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the assets transferred. Impairment of non-current assets other than goodwill Ahold Delhaize assesses on a quarterly basis whether there is any indication that non-current assets may be impaired. If indicators of impairment exist, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the asset. If it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which it belongs. Individual stores are considered separate cash-generating units for impairment testing purposes. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal or the asset’s value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. An impairment loss is recognized in the income statement for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. In subsequent years, Ahold Delhaize assesses whether indications exist that impairment losses previously recognized for non-current assets other than goodwill may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of that asset is recalculated and, if required, its carrying amount is increased to the revised recoverable amount. The increase is recognized in operating income as an impairment reversal. An impairment reversal is recognized only if it arises from a change in the assumptions that were used to calculate the recoverable amount. The increase in an asset’s carrying amount due to an impairment reversal is limited to the depreciated amount that would have been recognized had the original impairment not occurred. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost consists of all costs of purchase, cost of conversion, and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their location and condition ready for sale, net of vendor allowances attributable to inventories. For certain inventories, cost is approximated using the retail method, in which the sales value of the inventories is reduced by the appropriate percentage of gross margin. The cost of inventories is determined using either the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method or the weighted average cost method, depending on their nature or use. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated marketing, distribution and selling expenses. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 139 3 Significant accounting policies continued Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are recognized when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of a financial instrument. Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets expire, or if the Company transfers the financial asset to another party and does not retain control or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset. Financial liabilities are derecognized when the Company’s obligations specified in the contract expire or are discharged or cancelled. Purchases and sales of financial assets in the normal course of business are accounted for at settlement date (i.e., the date that the asset is delivered to or by the Company). At initial recognition, management classifies its financial assets as either (i) at fair value through profit or loss, (ii) loans and receivables, (iii) held to maturity or (iv) available-for-sale, depending on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Financial assets are initially recognized at fair value. For instruments not classified as at fair value through profit or loss, any directly attributable transaction costs are initially recognized as part of the asset value. Directly attributable transaction costs related to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are expensed when incurred. The fair value of quoted investments is based on current bid prices. If the market for a financial asset is not active, or if the financial asset represents an unlisted security, the Company establishes fair value using valuation techniques. These include the use of recent arm’s-length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, and discounted cash flow analysis, making maximum use of market inputs. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets are measured as described below. At each balance sheet date, the Company assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. Investments at fair value through profit or loss Investments at fair value through profit or loss are those investments that are either held for trading or designated as such by the Company. A financial asset is classified as held for trading if it is acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges. Financial instruments held for trading are measured at fair value and changes therein are recognized in the income statement. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. They are included in current assets, except for loans and receivables with maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. Held to maturity financial assets Held to maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and a fixed maturity that the Company has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. They are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. They are included in current assets, except for held to maturity financial assets with maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category of financial assets or not classified in any of the other categories. They are measured at fair value based on quoted market prices with changes therein recognized directly in equity until the investment is derecognized or determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recorded in equity is transferred to the income statement. Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are carried at cost. At each balance sheet date, the Company assesses whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired. Available-for-sale financial assets are included in non-current financial assets unless they are expected to be realized or are intended for sale or consumption within 12 months after the balance sheet date. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 140 3 Significant accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include all cash on hand balances, checks, debit and credit card receivables, short-term highly liquid cash investments, and time deposits with original maturities of three months or less. Time deposits and similar instruments with original maturities of more than three months but less than 12 months are classified as other current financial assets. Bank overdrafts are included in short-term borrowings. Loans and short-term borrowings Loans and short-term borrowings are recognized initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Loans and short-term borrowings are subsequently stated at amortized cost, unless they are designated as fair value hedges. Any difference between the proceeds and redemption value is recognized in the income statement over the period of the loans and short-term borrowings using the effective interest method. Loans are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. Derivative financial instruments All derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value at the date the derivative contracts are entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period. Gains and losses resulting from the fair value remeasurement are recognized in the income statement as fair value gains (losses) on financial instruments, unless the derivative qualifies and is effective as a hedging instrument in a designated hedging relationship. In order for a derivative financial instrument to qualify as a hedging instrument for accounting purposes, the Company must document (i) at the inception of the transaction, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions and (ii) its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivative that is used in the hedging transaction is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. Derivatives that are designated as hedges are accounted for as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized initially in the cash flow hedging reserve, a separate component of equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified into the income statement in the same period in which the related exposure impacts the income statement. When a cash flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognized when the forecasted transaction is ultimately recognized in the income statement. When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss existing in equity is immediately recognized in the income statement. Fair value changes of derivative instruments that qualify for fair value hedge accounting treatment are recognized in the income statement in the periods in which they arise, together with any changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability. If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortized in the income statement over the remaining period to maturity of the hedged item. Reinsurance assets and liabilities Under Ahold Delhaize’s self-insurance program, part of the insurance risk is ceded under a reinsurance treaty, which is a pooling arrangement between unrelated companies. In accordance with the pooling arrangement, the Company assumes a share of the reinsurance treaty risks that is measured in relation to the percentage of Ahold Delhaize’s participation in the treaty. Reinsurance assets include estimated receivable balances related to reinsurance contracts purchased by the Company. Reinsurance liabilities represent the expected insurance risks related to reinsurance contracts sold by the Company. Reinsurance assets and liabilities are measured on a discounted basis using accepted actuarial methods. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 141 3 Significant accounting policies continued Financial guarantees Financial guarantees made by Ahold Delhaize to third parties that may require the Company to incur future cash outflows if called upon to satisfy are recognized at inception as liabilities at fair value. Fair value is measured as the premium received, if any, or calculated using a scenario analysis. Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation or the amount initially recognized less cumulative amortization corresponding to the expiration or repayment of the underlying amount guaranteed. Equity Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the value of proceeds received. Own equity instruments that are bought back (treasury shares) are deducted from equity and recognized on a first-in, first-out basis. Incremental costs that are directly attributable to issuing or buying back own equity instruments are recognized directly in equity, net of the related tax. No gain or loss is recognized in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issuance or cancellation of the Company’s own equity instruments. Cumulative preferred financing shares Cumulative preferred financing shares, for which dividend payments are not at the discretion of the Company, are classified as non-current financial liabilities and are stated at amortized cost. The dividends on these cumulative preferred financing shares are recognized as interest expense in the income statement, using the effective interest method. From the date on which Ahold Delhaize receives irrevocable notification from a holder of cumulative preferred financing shares to convert these shares into common shares, the cumulative preferred financing shares are classified as a separate class of equity. Pension and other post-employment benefits The net assets and net liabilities recognized on the consolidated balance sheet for defined benefit plans represent the actual surplus or deficit in Ahold Delhaize’s defined benefit plans measured as the present value of the defined benefit obligations less the fair value of plan assets. Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan. Defined benefit obligations are actuarially calculated on the balance sheet date using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using market yields on high-quality corporate bonds (i.e., bonds rated AA or higher), denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have an average duration similar to the expected duration of the related pension liabilities. Defined benefit costs are split into three categories: • Service cost, past service cost, gains and losses on curtailment and settlements • Net interest expense or income • Remeasurement The first category is presented as labor costs within operating earnings. Past-service costs are recognized in the income statement in the period of plan amendment. Results from curtailments or settlements are recognized immediately. Past service years within the Dutch pension fund are calculated based upon a methodology that uses the maximum past service years based on accrued benefits or a participant’s actual date of hire. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 142 3 Significant accounting policies continued Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset and is presented within net financial expenses. Remeasurements, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on plan assets (excluding interest) are recognized immediately in the balance sheet with a charge or credit to other comprehensive income in the period in which it occurs. Remeasurements recorded in other comprehensive income are not recycled to the income statement. Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized as an expense when employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions. Post-employment benefits provided through industry multi-employer plans, managed by third parties, are generally accounted for under defined contribution criteria. For other long-term employee benefits, such as long-service awards, provisions are recognized on the basis of estimates that are consistent with the estimates used for the defined benefit obligations, but discounted using Ahold Delhaize’s cost of debt rate. For these, all actuarial gains and losses are recognized in the income statement immediately. Provisions Provisions are recognized when (i) the Company has a present (legal or constructive) obligation as a result of past events, (ii) it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and (iii) the amount can be reliably estimated. The amount recognized is the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation. Provisions are discounted whenever the effect of the time value of money is significant. The provision for the Company’s self-insurance program is recorded based on claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. The provision includes expenses incurred in the claim settlement process that can be directly associated with specific claims. Other expenses incurred in the claim settlement process are expensed when incurred. The Company’s estimate of the required liability of such claims is recorded on a discounted basis, utilizing an actuarial method based upon various assumptions that include, but are not limited to, historical loss experience, projected loss development factors and actual payroll costs. Restructuring-related provisions for severance and termination benefits are recognized when the Company has approved a detailed formal restructuring plan and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced to those affected by it. Onerous contract provisions are measured at the amount by which the unavoidable costs to fulfill agreements exceeds the expected benefits from such agreements. New accounting policies effective for 2017 Amendments to IAS 12, “Income taxes” The amendments address the recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealized losses on debt instruments measured at fair value, as well as how deductible temporary differences should be measured in situations when tax law limits the offsetting of certain types of losses against specific sources of taxable profits. The application of these amendments does not have a significant effect on the results of the consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IAS 7, “Disclosure Initiative” The amendments require additional cash flow disclosures surrounding changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including changes arising from both cash flows and non-cash changes. The application of these amendments does not have a significant effect on the results of the consolidated financial statements, but they have resulted in additional disclosures in Note 28 on the changes in liabilities arising from financing activities. Annual improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 A number of amendments were made to various IFRSs that do not have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 143 3 Significant accounting policies continued New accounting policies not yet effective for 2017 The IASB issued several standards, or revisions to standards, that are not yet effective for 2017, but will become effective in coming years. IFRS 9, “Financial Instruments” IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities. The Company has reviewed its financial assets and liabilities and is expecting the following effects from the adoption of the new standard on January 1, 2018. The majority of the Company’s debt instruments that are currently measured at amortized cost will satisfy the conditions to be classified at amortized costs under IFRS 9, so there will be no change to how we account for these assets. However, certain investments in U.S. Treasury bond funds that are currently classified as available-for-sale financial assets do not meet the criteria to be classified as either at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) or at amortized cost and €157 million will be reclassified to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL). Related fair value gains of €4 million will be transferred from the available-for-sale financial assets reserve to retained earnings on January 1, 2018. There are no other changes expected to the classification and measurement of other financial assets. There will be no effect on the Group’s accounting for financial liabilities. The new requirements only affect the accounting for financial liabilities that are designated at fair value through profit or loss. For the Group, only derivatives and reinsurance liabilities are designated at fair value through profit or loss and there are no changes in the accounting for these liabilities as a result of IFRS 9. The derecognition rules have not changed from IAS 39, “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.” The new hedge accounting rules will align the accounting for hedging instruments more closely with the Group’s risk management practices. As a general rule, more hedge relationships could be eligible for hedge accounting, as the standard introduces a more principles-based approach. The Company has assessed that its current hedge relationships will qualify as continuing hedges upon the adoption of IFRS 9. The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses rather than only incurred credit losses as is the case under IAS 39. It applies to financial assets measured at amortized cost, debt instruments measured at FVOCI, contract assets under IFRS 15, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” lease receivables, loan commitments and certain financial guarantee contracts. Based on the assessments undertaken to date, the Company expects an increase of less than €5 million in the loss allowance for its financial receivables. The new standard also introduces expanded disclosure requirements and changes in presentation. These are expected to change the nature and extent of the Company’s disclosures about its financial instruments, particularly in the year of the adoption of the new standard. IFRS 9 must be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. The Company will apply the new rules retrospectively from January 1, 2018, applying the practical expedients permitted under the standard. Comparatives for 2017 will not be restated. IFRS 15, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” IFRS 15 establishes a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue from contracts with customers. IFRS 15 will supersede the current revenue recognition guidance, including IAS 18, “Revenue,” IAS 11, “Construction Contracts,” and the related interpretations when it becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. Under IFRS 15, an entity recognizes revenue when (or as) a performance obligation is satisfied, i.e., when “control” of the goods or services underlying the particular performance obligation is transferred to the customer. The majority of the Company’s revenue is derived from sales of retail products whereby control is transferred to the customer as purchases occur at the register. For goods shipped to customers, control transfers to the customer when the product is delivered and accepted. The Company currently recognizes revenue as control passes and the adoption of IFRS 15 will have no effect on when revenue is recognized. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 144 3 Significant accounting policies continued The Company’s policy is to allow customers to return product for replacement or refund. Revenue is currently recognized with an allowance for a reasonable estimate of the returns that can be made for a refund and this will remain unchanged after adoption of IFRS 15. However, under IFRS 15, the Company will now be required to recognize an asset that represents the right to receive returned product. The value of this asset should represent the purchase cost of only the goods that will be of value to Ahold Delhaize. A returned product will have value to Ahold Delhaize if it can be restocked for future resale or returned to the vendor for a refund. Based on the limited amount of sales that result in refunds to customers, the Company has concluded that the recognition of this new asset will have an effect of less than €5 million on the Group’s financial statements. IFRS 15 will require the Company to add additional disclosures surrounding its contracts with customers, the sources of revenues that it generates, and the judgments that it uses when recognizing revenue. IFRS 15 must be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. The Company will apply the new rules retrospectively from January 1, 2018, with the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard recognized as of that date. Comparatives for 2017 will not be restated. IFRS 16, “Leases” 16 replaces existing lease guidance, including IAS 17, “Leases,” IFRIC 4, “Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease,” SIC-15, “Operating Leases – Incentives,” and SIC-27, “Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease.” The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. IFRS 16 introduces a single, on-balance sheet lease accounting model for lessees. A lessee recognizes a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments. There are recognition exemptions for short-term leases and leases of low-value items. Lessor accounting remains similar to the current standard, i.e., lessors continue to classify leases as finance or operating leases. However, subleases under IFRS 16 are classified with reference to the right-of-use asset, not with reference to the underlying asset, as per IAS 17. As a result, in the future, subleases are more likely to be classified as finance leases. In addition, the nature of expenses related to leases will change as IFRS 16 replaces the operating lease expense with a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets and interest expense on lease liabilities. The Company has completed an initial assessment of the potential effect on its consolidated financial statements but has not yet completed its detailed assessment. The data enrichment process is currently in progress and detailed calculations on the full lease portfolio will be performed thereafter. The actual effect of applying IFRS 16 on the financial statements in the period of initial application will depend on the composition of the Company’s lease portfolio at the transition date, the Company’s latest assessment of whether it will exercise any lease renewal or termination options, and the extent to which the Group chooses to use recognition exemptions. While no significant effect is expected for the Company’s current finance leases, it is expected that more subleases will be classified as finance leases under IFRS 16, resulting in new net investments in leases (lease receivables). On transition to IFRS 16, the Company must determine whether an arrangement contains a lease. When performing this assessment, the Company can choose whether to apply the IFRS 16 definition of a lease to all its contracts or apply the practical expedient allowed under IFRS 16 and not reassess whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. The Company plans to apply the practical expedient to grandfather the definition of a lease upon transition. This means that it will apply IFRS 16 to all contracts entered into before January 1, 2019, and identified as leases in accordance with IAS 17 and IFRIC 4. The transition provisions of IFRS 16 allow the Company to apply the standard using a full retrospective approach or a modified retrospective approach, with optional practical expedients. Whichever approach is chosen, the Company must apply the election consistently to all of its leases. The Company will adopt IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019. The Company has not yet made a final decision on the transition approach, pending the finalization of the data enrichment process. The Company is not required to make any adjustments for leases in which it is a lessor except where it is an intermediate lessor in a sub-lease. As of December 31, 2017, the Company’s future contractual minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases to third parties amounted to €7,590 million, on an undiscounted basis (see Note 33). When including the renewal options that are reasonably certain to be exercised, but not yet committed to, the future minimum lease payments amount to €9,631 million (within one year: €1,153 million, between one and five years: €3,693 million, after five years: €4,785 million), on a undiscounted basis. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 145 3 Significant accounting policies continued IFRS 17, “Insurance Contracts” IFRS 17 replaces IFRS 4, “Insurance Contracts.” It requires a current measurement model where estimates are re-measured each reporting period. The standard allows a choice between recognizing changes in discount rates either in the income statement or directly in other comprehensive income. IFRS 17 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2021. The Company has yet to assess the standard’s full impact. Amendments to IFRS 2, “Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions” The amendments to IFRS 2 were made to provide requirements on the accounting for the effects of vesting and non-vesting conditions on the measurement of cash-settled share-based payments; share-based payment transactions with a net settlement feature for withholding tax obligations; and a modification to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment that changes the classification of the transaction from cash-settled to equity-settled. The amendments to IFRS 2 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. The Company does not anticipate that the application of these amendments to IFRS 2 will have a significant effect on the future consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IFRS 4, “Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts” The amendments to IFRS 4 were made to give all companies that issue insurance contracts the option to recognize in other comprehensive income, rather than profit or loss, the volatility that could arise when IFRS 9 is applied before the new insurance contracts standard is issued; and to give companies whose activities are predominantly connected with insurance an optional temporary exemption from applying IFRS 9 until 2021. The amendments to IFRS 4 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. Based on Ahold Delhaize’s current business model, the Company does not anticipate that the application of these amendments to IFRS 4 will have a significant effect on the future consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IAS 28, “Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures” The amendments to IAS 28 were made to clarify that IFRS 9, “Financial Instruments,” applies to long-term interests in an associate or joint venture that form part of the net investment in the associate or joint venture but to which the equity method is not applied. The amendments to IAS 28 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. The Company does not anticipate that the application of these amendments to IAS 28 will have a significant effect on the future consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IAS 40, “Transfers of Investment Property” The amendments to IAS 40 were made to clarify that transfers to, or from, investment property can only be made if there has been a change in use that is supported by evidence. The amendments to IAS 40 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. The Company does not anticipate that the application of these amendments to IAS 40 will have a significant effect on the future consolidated financial statements. IFRIC 22, “Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration” IFRIC 22 clarifies how to determine the date of transaction for the exchange rate to be used on initial recognition of a related asset, expense or income when an entity pays or receives consideration in advance for foreign currency-denominated contracts. IFRIC 22 applies prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. The Company does not anticipate that the application of IFRIC 22 will have a significant effect on the future consolidated financial statements. IFRIC 23, “Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments” IFRIC 23 clarifies guidance on considering uncertain tax treatments separately or together, assumptions about examinations by tax authorities, and the appropriate method to reflect uncertainty and accounting for changes in facts and circumstances. IFRIC 23 applies prospectively for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. The Company has not yet performed a detailed assessment of its known uncertain tax positions, but, based upon preliminary assessments of its more significant uncertain positions, the application of IFRIC 23 is not anticipated to have a significant effect on the future consolidated financial statements. There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that have been issued but are not yet effective that are expected to have a material effect on the future consolidated financial statements. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 146 4 Acquisitions Ahold Delhaize merger On July 23, 2016, Ahold and Delhaize announced the completion of their merger, which became effective on July 24, 2016. The merger has been accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting under IFRS 3, with Ahold being identified as acquirer. The purchase consideration was €10,765 million, consisting of the following: Purchase consideration € million Ordinary shares issued (i) 10,761 Amount attributable to purchase consideration in respect of replacement awards issued (ii) 4 Total purchase consideration 10,765 (i) Under the terms of the merger, Delhaize shareholders were offered 4.75 ordinary shares in the Company for each share held in Delhaize. On completion of the merger, 496,000,577 ordinary shares were issued. The fair value of the shares issued as part of the consideration paid was based on the published share price on July 23, 2016, of €21.695 per share. (ii) In accordance with the terms of the merger agreement, the Company exchanged certain equity-settled share-based payment awards held by employees of Delhaize (the acquiree’s awards) for equity-settled share-based payment awards of the Company (the replacement awards). The total value of the replacement awards is €9 million. The consideration for the business combination includes €4 million transferred to employees of Delhaize when the acquiree’s awards were substituted by the replacement awards, which relates to past service. The balance of €5 million will be recognized as post-acquisition compensation cost over the relevant service period. Since the merger date, Delhaize contributed net sales of €11,001 million and a net income of €239 million (representing the results of the Delhaize operating entities plus any remaining head office and other charges from the Delhaize entities) to the 2016 results. Assuming that the acquisition occurred on January 4, 2016, management reported on a pro forma basis consolidated net sales of €62,331 million through January 1, 2017, and consolidated pro forma net income of €1,078 million. The pro forma information is based on the historical Ahold and Delhaize quarters. The following main adjustments to the combined historical data were made to arrive at the pro forma information: (i) exclusion of the performance of remedy stores and other divestments; (ii) exclusion of merger transaction costs; (iii) inclusion of purchase price allocation effects; (iv) alignment of Global Support Office functions and related costs; and (v) alignment of foreign exchange rates used in the translation of foreign group entities. Ahold and Delhaize incurred transaction costs of €135 million for banking fees, legal fees and other professional fees, of which €62 million was booked by Ahold and Delhaize in 2015, €73 million in 2016 and nil in 2017. Transaction costs of €38 million (2016) and of nil (2017) have been included in General and administrative expenses as Restructuring and related charges and other. In the second half of 2016 and the first half of 2017, there were measurement period adjustments recognized subsequent to the amounts initially recognized and reported in 2016. These measurement period adjustments were made to reflect facts and circumstances that existed as of the 2016 merger date and not as a result of events occurring subsequent to the merger date. As a result of all measurement period adjustments, the amount of goodwill on the merger reported in 2016 has been increased by €36 million to an amount of €5,962 million, with the related adjustments to other assets and liabilities. The goodwill represents expected synergies from the combination of the operations, which at the date of this report is treated as non-deductible for tax purposes. All known measurement period adjustments have been made and the allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed was finalized in 2017. The following is a summary of the initially reported and final allocation of the purchase consideration. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 147 4 Acquisitions continued Measurement period adjustments Delhaize initially reported Reported in Reported in Delhaize final amounts per € million as of closing date 2016 2017 closing date Goodwill 5,926 — 36 5,962 Other intangibles 4,311 — (1) 4,310 Property, plant and equipment (including investment property) 5,104 (3) — 5,101 Deferred tax assets 7 (3) 2 6 Other non-current assets 97 1 — 98 Inventories 1,498 — — 1,498 Assets held for sale 111 — — 111 Cash and cash equivalent 2,280 — — 2,280 Receivables & other current assets 1,015 4 4 1,023 Loans (2,374) — — (2,374) Finance lease liabilities (517) — — (517) Provisions non-current (including pensions) (476) 6 (16) (486) Deferred tax liabilities (1,427) 38 3 (1,386) Other non-current liabilities (236) — (7) (243) Accounts payable (2,317) 2 — (2,315) Bank overdrafts (993) — — (993) Liabilities held for sale (37) — — (37) Other current liabilities (1,207) (45) (21) (1,273) Total purchase consideration 10,765 — — 10,765 Ordinary shares issued (10,761) — — (10,761) Replacement awards issued (4) — — (4) Cash acquired (excluding restricted cash) (2,251) — — (2,251) Acquisition of business, net of cash (2,251) — — (2,251) Other acquisitions Ahold Delhaize completed various store acquisitions for a total purchase consideration of €54 million. The store acquisitions per segments are as follows: € million 2017 Ahold USA 11 Delhaize America 1 The Netherlands 18 Belgium 20 Central and Southeastern Europe 4 Ahold Delhaize Group 54 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 148 4 Acquisitions continued Net assets acquired The allocation of the fair value of the net assets acquired, the goodwill arising from the acquisitions during 2017, and measurement period adjustments of previous business combinations is as follows: Delhaize (measurement € million period adjustments) Other Total Goodwill 36 43 79 Other intangibles (1) 3 2 Property plant and equipment — 7 7 Deferred tax assets 2 — 2 Assets held for sale — 4 4 Cash and cash equivalents — 4 4 Receivables and other current assets 4 3 7 Provisions (including pensions) (16) — (16) Deferred tax liabilities 3 (1) 2 Other non-current liabilities (7) (4) (11) Other current liabilities (21) (5) (26) Total purchase consideration — 54 54 Cash acquired — (4) (4) Acquisition of business, net of cash — 50 50 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 149 5 Assets and liabilities held for sale Assets and liabilities held for sale December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 14 50 Total assets held for sale 14 50 Liabilities related to assets held for sale — 9 Assets held for sale at December 31, 2017, is comprised primarily of non-current assets of retail locations (The Netherlands: €10 million, Central and Southeastern Europe: €4 million). The balances at January 1, 2017, consisted of non-current assets and associated liabilities of retail locations (Ahold USA: €27 million with associated liabilities of €9 million, The Netherlands: €19 million), including in part the remedy stores. In 2016, as part of the approval of the merger between Ahold and Delhaize Group by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, Ahold and Delhaize subsidiaries entered into agreements to sell 86 stores in the United States. The approval of the Belgian Competition Authority was conditional upon the divestment of 13 stores and a limited number of projects in Belgium. During 2016, of the 86 stores in the United States, Ahold USA divested eight out of 15 stores and Delhaize America divested all of the 71 stores. In 2016, the divestment of remedy stores resulted in an €18 million gain at Ahold USA. As part of the purchase price allocation, the property, plant and equipment and associated liabilities of Delhaize America’s remedy stores were recognized at fair value. Therefore, the divestments resulted in an insignificant loss at Delhaize America. None of the 13 stores in Belgium (eight Albert Heijn stores and five Delhaize franchisee stores) were divested in 2016. During 2017, Ahold Delhaize’s U.S. and Belgian subsidiaries completed the divestment process of the remedy stores, realizing a gain of €31 million at Ahold USA, a loss of €8 million in Belgium and an insignificant loss in the Netherlands. In addition, during 2016 Ahold Delhaize completed the sale of pet specialist shop chain Tom & Co with an insignificant divestment loss. The remedy stores and Tom & Co do not represent discontinued operations. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 150 6 Segment reporting Reportable segments Ahold Delhaize’s retail operations are presented in five reportable segments. In addition, Other retail, consisting of Ahold Delhaize’s unconsolidated joint ventures JMR – Gestão de Empresas de Retalho, SGPS, S.A. (“JMR”) and P.T. Lion Super Indo (“Super Indo”), and Ahold Delhaize’s Global Support Office are presented separately. From 2018 onwards, in line with the new management structure effective January 1, 2018, we will combine the Ahold USA and Delhaize America reportable segments into one reportable segment: Ahold Delhaize USA. The accounting policies used for the segments are the same as the accounting policies used for the consolidated financial statements as described in Note 3. All reportable segments sell a wide range of perishable and non-perishable food and non-food consumer products. Reportable segment Operating segments included in the Reportable segment Ahold USA Stop & Shop New England, Stop & Shop New York Metro, Giant Landover, Giant Carlisle and Peapod Delhaize America Food Lion and Hannaford The Netherlands Albert Heijn (including the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany), Etos, Gall & Gall and bol.com (including the Netherlands and Belgium) Belgium Delhaize (including Belgium and Luxembourg) Central and Southeastern Europe Albert (Czech Republic), Alfa Beta (Greece), Mega Image (Romania) and Delhaize Serbia (Republic of Serbia ) Other Included in Other Other retail Unconsolidated joint ventures JMR (49%) and Super Indo (51%) Global Support Office Global Support Office staff (the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland and the United States) Net sales € million 2017 2016 Ahold USA 23,045 23,845 Delhaize America 15,395 7,065 The Netherlands 13,706 13,101 Belgium 4,953 2,199 Central and Southeastern Europe 5,791 3,485 Ahold Delhaize Group 62,890 49,695 Operating income € million 2017 2016 Ahold USA 821 818 Delhaize America 550 218 The Netherlands 669 578 Belgium 86 51 Central and Southeastern Europe 236 125 Global Support Office (137) (206) Ahold Delhaize Group 2,225 1,584 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 151 6 Segment reporting continued Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment, investment property, and intangible assets € million 2017 2016 Ahold USA 659 679 Delhaize America 506 222 The Netherlands 293 288 Belgium 146 64 Central and Southeastern Europe 161 95 Global Support Office 28 12 Ahold Delhaize Group 1,793 1,360 Net impairments of property, plant and equipment, investment property, and intangible assets € million 2017 2016 Ahold USA 59 78 Delhaize America 2 2 The Netherlands (2) 21 Central and Southeastern Europe 5 3 Ahold Delhaize Group1 64 104 1 The impairment amount for 2017 and 2016 includes €2 million of impairment reversal and €8 million of impairments, respectively, relating to assets held for sale. Share-based compensation expenses € million 2017 2016 Ahold USA 33 29 Delhaize America 13 4 The Netherlands 13 13 Belgium 3 1 Central and Southeastern Europe 2 1 Global Support Office 15 13 Ahold Delhaize Group 79 61 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 152 6 Segment reporting continued Additions to property, plant and equipment, investment property, and intangible assets (including assets acquired through business combinations) € million 2017 2016 Ahold USA 468 1,925 Delhaize America 521 8,440 The Netherlands 379 1,351 Belgium 224 3,086 Central and Southeastern Europe 197 1,845 Global Support Office 33 128 Ahold Delhaize Group 1,822 16,775 Non-current assets (property, plant and equipment, investment property, and intangible assets) December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Ahold USA 6,309 7,492 Delhaize America 7,522 8,593 The Netherlands 3,528 3,476 Belgium 3,083 3,021 Central and Southeastern Europe 2,417 2,354 Global Support Office 114 108 Ahold Delhaize Group 22,973 25,044 Additional segment information Segment results do not include significant non-cash items other than depreciation, amortization, impairment losses and reversals and share-based compensation expenses. Segment information joint ventures – Other retail (JMR and Super Indo) The information with respect to JMR and Super Indo is presented in Note 14. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 153 7 Net sales € million 2017 2016 Sales to retail customers 54,667 43,545 Sales to and fees from franchisees and affiliates 5,486 3,931 Online sales 2,376 1,991 Wholesale sales 188 91 Other sales 173 137 Net sales 62,890 49,695 Net sales can be further analyzed as follows: Percentage of net sales 2017 2016 Food: perishable 46% 46% Food: non-perishable 37% 36% Non-food 12% 12% Pharmacy 3% 4% Gasoline 2% 2% Net sales 100% 100% 8 Expenses by nature The aggregate of cost of sales and operating expenses is specified by nature as follows: € million 2017 2016 Cost of product 44,210 34,846 Labor costs 9,014 7,196 Other operational expenses 4,652 3,852 Depreciation and amortization 1,793 1,360 Rent expenses and income – net 979 775 Impairment losses and reversals – net 64 104 (Gains) losses on the sale of assets – net (47) (22) Total expenses by nature 60,665 48,111 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 154 9 Net financial expenses € million 2017 2016 Interest income 32 15 Interest expense (294) (273) Net interest expense on defined benefit pension plans (22) (18) Gains (losses) on foreign exchange (38) 67 Fair value gains (losses) on financial instruments 26 (86) Other (1) (246) Other financial expenses (13) (265) Net financial expenses (297) (541) Interest income primarily relates to interest earned on cash and cash equivalents and short-term cash deposits and similar instruments. Interest expense primarily relates to financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (which include notes, finance lease liabilities, financing obligations and cumulative preferred financing shares), interest accretions to provisions, and amortization of the fair value allocation of the debt brought in through acquisitions (refer to Note 4). Net interest expense on defined benefit pension plans is caused by the Company’s pensions plans being in a liability position over 2017 and 2016. Gains (losses) on foreign exchange on financial assets and liabilities are presented as part of net financial expenses. The losses on foreign exchange in 2017 resulted from the translation of foreign currency denominated loans as a result of the strengthening of the euro versus the U.S. dollar. The losses on foreign exchange are offset by fair value gains on financial instruments from derivatives, which do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Foreign exchange results arising from the purchase of goods for sale or goods and services consumed in Ahold Delhaize’s operations are included in cost of sales or in the appropriate element of operating expenses, respectively. In 2017, the Company recorded a net exchange gain (including the impact of foreign exchange hedging instruments) of €1 million in operating income (2016: gain of €1 million). In 2016, the line item Other consists mainly of the one-off finance cost of €243 million relating to the buyback and cancellation of the outstanding principal amount of its JPY33 billion floating rate notes, due May 2031, and the unwinding of the associated yen / euro cross-currency interest rate swap. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 155 10 Income taxes Income taxes on continuing operations The following table specifies the current and deferred tax components of income taxes on continuing operations in the income statement: € million 2017 2016 Current income taxes Domestic taxes (the Netherlands) (147) (45) Foreign taxes United States (150) (163) Europe – Other (109) (35) Total current tax expense (406) (243) Deferred income taxes Domestic taxes (the Netherlands) 13 17 Foreign taxes United States 131 (20) Europe – Other 116 (1) Total deferred tax expense 260 (4) Total income taxes on continuing operations (146) (247) Effective income tax rate on continuing operations Ahold Delhaize’s effective tax rate in its consolidated income statement differed from the Netherlands’ statutory income tax rate of 25.0%. The following table reconciles the statutory income tax rate with the effective income tax rate in the consolidated income statement: 2017 2016 € million Tax rate € million Tax rate Income before income taxes 1,928 1,043 Income tax expense at statutory tax rate (482) 25.0% (261) 25.0% Adjustments to arrive at effective income tax rate: Rate differential (local rates versus the statutory rate of the Netherlands) (45) 2.3% (6) 0.6% Deferred tax income (expense) related to recognition of deferred tax assets – net (2) 0.1% 7 (0.7)% Non-taxable income (expense) 14 (0.7)% 16 (1.5)% Other (38) 2.0% (3) 0.3% Subtotal income taxes1 (553) 28.7% (247) 23.7% Tax rate changes as a result of local tax reforms 407 (21.1)% — —% Total income taxes (146) 7.6% (247) 23.7% 1 Excluding the impact of tax rate changes due to local tax reforms. Rate differential indicates the effect of Ahold Delhaize’s taxable income being generated and taxed in jurisdictions where tax rates differ from the statutory tax rate in the Netherlands. Other includes discrete items and one-time transactions. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 156 10 Income taxes continued On December 22, 2017, new U.S. tax legislation was enacted. The new law includes the reduction of the statutory federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, which affected Ahold Delhaize’s U.S. deferred tax position at the end of 2017. In addition, on December 25, 2017, new Belgian tax legislation was enacted. The new Belgian tax law includes the reduction of the statutory corporate income tax rate from 33% to 29% in 2018 and to 25% starting in 2020, which affected Ahold Delhaize’s Belgian deferred tax position at the end of 2017. The tax rate changes as a result of local tax reforms show the impact of recalculating the deferred tax positions of Ahold USA, Delhaize America and Delhaize Belgium, applying the reduced U.S. and Belgian corporate income tax rates. The effects of tax reforms have been included in the reported tax balances based on the information per reporting date. The Company keeps following any development and further clarifications of changes in tax laws and will make adjustments to the tax balances accordingly. Income taxes on discontinued operations Current and deferred income tax related to discontinued operations amounted to nil in 2017 and in 2016. Deferred income tax The significant components and annual movements of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2017, and January 1, 2017, are as follows: Acquisitions Recognized in through Recognized in January 3, income business January 1, income December 31, € million 2016 statement combinations Other 2017 statement Other 2017 Leases and financings 287 (13) 148 17 439 (146) (33) 260 Pensions and other (post-)employment benefits 266 3 126 53 448 (81) (121) 246 Provisions 151 (6) 70 4 219 (71) (24) 124 Derivatives 31 10 — (41) — — 3 3 Interest 14 (38) 171 7 154 (2) (74) 78 Other 29 (6) 32 (1) 54 (17) (22) 15 Total gross deductible temporary differences 778 (50) 547 39 1,314 (317) (271) 726 Unrecognized deductible temporary differences (4) — (1) — (5) 1 3 (1) Total recognized deductible temporary differences 774 (50) 546 39 1,309 (316) (268) 725 Tax losses and tax credits 283 (21) 465 8 735 (108) (37) 590 Unrecognized tax losses and tax credits (111) 15 (275) (2) (373) (1) 18 (356) Total recognized tax losses and tax credits 172 (6) 190 6 362 (109) (19) 234 Total net deferred tax asset position 946 (56) 736 45 1,671 (425) (287) 959 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (284) 53 (1,960) (64) (2,255) 617 166 (1,472) Inventories (144) 4 (107) (10) (257) 78 32 (147) Derivatives — — (40) 1 (39) (16) 55 — Other — (5) (12) 1 (16) 6 1 (9) Total deferred tax liabilities (428) 52 (2,119) (72) (2,567) 685 254 (1,628) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) 518 (4) (1,383) (27) (896) 260 (33) (669) The column “Other” in the table above includes amounts recorded in equity, divestments and exchange rate differences, as well as reclassifications between deferred tax components and the application of tax losses and tax credits against current year income tax payables. For 2017, the column “Recognized in income statement” in the table above includes the deferred tax rate changes as a result of the U.S. and Belgian tax reforms in the amount of €407 million and the column “Other” includes the deferred tax expense of €58 million recognized in equity. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 157 10 Income taxes continued Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset on the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to income taxes levied by the same fiscal authority. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented as non-current assets and liabilities on the balance sheet as follows: December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Deferred tax assets 436 700 Deferred tax liabilities (1,105) (1,596) Net deferred tax assets (669) (896) As of December 31, 2017, Ahold Delhaize had operating and capital loss carryforwards of a total nominal amount of €3,657 million, mainly expiring between 2019 and 2034 (January 1, 2017: €4,245 million). The following table specifies the years in which Ahold Delhaize’s operating and capital loss carryforwards and tax credits are scheduled to expire: Does not € million 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023–2027 2028–2032 After 2032 expire Total Operating and capital losses (nominal value) 102 461 57 105 59 584 758 353 1,178 3,657 Operating and capital losses (tax value) 8 63 10 12 7 37 42 21 336 536 Tax credits 10 9 6 7 6 7 1 — 8 54 Tax losses and tax credits 18 72 16 19 13 44 43 21 344 590 Unrecognized tax losses and tax credits (7) (56) (2) (3) (2) (12) (7) (10) (257) (356) Total recognized tax losses and tax credits 11 16 14 16 11 32 36 11 87 234 Operating and capital loss carryforwards related to one jurisdiction may not be used to offset income taxes in other jurisdictions. Of the loss carryforwards, €2,265 million relates to U.S. state taxes, for which a weighted average tax rate of 7.25% applies. The majority of the above-mentioned deferred tax assets relate to tax jurisdictions in which Ahold Delhaize has suffered a tax loss in the current or a preceding period. Significant judgment is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are realizable. Ahold Delhaize determines this on the basis of expected taxable profits arising from the reversal of recognized deferred tax liabilities and on the basis of budgets, cash flow forecasts and impairment models. Where utilization is not considered probable, deferred tax assets are not recognized. No deferred income taxes are recognized on undistributed earnings of Ahold Delhaize’s subsidiaries and joint ventures, as the undistributed earnings will not be distributed in the foreseeable future. The cumulative amount of undistributed earnings on which the Group has not recognized deferred income taxes was approximately €28 million at December 31, 2017 (January 1, 2017: €4,713 million). The decrease for 2017 is predominantly caused by a change in Belgian tax legislation effective January 1, 2018. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 158 10 Income taxes continued Income taxes in equity and comprehensive income Current and deferred income taxes recognized in and transferred from equity and comprehensive income are as follows: € million 2017 2016 Share-based compensation — 7 Cash flow hedges — (41) Currency translation differences in foreign interests (1) — Non-realized gains (losses) on financial investments available for sale (1) 1 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans (66) 47 Total (68) 14 2017 includes an amount of €58 million expense for deferred income tax rate changes recognized in and transferred from equity and comprehensive income as a result of the U.S. and Belgian tax reforms. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 159 11 Property, plant and equipment Under € million Buildings and land Other construction Total As of January 3, 2016 At cost 9,609 5,368 115 15,092 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (4,611) (3,804) — (8,415) Carrying amount 4,998 1,564 115 6,677 Year ended January 1, 2017 Additions 183 431 568 1,182 Transfers from under construction 253 218 (471) — Acquisitions through business combinations1 3,425 1,332 187 4,944 Depreciation (593) (564) — (1,157) Impairment losses (55) (21) (1) (77) Impairment reversals 5 1 — 6 Assets classified to held for sale or sold (44) (26) (3) (73) Other movements (8) 5 (1) (4) Exchange rate differences 194 74 4 272 Closing carrying amount 8,358 3,014 398 11,770 As of January 1, 2017 At cost 13,640 7,231 399 21,270 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (5,282) (4,217) (1) (9,500) Carrying amount 8,358 3,014 398 11,770 Year ended December 31, 2017 Additions 219 547 689 1,455 Transfers from under construction 475 266 (741) — Acquisitions through business combinations 4 1 2 7 Depreciation (750) (764) (1) (1,515) Impairment losses (42) (22) — (64) Impairment reversals 5 3 — 8 Assets classified to held for sale or sold (27) (8) (1) (36) Other movements (15) (5) 3 (17) Exchange rate differences (651) (253) (15) (919) Closing carrying amount 7,576 2,779 334 10,689 As of December 31, 2017 At cost 12,933 7,099 334 20,366 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (5,357) (4,320) — (9,677) Carrying amount 7,576 2,779 334 10,689 1 Included €4,930 million for the fair value of the property, plant and equipment recognized in connection with the Ahold and Delhaize merger (see Note 4). Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 160 11 Property, plant and equipment continued Buildings and land includes stores, distribution centers, warehouses and improvements to these assets. “Other” property, plant and equipment mainly consists of furnishings, machinery and equipment, trucks, trailers and other vehicles. Assets under construction mainly consists of stores. The higher of the value in use or fair value less cost of disposal represents an asset’s recoverable amount. The value-in-use method involves estimating future cash flows. The present value of estimated future cash flows has been calculated using pre-tax discount rates ranging between 6.0% and 16.9% (2016: 5.8% – 17.3%). Fair value represents the price that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants and is generally measured by using an income approach or a market approach. The income approach is generally applied by using discounted cash flow projections based on the assets’ highest and best use from a market participants’ perspective. The market approach requires the comparison of the subject assets to transactions involving comparable assets by using inputs such as bid or ask prices or market multiples. In 2017, Ahold Delhaize recognized net impairment losses of €56 million for property, plant and equipment (2016: €71 million). These were mainly related to Ahold USA (2017: €50 million, 2016: €60 million) and The Netherlands (2017: €1 million reversal, 2016: €6 million) and were recognized for various operating and closed stores. In 2017, the fair value less cost of disposal was the recoverable amount in the determination of €24 million of the net impairment losses (2016: €40 million). In 2017, this included a €12 million charge related to closure of bfresh locations and a €7 million net impairment for other divestment stores. In 2016, as part of approval of the merger between Ahold and Delhaize Group by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, Ahold USA entered into agreements to sell 15 stores (“remedy stores,” see Note 5). In addition to remedy stores, Ahold USA intended to divest another 10 stores in the Richmond area (“other divestment stores’’). In 2016, Ahold USA incurred net impairment charges of €17 million in total for the property, plant and equipment of the remedy stores before they were classified as held for sale and a €3 million impairment for the stores’ associated fixed assets to be abandoned. In 2016, impairments for the property, plant and equipment of the other divestment stores of Ahold USA amounted to €20 million. The impairments related to the bfresh locations, remedy and other divestment stores were mainly based on the bid prices received or exit assumptions other than sale. The additions to property, plant and equipment include capitalized borrowing costs of €2 million (2016: €1 million). Generally, the capitalization rate used to determine the amount of capitalized borrowing costs is a weighted average of the interest rate applicable to the respective operating companies. This rate ranged between 2.0% and 10.3% (2016: 1.8% – 10.6%). Other movements mainly include transfers between asset classes and transfers to investment property. The carrying amount of land and buildings includes amounts related to assets held under finance leases and financings of €1,093 million and €177 million, respectively (January 1, 2017: €1,323 million and €210 million). In addition, the carrying amount of other property, plant and equipment includes an amount of €36 million (January 1, 2017: €37 million) relating to assets held under finance leases. Ahold Delhaize does not have legal title to these assets. Company-owned property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of €43 million (January 1, 2017: €51 million) has been pledged as security for liabilities, mainly for loans. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 161 12 Investment property € million 2017 2016 At the beginning of the year At cost 1,119 934 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (392) (354) Carrying amount 727 580 Additions 29 10 Acquisitions through business combinations1 — 171 Depreciation (30) (28) Impairment losses and reversals–net (4) (10) Assets classified to held for sale or sold (25) (15) Transfers from property, plant and equipment and lease-related intangibles 17 1 Exchange rate differences (64) 18 Closing carrying amount 650 727 At the end of the year At cost 1,025 1,119 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (375) (392) Carrying amount 650 727 1 2016 included €171 million for the fair value of the investment property recognized in connection with the merger between Ahold and Delhaize (see Note 4). A significant portion of the Company’s investment property comprises shopping centers containing both an Ahold Delhaize store and third-party retail units. The third-party retail units generate rental income, but are primarily of strategic importance to Ahold Delhaize in its retail operations. Ahold Delhaize recognizes the part of a shopping center leased to a third-party retailer as investment property, unless it represents an insignificant portion of the property. In 2017, Ahold Delhaize recognized net impairment losses of €4 million (2016: €10 million). These were mainly related to Ahold USA (2017: €3 million, 2016: €10 million). The carrying amount of investment property includes an amount related to assets held under finance leases and financings of €25 million and €37 million (January 1, 2017: €35 million and €42 million), respectively. Ahold Delhaize does not have legal title to these assets. Company-owned investment property with a carrying amount of €80 million (January 1, 2017: €93 million) has been pledged as security for liabilities, mainly for loans. The fair value of investment property as of December 31, 2017, amounted to approximately €808 million (January 1, 2017: €937 million). Fair value represents the price that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants and has generally been measured by using an income or market approach. Approximately 70% of Ahold Delhaize’s fair value measurements are categorized within Level 2. The most significant inputs into this valuation approach are observable market retail yields and tenant rents to calculate the fair value. The remaining fair value measurements that are categorized within Level 3 primarily include the fair value measurements based on the Company’s own valuation methods and the fair value for certain mixed-use properties and properties held for strategic purposes. For certain mixed-use properties and properties held for strategic purposes, Ahold Delhaize cannot determine the fair value of the investment property reliably. In such cases, the fair value is assumed to be equal to the carrying amount. Rental income from investment property included in the income statement in 2017 amounted to €70 million (2016: €76 million). Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance but excluding depreciation expense) arising from rental-income-generating and non-rent-generating investment property in 2017 amounted to €34 million (2016: €35 million). Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 162 13 Intangible assets Lease-related Customer Under € million Goodwill Brand names Software intangibles relationships Other development Total As of January 3, 2016 At cost 1,241 86 921 340 141 273 39 3,041 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (5) — (657) (216) (72) (123) — (1,073) Carrying amount 1,236 86 264 124 69 150 39 1,968 Year ended January 1, 2017 Additions — — 81 — 1 14 96 192 Transfers from under development — — 102 — — — (102) — Acquisitions through business combinations 5,957 3,196 208 157 78 658 22 10,276 Amortization — (1) (137) — (10) (24) (3) (175) Release of favorable leases — — — (21) — — — (21) Impairments (5) — (6) (2) — (2) — (15) Assets classified to held for sale or sold (9) — — (1) — — — (10) Other movements 3 — — — — (3) — — Exchange rate differences 213 97 6 9 3 2 2 332 Closing carrying amount 7,395 3,378 518 266 141 795 54 12,547 As of January 1, 2017 At cost 7,405 3,379 1,317 505 223 942 54 13,825 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (10) (1) (799) (239) (82) (147) — (1,278) Carrying amount 7,395 3,378 518 266 141 795 54 12,547 Year ended December 31, 2017 Additions — — 76 — — 31 143 250 Transfers from under development — — 141 — — 3 (144) — Acquisitions through business combinations 79 — — — — 2 — 81 Amortization — (2) (196) — (13) (37) — (248) Release of favorable leases — — — (29) — — — (29) Impairments (1) — (3) — — (2) — (6) Assets classified to held for sale or sold (10) — — — — — — (10) Other movements — — (4) — — — — (4) Exchange rate differences (603) (272) (22) (27) (9) (11) (3) (947) Closing carrying amount 6,860 3,104 510 210 119 781 50 11,634 As of December 31, 2017 At cost1 6,868 3,108 1,185 400 200 942 50 12,753 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses1 (8) (4) (675) (190) (81) (161) — (1,119) Carrying amount 6,860 3,104 510 210 119 781 50 11,634 1 Fully amortized software balances of €231 million, which are no longer in use, were derecognized from the cost and accumulated amortization and impairment losses. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 163 13 Intangible assets continued Goodwill recognized on acquisitions in 2017 includes measurement period adjustments of €36 million to the amount recognized in 2016 (€5,926 million) in connection with the merger of Ahold and Delhaize Group (see Note 4 for more details). Goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs expected to benefit from that business combination. Brand names include retail brands as well as certain own brands referring to ranges of products. Retail brands are strong and well-established brands of supermarkets, convenience stores and online stores protected by trademarks that are renewable indefinitely in their relevant markets. There are not believed to be any legal, regulatory or contractual provisions that limit the useful lives. Ahold Delhaize brands play an important role in the Company’s business strategy. Ahold Delhaize believes that there is currently no foreseeable limit to the period over which the retail brands are expected to generate net cash inflows, and therefore they are assessed to have an indefinite useful life. The carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to CGUs within Ahold Delhaize’s reportable segments and brands recognized from business acquisitions are as follows: Goodwill Goodwill Brand names Brand names € million December 31, 2017 January 1, 2017 December 31, 20171 January 1, 20171 Reportable segment Cash-generating unit Ahold USA Stop & Shop New England 418 478 — — Stop & Shop New York Metro 453 507 — — Giant Carlisle 499 569 — — Giant Landover 312 357 — — Peapod 22 25 — — Delhaize America Food Lion 956 1,082 1,210 1,382 Hannaford 1,683 1,914 721 823 The Netherlands Albert Heijn (including the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany) 1,422 1,409 — — bol.com (including the Netherlands and Belgium) 201 201 86 86 Etos 8 8 — — Gall & Gall 1 1 — — Belgium Delhaize (including Belgium and Luxembourg) 427 404 786 786 Central and Southeastern Europe Albert (Czech Republic) 181 171 — — Alfa Beta (Greece) 137 133 138 138 Mega Image (Romania) 128 125 88 91 Delhaize Serbia (Republic of Serbia) 12 11 75 72 Ahold Delhaize Group 6,860 7,395 3,104 3,378 1 Included own brands at Food Lion (€10 million, January 1, 2017: €12 million), Hannaford (€10 million, January 1, 2017: €12 million), Greece (€4 million, January 1, 2017: €4 million), Romania (€2 million, January 1, 2017: €2 million). CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that a particular CGU might be impaired. Except for Delhaize Belgium (including Belgium and Luxembourg), Food Lion and Hannaford, the recoverable amounts for the CGUs have been determined based on value in use. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 164 13 Intangible assets continued Value in use Value in use is determined using discounted cash flow projections that generally cover a period of five years and are based on the financial plans approved by the Company’s management. Due to the expected continuation of high growth in the relevant online retail markets, we project cash flow for bol.com and Peapod over 10-year periods to better reflect the growth expectations in sales, profitability and cash generation as these businesses have not yet reached a steady stage. The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations relate to the weighted average cost of capital (hereafter: discount rate), sales growth and operating margin. The pre-tax discount rates are 10.0% for Ahold USA brands, 8.7% for Peapod, 7.0% for The Netherlands brands, 12.2% for bol.com, 7.4% for the Czech Republic, 17.1% for Greece, 10.3% for Romania and 12.0% for Serbia. The sales growth rates and operating margins used to estimate future performance are based on past performance and our experience of growth rates and operating margins achievable in Ahold Delhaize’s main markets. The average annual compound sales growth rates applied in the projected periods ranged between 12.5% and 13.2% for the CGUs of our online business and between 1.4% and 10.8% for the other CGUs. The average operating margins applied in the projected periods ranged between (0.4)% and 2.3% for the CGUs of our online business and between 3.1% and 6.0% for the other CGUs. The terminal value to extrapolate cash flows beyond the explicit forecast period included one year of additional growth based on the long-term inflation expectations that ranged between 1.5% and 2.8% for the CGUs, no additional growth was assumed thereafter. Fair value less costs of disposal Fair value represents the price that would be received for selling an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants and is generally measured by using an income approach or a market approach. We have used discounted cash flow projections based on the assets’ highest and best use from a market participants’ perspective; taking financial plans as approved by management as a base (level 3 valuation). The discounted cash flow projections cover a period of five years. Fair value less costs of disposal is based on a post-tax calculation model and included the deferred tax position in the carrying amount and a corresponding tax-related cash flow in the recoverable amount. The key assumptions for the discounted cash flow projections relate to discount rate, sales growth and operating margin. The post-tax rates used to discount the projected cash flows reflect specific risks relating to relevant CGUs and are 6.0% for Food Lion and Hannaford and 5.5% for Delhaize Belgium. The average annual compound sales growth rates applied in the projected periods ranged between 2.9% and 3.0% for the CGUs. The average operating margins applied in the projected periods ranged between 2.7% and 6.4% for the CGUs. The terminal value to extrapolate cash flows beyond the explicit forecast period included one year of additional growth based on the long-term inflation expectations that ranged between 1.8% and 2.4% for the CGUs, no additional growth was assumed thereafter. Key assumptions and sensitivity analyses relating to cash-generating units to which a significant amount of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is allocated are as follows: Growth rate Pre–tax Post–tax (terminal value) discount rate discount rate Food Lion1 2.4% n.a 6.0% Hannaford1 2.4% n.a 6.0% Albert Heijn2 1.5% 7.0% n.a Delhaize Belgium1 1.8% n.a 5.5% 1 In 2016, the CGUs Hannaford, Food Lion and Delhaize Belgium were acquired by Ahold Delhaize. During the purchase price allocation, the fair value of these CGUs was determined based on their respective business enterprise values by discounting the projected cash flows of these CGUs. There was no significant change to these projected cash flows after the merger date. 2 During the 2016 goodwill impairment test, a terminal value growth rate of 1.5% and a pre-tax discount rate of 6.8% was applied. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 165 13 Intangible assets continued Due to the recent acquisition in 2016, the headroom for Food Lion, Hannaford and Delhaize Belgium is limited. A sensitivity analysis indicates that the recoverable amount of Food Lion, Hannaford and Delhaize Belgium would be equal to their carrying amount: • if the operating margins of the CGUs in the projection period were reduced by 0.2%, 1.3% and 0.3%, respectively • if the WACC rates used to discount cash flow projections of the CGUs were higher by 0.4%, 1.3% and 0.5%, respectively. The recoverable amount of these CGUs would be sufficiently in excess of the carrying values if the growth rate (terminal value) for them was assumed to be 0%. Lease-related intangible assets consist primarily of favorable operating lease contracts acquired in business acquisitions. Customer relationships consist primarily of pharmacy scripts and customer lists recognized through the acquisition of bol.com in 2012. “Other” mainly includes intangible assets related to relationships with franchisees and affiliates recognized in connection with the Ahold Delhaize merger, location development rights, deed restrictions and similar assets. Included in “Other” is an intangible asset allocated to Stop & Shop New England with an indefinite useful life and a carrying value of €29 million (2016: €33 million). The useful life of this asset is assessed to be indefinite since it relates to the land portion of an owned location. Intangible assets under development relate mainly to software development. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 166 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates In 1992, Ahold Delhaize partnered with Jerónimo Martins, SGPS, S.A. in the joint venture JMR – Gestão de Empresas de Retalho, SGPS, S.A. (“JMR”). Ahold Delhaize holds 49% of the shares in JMR and shares equal voting power on JMR’s board of directors with Jerónimo Martins, SGPS, S.A. JMR operates food retail stores in Portugal under the brand name Pingo Doce. Ahold Delhaize holds 51% of the shares in P.T. Lion Super Indo (“Super Indo”). Super Indo operates supermarkets in Indonesia. Although Ahold Delhaize has a 51% investment in Super Indo, the Company cannot exercise its majority voting rights mainly due to (i) a quorum requirement for the Board of Directors to decide on critical operating and financing activities and (ii) a requirement of unanimous affirmative decisions in the Board of Directors, on significant and strategic investing and financing matters, such as budgets and business plans and any resolution on the allocation of profits and distribution of dividends. Therefore, JMR and Super Indo are joint ventures and are accounted for using the equity method. There are no quoted market prices available. Ahold Delhaize is also a partner in various smaller joint arrangements and associates that are individually not material to the Group. Changes in the carrying amount of Ahold Delhaize’s interest in joint ventures and associates are as follows: JMR Super Indo Other Total JMR Super Indo Other Total € million 2017 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 2016 Beginning of the year 181 56 37 274 181 — 31 212 Brought through acquisition — — — — – 51 – 51 Share in income (loss) of joint ventures 24 7 4 35 22 4 8 34 Dividend (55) (15) — (70) (17) — (2) (19) Other changes in equity of joint ventures — — 2 2 (5) — — (5) Exchange rate differences — (7) (4) (11) — 1 — 1 End of the year 150 41 39 230 181 56 37 274 Share in income (loss) from continuing operations for Ahold Delhaize’s interests in all individually immaterial joint ventures was an income of €4 million (2016: €8 million) and nil for individually immaterial associates (2016: nil). Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 167 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Set out below is the summarized financial information for JMR and Super Indo (on a 100% basis). JMR JMR Super Indo Super Indo € million 2017 2016 2017 2016 Summarized statement of comprehensive income Net sales 4,045 3,924 420 165 Depreciation and amortization (103) (98) (9) (4) Interest income – – 2 — Interest expense (2) (2) — — Income tax expense (18) (21) (1) (2) Income from continuing operations 51 46 13 8 Net income 51 46 13 8 Net income attributable to the joint venture 51 44 13 8 Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interest — 2 — — Other comprehensive income — — — — Total comprehensive income attributable to the joint venture 51 44 13 8 JMR JMR Super Indo Super Indo December 31, January 1, December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 2017 2017 Summarized balance sheet Non-current assets 1,193 1,178 60 57 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 72 56 37 59 Other current assets 372 360 45 45 Total current assets 444 416 82 104 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities – – – – Other liabilities 34 31 5 5 Total non-current liabilities 34 31 5 5 Current liabilities Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables) 271 210 — — Other current liabilities 1,025 979 76 67 Total current liabilities 1,296 1,189 76 67 Net assets 307 374 61 89 Net assets attributable to the joint venture 307 368 61 89 Net assets attributable to non-controlling interest — 6 — — Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 168 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued The information presented below represents a reconciliation of the summarized financial information presented above to the carrying amount of JMR and Super Indo. JMR JMR Super Indo Super Indo € million 2017 2016 2017 2016 Opening net assets attributable to the joint venture 368 369 89 — Net assets acquired through business combinations — — — 79 Net income 51 44 13 8 Dividend (112) (35) (30) — Transactions with non-controlling interest — (10) — — Exchange differences — — (11) 2 Closing net assets attributable to the joint venture 307 368 61 89 Interest in joint venture 49% 49% 51% 51% Closing net assets included in the carrying value 150 181 31 45 Goodwill — — 10 11 Carrying value 150 181 41 56 Transactions with non-controlling interest in 2016 related to JMR’s acquisition of certain non-controlling interest in its Madeira retail operations. Commitments and contingent liabilities in respect of joint ventures and associates Our JMR joint venture is involved in several tax proceedings initiated by the Portuguese tax authorities. These tax claims are contested by our JMR joint venture. For these tax claims JMR issued several bank guarantees for an total amount of €63 million (Ahold Delhaize’s share: €31 million, based on ownership interest). There are no other significant contingent liabilities or restrictions relating to the Company’s interest in the joint ventures and associates. The commitments are presented in Note 34. 15 Other non-current financial assets December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Reinsurance assets 124 145 Loans receivable 55 53 Other 13 18 Total other non-current financial assets 192 216 Part of the self-insured risk is ceded under a reinsurance treaty, which is a pooling arrangement between unrelated companies. At the same time, Ahold Delhaize assumes a share of the reinsurance treaty risks that is measured by Ahold Delhaize’s participation percentage in the treaty. The participation percentage is the ratio of premium paid by Ahold Delhaize to the total premium paid by all treaty members. In connection with this pooling arrangement, the Company recognizes reinsurance assets and reinsurance liabilities (see also Notes 18, 22 and 26) on its balance sheet. There were no significant gains or losses related to this pooling arrangement during 2017 or 2016. Of the non-current loans receivable, €32 million matures between one and five years and €23 million after five years (January 1, 2017: €25 million between one and five years and €28 million after five years). The current portion of loans receivable of €3 million is included in Other receivables (January 1, 2017: €12 million) (see Note 17). Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 169 16 Inventories December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Finished products and merchandise inventories 3,023 3,233 Raw materials, packaging materials, technical supplies and other 54 55 Total inventories 3,077 3,288 In 2017, €1,352 million has been recognized as a write-off of inventories in the income statement (2016: €1,071 million). A portion of the value of inventories written off is Ahold Delhaize’s best estimate based on significant assumptions applied to certain products measured using the retail method. 17 Receivables December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Trade receivables 997 952 Vendor allowance receivables 454 442 Other receivables 235 270 1,686 1,664 Provision for impairment (80) (76) Total receivables 1,606 1,588 The receivable balances are presented net of accounts payable and subject to an enforceable netting arrangement between the Company and the counterparty. The total effect of netting as of December 31, 2017, is €254 million (January 1, 2017: €230 million). At December 31, 2017, the aging analysis of receivables was as follows: Past due Not past 0–3 3–6 6–12 > 12 € million Total due months months months months Trade receivables 997 773 149 16 11 48 Vendor allowance receivables 454 334 101 11 5 3 Other receivables 235 137 56 23 5 14 1,686 1,244 306 50 21 65 Provision for impairment (80) (13) (13) (6) (5) (43) Total receivables 1,606 1,231 293 44 16 22 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 170 17 Receivables continued At January 1, 2017, the aging analysis of receivables was as follows: Past due Not past 0–3 3–6 6–12 > 12 € million Total due months months months months Trade receivables 952 736 121 25 29 41 Vendor allowance receivables 442 321 88 19 12 2 Other receivables 270 174 52 23 7 14 1,664 1,231 261 67 48 57 Provision for impairment (76) (11) (12) (5) (11) (37) Total receivables 1,588 1,220 249 62 37 20 Receivables that were past due but not impaired relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default. The concentration of credit risk with respect to receivables is limited, as the Company’s customer base and vendor base are large and unrelated. The Company does not hold any significant collateral on its receivables. Management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal individual and collective impairment assessment, based on the aging analysis performed as of December 31, 2017. For more information about credit risk, see Note 30. The changes in the provision for impairment were as follows: € million 2017 2016 Beginning of the year (76) (20) Acquisitions through business combinations — (53) Charged to income (20) (14) Used 15 11 Exchange rate differences 1 — End of the year (80) (76) Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 171 18 Other current financial assets December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Derivative financial instruments – current portion — 299 Available-for-sale financial assets – current portion 157 175 Short-term deposits and similar instruments 9 110 Reinsurance assets – current portion (see Note 15) 71 75 Other 1 18 Total other current financial assets 238 677 In 2016 the derivative financial instruments – current portion includes the interest and the cross-currency swaps related to GBP 250 notes. The remaining notional redemption amount of GBP 250 million was due in March 2017 and the related swaps were settled on the same date (see Note 21). The Available-for-sale financial assets relate primarily to investments in U.S. Treasury bond funds which are held by one of the Company’s captive insurance companies (see Note 24). As of December 31, 2017, short-term deposits and similar instruments included short-term investments with a maturity at acquisition of between three and 12 months. Of the short-term deposits and similar instruments as of December 31, 2017, €9 million was restricted (January 1, 2017: €10 million). The restricted investments are held for insurance purposes for U.S. workers’ compensation and general liability programs. In 2016 the line item “Other” includes cash collateral posted on net liability positions of derivative financial instruments. At each reporting date, the Company assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. In both 2017 and 2016, none of the financial assets were either past due or impaired. 19 Cash and cash equivalents December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Cash in banks and cash equivalents 4,240 3,718 Cash on hand 341 314 Total cash and cash equivalents 4,581 4,032 Of the cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2017, €39 million was restricted (January 1, 2017: €42 million) and consisted of collateral in connection with third-party money transfer services provided at our stores of €26 million (January 1, 2017: €29 million) as well as cash held in escrow accounts mainly related to pending litigation, obligations related to business disposals and construction activities. Cash and cash equivalents include €1,367 million (January 1, 2017: €1,184 million) held under a notional cash pooling arrangement. This cash amount was fully offset by an identical amount included under Other current financial liabilities. From an operational perspective, the balances in the cash pool are netted. However, in accordance with the guidance of IAS 32 regarding the offsetting of debit and credit balances for financial reporting purposes, these balances have to be presented on a gross basis on the balance sheet (see Notes 26 and 30). Ahold Delhaize’s banking arrangements allow the Company to fund outstanding checks when presented to the bank for payment. This cash management practice may result in a net cash book overdraft position, which occurs when the total issued checks exceed available cash balances within the Company’s cash concentration structure. Such book overdrafts are classified in accounts payable and amounted to €172 million and €217 million as of December 31, 2017, and January 1, 2017, respectively. No right to offset with other bank balances exists for these book overdraft positions. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 172 20 Equity attributable to common shareholders Shares and share capital Authorized share capital comprises the following classes of shares: December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Common shares (2017: 1,923,515,827 of €0.01 par value each, and 2016: 1,921,000,000 of €0.01 par value each) 19 19 Cumulative preferred shares (2017: 2,250,000,000 of €0.01 par value each, and 2016: 2,250,000,000 of €0.01 par value each) 23 23 Total authorized share capital 42 42 In addition, Ahold Delhaize has cumulative preferred financing shares outstanding. These cumulative preferred financing shares are considered debt under IFRS until the date that Ahold Delhaize receives irrevocable notification from a holder of the shares to convert them into common shares. Upon this notification, the cumulative preferred financing shares are classified as a separate class of equity since they no longer meet the definition of a liability. For disclosures regarding Ahold Delhaize’s cumulative preferred financing shares, see Note 22. Common shares and additional paid-in capital Changes in the number of common shares and the number of treasury shares were as follows: Number of Number of common shares Number of common shares issued and fully paid treasury shares outstanding (x 1,000) (x 1,000) (x 1,000) Balance as of January 3, 2016 834,373 15,902 818,471 Reverse stock split (49,081) (574) (48,507) Issuance of shares 496,001 — 496,001 Share-based payments — (6,311) 6,311 Balance as of January 1, 2017 1,281,293 9,017 1,272,276 Share buyback — 54,838 (54,838) Cancellation of treasury shares (37,000) (37,000) — Conversion of cumulative preferred financing shares 2,516 — 2,516 Share-based payments — (7,642) 7,642 Other — 6 (6) Balance as of December 31, 2017 1,246,809 19,219 1,227,590 Dividends on common shares On April 12, 2017, the General Meeting of Shareholders approved the dividend over 2016 of €0.57 per common share (€720 million in the aggregate). This dividend was paid on April 26, 2017. The Management Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, proposes that a dividend of €0.63 per common share be paid in 2018 with respect to 2017. This dividend is subject to approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders and has not been included as a liability on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017. The payment of this dividend will not have income tax consequences for the Company. Capital repayment and reverse stock split On March 14, 2016, the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, including a capital repayment and reverse stock split, was approved at an Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. The reverse stock split was recorded on July 18, 2016, by way of a consolidation of 17 issued common shares into 16 common shares, which reduced the total number of common shares outstanding by 48,507,004 shares. The capital repayment of €1.29 per remaining share, €1,001 million in the aggregate (excluding transaction costs), was paid on July 21, 2016. As consideration, Delhaize shareholders received 4.75 Ahold common shares for each issued and outstanding Delhaize common share, which increased the number of common shares outstanding by 496,000,577 shares. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 173 20 Equity attributable to common shareholders continued Share buyback The share buyback program of €1 billion that started on January 9, 2017, was successfully completed on December 29, 2017. In total 55,166,939 of the Company's own shares were repurchased at an average price of €18.13 per share. The trades executed on December 28 and December 29, 2017, totaling 328,631 shares, were settled on January 2 and January 3, 2018, respectively. On January 2, 2018, the Company commenced the €2 billion share buyback program that was announced on November 8, 2017. The program is expected to be completed before the end of 2018. Conversion of cumulative preferred financing shares On August 9, 2017, Ahold Delhaize converted 45,000,000 cumulative preferred financing shares into 2,515,827 common shares. The 45,000,000 cumulative preferred financing shares had a par value of €42,541,895. Share-based payments Share-based payments recognized in equity in the amount of €83 million (2016: €74 million) relate to the 2017 Global Reward Opportunity (GRO) share-based compensation expenses (see Note 32) and the associated current and deferred income taxes. Cumulative preferred shares The Company’s Articles of Association provide for the possible issuance of cumulative preferred shares. The Company believes that its ability to issue this class of shares could prevent, or at least delay, an attempt by a potential bidder to make a hostile takeover bid. According to Dutch law, a response device is limited in time and therefore cannot permanently block a take-over of the Company concerned. Instead, it aims to facilitate an orderly process in which the interests of the continuity of the Company, its shareholders and other stakeholders are safeguarded in the best way possible. Moreover, outside the scope of a public offer, but also under other circumstances, the ability to issue this class of shares may safeguard the interests of the Company and all stakeholders in the Company and resist influences that might conflict with those interests by affecting the Company’s continuity, independence or identity. No cumulative preferred shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2017 or during 2017 and 2016. In March 1989, the Company entered into an agreement with Stichting Continuïteit Ahold Delhaize (SCAD, previously named Stichting Ahold Continuïteit) as amended and restated in April 1994, March 1997, December 2001, and December 2003 (the Option Agreement). Pursuant to the Option Agreement, SCAD has been granted an option for no consideration to acquire cumulative preferred shares from the Company from time to time until December 2018. At Ahold Delhaize, a decision to extend the Option Agreement is at the discretion of the Management Board, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. In December 2017, the Company and SCAD commenced discussions on a possible extension of the Option Agreement, in accordance with its terms which require such discussions to start at least one year prior to the expiration date. No conclusion has been reached at this time. The Option Agreement entitles SCAD, under certain circumstances, to acquire cumulative preferred shares from the Company up to a total par value that is equal to the total par value of all issued and outstanding shares of Ahold Delhaize’s share capital, excluding cumulative preferred shares, at the time of exercising the option. If the authorized share capital of the Company is amended during the term of the option, the Option Agreement provides for a corresponding change of the total par value of cumulative preferred shares under option. The holders of the cumulative preferred shares are entitled to one vote per share and a cumulative dividend expressed as a percentage of the amount called-up and paid-in to purchase the cumulative preferred shares. The percentage to be applied is the sum of (1) the average basic refinancing transaction interest rate as set by the European Central Bank – measured by the number of days during which that rate was in force in the fiscal year over which the dividend is paid – plus 2.1%, and (2) the average interest surcharge rate – measured by the number of days during which that rate was in force in the fiscal year over which the dividend is paid – that would be charged by the largest credit institution in the Netherlands (based on the balance sheet total as of the close of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year over which the dividend is paid). The minimum percentage to be applied is 5.75%. Subject to limited exceptions, any potential transfer of cumulative preferred shares requires the approval of the Management Board. Cumulative preferred shares can only be issued in a registered form. The Company may stipulate that only 25% of the par value will be paid upon subscription to cumulative preferred shares until payment in full is later required by the Company. SCAD would then only be entitled to a market-based interest return on its investment. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 174 20 Equity attributable to common shareholders continued SCAD is a foundation organized under the laws of the Netherlands. Its purpose under its articles is to safeguard the interests of the Company and all stakeholders in the Company and to resist, to the best of its ability, influences that might conflict with those interests by affecting the Company’s continuity, independence or identity. SCAD seeks to realize its objectives by acquiring and holding cumulative preferred shares and by exercising the rights attached to these shares, including the voting rights. The SCAD board has four members, who are appointed by the board of SCAD itself. If the board of SCAD considers acquiring cumulative preferred shares or exercising voting rights on cumulative preferred shares, it will make an independent assessment and, pursuant to Dutch law, it must ensure that its actions are proportional and reasonable. If SCAD acquires cumulative preferred shares, it will only hold them for a limited period of time. These principles are in line with Dutch law, which only allows response measures that are proportionate, reasonable and limited in time. In the case of liquidation, the SCAD board will decide on the use of any remaining residual assets. Legal reserves In accordance with the Dutch Civil Code and statutory requirements in other countries, legal reserves have to be established in certain circumstances. Legal reserves are not available for distribution to the Company’s shareholders. The currency translation reserve, cash flow hedging reserve and other reserves include non-distributable amounts. Of the total equity as per December 31, 2017, of €15,170 million, an amount of €346 million is non-distributable (January 1, 2017: €1,130 million out of total equity of €16,276 million). See Note 10 to the parent company financial statements for more detail on the legal reserves. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 175 21 Loans and credit facilities The notes in the table below were issued by Ahold Delhaize or one of its subsidiaries, the latter of which are guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize unless otherwise noted. The amortization of the fair-value allocation to the debt acquired through business combinations is allocated to the respective maturity brackets. Outstanding Non-current portion Non-current portion notional Current Current redemption portion Total portion Total amount within Between After December 31, within Between After January 1, € million, unless otherwise stated December 31, 2017 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years 2017 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years 2017 GBP 500 notes 6.50%, due 20171 GBP — — — — — 292 — — 292 USD 450 notes 6.50%, due 20172 USD — — — — — 168 — — 168 EUR 400 notes 4.25%, due 20182 EUR 400 413 — — 413 16 413 — 429 USD 300 notes 4.125%, due 20192 USD 130 3 109 — 112 3 127 — 130 USD 94 indebtedness 7.82%, due 2020 USD 18 8 7 — 15 10 17 — 27 EUR 400 notes 3.125%, due 20202 EUR 400 12 414 — 426 12 426 — 438 EUR 750 notes 0.875% due 2024 EUR 750 — — 750 750 — — — — USD 71 indebtedness 8.62%, due 2025 USD 71 — 30 29 59 — 21 47 68 USD 71 notes 8.05%, due 20272 USD 71 2 8 69 79 2 8 81 91 USD 500 notes 6.875%, due 2029 USD 500 — — 416 416 — — 475 475 USD 271 notes 9.00%, due 20312 USD 271 5 21 286 312 5 23 333 361 USD 827 notes 5.70%, due 20402 USD 827 4 18 815 837 4 20 935 959 Deferred financing costs (2) (6) (4) (12) — (2) (2) (4) Total notes 445 601 2,361 3,407 512 1,053 1,869 3,434 Financing obligations3 22 122 181 325 23 115 247 385 Mortgages payable4 1 13 8 22 2 15 9 26 Other loans — — 3 3 2 — 3 5 Total loans 468 736 2,553 3,757 539 1,183 2,128 3,850 1 During 2005, the Company bought back GBP 250 million of the notes. The remaining notional amount of the GBP 250 million was swapped to U.S. dollars (see Note 30 for additional information), which were due in March 2017. 2 Acquired through business combinations (refer to Note 4). 3 The weighted average interest rate for the financing obligations amounted to 7.5% as of the end of 2017 (2016: 7.6%). 4 Mortgages payable are collateralized by buildings and land. The weighted average interest rate for these mortgages payable amounted to 5.6% as of the end of 2017 (2016: 5.4%). On September 12, 2017, Ahold Delhaize issued a new €750 million seven-year Eurobond. The bonds were sold at an issue price of 99.474% and carry an annual coupon of 0.875%. The senior unsecured bonds will mature on September 19, 2024. The net proceeds of the offering will be used to refinance existing debt and for general corporate purposes. The bonds are listed on Euronext Amsterdam. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 176 21 Loans and credit facilities continued On July 4, 2017, Ahold Delhaize successfully established a multi-currency euro-commercial paper program, in order to diversify its sources of financing. Under this program, Ahold Delhaize may issue, from time to time, euro-commercial paper notes at blended rates. The outstanding principal amount of the notes will not exceed €1 billion (or its equivalent in other currencies) at any time. No borrowings were outstanding as per December 31, 2017. On March 14, 2017, Ahold Delhaize repaid the remaining notional redemption amount of GBP 250 million relating to the GBP 500 million notes. The related swaps were settled on the same date. Since Ahold Delhaize was required under these swap contracts to redeem the notional amount through semi-annual installments that commenced in September 2004, the net cash impact of the debt repayment and the swap settlement at maturity was limited to only the last semiannual installment amounting to $14 million. With the repayment of its GBP 500 million notes, Ahold Delhaize no longer had any notes outstanding under its Euro Medium Term Note Program and decided not to extend the program. Accordingly, the related Base Prospectus of April 21, 2016, which was valid for a period of 12 months, has not been renewed. The fair values of financial instruments, corresponding derivatives, and the foreign exchange and interest rate risk management policies applied by Ahold Delhaize are disclosed in Note 30. Credit facilities Ahold Delhaize has access to a €1.0 billion committed, unsecured, multi-currency and syndicated credit facility that was amended and extended in February 2015, whereby the Company reduced the size of the credit facility from €1.2 billion to €1.0 billion (providing for the issuance of $275 million in letters of credit). At the same time, the facility was extended to 2020 with two potential extensions after 12 and 24 months that would take the facility to 2021 and 2022 respectively. The Company successfully agreed on both extensions with the lenders. The credit facility contains customary covenants and is subject to a financial covenant that requires Ahold Delhaize, in the event that its corporate rating from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s is lower than BBB / Baa2, respectively, not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio of 4.0:1. During 2017 and 2016, the Company was in compliance with these covenants. As of December 31, 2017, there were no outstanding borrowings under the facility other than letters of credit to an aggregate amount of $156 million (€130 million). Ahold Delhaize also has access to a total of €395 million in uncommitted credit facilities to cover working capital requirements, issuance of guarantees and letters of credit, of which €67 million was utilized as of December 31, 2017. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 177 22 Other non-current financial liabilities December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Finance lease liabilities 1,430 1,761 Cumulative preferred financing shares 455 497 Derivative financial instruments 18 45 Reinsurance liabilities 136 153 Other 59 71 Total other non-current financial liabilities 2,098 2,527 For more information on derivative financial instruments and fair values see Note 30. The Company recognizes reinsurance liabilities on its balance sheet in connection with a pooling arrangement between unrelated companies (see Note 15). Other mainly consists of a pre-tax liability for the discounted amount of the remaining settlement liability of $38 million (€32 million), relating to a 2013 agreement with the New England Teamsters and Trucking Industry Pension Fund (NETTI) to settle Stop & Shop’s pension liabilities in the fund, and financial guarantees relating to stores previously sold to BI-LO and Aldi (see Note 34). Finance lease liabilities Finance lease liabilities relating to continuing operations are payable as follows: December 31, 2017 January 1, 2017 Present Present Future value of Future value of minimum minimum minimum minimum lease Interest lease lease Interest lease € million payments portion payments payments portion payments Within one year 271 94 177 318 119 199 Between one and five years 894 272 622 1,083 352 731 After five years 1,067 259 808 1,370 340 1,030 Total 2,232 625 1,607 2,771 811 1,960 Current portion finance lease liabilities (see Note 26) 177 199 Non-current portion finance lease liabilities 1,430 1,761 Finance lease liabilities are principally for buildings. Terms range primarily from 10 to 25 years and include renewal options if it is reasonably certain, at the inception of the leases, that they will be exercised. At the time of entering into a finance lease agreement, the commitment is recorded at its present value using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if this is practicable to determine; if not, the local brand-specific interest rate applicable for long-term borrowings is used. As of December 31, 2017, the finance lease liabilities are recorded at their present value at a weighted average interest rate of 6.3% (January 1, 2017: 7.1%). Certain store leases provide for contingent additional rentals based on a percentage of sales and consumer price indices. Substantially all of the store leases have renewal options for additional terms. None of Ahold Delhaize’s leases impose restrictions on Ahold Delhaize’s ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt or enter into additional leasing arrangements. During 2017, interest expense on finance lease liabilities was €111 million (2016: €111 million). Total future minimum sublease income expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases as of December 31, 2017, is €106 million (January 1, 2017: €111 million). The total contingent rent expense recognized during the year on finance leases was €1 million expense (2016: €1 million expense). Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 178 22 Other non-current financial liabilities continued Cumulative preferred financing shares Number of shares (x 1,000) € million Issued cumulative preferred financing shares (€0.01 par value each) 265,899 3 Authorized cumulative preferred financing shares (€0.01 par value each) 326,484 3 December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Paid-in capital issued cumulative preferred financing shares 3 3 Additional paid-in capital cumulative preferred financing shares 452 494 Balance as of year-end 455 497 The cumulative preferred financing shares were issued in four tranches. Dividends are paid on each preferred financing share at a percentage (financing dividend percentage) that differs per tranche. When a period of 10 years has lapsed after the issue date of a tranche, and every 10 years thereafter (reset date), the financing dividend percentage is reset. The current financing dividend percentage is 1.527% per year for the shares issued in June 1996, 6.08% per year for the shares issued in August 1998, 3.85% per year for the shares issued in October 2000, and 3.35% per year for the shares issued in December 2003. On August 9, 2017, at the request of the holder of these shares, Ahold Delhaize converted 45,000,000 cumulative preferred financing shares into 2,515,827 common shares. The remaining 42,484,173 cumulative preferred financing shares were delivered to Ahold Delhaize by SAPFAA. The 45,000,000 cumulative preferred financing shares had a par value of €42,541,895. The nominal value plus additional paid-in capital per tranche is €29 million (June 1996 tranche), €46 million (August 1998 tranche), €320 million (October 2000 tranche) and €60 million (December 2003 tranche); in the aggregate €455 million. This amount is presented under “Other non-current financial liabilities” in the consolidated balance sheet as these cumulative preferred financing shares are considered debt under IFRS. The total number of votes that can be exercised by the cumulative preferred financing shares is approximately 68 million. This represents approximately 5% of the total number of votes that can be cast (this total being calculated as the sum of the outstanding cumulative preferred financing shares and the outstanding common shares). The cumulative preferred financing shares are convertible into common shares. The conversion conditions have been set so as to avoid any transfer of value from the common shares to the cumulative preferred financing shares. The maximum number of common shares to be received upon conversion of all outstanding cumulative preferred financing shares is approximately 90 million. The conversion features are similar for all tranches. Conversion is allowed for all shares in one tranche held by one investor but not for fractions of tranches held by one investor. Upon conversion, the holders of (depositary receipts of) cumulative preferred financing shares will receive a number of common shares that is calculated by dividing the value of the cumulative preferred financing shares on the day before the conversion date by the average share price of Ahold Delhaize common shares on the five trading days preceding the notification date, on the notification date, and on the four trading days following the notification date. The value of the cumulative preferred financing shares will be considered, for this purpose, to be equal to the lower of the nominal value plus the additional paid-in capital of the cumulative preferred financing shares (par value) or to the present value of the remaining preferred dividends until the first reset date plus the present value of the par value at the first reset date. Subject to the approval of the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Company can redeem the cumulative preferred financing shares of a certain tranche, but not fractions of a tranche. Redemption of a tranche is subject to the approval of the holders of depositary receipts of that tranche, unless all (remaining) cumulative preferred financing shares are redeemed. Redemption takes place at the higher of the par value or the present value of the remaining preferred dividends plus the present value of the par value at the reset date. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 179 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits Defined benefit plans Ahold Delhaize has a number of defined benefit pension plans covering a substantial number of employees, former employees and retirees in the Netherlands, the United States, Belgium, Greece and Serbia. In the Netherlands, the Company has a career average plan covering all employees over the age of 21. The plan provides benefits to participants or beneficiaries upon retirement, death or disability. The assets of the plan, which are made up of contributions from Ahold Delhaize and the employees, are managed by Ahold Pensioenfonds, an independent foundation. The contributions are established in a funding agreement between Ahold Delhaize, employee representatives, and Ahold Pensioenfonds every five years based on the funding levels of the plan. The contributions are determined as a percentage of an employee’s pensionable salary. In the United States, the Company maintains a funded plan covering employees at Ahold USA. This plan is closed to new participants. The plan provides a life annuity benefit based upon final pay to participants or beneficiaries upon retirement, death or disability. The assets of the plan, which are made up of contributions from Ahold Delhaize, are maintained with various trustees. Contributions to the plan are required under the current funding policy if the prior year-end funding ratio falls below 100% as measured using regulatory interest rates without funding relief in order to avoid variable Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) premiums. In addition, the Company provides additional pension benefits for certain Company executives and life insurance and medical care benefits for certain retired employees meeting age and service requirements at its U.S. subsidiaries, all of which the Company funds as claims are incurred. In Belgium, the Company sponsors plans for substantially all of its employees. The plans are funded by fixed monthly contributions from both the Company and employees. The contributions are adjusted annually according to the Belgian consumer price index; however, certain employees who were employed before 2005 were able to choose not to participate in the employee contribution part of the plan. The plans assure the employees a lump-sum payment at retirement based on the contributions made, and provide employees with death-in-service benefits. Belgian law prescribes a variable minimum guaranteed rate of return with Belgian 10-year government bonds as the underlying benchmark, and a collar of 1.75% and 3.75%. The Company substantially insures these returns with external insurance companies that receive and manage the contributions to the plans. According to the relevant legislation, a short-fall only needs to be compensated by the employer at the point in time when the employee either retires or leaves the Company. As these plans have defined benefit features (when the return provided by the insurance company can be below the legally required minimum return, in which case the employer has to cover the gap with additional contributions), the Company treats these plans as defined benefit plans. Additionally in Belgium, the Company maintains a plan covering Company executives that provides lump-sum benefits to participants upon death or retirement based on a formula applied to the last annual salary of the participant before his or her retirement or death. The plan is subject to the legal requirement to guarantee a minimum return on the contributions. The assets of the plan, which are made up of the contributions, are managed through a fund that is administered by an independent insurance company, providing a minimum guaranteed return. The plan participant’s contributions are defined in the terms of the plan, while the annual contributions to be paid by the Company are determined based on the funding level of the plan and are calculated based on current salaries, taking into account the legal minimum funding requirement, which is based on the vested reserves to which employees are entitled upon retirement or death. The plan mainly invests in debt securities in order to achieve the required minimum return. The Company bears any risk above the minimum guarantee given by the insurance company. There are no asset ceiling restrictions. In Greece, the Company operates an unfunded defined benefit post-employment plan. This plan relates to retirement benefits prescribed by Greek law, consisting of lump-sum compensation payable in case of normal retirement or termination of employment. The amount of the indemnity is based on an employee’s monthly earnings and a multiple depending on the length of service and the status of the employee. There is no legal requirement to fund these plans with contributions or other plan assets. Employees participate in the plan once they have completed a minimum service period, which is generally one year. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 180 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued In Serbia, the Company has an unfunded defined benefit plan that provides a lump-sum benefit upon retirement of the employee, as prescribed by Serbian law. The benefit is based on a fixed multiple of the higher of the (i) average gross salary of the employee, (ii) average gross salary in the Company or (iii) average gross salary in the country, each determined at the time the employee retires. There is no legal requirement to fund these plans with contributions or other plan assets. The pension plans expose the Company to actuarial risks such as: longevity risk, interest rate risk, currency risk, salary risk and investment risk. Longevity risk relates to the mortality assumptions used to value the defined benefit obligation, where an increase in participants’ life expectancies will increase a plan’s liability. Interest rate risk relates to the discount rate used to value the defined benefit obligation, where a decrease in the discount rate will increase a plan’s liability; however this will be partially offset by an increase in the return on a plan’s investments in debt instruments. The pension plans may mitigate interest rate risk by entering into interest rate swap contracts. Currency risk relates to the fact that a plan holds investments that may not be denominated in the same currency as the plan’s obligations. The pension plans may mitigate currency risk by purchasing forward currency instruments. Salary risk relates to salary increase assumptions used to value the defined benefit obligation, where an increase will result in a higher plan liability. See below for more details on the Company’s asset-liability matching strategy employed to manage its investment risk. Net defined benefit cost is comprised of the following components. The net interest (income) expense is presented within net financial expenses in the income statement and plan remeasurements are presented as other comprehensive income. All other components of net defined benefit cost are presented in the income statement as cost of sales, selling expenses, and general and administrative expenses, depending on the functional areas of the employees earning the benefits. € million 2017 2016 Service cost Current service cost 167 136 Past service cost gain (13) — Gain on settlement 1 — Net interest expense 22 18 Administrative cost 12 10 Termination benefits 2 1 Components of defined benefit cost recorded in the income statement 191 165 Remeasurements recognized: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest (income) / cost (161) (306) (Gain) loss from changes in demographic assumptions 13 27 (Gain) loss from changes in financial assumptions 127 473 Experience (gains) losses (23) (48) Components of defined benefit cost recognized in other comprehensive income (44) 146 Total net defined benefit cost 147 311 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 181 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued The changes in the defined benefit obligations and plan assets in 2017 and 2016 were as follows: The Netherlands United States Rest of world Total € million 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Defined benefit obligations Beginning of the year 4,636 4,094 1,592 1,375 269 — 6,497 5,469 Acquisitions through business combinations — — — 67 — 297 — 364 Current service cost 130 107 22 21 15 8 167 136 Past service cost 12 — (25) — — — (13) — Gain on settlements — — (123) — — — (123) — Interest expense 91 100 63 66 5 2 159 168 Termination benefits — — — — 2 1 2 1 Contributions by plan participants 22 23 — — 1 — 23 23 Benefits paid (87) (84) (76) (77) (12) (14) (175) (175) (Gain) loss from changes in demographic assumptions 4 27 9 — — — 13 27 (Gain) loss from changes in financial assumptions 34 405 96 94 (3) (26) 127 473 Experience (gains) losses (20) (36) (4) (13) 1 1 (23) (48) Exchange rate differences — — (195) 59 — — (195) 59 End of the year 4,822 4,636 1,359 1,592 278 269 6,459 6,497 Plan assets Fair value of assets, beginning of the year 4,431 3,977 1,208 1,103 199 — 5,838 5,080 Acquisitions through business combinations — — — — (11) 214 (11) 214 Interest income 85 96 48 53 4 1 137 150 Company contribution 137 114 51 90 17 8 205 212 Contributions by plan participants 22 23 — — 1 — 23 23 Benefits paid (87) (84) (76) (77) (12) (14) (175) (175) Settlement payments — — (124) — — — (124) — Administrative cost (8) (8) (4) (2) — — (12) (10) Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest (income) expense 39 313 118 3 4 (10) 161 306 Exchange rate differences — — (150) 38 — — (150) 38 Fair value of assets, end of the year 4,619 4,431 1,071 1,208 202 199 5,892 5,838 Funded status (203) (205) (288) (384) (76) (70) (567) (659) The total defined benefit obligation of €6,459 million as of December 31, 2017, includes €191 million related to plans that are wholly unfunded. These plans include pension plans in Greece and Serbia and other benefits (such as life insurance and medical care) and supplemental executive retirement plans in the United States. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 182 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued During 2017, Ahold Delhaize decided to transition a select population of employees participating in its defined benefit pension plan in the United States to a defined contribution plan, effective January 1, 2020. Accrued benefits under the defined benefit plan for these employees will be frozen as of December 31, 2019. The resulting curtailment gain recognized in 2017 of €28 million has been partially offset by accrued transition contributions of €3 million that the Company will make in 2020 to compensate affected employees for the benefit freeze. During 2017, Ahold Delhaize purchased annuity contracts to settle benefits in the defined benefit pension plan in the United States for participants that are currently receiving monthly payments of less than $500. This has resulted in a settlement of €123 million of the defined benefit obligation. The settlement of this obligation was funded with €124 million of plan assets and resulted in a €1 million gain on settlement being recognized within pension expense in the income statement. During 2017, Ahold Delhaize amended its defined benefit plan in the Netherlands. The amendments involved raising the retirement age from 67 to 68, in accordance with Dutch fiscal regulations, and converting the remaining conditional service requirement for early retirement benefits to become unconditional. The effect of these amendments was a net past service cost in the income statement of €12 million. During 2016, Ahold Delhaize changed its policy of accounting for employee contributions to its defined benefit plan in the Netherlands. Previously, employee contributions were attributed to the periods of future service when measuring the defined benefit obligation; now they are considered to be a reduction of service costs in the period in which the related service is rendered. This change in policy increased the funded status of the plan by €28 million, which has been recognized in Other comprehensive income. Cash contributions From 2017 to 2018, Company contributions are expected to decrease from €137 million to €101 million in the Netherlands, decrease from $58 million (€51 million) to $31 million (€26 million) for all defined benefit plans in the United States, and decrease from €17 million to €15 million for all plans in the rest of the world. As of year-end 2017, the funding ratio, calculated in accordance with regulatory requirements, of the Dutch plan was 110%. Under the financing agreement with the Dutch pension fund, contributions are made as a percentage of employees’ salaries and shared between Ahold Delhaize and the employees. The agreement also allows for a reduction in premiums if certain funding conditions are met. In addition, Ahold Delhaize can be required to contribute a maximum amount of €150 million over a five-year period if the funding ratio is below 105%. At year-end 2016, the funding ratio was 104% and the Company and Ahold Pensioenfonds agreed to an additional funding of €28 million under the financing agreement, which has been included in the 2017 cash contributions. The Ahold USA pension plan’s funding ratio at year-end 2017 was 119%, measured using regulatory interest rates allowed by the U.S. government as part of funding relief, which are higher than otherwise would be allowed. Under the current funding policy, an $8 million (€7 million) contribution is expected to be made to the Ahold USA pension plan in 2018. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 183 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued Actuarial assumptions The calculations of the defined benefit obligation and net defined benefit cost are sensitive to the assumptions set out below. These assumptions require a large degree of judgment. Actual experience may differ from the assumptions made. The assumptions required to calculate the actuarial present value of benefit obligations and the net defined benefit costs are determined per plan and are as follows (expressed as weighted averages): The Netherlands United States Rest of world % 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Discount rate 2.0 1.9 3.8 4.3 1.7 1.8 Future salary increases 3.5 3.5 4.5 4.5 3.1 2.9 Future pension increases 0.8 0.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Assumptions regarding longevity are based on published statistics and mortality tables. These assumptions translate into an average life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring at age 65: The Netherlands United States Rest of world Years 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners Male 21.3 21.2 19.6 20.2 N/A N/A Female 23.9 23.8 22.2 22.9 N/A N/A Longevity at age 65 for current members aged 50 Male 23.1 23.0 20.8 21.1 N/A N/A Female 25.7 25.6 23.4 23.7 N/A N/A The following table summarizes how the effect on the defined benefit obligations at the end of the reporting period would have increased (decreased) as a result of a 0.5% change in the respective assumptions and a one-year increase in life expectancy. € million The Netherlands United States Rest of world Total Discount rate 0.5% increase (545) (82) (20) (647) 0.5% decrease 646 91 23 760 Future salary increases 0.5% increase 77 1 10 88 0.5% decrease (73) (1) (9) (83) Future pension increases 0.5% increase 592 N/A N/A 592 0.5% decrease (510) N/A N/A (510) Life expectancy 1 year increase at age 65 168 45 1 214 The above sensitivity analyses have been based on a change in each respective assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In reality, one might expect interrelationships between the assumptions, especially between discount rate and future salary increases as both depend to a certain extent on expected inflation rates. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analyses did not change compared to the previous period. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 184 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued Plan assets The pension plan asset allocation differs per plan. The allocation of plan assets was as follows: The Netherlands United States Rest of world € million 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Equity instruments: Consumer goods 236 196 23 32 — — Financial services 262 214 62 60 — — Telecommunications and information 110 90 38 68 — — Energy and utilities 71 62 32 22 — — Industry 127 101 15 21 — — Other 6 5 76 51 — — Debt instruments: Government 1,082 1,177 140 152 — — Corporate bonds (investment grade) 1,289 1,238 252 344 — — Corporate bonds (non-investment grade) 12 13 34 44 — — Other — — 61 — — — Real estate: Retail 18 20 — — — — Offices 8 18 — — — — Residential 7 11 — — — — Other — — 48 48 — — Investment funds 1,048 917 216 341 — — Insurance contracts 1 — — — 202 199 Derivatives: Interest rate swaps (105) 9 — — — — Forward foreign exchange contracts 26 (37) — — — — Cash and cash equivalents 429 403 18 25 — — Other (8) (6) 56 — — — Total 4,619 4,431 1,071 1,208 202 199 Virtually all equity and debt instruments have quoted prices in active markets. Derivatives can be classified as level 2 instruments, and real estate and some investment funds as level 3 instruments based on the definitions in IFRS 13, “Fair Value Measurement.” It is the policy of the Dutch pension plan to use interest rate swaps to partially hedge its exposure to interest rate risk on the pension liability. Foreign currency exposures are hedged by the use of forward foreign exchange contracts. In the Netherlands, the plan assets are managed by outside investment managers following investment strategies based on the composition of the plan liabilities. With the aid of asset liability management modeling, analyses are made of possible future economic scenarios and investment portfolios. Based on these analyses, investment strategies are determined to produce optimal investment returns at acceptable funding ratio risk levels. Less favorable years can be part of these scenarios. Currently, the strategic targets for asset allocation of the Dutch pension plan are: 40% variable yield and 60% fixed income. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 185 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued In the United States, the plan assets are managed by outside investment managers and rebalanced periodically. The committees for the various U.S. plans establish investment policies and strategies and regularly monitor the performance of the assets, including the selection of investment managers, setting long-term strategic targets and monitoring asset allocations. Target allocation ranges are guidelines, not limitations, subject to variation from time to time or as circumstances warrant. Occasionally, the committees may approve allocations above or below a target range. Pension plan assets are invested in a trust intended to comply with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended, and applicable fiduciary standards. The long-term investment objective for the plan’s assets is to maintain an acceptable funding ratio of the plan’s assets and liabilities without undue exposure to risk. Currently, the strategic targets are: 35% equity securities, 45% debt securities and 20% other investments. In 2017, the Dutch plan had €1.3 million of plan assets invested in Ahold Delhaize’s financial instruments (2016: €1.2 million). In 2017 or 2016, the U.S. plans did not have any plan assets invested in Ahold Delhaize financial instruments. The actual return on plan assets in 2017 was 3.0% for the Dutch plan (2016: 10.7%) and 15.5% for the Ahold USA pension plan (2016: 6.1%). Benefit maturities The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations of the plans in the Netherlands, U.S., and the rest of world are 25.6, 14.9, and 11.4 years, respectively. The expected schedule of benefit payments for the plans are as follows. € million The Netherlands United States Rest of world Total Amount due within one year 86 67 4 157 Amount due between two and five years 344 288 37 669 Amount due between six and ten years 506 396 60 962 Defined contribution plans The Company operates defined contribution plans in the Netherlands, United States, Belgium, Greece and the Czech Republic. As mentioned above, the defined contribution plans in Belgium are accounted for as defined benefit plans due to the guaranteed return elements of the plans. The largest defined contribution plans exist in the United States, where the Company sponsors profit-sharing retirement plans that include a 401(k) feature that permits participating employees to make elective deferrals of their compensation and requires the Company to make matching contributions. During 2017 and 2016, the Company contributed €85 million and €63 million, respectively, to its defined contribution plans. These contributions were recognized as an expense in the income statement and related entirely to continuing operations in 2017 and 2016. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 186 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued Multi-employer plans A significant number of union employees in the United States are covered by multi-employer plans based on obligations arising from collective bargaining agreements. These plans provide retirement and other benefits to participants generally based on their service to contributing employers. The benefits are paid from assets held in trust for that purpose. Trustees are appointed in equal number by employers and unions and they are typically responsible for oversight of the investment of the assets and administration of the plan. Contribution rates and, in some instances, benefit levels are generally determined through the collective bargaining process between the participating employers and unions. None of the Company’s collective bargaining agreements require that a minimum funding requirement exists for these plans. Most of these plans are defined contribution plans. All plans that are defined benefit plans, on the basis of the terms of the benefits provided, are accounted for as defined contribution plans because, among other things, there is insufficient information available to account for these plans as defined benefit plans. These plans are generally flat dollar benefit plans. Ahold Delhaize is only one of several employers participating in most of these plans and in the event that Ahold Delhaize withdraws from a plan, its allocable share of the plan’s obligations (with certain exceptions) is based upon unfunded vested benefits in the plan at the time of such withdrawal. Ahold Delhaize’s obligation to pay for its allocable share of a plan’s unfunded vested benefits is called a withdrawal liability. The withdrawal liability payable by Ahold Delhaize at such time as it experiences a withdrawal from a plan, is based upon the applicable statutory formula, plan computation methods and actuarial assumptions, and the amount of the plan’s unfunded benefits as of the date of the withdrawal. Ahold Delhaize does not have sufficient information to accurately determine its ratable share of plan obligations and assets following defined benefit accounting principles and the financial statements of the multi-employer plans are drawn up on the basis of other accounting policies than those applied by Ahold Delhaize. Consequently, these multi-employer plans are not included in the Company’s balance sheet. The risks of participating in multi-employer plans are different from the risks of single employer plans. Ahold Delhaize’s contributions are pooled with the contributions of other contributing employers, and are therefore used to provide benefits to employees of such other participating employers. If other participating employers cease to participate in the plan without paying their allocable portion of the plan’s unfunded obligations, this could result in increases in the amount of the plan’s unfunded benefits and, thus, Ahold Delhaize’s future contributions. Similarly, if a number of employers cease to have employees participating in the plan, Ahold Delhaize could be responsible for an increased share of the plan’s deficit. If Ahold Delhaize seeks to withdraw from a multiemployer plan, it must obtain the agreement of the applicable unions and, in connection therewith, it will likely be required to pay a withdrawal liability. In the event a multi-employer plan in which Ahold Delhaize participates becomes insolvent, Ahold Delhaize may be required to increase its contributions, in certain circumstances, to fund the payment of benefits by such multi-employer plan. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 187 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued Defined benefit plans Ahold Delhaize participates in 11 multi-employer pension plans that are defined benefit plans on the basis of the terms of the benefits provided. The estimate of the Company’s net proportionate share of the plans’ deficits is based on the latest available information received from these plans, such as the plans’ measurement of plan assets and the use of discount rates between 6.5% and 8.0%. The Company’s participation in these multi-employer plans is outlined in the following tables. The EIN / Pension Plan Number column provides the Employer Identification Number (EIN) and the three-digit pension plan number. Multi-employer pension plans, similar to all pension plans, in the U.S. are regulated by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA), and the Multi-employer Pension Reform Act of 2014 (MPRA) among other legislation. Under the PPA, plans are categorized as “endangered” (Yellow Zone), “seriously endangered” (Orange Zone), “critical” (Red Zone), or neither endangered nor critical (Green Zone), primarily based on three measures: the plan’s funded percentage, the number of years before the plan is projected to have a minimum funding deficiency under ERISA and the number of years before the plan is projected to become insolvent. A plan is in the “Yellow Zone” if the funded percentage is less than 80% or a minimum funding deficiency is projected within seven years. If both of these triggers are reached, the plan is in the “Orange Zone.” Generally, a plan is in the “Red Zone” if a funding deficiency is projected at any time in the next four years (or five years if the funded percentage is less than 65%). Plans with a funding ratio above 80% are designated as being in the “Green Zone.” Multi-employer plans in endangered or critical status are required by U.S. law to develop either a funding improvement plan (FIP) or a rehabilitation plan (RP) to enhance funding through reductions in benefits, increases in contributions, or both. The FIP / RP Status Pending / Implemented column in the table below indicates plans for which an FIP or an RP is pending or has been implemented. Additional information regarding the multi-employer plans listed in the following tables can be found on the website of the U.S. Department of Labor (www.efast.dol.gov). Expiration December 31, 2017 FIP/RP Date of Ahold Delhaize’s ERISA status Year of CollectivePlan Ahold proportionate € million, except Ahold Delhaize’s participation EIN / Pension Zone pending/ Form Bargaining Annual deficit / Delhaize’s share of deficit percentages Plan Number Status implemented 5500 Agreement contributions (surplus) participation (surplus) FELRA & UFCW Food Pension Fund 52-6128473/001 Red Implemented 2016 October 26, 2019 22 1,156 55.3% 640 (Critical and Declining) Mid-Atlantic UFCW & Participating 46-1000515/001 Green No 2016 October 26, 2019 9 (7) 60.1% (4) Employers Pension Fund New England Teamsters & Trucking 04-6372430/001 Red Implemented 2015 March 30, 2019 6 – 2.9% – (Critical and Industry Pension Declining) UFCW Local 1262 & Employers 22-6074414/001 Red Implemented 2016 October 23, 2023 7 71 26.9% 19 – February 10, Pension Fund 2024 United Food & Commercial Workers 51-6055922/001 Green No 2015 February 23, 20 (115) 20.0% (23) 2019: October 31, International Union – Industry 2020 Pension Fund UFCW Local 1500 Pension Plan 23-7176372/001 Yellow Implemented 2016 February 3, 2018 10 140 38.9% 54 Warehouse Employees’ Union Local 52-6124754/001 Red Implemented 2016 March 14, 2022 3 96 82.9% 79 (Critical and 730 Pension Trust Fund Declining) Other plans 6 5,602 0.9% (5) Total 83 6,943 760 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 188 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued Expiration January 1, 2017 FIP/RP Date of Ahold Delhaize’s ERISA status Year of CollectivePlan Ahold proportionate € million, except Ahold Delhaize’s participation EIN / Pension Zone pending/ Form Bargaining Annual deficit / Delhaize’s share of deficit percentages Plan Number Status implemented 5500 Agreement contributions (surplus) participation (surplus) FELRA & UFCW Food Pension Fund 52-6128473/001 Red Implemented 2015 October 26, 2019 22 1,149 58.3% 669 (Critical and Declining) Mid-Atlantic UFCW & Participating 46-1000515/001 Green No 2015 October 26, 2019 11 1 61.1% 1 Employers Pension Fund New England Teamsters & Trucking 04-6372430/001 Red Implemented 2015 March 30, 2019 6 – 2.9% – Industry Pension UFCW Local 1262 & Employers 22-6074414/001 Red Implemented 2015 October 23, 2023 7 140 23.1% 32 – February 10, Pension Fund 2024 United Food & Commercial Workers 51-6055922/001 Green No 2014 February 23, 19 17 21.7% 4 2019: October 31, International Union – Industry 2020 Pension Fund UFCW Local 1500 Pension Plan 23-7176372/001 Yellow Implemented 2015 February 3, 2018 10 172 30.5% 52 Warehouse Employees’ Union Local 52-6124754/001 Red Implemented 2015 March 14, 2022 3 113 82.6% 93 (Critical and 730 Pension Trust Fund Declining) Other plans 5 7,321 0.9% 14 Total 83 8,913 865 If the underfunded liabilities of the multi-employer pension plans are not reduced, either by improved market conditions, reduction in benefits, or collective bargaining changes, increased future payments by the Company and the other participating employers may result. However, all future increases will be subject to the collective bargaining process. In 2018, the Company expects its contributions to decrease to €80 million. Ahold Delhaize has a risk of increased contributions and withdrawal liability if any of the participating employers in an underfunded multi-employer plan withdraw from the plan or become insolvent and are no longer able to meet their contribution requirements or if the multi-employer plan itself no longer has sufficient assets available to fund its short-term obligations to the participants in the plan. Any adjustment for a withdrawal liability will be recorded when it is probable that a liability exists and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Except for the UFCW Local #338 withdrawal liability payment mentioned below, no other withdrawal payments were incurred or included in the 2017 and 2016 contributions disclosed above. During 2015, Stop & Shop reached an agreement with UFCW Local #338 whereby Stop & Shop was allowed to withdraw from the pension plan. The withdrawal occurred in September 2015 and resulted in a $12 million (€11 million) withdrawal liability. The settlement of the liability was made in installments, with $6 million paid at the time of withdrawal and the second and third installments, of $3 million each, paid in May and October of 2016. Defined contribution plans Ahold Delhaize also participates in 39 multi-employer plans that are defined contribution plans on the basis of the terms of the benefits provided. The majority of these plans provide health and welfare benefits. The Company contributed €264 million and €276 million to multi-employer defined contribution plans during 2017 and 2016, respectively. These contributions are recognized as an expense in the consolidated income statement and related entirely to continuing operations in 2017 and 2016. These plans vary significantly in size, with contributions to the three largest plans representing 52% of total contributions. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 189 24 Provisions The table below specifies the changes in total provisions (current and non-current): SelfClaims Severance and insurance Loyalty and legal termination Onerous € million program programs disputes benefits contracts Other Total As of January 1, 2017 Current portion 261 15 3 51 32 21 383 Non-current portion 624 16 78 34 114 65 931 Carrying amount 885 31 81 85 146 86 1,314 Year ended December 31, 2017 Additions charged to income 301 17 16 83 47 6 470 Acquisitions through business combinations — — 4 — — — 4 Used during the year (309) (19) (9) (59) (66) (14) (476) Released to income — — (12) (6) (8) (4) (30) Interest accretion 15 — 1 1 6 — 23 Effect of changes in discount rates (13) — — — — — (13) Other movements — — — — 10 — 10 Exchange rate differences (110) — (2) (4) (18) (5) (139) Closing carrying amount 769 29 79 100 117 69 1,163 As of December 31, 2017 Current portion 208 13 16 72 26 20 355 Non-current portion 561 16 63 28 91 49 808 Maturities of total provisions as of December 31, 2017, are as follows: SelfClaims Severance and insurance Loyalty and legal termination Onerous € million program programs disputes benefits contracts Other Total Amount due within one year 208 13 16 72 26 20 355 Amount due between one and five years 359 16 36 26 54 13 504 Amount due after five years 202 — 27 2 37 36 304 Total 769 29 79 100 117 69 1,163 Self-insurance program Ahold Delhaize is self-insured for certain potential losses, mainly relating to general liability, vehicle liability, workers’ compensation and property losses incurred by its subsidiaries. The maximum self-insurance retention per occurrence, including defense costs, is $2 million (€2 million) for general liability, $5 million (€4 million) for commercial vehicle liability, $5 million (€4 million) for workers’ compensation, and $10 million (€8 million) and $5 million (€4 million) for property losses in the U.S. and Europe, respectively. Part of the self-insured risk is ceded under a reinsurance treaty, which is a pooling arrangement between unrelated companies; see Note 15. The measurement of the self-insurance provisions involves the following estimates and judgments to be made regarding future claim patterns, which include estimates on the number of future claims, timing and amount of payment of damages, and costs associated with the settlement of future claims. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 190 24 Provisions continued Loyalty programs This provision relates to a third-party customer loyalty program in the Netherlands and reflects the estimated cost of benefits to which customers participating in the loyalty program are entitled. When measuring the provision for loyalty programs, management estimates the expected timing of the redemptions by customers and the expected breakage (benefits granted but never redeemed). Claims and legal disputes The Company is a party to a number of legal proceedings arising out of its business operations. Such legal proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties. Management, supported by internal and external legal counsel, where appropriate, determines whether it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle an obligation. If this is the case, the best estimate of the outflow of resources is recognized. Severance and termination benefits This provision relates to payments to employees whose employment with the Company has ended, either as part of a restructuring or a voluntary separation plan. The measurement of the provision involves estimates and judgments about the population and number of employees that will ultimately be affected by the plans, estimates of salary ranges used to measure future cash flows, and assumptions of periods of service, if relevant. The current year additions to the provision relate mainly to benefits offered to employees affected by the creation of the brand-centric organization and other restructurings in the U.S., as well as a restructuring of the supply chain in Belgium. Onerous contracts Onerous contract provisions relate to unfavorable contracts where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contracts exceed the benefits expected to be received. The judgments and estimates made in the measurement of onerous contracts relate to future costs anticipated to be incurred and any potential remedies available, for instance renegotiation with landlords, assignment of leases and subleasing possibilities. The current year Other movement amount represents the reclassification of finance lease liability balances with their related onerous contract costs. Other Other provisions include long-term incentives, jubilee payments, asset retirement obligations, provisions for environmental risks, and supplemental medical benefits. The judgments and estimates made in the measurement of these provisions relate to the estimated costs to be incurred at an unknown future date. 25 Other non-current liabilities December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Step rent accruals 268 295 Unfavorable lease obligations 191 239 Deferred income 49 20 Other 21 24 Total other non-current liabilities 529 578 Step rent accruals relate to the equalization of rent payments from lease contracts with scheduled fixed rent increases throughout the life of the contract. Unfavorable lease obligations are recognized as part of a business combination and represent the present value of the excess of contracted rent payments over the market rents as measured on the date of the acquisition. The obligation is released to rent expense on a straight-line basis over the remaining term of the lease. Deferred income predominantly represents the non-current portions of deferred income on vendor allowances and deferred gains on sale and leaseback transactions. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 191 26 Other current financial liabilities December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Finance lease liabilities – current portion (see Note 22) 177 199 Interest payable 40 59 Short-term borrowings 64 57 Bank overdrafts 1,368 1,196 Dividend cumulative preferred financing shares 18 20 Reinsurance liabilities – current portion (see Note 15) 69 81 Loans – current portion (see Note 21) 468 539 Derivative financial instruments — 18 Other 6 9 Total other current financial liabilities 2,210 2,178 Bank overdrafts includes an amount of €1,367 million (January 1, 2017: €1,184 million) which relates to the overdraft position of a notional cash pooling arrangement. This bank overdraft is fully offset by an identical amount included under Cash and cash equivalents (see Notes 19 and 30). 27 Other current liabilities December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Accrued expenses 1,149 1,169 Compensated absences 462 494 Payroll taxes, social security and VAT 454 469 Deferred income 67 36 Gift card and deposit liabilities 147 136 Other 48 47 Total other current liabilities 2,327 2,351 Other mainly includes the current portion of unfavorable lease obligations and step rent accruals. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 192 28 Cash flow The following table presents the reconciliation between the cash and cash equivalents as presented in the statement of cash flows and as presented on the balance sheet: December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Cash and cash equivalents as presented in the statement of cash flows 4,542 3,990 Restricted cash 39 42 Cash and cash equivalents as presented on the balance sheet 4,581 4,032 The following tables present additional cash flow information: € million 2017 2016 Non-cash investing activities Accounts payable at year-end related to purchased non-current assets 204 240 Assets acquired under finance leases from continuing operations 68 71 Acquisition of businesses (see Note 4) Total purchase consideration (54) (10,811) Ordinary shares issued — 10,761 Replacement awards issued — 4 Cash acquired 4 2,251 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (50) 2,205 Divestments of businesses Net cash flows related to BI-LO / Bruno's (3) (4) Divestment of businesses (3) (4) Cash divested — — Divestment of businesses, net of cash divested (3) (4) Reconciliation between results on divestments of discontinued operations and cash (paid) received Result on divestments of discontinued operations before income taxes — — Changes in accounts receivable / payable and provisions – net (3) (4) Divestment of businesses (3) (4) Cash divested — — Divestment of businesses, net of cash divested (3) (4) Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 193 28 Cash flow continued Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2017 and January 1, 2017: Cumulative Short term Finance lease preferred borrowings and Derivative Derivative € million Loans liabilities financing shares2 bank overdrafts assets3 liabilities Total As of January 1, 2017 3,850 1,960 497 1,253 (299) 63 7,324 Proceeds from long-term debt1 743 — — — — — 743 Acquisitions through business combinations — 3 — — — — 3 Repayments of loans and finance lease liabilities (474) (190) — — — — (664) Changes in short-term borrowings and overdrafts — — — 212 — — 212 Other cash flows from derivatives3 — — — — 274 (12) 262 Fair value changes 1 – – – 25 (33) (7) Additions to finance lease liabilities — 68 — — — — 68 Termination of finance leases — (13) — – — — (13) Other non-cash movements (42) (18) (42) — — — (102) Exchange rate differences (321) (203) — (33) — — (557) As of December 31, 2017 3,757 1,607 455 1,432 — 18 7,269 1 The amount is net of deferred financing costs of €8 million of which €4 million was included in ‘’Other’’ within financing cash flows from continuing operations in the statement of cash flows. 2 During 2017, at the request of the holder of these shares, Ahold Delhaize converted 45,000,000 cumulative preferred financing shares into 2,515,827 common shares (see Note 22). 3 Other cash flows from derivatives of €274 million represents the amount for the settlement of the GBP 250 million cross-currency swap net of the last semiannual installment of $14 million (see Note 21). Cumulative Short term Finance lease preferred borrowings and Derivative Derivative € million Loans liabilities financing shares bank overdrafts assets liabilities2 Total As of January 3, 2016 1,553 1,400 497 52 (338) 210 3,374 Acquisitions through business combinations 2,538 603 — 993 (10) 60 4,184 Repayments of loans and finance lease liabilities1 (323) (141) — — — — (464) Changes in short-term borrowings and overdrafts — — — 209 — — 209 Other cash flows from derivatives2 — — — — (31) (229) (260) Fair value changes 5 — — — 80 22 107 Additions to finance lease liabilities — 71 — — — — 71 Termination of finance leases – (4) — — — — (4) Other non-cash movements (20) (26) — — — — (46) Exchange rate differences 97 57 — (1) — — 153 As of January 1, 2017 3,850 1,960 497 1,253 (299) 63 7,324 1 Repayments of loans as presented in the statement of cash flows included €24 million of premium paid for the settlement of JPY33 billion notes. 2 Other cash flows from derivatives of €229 million represented the amount for the settlement of the cross-currency swap, related to the JPY33 billion notes. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 194 29 Earnings per share The calculation of basic and diluted net income per share attributable to common shareholders is based on the following data: 2017 2016 Earnings (€ million) Net income attributable to common shareholders for the purposes of basic earnings per share 1,817 830 Effect of dilutive potential common shares – reversal of preferred dividend1 19 — Net income attributable to common shareholders for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 1,836 830 Number of shares (in millions) Weighted average number of common shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 1,251 1,022 Effect of dilutive potential common shares: Conditional shares from share-based compensation programs 5 9 Cumulative preferred financing shares1 25 — Weighted average number of common shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 1,281 1,031 1 In 2016, the effect of the preferred financing shares is anti-dilutive. The preferred dividend in 2016 is €21 million and the number of cumulative preferred financing shares outstanding is 25 million. The calculation of the basic and diluted income from continuing operations per share attributable to common shareholders is based on the same number of shares as detailed above and the following earnings data: € million 2017 2016 Income from continuing operations, attributable to common shareholders for the purposes of basic earnings per share 1,817 830 Effect of dilutive potential common shares – reversal of preferred dividend1 19 — Income from continuing operations, attributable to common shareholders for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 1,836 830 1 In 2016, the effect of the preferred financing shares is anti-dilutive. The preferred dividend in 2016 is €21 million and the number of cumulative preferred financing shares outstanding is 25 million. Both basic and diluted income per share from discontinued operations attributable to common shareholders amounted to nil for 2017 and 2016. They are based on the income from discontinued operations attributable to common shareholders of nil (2016: income of nil) and the denominators detailed above. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 195 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments Financial risk management Ahold Delhaize is exposed to a variety of financial risks including currency, interest rate, funding, liquidity, and counterparty risks. The financial risk management is centralized through the Treasury function which operates within a framework of policies and procedures that is reviewed regularly. Ahold Delhaize’s Management Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Treasury risk management framework. Ahold Delhaize’s management reviews material changes to Treasury policies and receives information related to Treasury activities. The Treasury function does not operate as a profit center and manages the financial risks that arise in relation to underlying business needs. In accordance with its Treasury policies, Ahold Delhaize uses derivative instruments solely for the purpose of hedging exposures. These exposures are mainly the result of interest rate and currency risks arising from the Company’s operations and its sources of financing. Ahold Delhaize does not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. The transaction of derivative instruments is restricted to Treasury personnel only and Ahold Delhaize’s Internal Control department reviews the Treasury internal control environment regularly. Relationships with credit rating agencies and monitoring of key credit ratios are also managed by the Treasury department. Currency risk Ahold Delhaize operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from currency exposures, primarily with respect to the U.S. dollar. Since Ahold Delhaize's subsidiaries primarily purchase and sell in local currencies, the Company’s exposure to exchange rate movements in its commercial operations is naturally limited. The Company is subject to foreign currency exchange risks due to exchange rate movements in connection with the translation of its foreign subsidiaries’ income, assets and liabilities into euros for inclusion in its consolidated financial statements. Translation risk related to Ahold Delhaize’s foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is not actively hedged; however, the Company aims to minimize this exposure by funding its foreign operations in their functional currency, wherever feasible. To protect the value of future foreign currency cash flows, including loan and interest payments, lease payments, dividends and firm purchase commitments, and the value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency, Ahold Delhaize seeks to mitigate its foreign currency exchange exposure by borrowing in local currency and entering into various financial instruments, including forward contracts and currency swaps. It is Ahold Delhaize’s policy to cover foreign exchange transaction exposure in relation to existing assets, liabilities and firm purchase commitments. Foreign currency sensitivity analysis As of December 31, 2017, Ahold Delhaize carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to changes in foreign exchange rates to revalue all monetary assets and liabilities (including derivative financial instruments) in a currency other than the functional currency of the subsidiary in its balance sheet at year-end. Assuming the euro had strengthened (weakened) by 10% against the U.S. dollar compared to the actual 2017 rate, with all other variables held constant, the hypothetical result on income before income taxes would have been a decrease (increase) of €1 million (2016: nil), as a result of foreign exchange revaluation of U.S. dollar-denominated cash and cash equivalents held by non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries. Interest rate risk Ahold Delhaize’s outstanding debt position is exposed to changes in interest rates. To manage interest rate risk, Ahold Delhaize has an interest rate management policy aimed at reducing volatility in its interest expense and maintaining a target percentage of its debt in fixed-rate instruments. As of December 31, 2017, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps, the entirety of Ahold Delhaize’s long-term debt was at fixed rates of interest (2016: 100%). Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 196 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Interest rate sensitivity analysis The total interest expense recognized in the 2017 income statement related to the variable rates of long-term debt, net of swaps, amounted to nil (2016: €2 million). An increase (decrease) in market interest rates by 25 basis points, with all other variables (including foreign exchange rates) held constant, would have resulted in a loss (gain) of nil (2016: nil). In addition, a similar increase (decrease) in market interest rates would have resulted in a fair-value gain of €6 million or a loss of €6 million, respectively (2016: a gain of €1 million or a loss of nil, respectively) on derivative hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting. The total interest income recognized in the 2017 income statement amounted to €32 million (2016: €15 million), mainly related to variable rate money market fund investments and deposits. The Company estimates that with a possible increase (decrease) of euro and U.S. dollar market interest rates of 25 basis points with all other variables (including foreign exchange rates) held constant, this would have resulted in a gain of €5 million or a loss of €5 million, respectively (2016: gain of €5 million or a loss of €5 million). The above sensitivity analyses are for illustrative purposes only as, in practice, market rates rarely change in isolation from other factors that also affect Ahold Delhaize’s financial position and results. Credit risk Ahold Delhaize has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Sales to retail customers are made in cash, checks and debit cards, or via major credit cards. Sales to franchisees are done on credit. The concentration of credit risk with respect to receivables is limited, as the Company’s customer base and vendor base are large and unrelated. As a result, management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal individual and collective impairment, based on an aging analysis performed as of December 31, 2017. For further discussion on Ahold Delhaize’s receivables, see Notes 15 and 17. Financial transactions are predominantly entered into with investment grade financial institutions. The Company requires a minimum short-term rating of A1/P1 and a minimum long-term rating of A3/Afor its deposit and investment products. The Company may deviate from this requirement from time to time for operational reasons. With respect to credit risk, derivative contracts with counterparties are entered into primarily under the standard terms and conditions of the International Swap and Derivatives Association (ISDA). With certain counterparties, Ahold Delhaize has credit support annexes in place that materially reduce the counterparty risk exposure as a result of contractual exchange of cash collateral. Ahold Delhaize has policies that limit the amount of counterparty credit exposure to any single financial institution or investment vehicle and actively monitors these exposures. Counterparty risk is measured by adding the nominal value of cash, short-term deposits and marketable securities, and the mark-to-market of derivative instruments, netted with the collateral posted, if any. As a result, the highest exposure to a single financial counterparty, excluding AAA-rated money market funds, on December 31, 2017, amounted to €307 million (January 1, 2017: €299 million). Offsetting of financial instruments Ahold Delhaize has several financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to offsetting or enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements. Cash pool The Company has implemented a cash pool system, allowing a more efficient management of the daily working capital needs of the participating operating entities. The settlement mechanism of the cash pool is provided by an external financial counterparty. The cash pool system provides that the Company is exposed to a single net amount with that financial counterparty rather than the gross amount of several current accounts and bank overdraft balances with multiple financial counterparties. From an operational perspective the balances in the cash pool are netted. However, in accordance with the guidance of IAS 32 regarding the offsetting of debit and credit balances for financial reporting purposes, these balances have to be presented on a gross basis on the balance sheet (see Notes 19 and 26). Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 197 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued ISDA master agreements for derivatives The Company has entered into several ISDA master agreements in connection with its derivative transactions. In general, under such agreements the amounts owed by each counterparty to another on the same day in respect of the same transaction payable in the same currency are aggregated into a single net amount that is payable by one party to the other. Under certain circumstances if all transactions under the ISDA master agreement are terminated, e.g., when a credit event such as payment default occurs, the termination value is assessed and only a single net amount is payable in the settlement of all transactions governed by the ISDA master agreement. The ISDA agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the balance sheet. This is because the Company does not currently have a legally enforceable right to offset recognized amounts, because the right to offset is enforceable only on the occurrence of a future event such as a default. ISDAs are considered to be master netting arrangements for IFRS 7 disclosure purposes. The following table shows the maximum exposure of the Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to offset or enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements. Amounts not offset in the balance sheet but subject to master netting arrangements (or similar) Financial instruments Gross amounts that are offset Net amounts presented Financial Cash collateral € million in the balance sheet in the balance sheet in the balance sheet assets/liabilities received/pledged Net exposure Assets Derivative financial assets — — — — — — Cash and cash equivalents 1,444 — 1,444 — 1,367 77 Total 1,444 — 1,444 — 1,367 77 Liabilities Derivative financial liabilities 18 — 18 — — 18 Bank overdrafts 1,367 — 1,367 — 1,367 — Total 1,385 — 1,385 — 1,367 18 Liquidity risk Ahold Delhaize views available cash balances and funds from operating activities as its primary sources of liquidity, complemented with access to external sources of funds when deemed to be required. Ahold Delhaize manages short-term liquidity based on projected cash flows. As of December 31, 2017, the Company’s liquidity position primarily consisted of €3,380 million of cash (including short-term deposits and similar instruments and the current portion of assets available-for-sale, adjusted for cash held under a notional cash pooling arrangement), and the undrawn €1 billion revolving credit facility. Based on the current operating performance and liquidity position, the Company believes that cash provided by operating activities and available cash balances will be sufficient for working capital, capital expenditures, interest payments, dividends, the announced €2 billion share buyback program, and scheduled debt repayments for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. In addition, the Company has access to the amount available on its revolving credit facility and to the debt capital markets based on its current credit ratings. The following tables summarize the expected maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities (including derivatives) as of December 31, 2017, and January 1, 2017, respectively, based on contractual undiscounted payments. All financial liabilities held at the reporting date, for which payments are already contractually agreed, have been included. Amounts in foreign currency have been translated using the reporting date closing rate. Cash flows arising from financial instruments carrying variable interest payments have been calculated using the forward curve interest rates as of December 31, 2017, and January 1, 2017, respectively. See Note 34 for the liquidity risk related to guarantees. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 198 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Year ended December 31, 2017 Contractual cash flows Between Net carrying Within 1 and After € million amount 1 year 5 years 5 years Total Non-derivative financial liabilities Notes (3,407) (547) (988) (3,272) (4,807) Other loans (3) — (1) (2) (3) Financing obligations (325) (44) (165) (120) (329) Mortgages payable (22) (2) (15) (10) (27) Finance lease liabilities (1,607) (271) (894) (1,067) (2,232) Cumulative preferred financing shares1 (455) (18) (46) (6) (70) Accounts payable (5,277) (5,277) — — (5,277) Short-term borrowings (1,432) (1,432) — — (1,432) Reinsurance liabilities (205) (72) (120) (22) (214) Other (75) (13) (6) (39) (58) Derivative financial liabilities Cross-currency swaps and foreign currency derivatives (18) (4) (14) (29) (47) 1 Cumulative preferred financing shares have no maturity. For the purposes of the table above, the future dividend cash flows were calculated until the coupon reset date of each of the four share-series (2018, 2020, 2023 and 2026). No liability redemption was assumed. Actual cash flows may differ; see Note 22. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 199 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Year ended January 1, 2017 Contractual cash flows Between Net carrying Within 1 and After € million amount 1 year 5 years 5 years Total Non-derivative financial liabilities Notes (3,434) (640) (1,471) (2,986) (5,097) Other loans (5) (2) — (3) (5) Financing obligations (385) (51) (191) (180) (422) Mortgages payable (26) (3) (19) (12) (34) Finance lease liabilities (1,960) (318) (1,083) (1,370) (2,771) Cumulative preferred financing shares1 (497) (19) (64) (12) (95) Accounts payable (5,389) (5,389) — — (5,389) Short-term borrowings (1,253) (1,253) — — (1,253) Reinsurance liabilities (234) (84) (135) (23) (242) Other (89) (14) (7) (56) (77) Derivative financial liabilities Cross-currency swaps and foreign currency derivatives (63) (26) (19) (62) (107) 1 Cumulative preferred financing shares have no maturity. For the purposes of the table above, the future dividend cash flows were calculated until the coupon reset date of each of the four share-series (2018, 2020, 2023 and 2026). No liability redemption was assumed. Credit ratings Maintaining investment grade credit ratings is a cornerstone of Ahold Delhaize’s strategy because such ratings serve to lower the cost of funds and facilitate access to a variety of lenders and markets. Ahold Delhaize’s current credit ratings from the solicited rating agencies are as follows: • Standard & Poor’s: corporate credit rating BBB, with a stable outlook as of June 2009 (previous rating BBBassigned in 2007). • Moody’s: issuer credit rating Baa1, with a stable outlook as of February 2018 (previous rating Baa2 assigned in August 2015). Capital risk management The Company’s primary objective in terms of managing capital is the optimization of its debt and equity balances in order to sustain the future development of the business, maintain its investment grade credit rating and maximize shareholder value. Ahold Delhaize may balance its overall capital structure in a number of ways, including through the payment of dividends, capital repayment, new share issues and share buybacks as well as the issuance of new debt or the redemption of existing debt. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 200 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Financial instruments Fair values of financial instruments The following table presents the fair values of financial instruments, based on Ahold Delhaize’s categories of financial instruments, including current portions, compared to the carrying amounts at which these instruments are included on the balance sheet: December 31, 2017 January 1, 2017 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair € million amount value amount value Loans receivable 59 65 66 75 Trade and other (non-)current receivables 1,605 1,605 1,600 1,600 Reinsurance assets 195 195 220 220 Total loans and receivables 1,859 1,865 1,886 1,895 Cash and cash equivalents 4,581 4,581 4,032 4,032 Short-term deposits and similar instruments 9 9 110 110 Derivatives — — 299 299 Available-for-sale 167 167 186 186 Total financial assets 6,616 6,622 6,513 6,522 Notes (3,407) (3,518) (3,434) (3,442) Other loans (3) (3) (5) (5) Financing obligations (325) (291) (385) (366) Mortgages payable (22) (23) (26) (29) Finance lease liabilities (1,607) (1,932) (1,960) (2,396) Cumulative preferred financing shares (455) (491) (497) (549) Dividend cumulative preferred financing shares (18) (18) (20) (20) Accounts payable (5,277) (5,277) (5,389) (5,389) Short-term borrowings (1,432) (1,432) (1,253) (1,253) Interest payable (40) (40) (59) (59) Reinsurance liabilities (205) (205) (234) (234) Other (75) (81) (89) (97) Total non-derivative financial liabilities (12,866) (13,311) (13,351) (13,839) Derivatives (18) (18) (63) (63) Total financial liabilities (12,884) (13,329) (13,414) (13,902) Of Ahold Delhaize’s categories of financial instruments, only derivatives, assets available-for-sale and reinsurance assets (liabilities) are measured and recognized on the balance sheet at fair value. These fair value measurements are categorized within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The Company uses inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices). The fair value of derivative instruments is measured by using either a market or income approach (mainly present value techniques). Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates that match the maturity of the contracts. Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of expected future cash flows. Expected future cash flows are discounted by using the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 201 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued To the extent that no cash collateral is contractually required, the valuation of Ahold Delhaize’s derivative instruments is adjusted for the credit risk of the counterparty, called Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA), and adjusted for Ahold Delhaize's own credit risk, called Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA). The valuation technique for the CVA / DVA calculation is based on relevant observable market inputs. No CVA / DVA adjustments are made to the valuation of certain derivative instruments, for which both Ahold Delhaize and its counterparties are required to post or redeem cash collaterals if the value of a derivative exceeds a threshold defined in the contractual provisions. Such cash collaterals materially reduce the impact of both the counterparty and Ahold Delhaize’s own non-performance risk on the value of the instrument. The portion of outstanding derivatives that was collateralized is specified as follows: December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 18 63 Total net derivative liabilities subject to collateralization 18 63 Collateralized amount — 17 The carrying amount of trade and other (non-)current receivables, cash and cash equivalents, accounts payable, short-term deposits and similar instruments, and other current financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair values because of the short-term nature of these instruments and, for receivables, because any recoverability loss is reflected in an impairment loss. The fair values of quoted borrowings for which an active market exists are based on yearend quoted prices. The fair value of other non-derivative financial assets and liabilities that are not traded in an active market are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses based on market rates prevailing at year-end. The fair value of the cumulative preferred financing shares is measured as the present value of expected future cash flows. Such cash flows include the dividend payments and the payments of the nominal value, plus paid-in capital. Expected future cash flows are discounted by using the yield curves derived from quoted interest rates and Credit Default Swap rates that match the maturity of the contracts. The conditions for redemption and conversion of the cumulative preferred financing shares are disclosed in Note 22. The accrued interest is included in other current financial liabilities (see Note 26) and not in the carrying amounts of non-derivative financial assets and liabilities. Short-term deposits and similar instruments (€9 million) contain short-term liquid investments that are considered part of Ahold Delhaize’s cash management financial assets. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 202 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Derivatives Fair values, notional amounts, maturities and the qualification of derivative financial instruments for accounting purposes are presented in the table below: December 31, 2017 January 1, 2017 Fair value Notional Fair value Notional € million Maturity Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities amount Forward foreign currency contracts1 Within 1 year — — 18 1 — 85 Cross-currency swap After 5 years — — — — — — Total cash flow hedges — — 18 1 — 85 Interest rate swaps2 Within 1 year — — — 15 — 293 Cross-currency swaps2,3 Within 1 year — — — 283 (18) 557 Cross-currency swaps After 5 years — (18) 188 — (45) 216 Total derivatives – no hedge accounting treatment — (18) 188 298 (63) 773 Total derivative financial instruments — (18) 206 299 (63) 858 1 Foreign currency forwards designated as cash flow hedges are used to hedge the future cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. 2 Interest rate swap and cross-currency swap relate to the same notional amount of GBP 250 million. 3 As of January 1, 2017, the valuation of the GBP 250 million cross-currency swap, related to the GBP 250 million notes, included the impact of the mark-to-market valuation of an embedded credit clause in the amount of nil. Ahold Delhaize was required under these swap contracts to redeem the U.S. dollar notional amount through semi-annual installments that commenced in September 2004. The notes were fully repaid on March 14, 2017 (see Note 21 for additional information). Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 203 31 Related party transactions Compensation of key management personnel Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company as a whole. The Company considers all members of the Executive Committee (ExCo) and the Supervisory Board to be key management personnel as defined in IAS 24 “Related parties.” At the end of 2017, the ExCo consisted of the Management Board and five other members. The total compensation of key management personnel in 2017 amounts to €31,372 thousand (2016: €24,969 thousand). This includes an estimate of additional wage tax relating to Board members leaving the Company due in accordance with Dutch tax laws in the amount of €1.9 million (2016: €0.1 million). (Service) Agreements with individual Management Board members Dick Boer In 2017, the Company provided Dick Boer with an annual base salary, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The annual base salary of €1,017 thousand was increased by 2% to €1,037 thousand, effective January 1, 2017. The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary performance. Unless Dick Boer’s employment agreement is otherwise terminated, he will be eligible for reappointment at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2019. If the Company terminates his employment agreement for reasons other than cause or because he is not reappointed by shareholders, Dick Boer is entitled to a severance payment equal to one year’s base salary. His employment agreement may be terminated by the Company with a notice period of 12 months and by Dick Boer with a notice period of six months. Dick Boer participates in the Company’s Dutch pension plan. Frans Muller In 2017, the Company provided Frans Muller with an annual base salary, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The annual base salary of €1,007 thousand was increased by 2% to €1,027 thousand, effective January 1, 2017. The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary performance. Furthermore, Frans Muller receives school fees and a temporary housing allowance. Effective August 1, 2017, the housing allowance of €7,500 net per month was reduced to €3,750. For the period October 5, 2016 until December 31, 2017, Frans Muller has received a temporary expat allowance related to his interim role at Delhaize America. Unless Frans Muller’s service agreement is otherwise terminated, he will be eligible for reappointment at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2020. If the Company terminates his service agreement for reasons other than cause or because he is not reappointed by shareholders, Frans Muller is entitled to a severance payment equal to one year’s base salary. His service agreement may be terminated by the Company with a notice period of 12 months and by Frans Muller with a notice period of six months. Frans Muller participates in the Company’s Belgian pension plan and will transition into the Company’s Dutch pension plan. Jeff Carr In 2017, the Company provided Jeff Carr with an annual base salary, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The annual base salary of €678 thousand was increased by 8% to €732 thousand, effective January 1, 2017. The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary performance. Furthermore, Jeff Carr receives a housing allowance. Effective July 23, 2017, the housing allowance of €7,000 net per month was reduced to €5,250. Unless Jeff Carr’s employment agreement is otherwise terminated, he will be eligible for reappointment at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2020. If the Company terminates his employment agreement for reasons other than cause or because he is not reappointed by shareholders, Jeff Carr is entitled to a severance payment equal to one year’s base salary and will receive retirement treatment on his unvested shares in case of termination in 2020 or beyond. His employment agreement may be terminated by the Company with a notice period of 12 months and by Jeff Carr with a notice period of six months. Jeff Carr participates in the Company’s Dutch pension plan. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 204 31 Related party transactions continued Kevin Holt In 2017, the Company provided Kevin Holt with an annual base salary, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The annual base salary of $925 thousand was increased by 7% to $990 thousand, effective May 1, 2017. The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary performance. Furthermore, Kevin Holt is entitled to receive a housing allowance of up to $7,500 net per month. Unless Kevin Holt’s employment agreement is otherwise terminated, he will be eligible for reappointment at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2020. If the Company terminates his employment agreement for reasons other than cause or because he is not reappointed by shareholders, Kevin Holt is entitled to a severance payment equal to one year’s base salary. His employment agreement may be terminated by the Company with a notice period of 12 months and by Kevin Holt with a notice period of six months. Kevin Holt participates in the Company’s U.S. pension plan. Pierre Bouchut In 2017, the Company provided Pierre Bouchut with an annual base salary, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The annual base salary of €641 thousand was increased by 2% to €654 thousand, effective January 1, 2017. The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary performance. Pierre Bouchut participates in the Company’s Belgian pension plan. On September 8, 2017, it was announced that Pierre Bouchut would retire in 2018. Pierre Bouchut stepped down from the Management Board and Executive Committee as of January 1, 2018, and will remain available as an advisor and for specific initiatives until July 1, 2018. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize will terminate as of August 31, 2018, without any severance payment due. James McCann In 2017, the Company provided James McCann with an annual base salary of €678 thousand, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary performance. Furthermore, James McCann received a housing allowance of $10,000 net per month. James McCann participated in the Company’s Dutch pension plan. On October 5, 2016, it was announced that James McCann has resigned as COO of Ahold USA and as a member of Ahold Delhaize’s Management Board. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize terminated on April 30, 2017, without any severance payment due. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 205 31 Related party transactions continued Remuneration of the Management Board by member Direct remuneration Deferred remuneration Total direct Share-based Total € thousand Base salary1 EIP 2 Other3 remuneration compensation6 Pensions7 remuneration Dick Boer 2017 1,037 991 329 2,357 2,088 132 4,577 2016 1,013 1,271 297 2,581 2,063 70 4,714 Frans Muller 2017 1,027 981 730 2,738 2,326 363 5,427 2016 446 323 192 961 1,168 163 2,292 Jeff Carr 2017 732 699 305 1,736 1,039 66 2,841 2016 675 773 297 1,745 1,026 31 2,802 Kevin Holt 2017 858 820 361 2,039 742 213 2,994 2016 329 252 15 596 221 60 877 Total 2017 3,654 3,491 1,725 8,870 6,195 774 15,839 Total 2016 2,463 2,619 801 5,883 4,478 324 10,685 Remuneration of the former members of the Management Board Direct remuneration Deferred remuneration Total direct Share-based Total € thousand Base salary1 EIP 2 Other3 remuneration compensation6 Pensions7 remuneration Pierre Bouchut4 2017 654 608 1,016 2,278 1,548 162 3,988 2016 280 184 113 577 684 72 1,333 James McCann5 2017 – – 264 264 — – 264 2016 514 590 2,501 3,605 421 31 4,057 Total 2017 654 608 1,280 2,542 1,548 162 4,252 Total 2016 794 774 2,614 4,182 1,105 103 5,390 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 206 31 Related party transactions continued Remuneration of the Executive Committee including Management Board The table below specifies the remuneration of the ExCo, comprising the Management Board members, the former members of the Management Board as listed above, and the additional ExCo members who were not part of the Management Board. € thousand 2017 2016 Base salary1 6,397 5,121 EIP2 6,061 5,535 Other3, 4, 5 4,408 4,436 Share-based compensation6 9,302 7,544 Pensions7 1,258 616 Total remuneration 27,426 23,252 1 Frans Muller, Pierre Bouchut and Kevin Holt were appointed as Members of the Management Board, effective July 24, 2016. The 2016 base salary for them reflects a partial year. Wouter Kolk was appointed as Member of the Executive Committee, effective September 1, 2017. His 2017 base salary reflects a partial year. 2 The ExCo Incentive Plan (EIP) represents accrued annual cash incentives to be paid in the following year based on an overall weighted EIP. For an explanation of the Company’s remuneration policy, see Remuneration under the Governance section of this report. The overall 2017 financial performance multiplier was 93%. The individual EIP amounts also include the component linked to individual performance. 3 “Other” mainly includes gross allowances for net pension, tax compensation (tax equalization charges for expatriates), allowances for housing expenses for certain individuals, relocation costs, international school fees, employer’s contributions to social security plans, benefits in kind such as company car, tax advice, medical expenses, and the associated tax gross up. 4 Pierre Bouchut , Chief Operating Officer Europe and Indonesia and member of the Management Board and Executive Committee, as of January 1, 2018, and will remain available as an advisor and for specific initiatives until July 1, 2018. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize will terminate as of August 31, 2018, after which he will retire. Shares awarded under the GRO plan will vest in accordance with the applicable plan rules. An estimate of the remuneration costs relating to the period after July 1, 2018, until August 31, 2018, was recognized in 2017 in “Other” (€285 thousand). 5 James McCann, Chief Operating Officer of Ahold USA and member of the Management Board and Executive Committee, stepped down on October 5, 2016. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize terminated as of April 30, 2017, without any severance payment due. Outstanding shares under the GRO plan vested over the term of employment in accordance with the applicable plan rules. Unvested shares outstanding at the termination date were forfeited. An estimate of the remuneration costs relating to the period after October 5, 2016, until April 30, 2017, was recognized in 2016 in “Other” (€1,131 thousand) and in “Share-based compensation” (a net reversal of costs of €119 thousand). Additionally included in “Other” for James McCann in 2016 is tax compensation of €893 thousand). In 2017, adjustments to the estimate of the remuneration costs as a result of the actual payments are included in “Other.” 6 The fair value of each year’s grant is determined on the grant date and expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The expense for 2017 reflects this year’s portion of the share grants over the previous five years (plans 2012 to 2017). For more information on the share-based compensation expenses see Note 32. 7 Pension costs are the total net periodic pension costs of the applicable pension plans. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 207 31 Related party transactions continued Remuneration of the Supervisory Board members € thousand 2017 2016 Mats Jansson (appointed in 2016) 255 115 Jan Hommen (reappointed in 2017) 223 177 Jacques de Vaucleroy (appointed in 2016) 170 80 René Hooft Graafland (appointed in 2014) 136 127 Ben Noteboom (reappointed in 2017) 145 133 Bill McEwan (appointed in 2016) 150 71 Rob van den Bergh (reappointed in 2015) 148 132 Mark McGrath (reappointed in 2016) 143 160 Mary Anne Citrino (appointed in 2016) 133 136 Johnny Thijs (appointed in 2016) 128 55 Patrick De Maeseneire (appointed in 2016) 123 59 Dominique Leroy (appointed in 2016) 125 58 Jack Stahl (resigned in August 2017) 111 76 Stephanie Shern (resigned in April 2017) 37 140 Derk Doijer (resigned in July 2016) – 56 Total 2,027 1,575 The Supervisory Board remuneration for 2017 is in accordance with the Supervisory Board remuneration policy adopted at the General Meeting of Shareholders on April 19, 2016. For the members who were appointed or resigned in 2016 and for the members who resigned in 2017, the remuneration for the respective year reflects a partial year. Shares and other interests in Ahold Delhaize As of December 31, 2017, Management Board members (excluding the former Management Board members) held the following shares and other interests in Ahold Delhaize: Common shares subject to additional Other Total holding common common Number of shares requirement1 shares shares Dick Boer 193,273 264,071 457,344 Frans Muller2 — 165,359 165,359 Jeff Carr 111,690 91,886 203,576 Kevin Holt — — — Total 304,963 521,316 826,279 1 In line with best practice II.2.5 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code 2008 and the Management Board remuneration policy, shares granted and vested under the GRO program to Management Board members should be retained for a period of at least five years after grant, except to finance tax payable at the vesting date, or at least until the date of resignation from the Management Board, if this period is shorter. 2 Additionally, 9,579 shares are held by Frans Muller in the form of American Depository Receipts. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 208 31 Related party transactions continued As of December 31, 2017, Jacques de Vaucleroy held 829,023 Ahold Delhaize common shares, Ben Noteboom held 15,637 Ahold Delhaize common shares, Bill McEwan held 7,125 Ahold Delhaize American Depository Receipts, Rob van den Bergh held 13,031 Ahold Delhaize common shares, Johnny Thijs held 11,768 Ahold Delhaize common shares and Jan Hommen held 15,000 Ahold Delhaize common shares. None of the other Supervisory Board members held Ahold Delhaize shares. Ahold Delhaize does not provide loans or advances to members of the Management Board or the Supervisory Board. There are no loans or advances outstanding. Ahold Delhaize does not issue guarantees to the benefit of members of the Management Board or the Supervisory Board. No such guarantees are outstanding. Trading transactions Ahold Delhaize has entered into arrangements with a number of its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the course of its business. These arrangements relate to service transactions and financing agreements. Transactions were conducted at market prices. During 2017 and 2016, the Company entered into the following transactions with unconsolidated related parties: For the year ended December 31, 2017 Amounts Sales to Purchases from receivable from Amounts payable Commitments to € million related parties related parties related parties to related parties related parties Stationsdrogisterijen 19 — — 8 — JMR 5 — 1 — — Cathedral Commons — 1 — — 21 Other — 3 10 3 14 Total 24 4 11 11 35 For the year ended January 1, 2017 Amounts Sales to Purchases from receivable from Amounts payable Commitments to € million related parties related parties related parties to related parties related parties Stationsdrogisterijen 17 — — 7 — JMR 5 — 1 — — Cathedral Commons — 1 — — 25 Other 2 4 11 1 14 Total 24 5 12 8 39 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 209 31 Related party transactions continued These unconsolidated related parties consist of: • Stationsdrogisterijen C.V., a joint venture of Ahold Delhaize in the health and beauty care retail business. • JMR, a joint venture of Ahold Delhaize in the retail business (see Note 14). • Cathedral Commons Partners, LLC, a real estate joint venture of Ahold Delhaize. • Super Indo, a joint venture of Ahold Delhaize in the retail business (see Note 14), included in “Other.” • “Other,” which includes mainly real estate joint ventures in which Ahold Delhaize has an interest and holding properties operated by Ahold Delhaize and Loyalty Management Nederland B.V., an associate of Ahold Delhaize that renders services relating to the management of customer loyalty programs to certain Ahold Delhaize subsidiaries in the Netherlands. • Ahold Delhaize participates in Coopernic and AMS, which are cooperative European purchase alliances towards third-party vendors. Receivable and payable positions occur with these buying alliances. These transactions are considered to reflect the results of the negotiated purchasing terms with the third-party vendors. As such, these transactions are not shown in the table above of related party transactions. Furthermore, the Company’s post-employment benefit plans in the Netherlands and the United States are considered related parties. For more information on these plans, see Note 23. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 210 32 Share-based compensation In 2017, Ahold Delhaize’s share-based compensation program consisted of a share grant program called Global Reward Opportunity (GRO). Total 2017 GRO share-based compensation expenses were €79 million (2016: €61 million). Ahold Delhaize’s share-based compensation programs are equity-settled. The fair value of the shares granted under the GRO program in 2017 at grant date was €64 million, of which €6 million related to Management Board members. The fair value is expensed over the vesting period of the grants, adjusted for expected annual forfeitures of 5% (2016: 5%) excluding Management Board members. For the share-based compensation expenses allocable to the individual Management Board members, see Note 31. GRO program Main characteristics A revised GRO program was introduced in 2016. The performance shares granted under this program vest on the day after the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in the third year after the grant, subject to certain performance conditions. The revised GRO program employs two financial measures: Return on Capital (RoC) and Total Shareholder Return (TSR), as well as non-financial performance measures related to Sustainable Retailing targets. The total GRO award is comprised of three portions of shares. The first 40% is linked to a three-year RoC target. Depending on performance, the number of shares that eventually vest may range between zero and a maximum of 150% of the number of shares granted. Another 40% is linked to TSR (share price growth and dividends paid over the performance period), with performance at vesting benchmarked against the TSR performance of a peer group comprised of 14 companies (refer to the Remuneration section for the composition of the peer group). The number of shares that vest depends on the Company’s relative ranking in the peer group and may range between zero and a maximum of 175% of the number of shares granted (refer to table below for the vesting percentages based on Ahold Delhaize’s ranking within the peer group). For the remaining 20% of the total GRO share award, the performance at vesting is measured using Sustainable Retailing targets. This measure relates to the Company’s Sustainable Retailing strategic ambitions. The targets set under this non-financial performance measure are both qualitative and quantitative. Depending on performance, the number of shares that eventually vest can range between zero and a maximum of 150% of the number of shares granted. The table below indicates the percentage of shares that could vest based on Ahold Delhaize’s TSR ranking within the peer group: 2016-2017 GRO program rank 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 All participants 175% 150% 125% 110% 100% 80% 50% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Treatment of outstanding performance shares Shares awarded before 2016 under the Ahold GRO program (to former Ahold Management Board members and associates) and the Delhaize European long-term incentive plan (to former Delhaize Management Board members) have been rolled over in the (new) Ahold Delhaize's long-term equity-based program (2016 GRO). Outstanding (non-vested) performance share awards remaining from the Ahold GRO plan have been split into two parts. One part, which is related to the full performance years prior to the year of the merger (2012, 2014 and 2015, where applicable), has been assessed against the performance of Ahold as a standalone company, on the basis of the existing performance measures. Based on the performance realized in those years, this part of the award has been assessed on the basis of the applicable share programs and converted into restricted Ahold Delhaize shares. These restricted shares are not subject to additional performance criteria, but will be subject to the remaining vesting period and continued employment. The other part, which is related to the performance during the year of the merger (2016) and beyond, will be assessed against the financial measures of Ahold Delhaize’s long-term equity-based plan. The outstanding conditional shares will continue to be subject to the remaining vesting period and continued employment. Outstanding (non-vested) performance shares awarded under the Delhaize European long-term incentive plan have similarly been converted into Ahold Delhaize restricted shares and shares which are subject to meeting the performance measures of the Ahold Delhaize GRO plan. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 211 32 Share-based compensation continued Shares granted in 2014 and 2015 converted in 2016 Under the 2013-2015 GRO program, shares were granted over a three-year period. The program consisted of three components: one with a performance hurdle at grant (conditional share grant) and two components with a performance hurdle at vesting (performance share grants). The size of the conditional share grant was subject to the Executive Incentive Plan Multiplier of the preceding year. Half of the performance share grant was linked to a three-year RoC target. Dependent on RoC performance, the number of shares that eventually vested could range between 0% and a maximum of 150% of the number of shares granted. For the other half of the performance share grant, the performance at vesting was measured using the TSR ranking. The table below indicates the percentage of shares with a TSR performance measure under the 2013-2015 GRO program that could vest based on Ahold’s ranking within the peer group: 2013-2015 GRO program rank 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Vice President and up 175% 150% 125% 100% 75% 50% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Other participants 150% 135% 120% 105% 90% 75% 60% 45% 30% 15% 7.5% 0% As of the end of 2015, for the performance years 2014-2015, Ahold held the third position with respect to the 2014 share grant and the second position with respect to the 2015 share grant. Based on these rankings the TSR performance shares were converted into restricted shares. The 2014 grant used a percentage of 125% for Vice President and up and 120% for other participants, and the 2015 grant used a percentage of 150% for Vice President and up and 135% for other participants. The remaining portion (one year for the 2014 grant and two years for the 2015 grant) has been assessed against the TSR performance of the 2016 GRO plan. Ahold’s RoC performance as of the end of 2015 was 93% of target with respect to the 2014 year share grant and 100% of target with respect to the 2015 share grant. The RoC performance shares were converted into restricted shares using these vesting percentages. The remaining portion (one year for the 2014 grant and two years for the 2015 grant) has been assessed against Ahold Delhaize’s RoC performance. Shares granted in 2012 converted in 2016 Under the 2006-2012 GRO program, Ahold shares were granted through a mid-term (three-year) and a long-term (five-year) program. For participants other than the Management Board members, the mid-term component of the program contained a matching share feature. For every five shares a participant held for an additional two years after the vesting date, the participant receives one additional share. Under the 2006-2012 GRO program, the shares granted through the long-term component were subject to a performance condition. The number of shares that ultimately vest depends on Ahold’s performance compared to other retail companies, measured over a five-year period using TSR. The table below indicates the percentage of shares that could vest based on Ahold’s ranking within the peer group: 2006-2012 GRO program rank 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Management Board 150% 130% 110% 90% 70% 50% 25% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Other participants 150% 135% 120% 105% 90% 75% 60% 45% 30% 15% 7.5% 0% As of the end of 2015, Ahold held the second position among the peer group for the performance years 2012-2015. Based on this TSR ranking, the performance shares for the 2012 five-year share grant were converted into restricted shares using the measure of 130% for Management Board members and 135% for other participants. The remaining portion of the 2012 five-year grant, which is related to the Company’s performance in 2016, has been assessed against the TSR performance measure of the 2016 GRO plan. Remaining unvested shares granted under the 2006-2012 and the 2013-2015 GRO program will vest on the day after the publication of Ahold Delhaize’s full-year results in the third year (three-year programs) or fifth year (five-year programs) after the grant, subject to performance conditions and provided the participant is still employed by Ahold Delhaize. Remaining unvested shares granted to Management Board members will vest on the day after the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in the third year (mid-term component) or fifth year (long-term component) after the grant, subject to performance conditions and continued employment. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 212 32 Share-based compensation continued Other awards A limited number of shares were granted to other ExCo members and other employees in 2014 and 2015 under a special purpose plan. This program consists of unconditional and conditional shares. The unconditional shares vest immediately on the award date. The conditional shares vest in two tranches. Half of the conditional shares vest on the day after the publication of Ahold Delhaize’s full-year results in the first year and half in the second year after the grant. Also, a number of shares were granted to a select group of senior management (excluding the Management Board and ExCo members) in 2016 under a one-time retention incentive award. The vesting of these individual share awards is contingent upon the realization of the merger implementation. These performance shares will vest in two installments of 50% each of the granted shares. The first installment vested 12 months after the date of grant, on November 23, 2017. The second installment will vest 24 months after the date of grant. To underline the retention function of this award, an additional holding period of 12 months applies from the date of vesting. Shares vesting in 2018 In 2018, the 2015 GRO grant will vest. The GRO shares vesting will comprise both conditional shares as well as performance shares based on the Company’s TSR and RoC performance. Part of the TSR and RoC performance share grants were already converted into restricted shares in 2016 (see Shares granted in 2015 converted in 2016 above) and are not subject to additional performance criteria. For the remaining portion of the performance shares, 2017 TSR and RoC performance was assessed. As of the end of 2017, Ahold Delhaize ranked fourth in the TSR peer group with respect to the 2015 grant. Based on these TSR rankings and applying the 2016 GRO vesting table, the vesting percentage for the 2015 grant was 110%. At the end of each reporting period, Ahold Delhaize revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions (RoC and Sustainable Retailing performance). Ahold Delhaize recognizes the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. The final vesting percentage for the portion of the 2015 shares dependent on Ahold Delhaize’s RoC performance is 105%. On April 12, 2018, a maximum of 0.2 million shares granted in 2015 to members of the Management Board under the Ahold GRO plan are expected to vest. On May 29, 2018, a maximum of 0.1 million shares granted in 2015 to members of the Management Board under the Delhaize European long-term incentive plan are expected to vest. Except to finance taxes and social security charges due on the vesting date, members of the Management Board cannot sell shares for a period of at least five years following the grant date, or until the date of resignation from the Management Board, if this period is shorter. On March 1, 2018, a maximum of 2.7 million shares granted in 2015 to Ahold Delhaize associates under the Ahold GRO plan are expected to vest. Vesting is subject to the participant being employed by the Company on the applicable vesting date. As of the vesting date, participants are allowed to sell all or part of the shares vested, subject to insider trading restrictions as applicable from time to time. In addition, a maximum number of 0.7 million shares granted in 2016 to Ahold Delhaize associates under the one-time retention plan are expected to vest in November 2018, provided the performance conditions are met. The Company will use treasury shares for the delivery of the vested shares. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 213 32 Share-based compensation continued The following table summarizes the status of the GRO program during 2017 for the individual Management Board members and for all other employees in the aggregate. Outstanding at the Outstanding Minimum Maximum Fair value per beginning of Performance at the end of number of number of share at the Incremental 2017 Granted1 adjustment2 Vested3 Forfeited 2017 shares4 shares5 grant date (€) fair value6 Dick Boer Five-year 2012 grant – Restricted 75,947 — — 75,947 — — — — 7.81 0.00 Five-year 2012 grant – Performance 14,605 — 7,302 21,907 — — — — 7.81 2.60 2014 Restricted (TSR) 41,537 — — 41,537 — — — — 11.20 0.00 2014 Performance (TSR) 16,615 — 12,461 29,076 — — — — 11.20 0.25 2014 Restricted (RoC) 30,903 — — 30,903 — — — — 12.40 0.00 2014 Performance (RoC) 16,615 — 2,824 19,439 — — — — 12.40 0.00 2014 Conditional grant 32,860 — — 32,860 — — — — 12.40 0.00 2015 Restricted (TSR) 27,168 — — — — 27,168 27,168 27,168 14.66 0.00 2015 Performance (TSR) 36,224 — — — — 36,224 — 63,392 14.66 0.00 2015 Restricted (RoC) 18,112 — — — — 18,112 18,112 18,112 18.14 0.00 2015 Performance (RoC) 36,224 — — — — 36,224 — 54,336 18.14 0.00 2015 Conditional grant 14,383 — — — — 14,383 14,383 14,383 18.14 0.00 2016 TSR grant 48,680 — — — — 48,680 — 85,190 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant 48,680 — — — — 48,680 — 73,020 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 24,340 — — — — 24,340 — 36,510 20.15 0.00 2017 TSR grant — 48,819 — — — 48,819 — 85,433 9.57 0.00 2017 RoC grant — 48,819 — — — 48,819 — 73,228 17.07 0.00 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant — 24,410 — — — 24,410 — 36,615 17.07 0.00 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 214 32 Share-based compensation continued Outstanding at the Outstanding Minimum Maximum Fair value per beginning of Performance at the end of number of number of share at the Incremental 2017 Granted1 adjustment2 Vested3 Forfeited 2017 shares4 shares5 grant date (€) fair value6 Frans Muller 2014 Performance (TSR) 13,197 — 9,897 23,094 — — — — 21.23 8.56 2014 Performance (RoC) 13,197 — 2,243 15,440 — — — — 21.23 0.00 2014 Restricted 79,183 — — 79,183 — — — — 21.23 0.00 2015 Performance (TSR) 18,026 — — — — 18,026 — 31,545 20.67 2.21 2015 Performance (RoC) 18,026 — — — — 18,026 — 27,039 20.67 0.00 2015 Restricted 27,040 — — — — 27,040 27,040 27,040 20.67 0.00 2016 Performance (TSR) 30,162 — — — — 30,162 — 52,783 20.44 0.00 2016 Performance (RoC) 30,162 — — — — 30,162 — 45,243 20.21 0.00 2016 Performance (Sustainability) 15,082 — — — — 15,082 — 22,623 20.21 0.00 2016 TSR grant 41,035 — — — — 41,035 — 71,811 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant 41,035 — — — — 41,035 — 61,552 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 20,518 — — — — 20,518 — 30,777 20.15 0.00 2017 TSR grant — 41,152 — — — 41,152 — 72,016 9.57 0.00 2017 RoC grant — 41,152 — — — 41,152 — 61,728 17.07 0.00 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant — 20,576 — — — 20,576 — 30,864 17.07 0.00 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 215 32 Share-based compensation continued Outstanding at the Outstanding Minimum Maximum Fair value per beginning of Performance at the end of number of number of share at the Incremental 2017 Granted1 adjustment2 Vested3 Forfeited 2017 shares4 shares5 grant date (€) fair value6 Jeff Carr Five-year 2012 grant – Restricted 47,221 — — 47,221 — — — — 7.81 0.00 Five-year 2012 grant – Performance 9,081 — 4,540 13,621 — — — — 7.81 2.60 2014 Restricted (TSR) 20,512 — — 20,512 — — — — 11.20 0.00 2014 Performance (TSR) 8,205 — 6,153 14,358 — — — — 11.20 0.25 2014 Restricted (RoC) 15,261 — — 15,261 — — — — 12.40 0.00 2014 Performance (RoC) 8,205 — 1,394 9,599 — — — — 12.40 0.00 2014 Conditional grant 21,907 — — 21,907 — — — — 12.40 0.00 2015 Restricted (TSR) 10,655 — — — — 10,655 10,655 10,655 14.66 0.00 2015 Performance (TSR) 14,206 — — — — 14,206 — 24,860 14.66 0.00 2015 Restricted (RoC) 7,103 — — — — 7,103 7,103 7,103 18.14 0.00 2015 Performance (RoC) 14,206 — — — — 14,206 — 21,309 18.14 0.00 2015 Conditional grant 9,589 — — — — 9,589 9,589 9,589 18.14 0.00 2016 TSR grant 24,168 — — — — 24,168 — 42,294 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant 24,168 — — — — 24,168 — 36,252 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 12,084 — — — — 12,084 — 18,126 20.15 0.00 2017 TSR grant — 25,662 — — — 25,662 — 44,908 9.57 0.00 2017 RoC grant — 25,662 — — — 25,662 — 38,493 17.07 0.00 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant — 12,831 — — — 12,831 — 19,246 17.07 0.00 Kevin Holt 2016 TSR grant 27,416 — — — — 27,416 — 47,978 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant 27,416 — — — — 27,416 — 41,124 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 13,708 — — — — 13,708 — 20,562 20.15 0.00 2017 TSR grant — 34,563 — — — 34,563 — 60,485 9.57 0.00 2017 RoC grant — 34,563 — — — 34,563 — 51,844 17.07 0.00 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant — 17,282 — — — 17,282 — 25,923 17.07 0.00 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 216 32 Share-based compensation continued Outstanding at the Outstanding Minimum Maximum Fair value per beginning of Performance at the end of number of number of share at the Incremental 2017 Granted1 adjustment2 Vested3 Forfeited 2017 shares4 shares5 grant date (€) fair value6 Pierre Bouchut7 2014 Performance (TSR) 12,131 — 9,098 21,229 — — — — 21.23 8.56 2014 Performance (RoC) 12,131 — 2,062 14,193 — — — — 21.23 0.00 2014 Restricted 72,784 — — 72,784 — — — — 21.23 0.00 2015 Performance (TSR) 15,534 — — — — 15,534 — 27,184 20.67 2.21 2015 Performance (RoC) 15,534 — — — — 15,534 — 23,301 20.67 0.00 2015 Restricted 23,301 — — — — 23,301 23,301 23,301 20.67 0.00 2016 TSR grant 19,585 — — — — 19,585 — 34,273 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant 19,585 — — — — 19,585 — 29,377 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 9,793 — — — — 9,793 — 14,689 20.15 0.00 2017 TSR grant — 19,641 — — — 19,641 — 34,371 9.57 0.00 2017 RoC grant — 19,641 — — — 19,641 — 29,461 17.07 0.00 2017 Sustainable Retailing grant — 9,821 — — — 9,821 — 14,731 17.07 0.00 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 217 32 Share-based compensation continued Outstanding at the Outstanding Minimum Maximum Fair value per beginning of Performance at the end of number of number of share at the Incremental 2017 Granted 1 adjustment2 Vested 3 Forfeited 2017 shares4 shares5 grant date (€) fair value6 James McCann8 Five-year 2012 grant – Restricted 47,221 — — 47,221 — — — — 7.81 0.00 Five-year 2012 grant – Performance 9,081 — 4,540 13,621 — — — — 7.81 2.60 2014 Restricted (TSR) 27,691 — — 27,691 — — — — 11.20 0.00 2014 Performance (TSR) 11,076 — 8,307 19,383 — — — — 11.20 0.25 2014 Restricted (RoC) 20,602 — — 20,602 — — — — 12.40 0.00 2014 Performance (RoC) 11,076 — 1,882 12,958 — — — — 12.40 0.00 2014 Conditional grant 21,907 — — 21,907 — — — — 12.40 0.00 2015 Restricted (TSR) 14,383 — — — 14,383 — — — 14.66 0.00 2015 Performance (TSR) 19,177 — — — 19,177 — — — 14.66 0.00 2015 Restricted (RoC) 9,589 — — — 9,589 — — — 18.14 0.00 2015 Performance (RoC) 19,177 — — — 19,177 — — — 18.14 0.00 2015 Conditional grant 9,589 — — — 9,589 — — — 18.14 0.00 2016 TSR grant 27,620 — — — 27,620 — — — 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant 27,620 — — — 27,620 — — — 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable Retailing grant 13,810 — — — 13,810 — — — 20.15 0.00 Subtotal Management Board members 1,634,664 424,594 72,703 783,454 140,965 1,207,542 137,351 1,853,847 1 Represents the number of shares originally granted for the 2017 grant. 2 Represents the adjustment to the number of shares granted resulting from the TSR ranking and RoC performance. 3 The vesting date of the five-year 2012 grant and the three-year 2014 grant was April 13, 2017, for the former Ahold board members. The share price was €19.28 on April 13, 2017. The vesting date of the three-year 2014 grant was May 26, 2017, for the former Delhaize board members. The share price was €19.69 on May 26, 2017. 4 For the conditional and restricted shares, the minimum number of shares that could potentially vest equals the number of outstanding shares. For the TSR performance grants, the minimum number of shares that could potentially vest would be nil if Ahold Delhaize’s ranking was eight or lower (as explained in the section Main characteristics above). For the RoC and sustainability performance grants, the minimum number of shares that could potentially vest equals nil (as explained in the section Main characteristics above). 5 For the conditional and restricted shares, the maximum number of shares that could potentially vest equals the number of outstanding shares. For the TSR performance grants, the maximum number of shares that could potentially vest equals 175% of outstanding shares if Ahold Delhaize’s ranking is one. For the RoC performance grants and for the Sustainable Retailing performance grants the maximum number of shares that could potentially vest equals 150% of outstanding shares, (as explained in the section Main characteristics above). 6 Represents the incremental fair value for the shares converted in 2016. 7 Pierre Bouchut, Chief Operating Officer of Europe and Indonesia and member of the Management Board and Executive Committee, will step down from the Management Board and Executive Committee as of January 1, 2018. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize will terminate as of August 31, 2018, after which he will retire. Shares awarded under the GRO plan will vest in accordance with the applicable plan rules. 8 James McCann, Chief Operating Officer of Ahold USA and member of the Management Board and Executive Committee, stepped down on October 5, 2016. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize was terminated as of April 30, 2017. Outstanding shares under the GRO plan vested over the term of employment in accordance with the applicable plan rules. Unvested shares outstanding at the termination date were forfeited. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 218 32 Share-based compensation continued Outstanding at the Performance Outstanding at beginning of 2017 Granted1,2 adjustment3 Vested4 Forfeited the end of 2017 Other employees 2012 grant 2,523,756 98,978 195,436 2,805,592 12,578 — 2014 grant 3,005,279 — 296,235 3,283,569 17,945 — 2015 grant5 2,902,434 — 12,276 93,111 174,762 2,646,837 2016 grant 4,267,972 55,951 — 1,995 257,785 4,064,143 2016 retention award 1,442,170 15,804 — 674,591 108,899 674,484 2017 grant — 4,093,738 — 1,553 130,664 3,961,521 Subtotal Management Board members 1,634,664 424,594 72,703 783,454 140,965 1,207,542 Total number of shares 15,776,275 4,689,065 576,650 7,643,865 843,598 12,554,527 1 For the five-year 2012 grant, the number of shares allocated in 2017 represents the actual number of matching shares related to the 2012 grant. 2 The grant date fair value of the matching shares is expensed over the five-year vesting period. This table presents the matching shares as awarded in the year of vesting. No matching shares are outstanding at the end of 2017. 3 Represents the adjustment to the number of shares granted resulting from the TSR ranking and RoC performance. 4 The vesting date of the five-year 2012 grant, the matching shares related to the 2012 grant and the 2014 grant was March 2, 2017. The share price was €20.44 on March 2, 2017. The vesting date of the first installment of the 2016 retention award was November 23, 2017. The share price was €16.99 on November 23, 2017. 5 The 2015 grant includes the special purpose plan as described above. Under this program, 61,200 shares were granted in 2015, of which 20,400 vested in 2015, 24,400 vested in 2016 and 16,400 vested in 2017. Valuation model and input variables The weighted average fair value of the shares granted in 2017, for all eligible participants including Management Board members, amounted to €9.55, €17.04 and €17.04 per share for TSR performance shares, RoC performance shares and Sustainable Retailing performance shares, respectively (2016: €20.44, €20.13 and €20.13). The fair values of the RoC and Sustainable Retailing performance shares are based on the Black-Scholes model. The fair values of the TSR performance shares are determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model, which considers the likelihood of Ahold Delhaize’s TSR ending at various ranks as well as the expected share price at each rank. The most important assumptions used in the valuations of the fair values were as follows: 2017 20161 Closing share price at grant date2 18.82 21.70 Risk-free interest rate (0.7)% (0.6)% Volatility 21.3% 22.2% Assumed dividend yield 3.3% 2.7% 1 The incremental fair values of the shares converted in 2016 in Ahold Delhaize’s long-term equity-based program are based on the same assumptions. 2 Closing share price is adjusted for dividends. Expected volatility has been determined based on historical volatilities for a period of three years. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 219 33 Operating leases Ahold Delhaize as lessee Ahold Delhaize leases a significant number of its stores, as well as distribution centers, offices and other assets under operating lease arrangements. The aggregate amounts of Ahold Delhaize’s minimum contractual lease commitments payable to third parties under non-cancellable operating lease contracts are as follows: December 31, January 1, € million 2017 20171 Within one year 1,141 1,218 Between one and five years 3,522 3,754 After five years 2,927 3,478 Total 7,590 8,450 1 Restated from last year’s disclosure of €7,489 million due to alignment of accounting policies. The decrease in the lease commitments in 2017 compared to 2016 is mainly due to exchange rate differences. Certain store leases provide for contingent additional rentals based on a percentage of sales and consumer price indices. Substantially all of the store leases have renewal options for additional terms. None of Ahold Delhaize’s leases impose restrictions on Ahold Delhaize’s ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt or enter into additional leasing arrangements. The annual costs of Ahold Delhaize’s operating leases from continuing operations, net of sublease income, are as follows: € million 2017 2016 Minimum rentals 1,230 1,004 Contingent rentals 18 11 Sublease income (114) (136) Total 1,134 879 In addition to the operating lease commitments disclosed above, Ahold Delhaize has signed lease agreements for properties under development of which it has not yet taken possession. The total future minimum lease payments for these agreements amount to approximately €129 million (2016: €173 million). These lease contracts are subject to conditions precedent to the rent commencement date. Ahold Delhaize as lessor Ahold Delhaize rents out its investment properties (mainly retail units in shopping centers containing an Ahold Delhaize store) and also (partially) subleases various other properties that are leased by Ahold Delhaize under operating leases. The aggregate amounts of the related future minimum lease and sublease payments receivable under non-cancellable lease contracts are as follows: December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Within one year 233 241 Between one and five years 588 593 After five years 256 296 Total 1,077 1,130 The total contingent rental income recognized during the year on all leases where Ahold Delhaize is the lessor was €2 million (2016: €3 million). Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 220 34 Commitments and contingencies Capital investment commitments As of December 31, 2017, Ahold Delhaize had outstanding capital investment commitments for property, plant and equipment and investment property, and for intangible assets of approximately €214 million and €10 million, respectively (January 1, 2017: €264 million and €30 million, respectively). Ahold Delhaize’s share in the capital investment commitments of its unconsolidated joint ventures JMR and Super Indo amounted to €3 million as of December 31, 2017 (January 1, 2017: €7 million). Purchase commitments Ahold Delhaize enters into purchase commitments with vendors in the ordinary course of business. The Company has purchase contracts with some vendors for varying terms that require Ahold Delhaize to buy services and predetermined volumes of goods and goods not-for-resale at fixed prices. As of December 31, 2017, the Company’s purchase commitments were approximately €1,086 million (January 1, 2017: €1,086 million). Not included in the purchase commitments are those purchase contracts for which Ahold Delhaize has received advance vendor allowances, such as upfront signing payments in consideration of its purchase commitments. These contracts generally may be terminated without satisfying the purchase commitments upon the repayment of the unearned portions of the advance vendor allowances. The unearned portion of these advance vendor allowances is recorded as a liability on the balance sheet. Contingent liabilities Guarantees Guarantees to third parties issued by Ahold Delhaize can be summarized as follows: December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Lease guarantees 705 902 Lease guarantees backed by letters of credit 45 60 Corporate and buyback guarantees 33 34 Total 783 996 The amounts included in the table above are the maximum undiscounted amounts the Group could be forced to settle under the arrangement for the full guaranteed amount, if that amount is claimed by the counterparty to the guarantee. As part of the divestment of U.S. Foodservice in 2007, Ahold Delhaize received an irrevocable standby letter of credit for $216 million (€163 million), which was reduced to $54 million (€45 million) as of December 31, 2017 (2016: $64 million (€60 million)). Ahold Delhaize is contingently liable for leases that have been assigned and / or transferred to third parties in connection with facility closings and disposals. Ahold Delhaize could be required to assume the financial obligations under these leases, if any of the third parties are unable to fulfill their lease obligations. The lease guarantees are based on the nominal value of future minimum lease payments of the relevant leases, which extend through 2040. The amounts of the lease guarantees exclude the cost of common area maintenance and real estate taxes; such amounts may vary in time, per region, and per property. Of the €705 million in the undiscounted lease guarantees, €145 million relates to the BI-LO / Bruno’s divestment, €156 million to the Sweetbay, Harveys, and Reid's divestment, €113 million to the Bottom Dollar Food divestment and €112 million to the Tops divestment. On a discounted basis, the lease guarantees amount to €617 million and €786 million as of December 31, 2017, and January 1, 2017, respectively. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 221 34 Commitments and contingencies continued BI-LO / Bruno’s divestment In 2005, Ahold Delhaize divested its U.S. retail subsidiaries BI-LO and Bruno’s. On February 5, 2009, and March 23, 2009, Bruno's Supermarkets, LLC and BI-LO, LLC, respectively, filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (the filings). As a result of the filings, Ahold Delhaize has made an assessment of its potential obligations under the lease guarantees based upon the remaining initial term of each lease, an assessment of the possibility that Ahold Delhaize would have to pay under a guarantee and any potential remedies that Ahold Delhaize may have to limit future lease payments. Consequently, in 2009, Ahold Delhaize recognized provisions of €109 million and related tax benefit offsets of €47 million within results on divestments. On May 12, 2010, the reorganized BI-LO exited bankruptcy protection and BI-LO assumed 149 operating locations that are guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize. During the BI-LO bankruptcy, BI-LO rejected a total of 16 leases that are guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize and Ahold Delhaize also took assignment of 12 other BI-LO leases with Ahold Delhaize guarantees. Based on the foregoing developments, Ahold Delhaize recognized a reduction of €23 million in its provision, after tax, within results on divestments in the first half of 2010. Since the end of the second quarter of 2010, Ahold Delhaize has entered into settlements with a number of landlords relating to leases of former BI-LO or Bruno’s stores that are guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize. At the end of 2017, the remaining provision relating to BI-LO and Bruno’s was €11 million (2016: €15 million) with a related tax benefit offset of €3 million (2016: €6 million). This amount represents Ahold Delhaize’s best estimate of the discounted aggregate amount of the remaining lease obligations and associated charges, net of known mitigation offsets, which could result in cash outflows for Ahold Delhaize under the various lease guarantees. Ahold Delhaize continues to monitor any developments and pursue its mitigation efforts with respect to these lease guarantee liabilities. Sweetbay, Harveys and Reid's and Bottom Dollar Food divestments As part of Ahold Delhaize’s divestment of Sweetbay, Harveys and Reid’s in 2014 and Bottom Dollar Food in 2015, Ahold Delhaize had provided guarantees for a number of existing operating and finance lease contracts, which extend through 2037. Ahold Delhaize has made an assessment of its potential obligations under lease guarantees considering the remaining term of each lease, re-let potential of the property if the acquirer were to default on the lease, and the credit position of the counterparty. Ahold Delhaize recognized a liability of €20 million, which represents the estimated fair value of the lease guarantees. Other Ahold Delhaize has provided corporate guarantees to certain suppliers of its franchisees or non-consolidated entities. Ahold Delhaize would be required to perform under the guarantee, if the franchisee or non-consolidated entity failed to meet its financial obligations, as described in the guarantee. Buyback guarantees relate to Ahold Delhaize’s commitment to repurchase stores or inventory from certain franchisees at predetermined prices. The buyback guarantees reflect the maximum committed repurchase value under the guarantees. The last of the corporate and buyback guarantees expire in 2022. Representations and warranties as part of the divestment of Ahold Delhaize’s operations Ahold Delhaize has provided, in the relevant sales agreements, customary representations and warranties including, but not limited to, completeness of books and records, title to assets, schedule of material contracts and arrangements, litigation, permits, labor matters, and employee benefits and taxes. These representations and warranties will generally terminate, depending on their specific features, a number of years after the date of the relevant transaction completion date. The most significant divestments of operations are described below. In addition, specific, limited representations and warranties exist for a number of Ahold Delhaize’s smaller divestments. The aggregate impact of claims, if any, under such representations and warranties is not expected to be material. Disco divestment As part of the divestment of Disco S.A. (Disco) in 2004, Ahold Delhaize is required to indemnify the buyers of Disco S.A. (Disco) and Disco for certain claims made by alleged creditors of certain Uruguayan and other banks, with a contingent liability cap of €11 million. Ahold Delhaize assesses its likelihood to be liable up to the amount of the contingent liability cap to be remote. The cap does not include Ahold Delhaize’s indemnification obligation relating to the Uruguayan litigation described in the Legal proceedings section of this Note. Ahold Delhaize’s indemnification obligation relating to this litigation is not capped at a certain amount nor restricted to a certain time period. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 222 34 Commitments and contingencies continued Bradlees divestment In 1992, Stop & Shop spun off Bradlees Stores, Inc. (Bradlees) as a public company (the Bradlees Spin-off). In connection with the Bradlees Spin-off, Stop & Shop assigned to Bradlees certain commercial real property leases. Pursuant to a 1995 reorganization of Bradlees and a subsequent wind-down and liquidation of Bradlees following a bankruptcy protection filing in 2000 (collectively, the Bradlees Bankruptcies), a number of such real property leases were assumed and assigned to third parties. Pursuant to applicable law, Stop & Shop may be contingently liable to landlords under certain of the leases assigned in connection with the Bradlees Spin-off and subsequently assumed and assigned to third parties in connection with the Bradlees Bankruptcies. BI-LO / Bruno’s divestment In connection with the divestment of BI-LO and Bruno’s in 2005, Ahold Delhaize may be contingently liable to landlords under guarantees of some 200 BI-LO or Bruno’s operating or finance leases that existed at the time of the divestment, in the event of a future default by the tenant under such leases. As a result of the bankruptcy filings by BI-LO and Bruno’s during 2009, a provision was recognized in 2009. BI-LO exited bankruptcy in May 2010 and the Company has re-evaluated its estimate of liability. For more information, refer to the Guarantees section of this Note. Tops Markets, LLC divestment In connection with the divestment of Tops in 2007, Ahold Delhaize has certain post-closing indemnification obligations under the sale agreement that the Company believes are customary for transactions of this nature. Ahold Delhaize retained liabilities as part of the divestment, including contingent liability for 45 leases that carry Ahold Delhaize guarantees. Additionally, Ahold Delhaize retained liabilities related to stores previously divested, including guarantees on five Tops stores in eastern New York state, as well as liabilities related to the Tops convenience stores and the stores in northeast Ohio as outlined under Tops convenience stores. Tops convenience stores: Wilson Farms and Sugarcreek Pursuant to applicable law, Tops may be contingently liable to landlords under 186 leases assigned in connection with the divestment of the Tops’ Wilson Farms and Sugarcreek convenience stores in 2005, in the event of a future default by the tenant under such leases. Ahold Delhaize may be contingently liable to landlords under the guarantees of 77 of these leases in the same event. Tops northeast Ohio stores Tops closed all of its locations in northeast Ohio prior to year-end 2006. As of December 31, 2017, 33 of the total 55 closed locations in northeast Ohio have been divested or are now subleased or partially subleased. An additional 19 leases have been terminated. Three stores continue to be marketed. In connection with the store divestments, Tops and Ahold Delhaize have certain post-closing indemnification obligations under the sale agreements, which Ahold Delhaize believes are customary for transactions of this nature. Pursuant to applicable law, Ahold Delhaize may be contingently liable to landlords under guarantees of 14 of such leases in the event of a future default by the tenant under such leases. If Ahold Delhaize is able to assign the leases for the remaining northeast Ohio stores, then pursuant to applicable law, Ahold Delhaize also may be contingently liable to landlords under guarantees of certain of such remaining leases in the event of a future default by the tenant under such leases. Sweetbay, Harveys and Reid’s and Bottom Dollar Food divestments As part of Ahold Delhaize’s divestment of Sweetbay, Harveys and Reid’s in 2014 and Bottom Dollar Food in 2015, Ahold Delhaize has provided guarantees for a number of existing operating and finance lease contracts, which extend through 2037. As of December 31, 2017, Ahold Delhaize may be contingently liable for 98 leases as part of the Sweetbay, Harveys and Reid’s divestment and 37 leases as part of the Bottom Dollar Food divestment. In the event of a future default of the buyer, Ahold Delhaize’s obligations under the terms of the contracts to the landlords will be triggered. The leases guaranteed are in respect of two specific buyers. The Sweetbay, Harveys and Reid's stores were sold to BI-LO and the Bottom Dollar Food stores were sold to Aldi. For more information, refer to the Guarantees section of this Note. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 223 34 Commitments and contingencies continued Tom & Co divestment In 2016, Ahold Delhaize divested the pet specialist shop chain Tom & Co. As part of the transaction, Ahold Delhaize granted indemnities to the purchaser of all divested stores, which Ahold Delhaize believes are customary for transactions of this nature. Divestment of remedy stores in Belgium In March 2016, Ahold Delhaize received approval from the Belgian Competition Authority (BCA) for the merger between Ahold and Delhaize. The approval was conditional upon the divestment of a limited number of stores and projects in Belgium to address competition concerns raised by BCA. In 2017, Ahold Delhaize completed these divestments, which Ahold Delhaize believes took place subject to terms and conditions customary for transactions of this nature. Divestment of remedy stores in the U.S. In July 2016, as a condition of receiving regulatory clearance for their merger from the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC), Ahold and Delhaize entered into a consent agreement (“Consent Agreement”) with the FTC that required Ahold and Delhaize to divest stores in seven states in order to prevent the merger from being anti-competitive. In connection with the Consent Agreement, Ahold and Delhaize subsidiaries entered into agreements with seven buyers to sell a total of 86 stores (81 of these stores are required divestitures under the Consent Agreement), including 73 leased stores and 13 owned stores. As of July 19, 2017, Ahold Delhaize had completed all of the required divestitures. With respect to the 73 leased stores, the store sales involved the applicable Ahold Delhaize subsidiary assigning each store lease to the buyer. Pursuant to applicable law, the Ahold Delhaize subsidiary which assigned each of the 73 leases may be contingently liable to the landlord under such lease, in the event of a future default by the tenant under such lease. Any other Ahold Delhaize subsidiary that previously held the tenant’s interest in such lease may also be liable in such event. In addition, Ahold Delhaize or Ahold Delhaize subsidiaries also may be contingently liable to landlords under the guarantees of 13 of the 73 leases in the same event. See also Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. Income tax Because Ahold Delhaize operates in a number of countries, its income is subject to taxation in differing jurisdictions and at differing tax rates. Significant judgment is required in determining the consolidated income tax position. We seek to organize our affairs in a sustainable manner, taking into account the applicable regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. As a result of Ahold Delhaize’s multi-jurisdictional operations, it is exposed to a number of different tax risks including, but not limited to, changes in tax laws or interpretations of such tax laws. The authorities in the jurisdictions where Ahold Delhaize operates may review the Company’s tax returns and may disagree with the positions taken in those returns. While the ultimate outcome of such reviews is not certain, Ahold Delhaize has considered the merits of its filing positions in its overall evaluation of potential tax liabilities and believes it has adequate liabilities recorded in its consolidated financial statements for exposures on these matters. Based on its evaluation of the potential tax liabilities and the merits of Ahold Delhaize’s filing positions, it is unlikely that potential tax exposures over and above the amounts currently recorded as liabilities in its consolidated financial statements will be material to its financial condition or future results of operations. Legal proceedings Ahold Delhaize and certain of its former or current subsidiaries are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include litigation as a result of divestments, tax, employment, and other litigation and inquiries. The legal proceedings discussed below, whether pending, threatened or unasserted, if decided adversely or settled, may result in liability material to Ahold Delhaize’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Ahold Delhaize may enter into discussions regarding the settlement of these and other proceedings, and may enter into settlement agreements, if it believes settlement is in the best interest of Ahold Delhaize’s shareholders. In accordance with IAS 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities, and Contingent Assets,” Ahold Delhaize has recognized provisions with respect to these proceedings, where appropriate, which are reflected on its balance sheet. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 224 34 Commitments and contingencies continued Albert Heijn Franchising In 2014, the Vereniging Albert Heijn Franchisenemers (an association of Albert Heijn franchisees or VAHFR) has asserted claims against Albert Heijn Franchising BV (an Ahold Delhaize subsidiary or AHF), for the years 2008 through 2012, the alleged value of which exceeds €200 million in aggregate. AHF and the VAHFR have had ongoing discussions for a number of years about the resolution of certain cost items under individual franchise agreements. On December 24, 2014, AHF and other legal entities within the Ahold Delhaize group of companies received a writ in which VAHFR and 242 individual claimants would initiate proceedings as of April 15, 2015, before the District Court of Haarlem with respect to these discussions. On November 16, 2016, the court issued a judgment rejecting all claims of the VAHFR and the claimants. On February 13, 2017, VAHFR and 240 individual claimants filed a formal appeal against the judgment. In September 2017, the claimants filed their grounds for appeal in which they assert unquantified claims for the years 2008 until 2016. AHF believes that the District Court was correct in rejecting all claims and that the position of the VAHFR and individual claimants as expressed in the appeal is without merit. AHF and its affiliates will vigorously defend their interest in the legal proceedings. Uruguayan litigation Ahold Delhaize, together with Disco and Disco Ahold International Holdings N.V. (DAIH), is a party to one lawsuit in Uruguay related to Ahold Delhaize’s 2002 acquisition of Velox Retail Holdings’ shares in the capital of DAIH. The two other related lawsuits were decided in favor of Ahold Delhaize without any further right to appeal of the plaintiffs in 2013. The damages alleged by the plaintiffs, alleged creditors of certain Uruguayan and other banks, amount to approximately $62 million (€52 million) plus interest and costs. As part of the divestment of Disco to Cencosud in 2004, Ahold Delhaize indemnified Cencosud and Disco against the outcome of these legal proceedings. The one remaining lawsuit is ongoing. Ahold Delhaize continues to believe that the plaintiffs’ claims are without merit and will continue to vigorously oppose such claims. Greek litigation In a shareholders’ matter related to Alfa Beta Vassilopoulos S.A. (“AB”), Ahold Delhaize’s wholly-owned subsidiary in Greece, Ahold Delhaize was notified in 2011 that some former shareholders of AB, who together held 7% of AB shares, filed a claim with the Court of First Instance of Athens challenging the price paid by Ahold Delhaize during the squeeze-out process that was approved by the Hellenic Capital Markets Commission. They have also filed a separate claim for compound interest. Ahold Delhaize believes that the squeeze-out transaction has been executed and completed in compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements and against a fair price, and vigorously defends itself against these claims. A decision on the merits of the matter by the Court of First Instance is expected to occur in 2018. Other legal proceedings In addition to the legal proceedings described previously in this Note, Ahold Delhaize and its former or current subsidiaries are parties to a number of other legal proceedings arising out of their business operations. Ahold Delhaize believes that the ultimate resolution of these other proceedings will not, in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Ahold Delhaize’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Such other legal proceedings, however, are subject to inherent uncertainties and the outcome of individual matters is unpredictable. It is possible that Ahold Delhaize could be required to make expenditures, in excess of established provisions, in amounts that cannot reasonably be estimated. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 225 Notes to the 35 Subsequent events consolidated There have been no significant subsequent events. 36 List of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates financial statements The following are Ahold Delhaize’s significant subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates as of December 31, 2017: continued Consolidated significant subsidiaries The following subsidiaries are, directly or indirectly, wholly owned by Ahold Delhaize. Subsidiaries not important to providing an insight into the Ahold Delhaize Group as required under Dutch law are omitted from this list. Retail trade Europe Albert Heijn B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* Albert Heijn Franchising B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* Gall & Gall B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* Etos B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* bol.com B.V., Utrecht, the Netherlands* Alfa Beta Vassilopoulos S.A., Athens, Greece Delhaize Le Lion / De Leeuw Comm. VA, Brussels, Belgium Delhaize Serbia d.o.o. Beograd, Belgrade, Serbia Mega Image S.R.L., Bucharest, Romania AHOLD Czech Republic a.s., Prague, Czech Republic Albert Heijn België N.V. / SA, Antwerp, Belgium Ahold Germany GmbH, Mettmann, Germany Delhaize Luxembourg S.A., Dudelange, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 226 Notes to the 36 List of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued consolidated Retail trade United States The Stop & Shop Supermarket Company LLC, Quincy, Massachusetts, United States financial statements Food Lion LLC, Salisbury, North Carolina, United States continued Giant Food Stores LLC, Carlisle, Pennsylvania, United States Giant of Maryland LLC, Landover, Maryland, United States Hannaford Bros. Co., LLC, Scarborough, Maine, United States Peapod LLC, Skokie, Illinois, United States Other Ahold Delhaize Coffee Company B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* Ahold Europe Real Estate & Construction B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* Ahold Delhaize Finance Company N.V., Zug, Switzerland Ahold Financial Services LLC, Carlisle, Pennsylvania, United States Ahold Finance U.S.A., LLC, Zaandam, the Netherlands* Ahold Insurance N.V., Willemstad, Curaçao Ahold Delhaize International Sàrl, Zug, Switzerland Ahold Information Services Inc., Greenville, South Carolina, United States Ahold Lease U.S.A. Inc., Quincy, Massachusetts, United States Ahold Delhaize Licensing Sàrl, Geneva, Switzerland Ahold Nederland B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands* Ahold U.S.A. Inc., Quincy, Massachusetts, United States American Sales Company LLC, Lancaster, New York, United States CUW B.V., Willemstad, Curaçao Delhaize America LLC, Salisbury, North Carolina, United States Delhaize Griffin N.V. / SA, Brussels, Belgium Delhaize “The Lion” Nederland B.V., Delft, the Netherlands Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 227 Notes to the 36 List of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued consolidated Delhaize US Holding Inc., Salisbury, North Carolina, United States DZA Brands LLC, Salisbury, North Carolina, United States financial statements Lion Lux Finance Sàrl, Dudelange, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg continued Lion Retail Holding Sàrl, Dudelange, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg MAC Risk Management Inc., Quincy, Massachusetts, United States The MollyAnna Company, Montpelier, Vermont, United States With respect to the separate financial statements of the Dutch legal entities included in the consolidation, a number of subsidiaries availed themselves of the exemption laid down in section 403, subsection 1 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Pursuant to section 403, Ahold Delhaize has assumed joint and several liability for the debts arising out of the legal acts of these subsidiaries. The determination of which Dutch subsidiaries of Ahold Delhaize, whether significant in the context of this Note or not, make use of the 403 exemption follows from the Dutch trade register. Each of these subsidiaries has filed Ahold Delhaize’s 403 declaration with the Dutch trade register. The above significant subsidiaries that make use of the 403 exemption are marked by *. Significant joint ventures and associates (unconsolidated) JMR – Gestão de Empresas de Retalho, SGPS, S.A., Lisbon, Portugal (49% owned by Ahold Delhaize's subsidiary Ahold Delhaize International Sàrl) Jerónimo Martins Retail Services S.A., Klosters, Switzerland (49% owned by Ahold Delhaize's subsidiary Ahold Delhaize International Sàrl) P.T. Lion Super Indo, Jakarta, Indonesia (51% owned by Ahold Delhaize’s subsidiary Delhaize “The Lion” Nederland B.V.) Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 228 Parent company € million Intercompany head office and other recharges Note 2017 96 2016 88 financial statements General and administrative expenses (73) (124) Income statement Total operating expenses 2 (73) (124) Operating income (loss) 23 (36) Interest expense (22) (40) Other financial income (expenses) (64) (310) Net financial expenses (86) (350) Loss before income taxes (63) (386) Income taxes 5 18 96 Income from subsidiaries and investments in joint ventures after income taxes 7 1,862 1,120 Net result after tax 1,817 830 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 229 Parent company Before appropriation of current year result December 31, January 1, financial statements € million Assets Note 2017 2017 Balance sheet Property, plant and equipment Intangible assets 6 21 1 2 18 Deferred tax assets 5 2 6 Financial assets 7 21,015 20,940 Total non-current assets 21,039 20,966 Receivables 8 28 46 Other current financial assets 9 1 400 Cash and cash equivalents 318 201 Total current assets 347 647 Total assets 21,386 21,613 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity Issued and paid-in share capital 12 13 Additional paid-in capital 15,175 15,802 Currency translation reserve (555) 754 Cash flow hedging reserve (4) (2) Reserve participations 334 363 Accumulated deficit (1,609) (1,484) Net income 1,817 830 Shareholders’ equity 10 15,170 16,276 Provisions 11 7 6 Loans 12 2,188 2,819 Cumulative preferred financing shares 455 497 Other non-current liabilities — 1 Total non-current liabilities 2,643 3,317 Current liabilities 13 3,566 2,014 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 21,386 21,613 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these parent company financial statements. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 230 Notes to the 1 Significant accounting policies parent company Basis of preparation Ahold Delhaize’s parent company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In accordance with financial statements subsection 8 of section 362, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the recognition and measurement principles applied in these parent company financial statements are the same as those applied in the consolidated financial statements (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are measured at net asset value (equity method of accounting). Net asset value is based on the measurement of assets (including goodwill), provisions and liabilities, and determination of profit as described in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for investments in joint arrangements and associates. Goodwill is subsumed in the carrying amount of the net asset value if an investment in a subsidiary is acquired through the Company’s intermediate subsidiary. 2 Expenses by nature The operating expenses are specified by nature as follows: € million 2017 2016 Labor costs (25) (26) Other operational expenses (44) (95) Depreciation and amortization (4) (3) Total expenses by nature (73) (124) The labor costs consists of employee expenses of €18 million (2016: €19 million), other related employee costs of €1 million (2016: €1 million) and other contracted personnel expenses of €6 million (2016: €6 million). The decrease in Other operational expenses is mainly attributable to higher merger-related expenses in 2016. 3 Employees The average number of employees of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. in full-time equivalents during 2017 was seven (2016: six), of whom none were employed outside the Netherlands. Two management board members serve as board members outside the Netherlands via a service agreement, but are not employed by Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. The current number of employees of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. consist primarily of members of the Executive Committee, including the Management Board. Salaries, social security charges and pension expenses amounted to €17 million, €0.8 million and €0.3 million, respectively, for 2017 (2016: expenses of €18 million, €0.8 million and €0.1 million, respectively). For information on the parent company’s defined benefit pension plan, the remuneration of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board and the parent company’s share-based compensation plans, see Notes 23, 31 and 32, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements. The net pension liability and the net pension expense are calculated on the basis of the parent company’s active employees only. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 231 Notes to the 4 Auditor fees parent company Expenses for services provided by the parent company’s independent auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. (PwC) and its member firms and affiliates to Ahold Delhaize and its subsidiaries in 2017 and in 2016, are specified as follows: financial statements Member firms / Total Member firms / Total € thousand PwC affiliates 2017 PwC affiliates 2016 continued Audit fees 2,259 4,695 6,954 4,152 5,357 9,509 Audit-related fees 419 119 538 308 86 394 Tax advisory fees — 87 87 — 83 83 Total 2,678 4,901 7,579 4,460 5,526 9,986 The audit fees listed above relate to the procedures applied to the Company and its consolidated group entities by accounting firms and external independent auditors as referred to in Section 1, subsection 1 of the Audit Firms Supervision Act (“Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties – Wta”) as well as by Dutch and foreign-based accounting firms, including their tax services and advisory groups. These audit fees relate to the audit of the financial statements, regardless of whether the work was performed during the financial year. Audit fees primarily relate to the audit of the Financials as set out in this Annual Report, certain procedures on our quarterly results and services related to the statutory and regulatory filings of our subsidiaries. Other audit-related fees mainly relate to assurance services on non-financial information and procedures performed in relation to our bond offering in 2017 (see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements). 5 Income taxes The following table specifies the current and deferred tax components of income taxes in the income statement: € million 2017 2016 Current income taxes – The Netherlands 29 97 Deferred income taxes – The Netherlands (11) (1) Total income taxes 18 96 Effective income tax rate The following table reconciles the statutory income tax rate with the effective income tax rate in the income statement: 2017 2016 € million Tax rate € million Tax rate Loss before income taxes (63) (386) Income tax (expense) benefit at statutory tax rate 16 25.0% 97 25.0% Adjustments to arrive at effective income tax rate: Reserves, (non-)deductibles and discrete items 2 3.6% (1) (0.1)% Total income taxes (expense) benefit 18 28.6% 96 24.9% “Reserves, (non-)deductibles and discrete items” include one-time transactions. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 232 Notes to the 5 Income taxes continued parent company Deferred income tax The significant components and annual movements of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2017, and January 1, 2017, are as follows: financial statements € million January 3, Recognized in 2016 income statement Other January 1, Recognized in 2017 income statement Other December 31, 2017 continued Derivatives and loans 42 — (41) 1 — — 1 Blended rate deferred tax fiscal unity 6 (1) — 5 (4) — 1 Other — — — — (7) 7 — Total gross deductible temporary differences 48 (1) (41) 6 (11) 7 2 Tax losses and tax credits — — — — — — — Total net deferred tax asset position 48 (1) (41) 6 (11) 7 2 Total deferred tax liabilities — — — — — — — Net deferred tax assets 48 (1) (41) 6 (11) 7 2 The column “Other” in the table above includes amounts recorded in equity. Income taxes in equity and comprehensive income Current and deferred income taxes recognized in and transferred from equity and comprehensive income are as follows: € million 2017 2016 Cash flow hedges — (41) Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans1 7 — Total 7 (41) 1 Due to additional cash contribution made to the Dutch Pension Fund. 6 Intangible assets € million Software As of January 1, 2017 At cost 25 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (7) Carrying amount 18 Year ended December 31, 2017 Additions 6 Amortization (3) Closing carrying amount 21 As of December 31, 2017 At cost 31 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (10) Carrying amount 21 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 233 Notes to the 7 Financial assets parent company December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Investments in subsidiaries 20,653 20,728 financial statements Loans receivable from subsidiaries 360 210 continued Deferred financing cost 2 2 Total financial assets 21,015 20,940 € million 2017 2016 Beginning of year 20,728 9,064 Share in income 1,862 1,120 Acquisitions — 10,765 Dividends (550) (436) Intercompany transfers 64 33 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) and other changes in equity (62) (158) Transfers (to) / from loans receivable (83) (54) Transfers (to) / from provisions 1 (15) Exchange rate differences (1,307) 409 End of year 20,653 20,728 Intercompany transfers include capital contributions and capital repayments. For a list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, see Note 36 to the consolidated financial statements. Loans receivable € million 2017 2016 Beginning of year 210 129 Intercompany transfers 67 27 Transfers from / (to) investments 83 54 End of year 360 210 Current portion — — Non-current portion of loans 360 210 The loans receivable are related to loans with subsidiaries. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 234 Notes to the 8 Receivables parent company December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Receivables from subsidiaries 19 37 financial statements Receivables from joint ventures 1 1 continued Prepaid expenses 6 7 Other receivables 2 1 Total receivables 28 46 9 Other current financial assets December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Short-term deposits and similar instruments — 100 Other derivatives external 1 299 Other — 1 Total other current financial assets 1 400 Short-term deposits and similar instruments included short-term investments with a remaining maturity at inception between three and twelve months. For more information on derivatives, see Note 14 to these parent company financial statements. 10 Shareholders’ equity The shareholders’ equity in the parent company financial statements equals the equity attributable to common shareholders presented in the consolidated financial statements, except that legal reserve participations and accumulated earnings (deficit) are presented separately. The currency translation reserve, cash flow hedging reserve and reserve participations are legal reserves that are required by Dutch law. The reserve participations include the increases in net asset value of joint ventures and associates since their first inclusion, less any amounts that can be distributed without legal restrictions. If the currency translation reserve or the cash flow hedging reserve has a negative balance, distributions to the Company’s shareholders are restricted to the extent of the negative balance. Of the total equity as of December 31, 2017, €15,170 million, an amount of €346 million is non-distributable (January 1, 2017: €1,130 million out of total equity of €16,276 million). For more information on the dividends on common shares, see Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 235 Notes to the 10 Shareholders’ equity continued parent company The movements in equity can be specified as follows: Legal reserves financial statements Share Additional paid-in Currency translation Cash flow hedging Reserve Other reserves including retained Equity attributable to common continued € million capital capital reserve reserve participations earnings1 shareholders Balance as of January 3, 2016 8 6,059 346 (123) 225 (893) 5,622 Net income attributable to common shareholders — — — — — 830 830 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — 408 121 — (105) 424 Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders — — 408 121 — 725 1,254 Dividends — — — — — (429) (429) Issuance of shares 5 10,756 — — — — 10,761 Capital repayment — (1,013) — — — 12 (1,001) Share-based payments — — — — — 74 74 Share in joint venture’s transactions with non-controlling interests — — — — — (5) (5) Other changes in reserves — — — — 138 (138) — Balance as of January 1, 2017 13 15,802 754 (2) 363 (654) 16,276 Net income attributable to common shareholders — — — — — 1,817 1,817 Other comprehensive loss — — (1,309) (2) — (19) (1,330) Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to common shareholders — — (1,309) (2) — 1,798 487 Dividends — — — — — (720) (720) Issuance of shares — 42 — — — — 42 Share buyback — — — — — (998) (998) Cancellation of treasury shares (1) (669) — — — 670 — Share-based payments — — — — — 83 83 Other changes in reserves — — — — (29) 29 — Balance as of December 31, 2017 12 15,175 (555) (4) 334 208 15,170 1 Other reserves includes the remeasurements of defined benefit plans. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 236 Notes to the 11 Provisions parent company December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Provision for negative equity subsidiaries 5 4 financial statements Other provisions 2 2 continued Total provisions 7 6 As of December 31, 2017, €0.3 million is expected to be utilized within one year (January 1, 2017: € nil). 12 Loans December 31, 2017 January 1, 2017 Non-current Current Non-current Current € million portion portion portion portion EUR 750 notes 0.875% due 2024 750 — — — Long-term loans from subsidiaries 1,444 1,500 2,819 138 Deferred financing costs (6) (1) — — Total loans 2,188 1,499 2,819 138 The long-term loans from subsidiaries mature in 2019 (€391 million), 2022 (€596 million) and 2029 (€457 million). For more information on the external loans, see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. For information on the cumulative preferred financing shares, see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. 13 Current liabilities December 31, January 1, € million 2017 2017 Short-term borrowings from subsidiaries 1,972 1,502 Other derivatives intercompany — 300 Loans – current portion 1,499 138 Dividend cumulative preferred financing shares 18 20 Income tax payable 25 8 Payables to subsidiaries 16 14 Payables to joint ventures 2 2 Interest payable 2 — Other current liabilities 32 30 Total current liabilities 3,566 2,014 The current liabilities are liabilities that mature within one year. For more information on derivatives, see Note 14 to these parent company financial statements. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 237 Notes to the 14 Derivatives parent company The parent company regularly enters into derivative contracts with banks to hedge foreign currency and interest exposures of the parent company or its subsidiaries. Derivative contracts that are entered into to hedge exposures of subsidiaries are generally mirrored with intercompany derivative contracts with financial statements the subsidiaries that are exposed to the hedged risks on substantially identical terms as the external derivative contracts. In these parent company financial statements, the external derivative contracts and the intercompany derivative contracts are presented separately on the balance sheet. In situations where continued the external derivative contract qualifies for hedge accounting treatment in the consolidated financial statements, the external derivative contract and the intercompany derivative contract are presented as “Hedging derivatives external” and “Hedging derivatives intercompany,” respectively. In situations where the external derivative contract does not qualify for hedge accounting treatment in the consolidated financial statements, the external derivative contract and the intercompany derivative contract are presented as “Other derivatives external” and “Other derivatives intercompany,” respectively. Fair value movements of external derivative contracts that were entered into to hedge the exposures of subsidiaries are recorded directly in income, where they effectively offset the fair value movements of the mirroring intercompany derivatives that are also recorded directly in income. Details of these derivative contracts, other financial instruments and the parent company’s risk management strategies are included in Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements and in the tables presented below. Non-current derivatives – assets € million 2017 2016 Beginning of year — 338 Fair value changes — (25) Reclassification of current portion — (313) End of year — — Current derivatives – assets € million 2017 2016 Beginning of year 299 — Reclassification of current portion from non-current — 313 Unwinding of cross-currency swap (287) — Fair value changes (11) (14) End of year 1 299 In 2016, the Derivative financial instruments – current portion includes the interest and the cross-currency swaps related to GBP 250 notes. The remaining notional redemption amount of GBP 250 million was due in March 2017 and the related swaps were settled on the same date. Non-current derivatives – liabilities € million 2017 2016 Beginning of year — 548 Fair value changes — (6) Unwinding of cross-currency swap — (229) Reclassification of current portion — (313) End of year — — In 2016, fair value changes include exchange rate differences and installments paid on a cross-currency swap that was entered into on behalf of one of the parent company’s subsidiaries. The cross-currency swap, accounted for as a cash flow hedge, was used to hedge currency and cash flow risk on floating debt denominated in foreign currency, related to the JPY 33,000 notes. The yen-euro currency swap was unwound on November 15, 2016. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 238 Notes to the 14 Derivatives continued parent company Current derivatives – liabilities € million 2017 2016 financial statements Beginning of year Reclassification of current portion from non-current 300 — 313 — continued Unwinding of cross-currency swap (287) — Fair value changes (13) (13) End of year — 300 15 Related party transactions Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. has entered into arrangements with a number of its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the course of its business. These arrangements relate to service transactions and financing agreements and were conducted at market prices. 16 Commitments and contingencies Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V., as the parent company, is party to a cross-guarantee agreement dated May 21, 2007, as amended from time to time, with Delhaize Le Lion/De Leeuw Comm. VA, Retail Business Services LLC, Delhaize US Holding, Inc. and substantially all the subsidiaries of Delhaize US Holding, Inc., under which each party guarantees fully and unconditionally, jointly and severally, the financial indebtedness of the other parties to the agreement. Notes and loans issued by certain subsidiaries are guaranteed by the parent company, as disclosed in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. The parent company also guarantees certain lease obligations and other obligations of subsidiaries. Guarantees issued by the parent company regarding the financial obligations of third parties and non-consolidated entities, other than under the cross guarantee mentioned above, amount to €399 million as of December 31, 2017, (January 1, 2017: €513 million). In addition, the Company has provided a guarantee as of July 30, 2010, for Ahold Finance U.S.A., LLC’s outstanding current obligations to third parties. As part of the divestment of U.S. Foodservice in 2007, Ahold Delhaize received an irrevocable standby letter of credit for $216 million (€163 million), which was reduced to $54 million (€45 million) as of December 31, 2017. Under customary provisions, the parent company guarantees certain representations and warranties made in agreements of asset disposals. Guarantees and legal proceedings are further disclosed in Note 34 to the consolidated financial statements. Under its financing agreement with the Dutch pension fund, Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. is liable for the pension contributions. The parent company forms a fiscal unity with Ahold Delhaize’s major Dutch subsidiaries for Dutch corporate income tax and Dutch VAT purposes and, for that reason, it is jointly and severally liable for the Dutch corporate income tax liabilities and Dutch VAT liabilities of the whole fiscal unity. Assumptions of liability pursuant to section 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code are disclosed in Note 36 to the consolidated financial statements. 17 Distribution of profit The Management Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, proposes that a final dividend of €0.63 per common share be paid in 2018 with respect to 2017 (2016: €0.57). Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 239 Notes to the 18 Subsequent events parent company For information regarding subsequent events, see Note 35 to the consolidated financial statements. Zaandam, the Netherlands financial statements February 27, 2018 continued Management Board Dick Boer Frans Muller Jeff Carr Kevin Holt Supervisory Board Mats Jansson (Chairman) Jan Hommen (Vice Chairman) Jacques de Vaucleroy (Vice Chairman) René Hooft Graafland Ben Noteboom Bill McEwan Rob van den Bergh Mark McGrath Mary Anne Citrino Johnny Thijs Patrick De Maeseneire Dominique Leroy Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 240 Other information Distribution of profit Articles of Association provisions governing the distribution of profit The holders of common shares are entitled to one vote per share and to participate in the distribution of dividends and liquidation proceeds. Pursuant to section 39 of the Articles of Association, a dividend will first be declared out of net income on cumulative preferred shares and cumulative preferred financing shares. Any net income remaining after reservations deemed necessary by the Supervisory Board, in consultation with the Management Board, will then be available for distribution to the common shareholders subject to approval at the General Meeting of Shareholders. The Management Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, may propose that the General Meeting of Shareholders make distributions wholly or partly in the form of common shares. Amounts of net income not paid in the form of dividends will be added to the accumulated deficit. In the financial statements, the dividend on cumulative preferred financing shares is included in the income statement. Consequently, net income according to the parent company income statement is fully attributable to common shareholders. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 241 Other information Independent auditor’s report To: the General Meeting and Supervisory Board of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. continued Report on the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 Our opinion In our opinion: • The accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. as at December 31, 2017, and of its result and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code • The accompanying parent company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. as at December 31, 2017, and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. What we have audited We have audited the accompanying financial statements for the financial year ended December 31, 2017, of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V., Zaandam (”the Company”). The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. and its subsidiaries (together: ”the Group”) and the parent company financial statements. The consolidated financial statements comprise: • The consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2017 • The following statements for the financial year ended December 31, 2017: The consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows • The notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The parent company financial statements comprise: • The parent company balance sheet as at December 31, 2017 • The parent company income statement for the year then ended • The notes, comprising a summary of accounting policies and other explanatory information. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is EU-IFRS and the relevant provisions of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the consolidated financial statements and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the parent company financial statements. The basis for our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the section “Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements” of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Independence We are independent of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. in accordance with the European Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public interest entities, the “Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties” (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assuranceopdrachten” (ViO–Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other relevant independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the “Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA–Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to rules of professional conduct). Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 242 Other information Our audit approach Overview and context continued Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. is an international food retail group operating supermarkets and e-commerce through components active in Belgium, the Czech Republic, Greece, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Romania, Serbia and the United States and through participating in joint ventures in Indonesia and Portugal. Our group audit scope and approach is set out in ”The scope of our group audit” section. We paid specific attention to the areas of focus driven by the operations of the Group as set out below. As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where the Management Board made important judgments; for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. In Note 2 of the financial statements the company describes the areas of judgment in applying accounting policies and the key sources of estimation uncertainty. Given the higher inherent risks of material misstatement in the impairment testing of goodwill and recognition of vendor allowance income, we considered these to be key audit matters as set out in the section “Key audit matters” of this report. Furthermore, we identified the employee benefit plan measurement and disclosures as a key audit matter because of the complexity and judgment required. Another area of focus, that was not considered to be a key audit matter was the risk fraud in revenue recognition. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by management that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. We ensured that the audit teams both at group and at component levels included the appropriate skills and competencies which are needed for the audit of a retail company. The Group’s operations utilize a range of legacy IT systems. The adequacy and effective operation of controls over these systems is an important element of the integrity of financial reporting within the Group. We utilized IT specialists in our audit to evaluate the adequacy and effective operation of these controls. Furthermore, we included specialists in areas requiring valuation, tax and actuarial (including pension accounting) expertise. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 243 Other information The outlines of our audit approach were as follows: Materiality continued Overall materiality: €96 million which represents 5% of income before income taxes. Audit scope We conducted audit work at 10 components. Each component is audited by local engagement teams that are based in the U.S., the Netherlands, Belgium, Greece, Switzerland and Curacao. Site visits were conducted in five countries: U.S., the Netherlands, Belgium, Greece and Switzerland. Our audit coverage is 88% of consolidated net sales, 88% of total assets and 92% of income before income taxes. Key audit matters Impairment testing of goodwill Recognition of vendor allowances Employee benefit plan measurement and disclosures Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by the application of materiality which is further explained in the section “Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements”. Based on our professional judgment, we set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and to evaluate the effect of identified misstatements both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole and on our opinion. Overall group materiality €96 million (2016: €66 million). Our 2017 materiality increased primarily because of the inclusion of the results from the former Delhaize entities for a full year in 2017 as opposed to five months in 2016. How we determined it We used our professional judgment to determine the overall materiality. As a basis for our judgment we used 5% of income before income taxes. Rationale for benchmark applied We used income before income taxes as the primary benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, based on our analysis of the common information needs of users of the financial statements. On this basis we believe that income before income taxes is an important metric for the financial performance of the Company. Component materiality To each component in our audit scope, we, based on our judgment, allocate materiality that is less than our overall group materiality. The range of materiality allocated across components was between €7.5 and €85 million. We also take misstatements and / or possible misstatements into account that, in our judgment, are material for qualitative reasons. We agreed with the Supervisory Board that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above €4.8 million (2016: €3.3 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 244 Other information The scope of our group audit Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. is the parent company of a group of entities. The financial information of this group is included in the consolidated financial continued statements of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed sufficient work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the management structure of the Group, the nature of operations of its components, the accounting processes and controls, and the markets in which the components of the Group operate. In establishing the overall group audit strategy and plan, we determined the type of work required to be performed at the component level by the group engagement team and by each component auditor. Six components were subject to audits of their complete financial information, four of which were individually significant to the Group. These components include the retail operations at Ahold USA, Delhaize America, and the Netherlands as well as the Global Support Office activities in the Netherlands (which includes financing activities in Switzerland). The other two components, the Belgian and Greek retail operations, were selected to achieve appropriate audit coverage over the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, four components were selected for audit procedures to achieve appropriate coverage on specific financial line items in the consolidated financial statements. These components included the Global Support Office activities in the United States and the insurance captives located in the U.S., Ireland and Curacao. In total, in performing these procedures, we achieved the following coverage on the financial line items: Net sales 88% Total assets 88% Income before income taxes 92% None of the remaining components represented more than 3% of total Group net sales or 3% of total Group assets. For those remaining components we attended internal quarterly closing meetings with local and Group management and performed, among other things, analytical procedures to corroborate our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatements within those components. The Global Support Office activities in the Netherlands, which includes financing activities in Switzerland, Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the group engagement team at the Company’s head office. This included procedures performed over financial instruments such as loans and derivatives, goodwill impairment testing, Management Board remuneration including share-based payments and compliance of accounting positions taken by the Group in accordance with EU-IFRS. For all other components we used component auditors who are familiar with the local laws and regulations to perform the audit work. Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those components to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole. The group engagement team directed the planning, reviewed the results of the work undertaken by component auditors and assessed and discussed the findings with the component auditors during conference calls and site visits. In the current year, the group engagement team visited local management and the component auditors at the in scope locations in the U.S., the Netherlands, Belgium, Greece and Switzerland. By performing the procedures above at components, combined with additional procedures at Group level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence on the Group’s financial information, as a whole, to provide a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 245 Other information Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements. We have continued communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters that were identified by our audit and that we discussed. In this section, we described the key audit matters and included a summary of the audit procedures we performed on those matters. The key audit matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon. We do not provide separate opinions on these matters or on specific elements of the financial statements. Any comments or observations we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. The context of our audit is set by the Group’s 2017 results and operations. As the Delhaize merger took place in 2016, the key audit matter related to the accounting for the merger transaction and alignment of accounting policies has been removed. Instead, the impairment testing of goodwill primarily related to the Delhaize merger has been added as key audit matter. In addition we have removed the key audit matter related to store asset impairment due to absence of significant triggering events in 2017 that would require further impairment analysis at store level compared to 2016. The other key audit matters, recognition of vendor allowances and employee benefit plan measurement and disclosures, are consistent with prior year in view of their magnitude and the significant estimates and assumptions involved. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Impairment testing of goodwill As described in Note 13 the Group had €6.9 billion of goodwill We evaluated management’s process and design effectiveness of controls over the as at December 31, 2017. The majority of this balance (€6 billion) impairment assessment including the appropriateness of management’s identification relates to the former Delhaize business acquired in 2016. This was of the Group’s CGUs, indicators of impairment, discount rates and forecasts. allocated at acquisition date to individual cash generating units With the support of our valuation experts we challenged management’s assumptions (CGUs). used in determining the future cash flow forecasts for the Hannaford, Food Lion and As disclosed in Note 2 and Note 3 to the financial statements, the Delhaize Belgium CGUs. We benchmarked key market related assumptions (as Group tests its CGUs containing goodwill for impairment annually disclosed in Note 13) against external data and historical performance and assessed and if there is a triggering event at an earlier or later reporting the reasonableness of the assumptions by comparing the sum of the future cash flow date. This is done by comparing the recoverable amounts of the forecasts of all CGUs to the market capitalization. We also verified the mathematical individual CGUs, being the higher of value-in-use and fair value accuracy of management’s valuation models and agreed relevant data, including less costs of disposal, to the carrying amounts. assumptions on timing and future capital and operating expenditure to the five year plan. Our key audit matter focused on the goodwill allocated to Based on our procedures, we consider management’s key assumptions to be within a Hannaford, Food Lion and Delhaize Belgium CGUs which reasonable range of our own expectations and the related disclosures in Note 13 to the amount to €3 billion of the total goodwill recognized in the financial statements to be adequate. Delhaize acquisition. This was primarily driven by the inherent limited headroom as the purchase price allocation was recently performed combined with certain market developments in the U.S. and Belgium. We also considered this to be a key audit matter due to the magnitude of the goodwill balance in these CGUs and the significant judgment involved in estimating the recoverable amounts. The recoverable amounts of these CGUs was based on fair value less cost of disposal. Such amounts are based on cash flow forecasts that include management’s estimate of market participant’s views of key value driver inputs and external market conditions such as inflation, volume growth and competition, capital expenditures and discount rates applied. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 246 Other information Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter continued Recognition of vendor allowances The Group receives various types of vendor allowances from its Our procedures included evaluating the design and testing the operating effectiveness suppliers, as further disclosed in Note 2 and Note 3 to the financial of management’s controls around the completeness and accuracy of the contractual statements. These allowances are a significant component of cost agreements recognized in the accounting system. of sales. The vendor allowance receivable at December 31, 2017, Furthermore we challenged management’s assumptions used in determining the vendor amounts to €454 million (Note 17). allowances through discussions with management and performing the following specific The vendor allowance agreements with suppliers contain volumesubstantive audit procedures. On a sample basis we agreed the recorded amounts to the related allowances, promotional and marketing allowances and vendor contracts and/or supporting documentation and confirmed the related positions various other fees and discounts received in connection with the and terms with the vendors. In addition, to evaluate the reliability of management’s purchase of goods for resale from those suppliers. The Group estimates, we performed a retrospective review of management judgments by testing recognizes vendor allowances as a reduction in cost of sales when subsequent collections on prior period vendor allowance receivables. Finally we tested the performance conditions associated with the allowances have cut-off through assessing the obligation fulfilment of vendor allowances recorded during been met, for example when the product has been sold, placed or a period before and after year-end. when the marketing campaign has been held. Based on our procedures we did not identify material exceptions and we found We considered this to be a key audit matter because of the management’s recognition of vendor allowances to be supported by available evidence. magnitude of amounts involved and the judgment required from management to determine the nature and level of fulfilment of the Company’s obligations under the vendor agreements and to recognize the amounts in the correct period. This requires a detailed understanding of the contractual arrangements in addition to complete and accurate data to estimate purchase and sales volumes and fulfilment of promotional programs. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 247 Other information Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter continued Employee benefit plan measurement and disclosures The Group has defined benefit plans, primarily in the Netherlands Our procedures included understanding and evaluating the design and testing the and in and the U.S., giving rise to defined benefit obligations of operating effectiveness of controls related to key inputs (such as payroll data) and key €4.8 billion and €1.4 billion, respectively (Note 23). outputs of the Group’s pension process. The Group also has a significant number of union employees in the We tested the actuarial and demographic assumptions and valuation methodologies U.S. whose pension benefits are covered by multi-employer plans used by management to determine the Group’s various pension obligations. (we also refer to the risk factor on pension plan funding on page We evaluated whether the key actuarial assumptions are reasonable (for example 114 of the Annual Report). In Note 23 management has disclosed by comparing to the published actuarial tables) and consistently applied. We tested a calculation, which is based on certain assumptions and leads to payroll data, through a combination of controls and test of details, and reconciled the an estimate of the Group’s possible proportionate share of the total membership census data used in the actuarial models to the payroll data. net deficit in these plans. In addition, we evaluated the potential exposure under the multi-employer plans in the We considered this to be a key audit matter because of the U.S. as disclosed in Note 23. We reconciled the related inputs used by management magnitude of the amounts involved, management’s significant to determine the Group’s possible proportionate share of the total net deficit in these judgment applied in estimating the actuarial and demographic plans to supporting documentation such as the latest available plan information and assumptions (the most relevant being around salary increases, actuarial calculations. inflation, discount rates and mortality rates) and the technical Finally, we assessed the adequacy of disclosures related to the employee benefit plans. expertise required to measure the resulting defined benefit Our procedures did not identify material exceptions and we considered management’s pension obligation for the Group and multi-employer key assumptions to be within a reasonable range of our own expectations. plan disclosure. Report on the other information included in the annual report In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon, the Annual Report contains other information that consists of: • The Management Report as defined on page 120 of the Annual Report • The other information included in Message from our CEO, Who we are, World around us, Business review, Governance, Sustainability performance and Investor sections and • The other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Based on the procedures performed as set out below, we conclude that the other information: • Is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements • Contains the information that is required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained in our audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material misstatements. By performing our procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of such procedures was substantially less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements. The Management Board is responsible for the preparation of the other information, including the Management Report and the other information in accordance with Part 9 Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 248 Other information Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Our appointment continued We were appointed as auditors of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. by the Supervisory Board following the passing of a resolution by the shareholders at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on April 16, 2013. The appointment has been renewed annually by shareholders representing a total period of uninterrupted engagement appointment of five years. No prohibited non-audit services To the best of our knowledge and belief, we have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in Article 5(1) of the European Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public interest entities. Services rendered The non-audit services, in addition to the audit, that we have provided to the company and its controlled entities, for the period to which our statutory audit relates, are disclosed in Note 4 of the notes to the parent company financial statements. Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board for the financial statements The Management Board is responsible for: • The preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; • Such internal control as the Management Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Management Board is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the Management Board should prepare the financial statements using the goingconcern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Management Board should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our responsibility is to plan and perform an audit engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high but not absolute level of assurance which makes it possible that we may not detect all misstatements. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. A more detailed description of our responsibilities is set out in the appendix to our report. Amsterdam, February 27, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. D. van Ameijden RA Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 249 Other information Appendix to our auditor’s report on the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. continued In addition to what is included in our auditor’s report we have further set out in this appendix our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and explained what an audit involves. The auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the audit in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our audit consisted, among other things of the following: • Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the intentional override of internal control. • Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. • Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Management Board. • Concluding on the appropriateness of the Management Board’s use of the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, concluding whether a material uncertainty exists related to events and/or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report and are made in the context of our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. However, future events or conditions may cause the company to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Considering our ultimate responsibility for the opinion on the company’s consolidated financial statements we are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. In this context, we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures for components of the group to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole. Determining factors are the geographic structure of the group, the significance and / or risk profile of group entities or activities, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review of financial information or specific balances was considered necessary. We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. In this respect we also issue an additional report to the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee in accordance with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. The information included in this additional report is consistent with our audit opinion in this auditor’s report. We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public interest. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 250 Sustainability performance Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 251 Introduction Our commitment to sustainable retailing is one of the foundations on which Ahold Delhaize’s Better Together strategy is built, and an integral part of how our businesses create value for customers, associates, communities, shareholders and the environment. Sustainable retailing has always been part of our Our objective is to lead our industry in accelerating legacy and how we do business. Our approach toward food systems that are healthier for people to sustainable retailing, which was developed as and the planet. part of the Better Together strategy, is based on our most material topics and leverages our global reach, market expertise and great local brands. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 252 Progress towards 2020 Promote healthier eating Reduce food waste Create healthier and Safety at work Our brands will enable customers We will reduce food waste in our inclusive workplaces We will integrate safe working and associates to eat healthier food operations and supply chain, and our We will provide associates with practices for all associates into our every day. brands will help customers reduce a healthy and inclusive workplace. workplace designs, equipment food waste at home. purchases and operational procedures. Healthy own-brand food sales Tonnes of food waste per food sales Score on “healthier workplace” through Rate of lost days due to accidents / (%) (t/MEUR) the associate engagement survey (%) 200,000 hours worked (days) 55 6.00 90 5 50 5.50 85 4 45 5.00 80 3 40 4.50 75 2 35 4.00 70 1 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 target 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 target 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 target 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Associate development Own-brand products with Food waste recycled Score on “inclusive workplace” through We take care of people by fostering front-of-pack labeling (%) (%) the associate engagement survey (%) associate development. 100 100 90 90 90 85 80 80 80 Score on “associate development” through the associate engagement survey (%) 70 70 75 90 60 60 70 85 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 target 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 target 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 target 80 75 70 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 target Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 253 Progress towards 2020 continued Product safety and sustainability Climate impact We will ensure that the products we sell are safe, of high quality, affordable, We take our responsibility for using the planet’s resources sustainably and meet sustainable sourcing standards. by reducing carbon emissions and waste. Own-brand food production sites that comply Own-brand food production sites that comply Carbon equivalent emissions Waste recycled with our food safety standards (%) with our social compliance standards (%) (CO2 /m2) (%) 100 100 505 (kg) 100 90 80 490 90 80 60 475 80 70 40 460 70 60 20 445 60 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 target 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 target 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 target 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 target Commodities in our own-brand products that comply with our sourcing standards Ozone-friendly refrigerants Average GWP of refrigerants (%) (%) 2020 target 100 100 2,700 20% 80 45% 90 2,600 60 80 2,500 40 80% 70 2,400 55% 20 60 2,300 Tea Coffee Cocoa Palm oil Seafood Soy Wood fiber 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 target 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 target 2016 Mass balance or segregated 2017 Book & claim Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 254 Scope and methodology This section presents Ahold During 2017, as we continued to improve our From an operational scope perspective, the data UN Global Compact strategic alignment across the company, we built includes the following parts of the business, unless The United Nations Global Compact is an Delhaize’s 2017 performance on the strong heritage of sustainable retailing at specifically noted otherwise: initiative for businesses committed to aligning against its Sustainable Retailing both Ahold and Delhaize Group. While it is not their operations and strategies with 10 universally strategy and targets. Like 2016, • All stores (company-owned and franchise / feasible to combine our pre-merger performance accepted principles in the areas of human rights, affiliated stores, except for waste from stores this year continued to be a time from prior years for Ahold Delhaize’s brands, our labor, environment and anti-corruption. affiliated with Delhaize Belgium) of transition and integration. 2016 baseline helps us to show clear performance Ahold Delhaize’s own principles align with those Our businesses shared expertise trends for the combined company. • Offices of the Global Compact, and we have incorporated and worked closely together to Enabling all our brands to report fully on all • Company-owned distribution centers, including them into our strategy. We report on our operations make Ahold Delhaize an even Sustainable Retailing performance indicators was all transportation from distribution centers to and strategies in relation to these principles. more sustainable company. a high priority for 2017, but we have more work to stores, regardless of whether the transportation Our Global Compact table can be found on the do in 2018 to reach this goal. companies are owned by Ahold Delhaize Sustainable Retailing section of Ahold Delhaize’s website at www.aholddelhaize.com. The segments and businesses included in In our 2016 reporting, not all brands were able to this report’s data are all brands except bol. report on all indicators, as they were in the process Memberships com, Peapod, Etos and Gall & Gall. In 2016, of adjusting their internal measurement systems to As a global company, we are members of the Sustainable Retailing data included Super Ahold Delhaize definitions or were creating new and collaborate with industry associations Indo, a joint venture. In 2017, our data excludes data collection processes. When full alignment and partnerships to further sustainability Super Indo to better align with the scope of our in reporting for an indicator was not achieved for progress within our industry. Our memberships financial reporting. 2016, we have explained it in the footnotes (a 2016 include the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF), overview of included companies per indicator is the Food Marketing Institute (FMI), the Dutch also included on our website). Food Retail Association (“Centraal Bureau Levensmiddelenhandel” or CBL), the European Global Reporting Initiative Retail Round Table (ERRT), Eurocommerce, Our sustainability reporting has been prepared in and the World Economic Forum (WEF), among accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. others. Through these memberships, we strive to The indicators we have chosen to report on are improve global health, sustainability, transparency, derived from an analysis of their relevance and compliance monitoring, and the well-being of materiality to the key impacts of our businesses, workers around the world. and are the ones we believe best measure progress against our strategic focus areas. This document has been reviewed by the Company’s external independent auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. A summary of our application of the GRI Standards is included in GRI Index. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 255 Sustainable Retailing data Our focus areas Promote healthier eating Performance indicator description 2017 2016 2020 Target Commentary % of healthy own-brand food sales of total own-brand food sales1 46% 42% 50% In 2017, the Ahold USA brands completed the analysis of % of own-brand products with front-of-pack nutritional labeling2 87% 85% 100% their own-brand products against the Guiding Stars system. Our other brands made strong progress on increasing sales of healthy products. As a result, we have raised our healthy own-brand sales target for 2020 from 45% to 50%. 1 2016 data excludes Ahold USA. 2 2016 data excludes Albert Heijn and Delhaize Belgium. 2016 Mega Image figures do not include products that are sourced directly from other Ahold Delhaize brands. 2017 data excludes Mega Image and Delhaize Belgium. Reduce food waste Performance indicator description 2017 2016 2020 Target Commentary Tonnes of food waste per food sales (t/MEUR)3 5.32 5.31 4.25 (-20%) We restated our 2016 figures to correct for errors in our Tonnes of food waste sent to disposal per food sales (t/MEUR)3 1.71 1.95 previous calculations. Using constant exchange rates, % of total food waste recycled 68% 63% 90% our 2016 figure for tonnes of food waste per food sales is % food waste recycled for animal feed 17% 33% 5.36 t/MEUR, resulting in a 1% decrease. We continue to focus on reducing and recycling food waste. Our large % food waste recycled for biogas generation 33% 17% increases in food waste recycled for biogas generation % food waste recycled for compost 10% 16% were driven by our Giant Carlisle and Hannaford brands. % food waste recycled by rendering 40% 34% % of unsold food donated to feed people4 24% 18% As part of our commitment as a member of the Consumer Goods Forum, we aim to reduce food waste sent to disposal by 50% between 2016-2020. In 2017, compared to 2016, every local business increased their percentage of unsold food donated to feed people. Food Lion and Hannaford made the most significant positive impact on these figures. 3 2016 data excludes Super Indo. 4 2016 data excludes Ahold USA and Albert Heijn. 2017 data excludes Ahold USA. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 256 Sustainable Retailing data Our focus areas continued Create healthier and inclusive workplaces Performance indicator description 2017 2020 Target Commentary Healthier workplace In 2017, for the first time, we conducted an associate Index of healthy workplace questions5 73% 75% engagement survey using a common platform across all of our Ahold Delhaize brands. Through the survey, we ask our associates about the support they receive from Ahold Inclusive workplace Delhaize brands to have healthier lives and how Ahold Index of inclusive workplace questions5 77% 79% Delhaize brands support a more inclusive workplace. 5 2017 data includes Peapod, Gall & Gall and Etos. Performance indicator description 2017 2016 Commentary Diversity In 2017, one female Executive Committee member left the Number of associates (thousands)6 369 370 company and one female member of the Supervisory Board % of associates who work part-time6 68% 69% stepped down. % of associates who work full time6 32% 31% % of associates who are female6 53% 53% % of associates who are male6 47% 47% % of females on the Executive Committee 11% 22% % of females on the Supervisory Board 17% 21% % Greatest Generation (1900 – 1945)6 1% 1% % Baby Boomers (1946 – 1964)6 17% 17% % Generation X (1965 – 1979)6 22% 22% % Generation Y (1980 – 1995)6 29% 32% % Generation Z (1996 +)6 32% 28% 6 2016 data excludes Super Indo and includes Peapod, Gall & Gall, Etos and bol.com. 2017 data includes Peapod, Gall & Gall, Etos and bol.com. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 257 Sustainable Retailing data Our essentials Product safety and sustainability Performance indicator description 2017 2016 2020 Target Commentary Product safety In 2016, we reported on private label products, which are % of production units of own-brand food products that are Global Food Safety a sub-set of Ahold Delhaize own brands, consisting only Initiative (GFSI)-certified or comply with an acceptable level of assurance standard7 91.2% 95.4% 100.0% of products with a visible proprietary label from an Ahold % of production units of own-brand food products that are certified according Delhaize brand. In 2017, all brands reported on the full range to a GFSI-recognized standard7 87.6% 90.7% 93.0% of own brands, which accounts for the slight decrease in % of production units of own-brand food products that comply with production units of own-brand products that are GFSI-certified an acceptable level of assurance standard (other than GFSI)7 3.6% 4.7% 7.0% or that comply with an acceptable level of assurance standard. % of production units of high-risk non-food own-brand products audited by an independent third-party against acceptable standards for the relevant product category8 53% Social compliance In 2016, we reported on private label products, which are a sub% of production units of own-brand products in high-risk countries 59% 49% 80% set of Ahold Delhaize own brands, consisting only of products audited against an acceptable standard and having a valid audit report with a visible proprietary label from an Ahold Delhaize brand. or certificate with no non-compliances on deal-breakers9 In 2017, almost all brands reported on own brands. Our brands increased the percentage of production units of own-brand products in high-risk countries that are audited against an acceptable standard. 7 2016 figures for the following brands refer to private label products, which are a sub-set of Ahold Delhaize own brands, consisting of products with a visible proprietary label from an Ahold Delhaize brand: Delhaize America, Mega Image, Delhaize Serbia and Alfa Beta. 2016 figures for Mega Image and Delhaize Serbia do not include products sourced from other Ahold Delhaize brands. The exclusion of Super Indo in 2017 figures results in a 1.6 percentage point increase in percentage of production units for own-brand food products that are certified according to a GFSI recognized standard, and a 1.3 percentage point decrease in percentage of production units for own-brand food products that comply with an acceptable level of assurance standard (other than GFSI). 8 2017 data excludes Albert Heijn, Albert and Delhaize America. 9 2016 figures for all brands refer to private label products. 2017 Delhaize America figures refer to private label products. 2017 data for all other brands refers to own-brand products. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 258 Sustainable Retailing data Our essentials continued Product safety and sustainability continued Performance indicator description 2017 2016 2020 Target Commentary Commodities We progressed well against our sustainable commodities % of own-brand products containing tea that are certified against targets, with the exception of flat figures for sustainably an acceptable standard10 72% 64% 100% sourced seafood. % of own-brand coffee products that are certified against an acceptable standard10 82% 69% 100% % of own-brand products containing cocoa that are certified against an acceptable standard11 53% 38% 100% % of palm oil volume in own-brand products certified to an acceptable standard or certified to RSPO Book & Claim12 100% 100% 100% % of palm oil volume in own-brand products certified against an acceptable standard (Mass Balance or Segregated supply chain option)12 80% 55% 75% % of palm oil volume in own-brand products offset by purchase of RSPO Book & Claim12 20% 45% 25% % of own-brand wood fiber products certified sustainable against an acceptable standard, low risk, or recycled13 48% 13% 100% % of high priority (South American) direct and embedded soy volumes in the supply chain of own-brand products certified against an acceptable standard14 80% 66% 100% % of own-brand seafood products sales certified against an acceptable standard, from sustainable sources assessed by a credible third party, or from credible FIPs/AIPs15 92% 92% 100% % of own-brand seafood product sales with an identified farm/fishery of origin16 99% 77% 100% % total seafood sales from products certified to MSC or ASC17 14% 12% % total seafood sales from products certified to MSC17 9% % total seafood sales from products certified to ASC17 5% As part of our strategic commitment to Best Own Brands, we Organics have added tracking for our own-brand lines of free-from and % total food sales from certified organic products18 4% 3% organic products. Total sales from free-from or organic own-brand lines (€ million) 1,451 10 2016 data excludes Mega Image and Super Indo. 11 2016 data excludes Delhaize America, Alfa Beta, Mega Image and Super Indo. In 2020, the target is set at 100% for products containing more than 25% cocoa. For products containing less than 25% cocoa, the target is set at 75%. 12 2016 data is estimated. For 2016 figures, Alfa Beta reported only on private label products. Super Indo has a large impact on our palm oil figures, and the exclusion of Super Indo in 2017’s reporting accounts for a 12 percentage point increase in our figures for percentage of palm oil volume certified to RSPO Mass Balance or RSPO Segregated. 100% of Super Indo’s palm oil footprint is covered by RSPO Book & Claim. 13 2016 data excludes Albert Heijn, Albert, and Ahold USA. 2016 Mega Image figures do not include products that are sourced directly from other Ahold Delhaize brands. 14 2016 data is estimated and excludes Delhaize America, Ahold USA, Delhaize Serbia, Alfa Beta and Super Indo. 2017 Delhaize Belgium figure are reported as Q4 2016 – Q3 2017. Soy credits are purchased through the Roundtable on Responsible Soy. 15 As a correction to the 2016 report wording, all figures related to seafood are in percentage of sales, not in percentage of products. 16 2016 data excludes Albert Heijn, Albert and Super Indo. As a correction to the 2016 report wording, all figures related to seafood are in percentage of sales, not in percentage of products. 17 2016 data excludes Ahold USA, Albert Heijn and Albert. 2017 data excludes Albert Heijn and Albert. 18 2016 data excludes Ahold USA, Alfa Beta and Super Indo. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 259 Sustainable Retailing data Our essentials continued Climate impact Performance indicator description 2017 2016 2020 Target Commentary % change in CO2 equivalent emissions per m2 of sales area (from 2008 baseline)19 (27)% (21)% (30)% We prioritized reducing emissions from refrigerants in 2017, Total CO2 equivalent emissions per m2 sales area – location-based approach focusing on leak reductions and increasing the use of natural (kg CO2 -eq/m2)19 467 504 445 refrigerants. We now account for emissions from franchise / Total CO2 equivalent emissions (thousand tonnes) – location-based approach19 4,278 4,370 affiliated stores in Scope 3 reporting. Total SCOPE 1 CO2 equivalent emissions (thousand tonnes) – In 2016, we reported Q4 2015 through Q3 2016 data for our location-based approach19 1,634 1,804 CO2 equivalent emissions data. We revised our 2016 data, and Total SCOPE 2 CO2 equivalent emissions (thousand tonnes) – it now follows the calendar year like the rest of our reporting. location-based approach19 2,195 2,347 Total SCOPE 3 CO2 equivalent emissions (thousand tonnes) – location-based approach19 449 219 Total CO2 equivalent emissions per m2 sales area – market-based approach (kg CO2 -eq/m2) 428 476 Total CO2 equivalent emissions (thousand tonnes) – market-based approach 3,923 4,124 Total SCOPE 1 CO2 equivalent emissions (thousand tonnes) – market-based approach 1,634 1,804 Total SCOPE 2 CO2 equivalent emissions (thousand tonnes) – market-based approach 1,840 2,101 Total SCOPE 3 CO2 equivalent emissions (thousand tonnes) – market-based approach 449 219 19 All 2016 figures have been revised to follow calendar year reporting like the rest of our reporting. Additionally, we restated errors found in our 2016 data. 2016 figures exclude Super Indo. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 260 Sustainable Retailing data Our essentials continued Climate impact continued Performance indicator description 2017 2016 2020 Target Commentary Energy consumption We prioritized reducing emissions from refrigerants in Facilities’ energy consumption CO2 equivalent emissions (Scopes 1 & 2) 2017, focusing on leak reductions and increasing the use (thousand tonnes)20 2,668 2,654 of natural refrigerants. Facilities’ energy consumption CO2 equivalent emissions per m2 sales area In 2016, we reported Q4 2015 through Q3 2016 data for (kg CO2 -eq/m2)20 291 306 our CO2 -equivalent emissions data. We revised our 2016 Facilities’ energy consumption (million kWh)20 6,667 7,149 data, and it now follows the calendar year like the rest of Facilities’ energy consumption per m2 sales area (kWh/m2)20 805 825 our reporting. Total renewable electricity produced on site (million kWh)20 20 21 % renewable electricity of total electricity consumed20 15% 11% Avoided grid electricity CO2 emissions (thousand tonnes)20 362 255 Transport Transport CO2 equivalent emissions (thousand tonnes)20 386 389 Transport CO2 equivalent emissions per m2 of sales area (kg CO2 -eq/m2)20 42 45 Fuel consumption by trucks (million liters)20 134 135 Refrigerants Refrigerants equivalent emissions (thousand tonnes)20 1,224 1,328 Refrigerants equivalent emissions per m2 of sales area (kg CO2 -eq/m2)20 134 153 % ozone-friendly refrigerants20 74% 72% 85% Average GWP of total refrigerants20 2,437 2,480 2,230 Refrigerant leakage rate20 12% 12% 20 All 2016 figures have been revised to follow calendar year reporting like the rest of our reporting. Additionally, we restated errors found in our 2016 data. 2016 figures exclude Super Indo. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 261 Sustainable Retailing data Our essentials continued Climate impact continued Performance indicator description 2017 2016 2020 Target Commentary Waste The increase in carrier bags distributed from 2016 to 2017 Total waste generated (thousand tonnes) 1,029 1,066 is due to all brands being included in reporting for 2017. % of waste sent to landfill 18% 19% We restated our 2016 figures to correct for errors in our % of waste incinerated and transformed to energy 9% 9% previous calculations related to the amount of food waste. % waste recycled 73% 71% 80% Number of non-reusable carrier bags distributed (in million)21 4,366 2,626 Water Albert Heijn was unable to report in 2017, and the exclusion Total water consumption (thousand m3)22 7,546 7,931 of their figures has resulted in a higher water consumption Total water consumption (m3) per m2 of sales area22 0.96 0.88 per m2 of sales area. 21 2016 data excludes Albert Heijn and Ahold USA. 22 2016 data excludes Mega Image and Delhaize Belgium affiliated stores. 2016 data has been restated due to an error. 2017 data excludes Albert Heijn and includes estimates for Delhaize Belgium affiliated stores. Safety at work Performance indicator description 2017 2016 Commentary Rate of lost days due to accidents23,24 2.5 2.5 By focusing on safety at work, we increased the number Rate of occupational illnesses per million hours worked24 25.1 31.9 of brands reporting in alignment with global definitions. 23 2016 data excludes Albert Heijn, Albert, Alfa Beta, Mega Image, Delhaize Serbia and Super Indo. 2017 data for Delhaize Belgium is reported for Q4 2016 through Q3 2017. 24 2017 Albert Heijn data may include an overestimation of the number of incidences, due to reporting limitations. Associate development Performance indicator description 2017 2020 Target Commentary Index of associate development questions25 71% 73% In 2017, for the first time, we conducted an associate engagement survey using a common platform across all of our Ahold Delhaize brands. Through the associate engagement survey, we ask our associates about the support they receive to develop their careers with Ahold Delhaize. 25 Figures include Peapod, Gall & Gall and Etos. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 262 Sustainable Retailing data Our essentials continued Local community connection Performance indicator description 2017 2016 Commentary Cash donations by the company to charities (€ million) 15.4 22.6 We adjusted our indicators for donations in 2017 to show a % of cash donations by the company to charities with which clearer distinction between donations given through onethe company has long-term partnerships 50% time events versus donations through long-term community % of cash donations by the company to charities through singular donations 50% partnerships and charitable activities linked to core Cash equivalent donations by the company to charities (€ million)26 161.5 123.9 business activities. % of cash equivalent donations by the company to charities with which We break down donations into three main vehicles: direct cash the company has long-term partnerships 59% donations by Ahold Delhaize and our brands, cash equivalent % of cash equivalent donations by the company to charities through of in-kind donations, and donations by customers facilitated singular donations 41% by Ahold Delhaize brands. We prioritize cash equivalent Cash and cash equivalent donations by customers to charities, donations, such as in-kind giving of products and associate facilitated by Ahold Delhaize brands (€ million)27 7.0 3.8 volunteering. Additionally, in 2016, we included donations % of cash and cash equivalent donations to charities by the company, through commercial initiatives and these are excluded in 2017. on pre-tax profit28 9% 11% Total cash and cash equivalent donations by the company and by customers to charities (€ million)29 183.8 150.3 Tonnes of food donated30 52,731 50,286 26 2016 data excludes management overheads and associate volunteering. 27 2016 data excludes Mega Image and partially excludes Alfa Beta. 2016 data has been corrected. 28 2016 data is reported for the first time to demonstrate trends. 29 2016 data has been corrected. 30 2016 data excludes Albert Heijn. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 263 Definitions Acceptable standards and certifications for commodities • Healthy workplace: Through the associate engagement survey, we ask our associates • Social Accountability (SA) 8000 • Program for the Endorsement of Forest Ahold Delhaize defines acceptable standards about the support they receive to have The specific definitions outlined Certification (PEFC)†† as multi-stakeholder initiatives, or standards healthier lives. below add context to our Annual supported by multiple stakeholders. They include • ProTerra; Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil • Inclusive workplace: Through the associate (RSPO)†† Report, as well as detail to some third-party verification and focus on mitigating engagement survey, we ask our associates of the specific calculations. the main environmental and social issues • Roundtable on Responsible Soy (RTRS)†† about the support they receive to have a more associated with a commodity’s production. inclusive workplace. • SGS Social Compliance Factory Assessment Acceptable standards are science-based, • Sustainable Agriculture in South Africa (SIZA); • Associate development: Through the globally consistent and focus on continuously Utz Certified†† associate engagement survey, we ask our improving production and supply chain practices. associates about the support they receive to • Wine and Agricultural Ethical Trade Association Acceptable standards for tea, coffee, and develop their careers with Ahold Delhaize. (WIETA). cocoa include UTZ Certification, Rainforest † Only audit reports conducted by external, independent Alliance, Fairtrade USA / Fairtrade International Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) auditors are considered equivalent. or equivalent standards. Acceptable standards Business Social Compliance Initiative: a non†† Only applicable if the production unit is a farm. for palm oil include Roundtable on Sustainable profit organization that supports more than Palm Oil (RSPO) Principles & Criteria, Rainforest Carbon footprint methodology and data scope 1,000 international companies in the process of Alliance SAN Standard or equivalent standards. The carbon footprint methodology follows the monitoring and improving working conditions in Acceptable standards for wood fiber are the guidelines of the World Business Council for the global supply chain through its own auditing Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Sustainable Development (WBCSD) / World program. We consider the following standards to Custody, Program for Endorsement of Forest Resources Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) be “BSCI Equivalent”: Certification (PEFC) Grade A standards, Protocol regarding corporate greenhouse gas • Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC)†† accounting and reporting. Our Ahold Delhaize Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) or equivalent standards. Acceptable standards for soy are • Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) carbon footprint reporting takes into account Roundtable on Responsible Soy (RTRS) standard Scope 1, Scope 2 and limited Scope 3 emissions. • Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) / SMETA for Responsible Soy Production, ProTerra, or • Fair for Life / For Life; Fair Labor Association Scope 1 (direct GHG emissions): emissions from equivalent. We purchase area-based RTRS credits (FLA)† sources that are owned or controlled by Ahold from the Cerrado Region. Acceptable standards Delhaize. Scope 1 emissions include emissions • Fairtrade / FLO-CERT for seafood products include certification from refrigerant leakages, owned trucking and against a program that is recognized by the • Fair Trade Sustainability Alliance on-site fuel usage (natural gas, propane, light fuel). Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI) • Fair Trade USA†† or Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) Scope 2 (indirect GHG emissions): emissions from • Florverde†† the generation of purchased electricity, heat or farm standards. • Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)†† steam consumed by the company. They are not Associate engagement survey • Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) “direct” emissions in that they arise from third-party Associate engagement is measured through installations but are attributed to the company’s • Initiative Clause Sociale (ICS) an annual associate engagement survey operations as the end user of the electricity, heat administered to all associates employed by Ahold • International Council of Toy Industries (ICTI) or steam. Delhaize brands. A number of items in the survey CARE are used to derive and calculate an associate Limited Scope 3 (other indirect emissions): • Intertek Workplace Conditions Assessment engagement score. emissions from franchise / affiliated stores; (WCA) trucking emissions from subcontracted trucks • Kenya Flower Council (KFC) certification that deliver Ahold Delhaize products from • MPS – Socially Qualified (SQ) operated distribution centers to stores. • Rainforest Alliance / SAN and estimated emissions from franchise stores. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 264 Definitions The Group’s total CO2 -equivalent emissions and energy figures include all energy and related Location-based approach The GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance defines behavior, poor stock management or neglect. In our calculations, in contrast to shrink, food continued emissions data as defined by the scopes above, the location-based approach as “a method that waste excludes donations from hunger relief including data from facilities that closed or opened reflects the average emissions intensity of grids organizations, theft, and cash shortages. during 2017. on which energy consumption occurs (using Front-of-pack nutritional labeling mostly grid-average emission factor data).” We use the latest available emission factors in Nutritional labeling (showing the amount of our reporting. We source electricity emission Market-based approach certain nutrients) that is on the front of a product factors from the International Energy Agency (IEA, The GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance defines package. At a minimum, it comprises the calories 2017 edition; 2015 data) for European countries the market-based approach as “a method that per serving. and from GHG Protocol 2014 (based on eGrid reflects emissions from electricity that companies GFSI 2012 values, issued in May 2015 by the U.S. have purposefully chosen (or their lack of choice). Global Food Safety Initiative: a CGF activity that Environmental Protection Agency – EPA) for the It derives emission factors from contractual enables continuous improvement of food safety United States. We source fuel emission factors instruments, which include any type of contract management across the supply chain, through from GHG Protocol 2014 wherever available between two parties for the sale and purchase of benchmarking, collaboration and harmonization and otherwise from other appropriate sources. energy bundled with attributes about the energy of food safety certification programs. For refrigerant leakages, we apply the Global generation, or for unbundled attribute claims. Warming Potentials (GWP) for refrigerants available Markets differ as to what contractual instruments Greenhouse gases from Bitzer International 2014 wherever available are commonly available or used by companies to Gases such as carbon dioxide or methane that and otherwise from other appropriate sources, purchase energy or claim specific attributes about contribute to climate change. such as the Intergovernmental Panel for Climate it, but they can include energy attribute certificates Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Change (IPCC). (RECs, GOs, etc.), direct contracts (for both An independent international not-for-profit low-carbon, renewable, or fossil fuel generation), We do not extend our reporting to include all organization that developed the GRI Sustainability supplier-specific emission rates, and other default Scope 3 emissions, but we work with our peer Reporting Standards and works to support emission factors representing the untracked or companies and suppliers to better understand their implementation. unclaimed energy and emissions (termed the the climate change impact we have throughout ‘residual mix’) if a company does not have other our entire value chain. Scope 3 defined by the contractual information that meets the Scope 2 GHG Protocol accounts for all the remaining Quality Criteria.” emissions that result from our activities, ranging from products transportation to affiliated stores Food Loss and Waste Protocol to emissions from our supply chain, including A multi-stakeholder effort to develop the global emissions from growing and packaging the food accounting and reporting standard (known as we sell. the FLW Standard) for quantifying food and associated inedible parts removed from the food CO2 emissions / CO2 equivalent (CO2e) supply chain (referred to for simplicity sake as The CO2 (Carbon Dioxide) emissions data we “food loss and waste”). For more information, report consists of a calculated CO2 equivalent: see www.flwprotocol.org. actual CO2 emitted plus equivalent emissions from other greenhouse gases (such as CH4, Food waste N2O and F-gases). As defined by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), food waste is any removal of food from the food supply chain which is or was at some point fit for human consumption, but has been disposed of, or has spoiled or expired, mainly as a result of economic Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 265 Definitions Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI) A global platform and partnership of seafood Average GWP The GWP of all refrigerants we use in our systems Materiality matrix In a materiality matrix, social, environmental continued companies, NGOs, experts and governmental (including stores and distribution centers) and economic issues are plotted along two and intergovernmental organizations working weighted in relation to their total charge. dimensions: their influence on stakeholder towards more sustainable seafood for everyone. assessments and decisions and the significance Healthy products GSSI’s Global Benchmark Tool includes GSSI of Ahold Delhaize’s social, environmental and Products that meet nutritional criteria as Essential Components that are based on the Code economic impact on these topics. determined by Guiding Stars (in the U.S.) of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries (CCRF) and and Choices nutrition criteria (in Europe). MSC / ASC certification the FAO Guidelines and that seafood certification See guidingstars.com or MSC (Marine Stewardship Council) and ASC schemes must meet to be recognized by GSSI. www.choicesprogramme.org. (Aquaculture Stewardship Council) certificates Global Warming Potential (GWP) are sustainable seafood programs ensuring Last-stage of production unit Defined by the GHG Protocol as “a factor seafood sourcing practices that do not endanger The entity that performs the last stage of describing the radiative forcing impact (degree the existence of fish species and rewarding production or processing in the supply chain of harm to the atmosphere) of one unit of a responsible aquaculture. where food and non-food safety and / or working given GHG relative to one unit of CO2.” By using conditions are impacted. The last stage of National brands GWP, GHG emissions can be standardized to production (LSOP) is: Product that are distributed nationally under a a carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) that allows brand name owned by the producer or distributor. expressing the emissions of different GHGs using • For food safety: the location where the final carbon dioxide as a reference. For example, for consumer product (including packing) Own brands a 100-year time horizon, the impact of one unit of is handled. Own-brand products, at Ahold Delhaize methane is 25 times greater than one unit of CO2 • For non-food safety: the location where the company-operated and affiliated stores, include: (according to IPCC’s 4th assessment report). final consumer product (excluding packing) private labels, fancy brands (proprietary private Hence, methane’s global warming potential (GWP) is assembled. labels that are a fantasy name owned by Ahold is 25. Average GWP is the GWP of all refrigerants Delhaize), exclusive brands (brands that are not • For social compliance: the location where labor we use in our systems (including stores and international, national or regional brands), storeis involved in producing or processing the distribution centers) weighted in relation to their prepared products (in-store food preparation, final product – (re-)packing in a non-high-risk total charge. even if derived from branded stock), non-branded country is excluded. products (such as bulk fruit and vegetables or no name non-food products) and promotional items relating to the former. In short, every product that is not an international, national or regional brand is considered to be an own-brand product. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 266 Definitions Ozone-friendly refrigerant A refrigerant that has no ozone depletion potential Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The United Nations SDGs are a universal call continued (ODP=0), meaning there is no degradation to to action to end poverty, protect the planet and the ozone layer. The data are based on the ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. 2015 Report from United Nations Environment United Nations Global Compact Programme (UNEP), “TOC Refrigeration, A/C and An initiative for businesses committed to aligning Heat Pumps Assessment Report 2015.” their operations and strategies with 10 universally Palm oil RSPO-certified accepted principles in the areas of human rights, The Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) labor, environmental and anti-corruption. initiated a certification program to promote the use Waste of sustainable palm oil, with different supply chain “Total Waste Generated” includes all waste, options: RSPO Segregated, RSPO Mass Balance regardless of the waste management (recycling, and RSPO Book & Claim. RSPO Segregated incineration or landfill). It is broken down by certifies that palm oil only comes from RSPOpercentage sent to landfill, recycled, and sent certified palm plantations. RSPO Mass Balance to incinerators that produce energy. Waste data certifies that palm oil comes from a mix of covers all types of facilities (stores, distribution RSPO-certified and -uncertified palm plantations. centers, and offices). Information about all RSPO Book & Claim enables companies to buy waste disposal methods has been determined credits from RSPO-certified growers, crushers and through information provided by the waste independent smallholders. To comply with RSPO disposal contractors. Certification requirements, any supplier that uses palm-based ingredients must be RSPO Chain of Waste recycling Custody-Certified, and purchase RSPO-Certified All methods that do not include sending waste to (Mass Balance or Segregated) palm oil. landfill or incineration. For food waste, this includes four methods: recycling through animal feed, Private label products recycling through anaerobic digestion for energy, Private label products are a sub-set of Ahold composting and rendering. For other waste Delhaize own brands, consisting of products streams, such as cardboard, paper, plastic and with a visible proprietary label from an Ahold other waste, recycling refers to applied methods Delhaize brand. for each specific waste type. Rate of lost days due to accidents Number of days lost that are directly related to work-related accidents per 200,000 hours worked. The number of days lost are days scheduled to be worked according to each associate’s schedule. An accident is a non-fatal or fatal injury arising in the course of work. Sales area Sales area is the sum of the store areas in square meters, taken at the end of the year, where products are sold and services provided. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 267 GRI Index Disclosure number Disclosure title Section Page The index table provides reference between Organizational profile the GRI Standards (Core option) and the 102-1 Name of the organization Contact information 1, 284 corresponding sections in the Annual Report. 102-2 Activities, brands, product and services Our great local brands 13-20 102-3 Location of headquarters Contact information 284 102-4 Location of operation Where we operate 13-20 102-5 Ownership and legal form Note 36 225-227 102-6 Markets served Where we operate 13-20 102-7 Scale of the organization Group highlights 9-20 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Sustainable Retailing data (Footnote 1) 256 102-9 Supply chain Value chain 11-12 102-10 Significant changes to the organization Message from our CEO 5-8 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach How we manage risk 108-117 102-12 External initiatives Scope and methodology 254 102-13 Membership of associates Scope and methodology 254 1 We do not currently collect global data completely to report against 102-8. We intend to include the required employee information in the 2018 annual report. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Message from our CEO 5-8 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms Our values 46-48 of behavior Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate governance 88-100 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our stakeholders 25-26 102-41 Collective bargaining (Footnote 2) n/a 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Our stakeholders 25-26 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Our stakeholders 25-26 102-44 Key topics and concerns Our response to stakeholder needs 49-57 2 We do not collect this information and are therefore not able to report; we will assess inclusion in the 2018 annual report. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 268 GRI Index Disclosure number Disclosure title Section Page continued Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Note 36 225-227 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Our response to stakeholder needs 49-50, 51-57 102-47 List of material topics Our response to stakeholder needs 50 102-48 Restatements of information Scope and methodology / Sustainable Retailing data 254, 255-262 102-49 Changes in reporting Our response to stakeholder needs / Scope and methodology / 49-50, 254 Sustainable Retailing data 102-50 Reporting period Scope and methodology 254 102-51 Date of most recent report February 28, 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Scope and methodology 254 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contact information 284 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the Scope and methodology 254 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index 267-270 102-56 External assurance How we manage risk / Assurance report of the independent auditor 110, 271-275 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our response to stakeholder needs 49-57 103-2 The management approach and its components Our response to stakeholder needs 51-57 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our response to stakeholder needs / Sustainable Retailing data 51-57, 255-262 Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Financial statements / Notes 22 and 23 122-127, 179-188 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and How we manage risk 108-117 opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Note 23 179-188 retirement plans 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our response to stakeholder needs 49-57 103-2 The management approach and its components Our response to stakeholder needs 53 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our response to stakeholder needs / Group financial review 53, 59-79 Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers (Footnote 3) n/a 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our response to stakeholder needs 49-57 103-2 The management approach and its components Our response to stakeholder needs 52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach (Footnote 3) n/a 3 We do not collect or report on that at this time. We will assess relevancy for reporting in 2018. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 269 GRI Index Disclosure number Disclosure title Section Page continued Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Sustainable Retailing data / Definitions 260, 263-266 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Sustainable Retailing data / Definitions 260, 263-266 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our response to stakeholder needs 49-57 103-2 The management approach and its components Our response to stakeholder needs 52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our response to stakeholder needs / Sustainable Retailing data 52, 260 Biodiversity 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, Sustainable Retailing data (Footnote 4) 258 and services 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our response to stakeholder needs 49-57 103-2 The management approach and its components Our response to stakeholder needs 52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our response to stakeholder needs / Sustainable Retailing data 52, 258 4 We partly report on the GRI requirement as our own KPIs on sustainable commodity sourcing are more relevant for us to manage biodiversity impact. Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Sustainable Retailing data / Definitions 259-260, 263-266 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Sustainable Retailing data / Definitions 259-260, 263-266 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Sustainable Retailing data / Definitions 259-260, 263-266 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Sustainable Retailing data / Definitions 259-260, 263-266 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Sustainable Retailing data / Definitions 259-260, 263-266 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our response to stakeholder needs 49-57 103-2 The management approach and its components Our response to stakeholder needs 52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our response to stakeholder needs / Sustainable Retailing data 52, 259-260 Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Sustainable Retailing data (Footnote 5) 255, 261 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our response to stakeholder needs 49-57 103-2 The management approach and its components Our response to stakeholder needs / Sustainable Retailing data 56 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our response to stakeholder needs / Sustainable Retailing data 56, 255, 261 5 Ahold Delhaize reports waste streams including all food waste, packaging and other waste, but it does not track hazardous waste separately. We will assess relevancy for reporting in 2018. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 270 GRI Index Disclosure number Disclosure title Section Page continued Occupational health and safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Sustainable Retailing data 261 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our response to stakeholder needs 49-57 103-2 The management approach and its components Our response to stakeholder needs 54 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our response to stakeholder needs / Sustainable Retailing data 54, 261 Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Our promises / Our Management Board and Executive Committees / 43, 83-87, Sustainable Retailing data 256 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our response to stakeholder needs 43, 49-57 103-2 The management approach and its components Our response to stakeholder needs 43, 56 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our response to stakeholder needs / Sustainable Retailing data 56, 256 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to Value chain / Sustainable Retailing data 11, 257 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our response to stakeholder needs 49-57 103-2 The management approach and its components Our stakeholders / Our response to stakeholder needs 25-26, 48, 55 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our response to stakeholder needs / Sustainable Retailing data 55, 257 Child labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Value chain / Sustainable Retailing data 11, 257 incidents of child labor 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our values / Our response to stakeholder needs 48, 49-57 103-2 The management approach and its components Our values / Our response to stakeholder needs 48, 55 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our values / Our response to stakeholder needs / Sustainable Retailing data 48, 55, 257 Forced or compulsory labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Value chain / Sustainable Retailing data 11, 257 incidents of forced or compulsory labor 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our values / Our response to stakeholder needs 48, 49-57 103-2 The management approach and its components Our values / Our response to stakeholder needs 48, 55 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our response to stakeholder needs / Sustainable Retailing data 55, 257 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 271 GRI Index Disclosure number Disclosure title Section Page continued Local communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Our value chain / Our response to stakeholder needs / 11, 44, impact assessments, and development programs Sustainable Retailing data 262 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our values / Our response to stakeholder needs 49-57 103-2 The management approach and its components Our promises / Our response to stakeholder needs 44, 55 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our promises / Our response to stakeholder needs / 44, 55, 262 Sustainable Retailing data Supplier social assessment 414-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Sustainable Retailing data (Footnote 6) 257 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our response to stakeholder needs 49-57 103-2 The management approach and its components Our value chain / Our response to stakeholder needs 11, 55 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our response to stakeholder needs / Sustainable Retailing data 55, 257 6 All new suppliers of own-brand products must agree to the Ahold Delhaize Standards of Engagement and, when producing in high risk countries, must comply to an acceptable social compliance standard. Customer health and safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts Sustainable Retailing data 255, 257 of product and service categories 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Our response to stakeholder needs 49-57 Our promises / Our response to stakeholder needs / 103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainable Retailing data 41, 51, 53 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our response to stakeholder needs / Sustainable Retailing data 51, 53, 255, 257 Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 272 Assurance report To: the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. Assurance report on the sustainability information 2017 of the independent Our conclusion auditor Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information included in the Annual Report of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. does not present, in all material respects, a reliable and adequate view of: • the policy and business operations with regard to sustainability; and • the events and achievements related thereto for the year ended December 31, 2017; in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the internally applied reporting criteria. What we have reviewed The sustainability information contains a representation of the policy and business operations of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands (hereafter: “Ahold Delhaize”) regarding sustainability and the events and achievements related thereto for 2017. We have reviewed the sustainability information for the period January 2, 2017 until December 31, 2017, as included in the following sections in the Annual Report of Ahold Delhaize: • Message from our CEO (page 5 to 8); • the Who we are section (page 10 to 20); • the World around us section (page 22 to 26); • the Business review section (page 28 to 57); and • the Sustainability performance section (page 251 to 276); (hereafter together referred to as “the sustainability information”). The links to external sources or websites in the sustainability information are not part of the sustainability information itself reviewed by us. We do not provide assurance over information outside of this Annual Report. The basis for our conclusion We conducted our review in accordance with Dutch law, including Dutch Standard 3810N ‘Assurance engagements on corporate social responsibility reports’ (‘Assurance-opdrachten inzake maatschappelijke verslagen’), which is a specified Dutch standard that is based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000: ’Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. This review is aimed to obtain limited assurance. Our responsibilities under this standard are further described in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the review of the sustainability information of this assurance report. We believe that the assurance information we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Independence and quality control We are independent of Ahold Delhaize in accordance with the “Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence” (“Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten” – ViO) and other relevant independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore we have complied with the “Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to rules of professional conduct” (“Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” – VGBA). We apply the “detailed rules for quality systems” (“Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitsystemen”) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and other applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 273 Assurance report Reporting criteria Ahold Delhaize developed its reporting criteria on the basis of the Sustainability Reporting Standards of GRI, as disclosed on page 267-271 of the Annual of the independent Report. The information in the scope of this assurance engagement needs to be read and understood in conjunction with these reporting criteria as disclosed on page 263-266 of the Annual Report. The Management Board is responsible for selecting and applying these reporting criteria. The absence of a significant auditor body of established practice on which to draw, to evaluate and measure non-financial information allows for different, but acceptable, measurement techniques and can affect comparability between entities and over time. continued Inherent limitations The sustainability information includes prospective information such as expectations on ambitions, strategy, plans, estimates and risk assessments based on assumptions. Inherently, the actual results are likely to differ from these expectations. These differences may be material. We do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and achievability of prospective information in the sustainability information. Our review approach Materiality Based on our professional judgment we determined specific materiality levels for each relevant part of the sustainability information and the sustainability information as a whole. When evaluating our materiality levels, we have taken into account quantitative and qualitative aspects and the relevance of information for both stakeholders and the organization. Based on professional judgment, we determined materiality levels for specific quantitative information within a bandwidth of 5% to 7.5% for topics where Ahold Delhaize has a high or very significant impact on society and influence on stakeholder decisions according to the in the materiality analysis on page 50 of the Annual Report 2017 and 7.5% to 10% for topics with a moderate to low impact. Scope of the group review Ahold Delhaize reports on the sustainability information on a consolidated level. For more details reference is made to page 254 of the Annual Report. Our review focused on the significant components, being Ahold USA, Delhaize America, Albert Heijn and Delhaize Belgium. The majority of review procedures for this assurance engagement were performed by the central sustainability review team. Review procedures for Ahold USA, Delhaize America and Delhaize Belgium were performed by this central team with support from local team members. Where the work was performed by local team members, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their work to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate evidence had been obtained as a basis for our conclusion on the consolidated sustainability information. The consolidation is reviewed by the central sustainability review team at the head office in Zaandam, the Netherlands. Key review matter Key review matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our review of the sustainability information. We have communicated the key review matter to the Management Board and Supervisory Board. The key review matter is not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. We described the key review matter and included a summary of the review procedures we performed on this matter. This key review matter is addressed in the context of our review of the sustainability information as a whole, and in forming our conclusion thereon. We do not provide a separate conclusion on this matter or on specific elements of the sustainability reporting. Any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. The context of our review is set by the Group’s 2017 sustainable retailing performance and operations. As the Delhaize merger was finalized in 2016, the key review matter related to ‘the impact of the merger between Koninklijke Ahold N.V. and Delhaize Group NV/SA’ has been removed. Instead, the ‘consistent application of KPI definitions across the Group and over time’ has been added to highlight our focus on the important aspect of strategic alignment across the brands in the first year after the merger. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 274 Assurance report Key review matter How our review addressed the matter of the independent Consistent and correct application of KPI definitions across the Group and over time auditor As further disclosed on page 254 of the Annual Report, in 2017 the company continued to improve their strategic alignment In addition to our planned inquiries and analytical procedures, we have performed additional review procedures that focus on assessing the consistent application continued across the brands since the merger in 2016. An important aspect of definitions, compliance with GRI, reporting criteria per KPI per brand, and the hereof, concerns consistent KPI definitions throughout the group adequacy of the disclosures in the annual report in the event of identified inconsistencies as required by GRI. For example, management has issued or changes. additional guidance on definitions set in 2016 to further facilitate These review procedures included, amongst others, developing an understanding the consistent KPI reporting by the brands. of management’s data reporting process and related internal controls, management For indicators where the Ahold Delhaize definition differed from inquiries on fluctuations identified and reconciliations to the input data of the reporting what was historically reported by the individual brands, they system for all indicators. went through a process of adjusting their internal data collection In addition, we have performed additional procedures for KPIs related to material topics processes or created new processes. At the moment, for some such as ‘promote healthier eating’, ‘reduce food waste’, ‘climate impact’, ‘safety at work’ of the indicators, brands use – in part – manual data collection and ‘local community connection’ as they (in our risk assessment) were considered to processes to adhere to the reporting requirements be more susceptible to inconsistency or manual data collection errors. of the company. We considered this alignment process a key review matter as the use of consistent definitions (and scoping) is one of the key elements for adequate reporting on sustainability information. In addition, manual data collection processes are inherently more prone to error than automated processes. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 275 Assurance report Responsibilities for the sustainability information and the assurance-engagement Responsibilities of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of the independent The Management Board of Ahold Delhaize is responsible for the preparation of the sustainability information in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of GRI and the internally applied reporting criteria as disclosed on page 263-271 of the Annual Report, including the identification of stakeholders auditor and the definition of material subjects. The choices made by the Management Board regarding the scope of the sustainability information and the reporting policy are summarized in section ‘Scope & Methodology’ of the sustainability performance section in the Annual Report. The Management Board is responsible continued for determining that the applicable reporting criteria are acceptable in the circumstances. The Management Board is also responsible for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the sustainability information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or errors. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s reporting process on the sustainability information. Our responsibilities for the review of the sustainability information Our responsibility is to plan and perform the review engagement to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance information to provide a basis for our conclusion. This review engagement is aimed at obtaining limited assurance. In obtaining a limited level of assurance, the performed procedures are aimed at determining the plausibility of information and are less extensive than those aimed at obtaining reasonable assurance in an audit engagement. The assurance obtained in review engagements aimed at obtaining limited assurance is therefore significantly lower than the assurance obtained in assurance engagements aimed at obtaining reasonable assurance. Misstatements may arise due to irregularities, including fraud or error and are considered to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the sustainability information. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our review and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusion. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 276 Assurance report Procedures performed We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the assurance engagement, in accordance with the of the independent Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical requirements and independence requirements. auditor Our main procedures include: • Performing an external environment analysis and obtaining insight into relevant social themes and issues, relevant laws and regulations and the continued characteristics of the organization. • Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting policy and its consistent application, including the evaluation of the results of the stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of estimates made by management and related disclosures in the sustainability information. • Evaluating the design of the reporting systems and processes related to the sustainability information. • Developing an understanding of internal control relevant to the assurance engagement in order to design assurance procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing a conclusion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. • Evaluating whether the sustainability information represents the underlying transactions and events free from material misstatement. • Interviewing relevant staff at corporate and local level responsible for the sustainability strategy, policy and performance of sustainability operations. • Interviewing relevant staff at corporate level, responsible for providing the information in the sustainability information, carrying out internal control procedures on the data and consolidating the data in the sustainability information. • Visits to entities in Belgium and the United States to evaluate the source data and to evaluate the design and implementation of control and validation procedures at local level. • An analytical review of the data and trends submitted for consolidation at corporate level. • Reviewing internal and external documentation to determine whether the sustainability information, including the disclosure, presentation and assertions made in the sustainability information, is substantiated adequately. • Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the sustainability information. • Assessing the consistency of the sustainability information and the information in the Annual Report not in scope for this assurance report. • Assessing whether the sustainability information has been prepared ‘in accordance’ with GRI. From the matters communicated with Ahold Delhaize we determine one matter that was of most significance in the review of the sustainability information and is therefore the key review matter. We describe this matter in our assurance report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not mentioning it is in the public interest. Amsterdam, February 27, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. D. van Ameijden RA Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 277 Investors Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 278 Share performance The case for investing in Ahold Delhaize Share performance in 2017 Performance of Ahold Delhaize’s common shares on Euronext Amsterdam On December 29, 2017, the closing price of By purchasing Ahold Delhaize shares, investors an Ahold Delhaize ordinary share on Euronext 2017 2016 gain a stake in one of the world’s largest retail Amsterdam was €18.34, an 8.4% decrease Closing common share 18.34 20.03 groups, operating strong local consumer brands compared to €20.03 on December 30, 2016. price at calendar During the same period, the Euro STOXX 50 year-end (in €) in the United States and Europe with: index increased by 6.5% and the AEX index Average closing common 18.10 20.14 • Strong free cash flow generation with disciplined share price (in €) increased by 12.7%. capital allocation Highest closing common 20.76 22.09 • Funding growth in key channels: supermarkets, In 2017, Ahold Delhaize shares traded on share price (in €) e-commerce and smaller formats Euronext Amsterdam at an average closing price Lowest closing common 14.80 18.11 of €18.10 and an average daily trading volume share price (in €) • Leading market positions in food retail, both in of 5.4 million shares. Ahold Delhaize’s market Average daily 5,388,669 3,889,901 stores and online capitalization was €22.5 billion at year-end 2017. trading volume • Good track record in cost management, During 2017, the highest closing price for Ahold Market capitalization including €500 million of net synergies expected Delhaize’s shares on Euronext Amsterdam was (€ million) 22,508 25,484 in 2016-2019 €20.76 on March 1, 2017, and the lowest was Source: Bloomberg • Experienced management with a broad €14.80 on August 29, 2017. set of skills On December 29, 2017, the closing price of • Strong balance sheet with attractive returns Ahold Delhaize’s ADR was $22.01, which to shareholders was 4.9% higher than the closing price on • Ambition to sustainably grow our dividend December 30, 2016 ($20.99). In the same period, per share the Dow Jones index increased by 25.1%. • €2 billion share buyback program for 2018, In 2017, the average daily trading volume of following completion of the €1 billion program Ahold Delhaize American Depositary Receipts in 2017 (ADRs) was 232,483. Ahold Delhaize share price € 25 20 15 10 5 2015 2016 2017 Highest closing Lowest closing closing Year-end price 2015 numbers refer to Ahold only. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 279 Shareholder returns For the 2016 financial year, a cash dividend of €0.57 per common share was approved by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders on April 12, 2017, and paid on April 26, 2017. The announced cash dividend of €0.63 per common share for the financial year 2017 is up 10.5% from last year and will be proposed to shareholders at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on April 11, 2018. The payout ratio of 47% is within our dividend policy range of 40–50% of pro forma underlying income from continuing operations and the 10.5% increase compared to last year, reflects our ambition to sustainably grow our dividend per share. Shareholders key performance indicators 2013–2017 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Dividend per common share 0.63 0.57 0.52 0.48 0.47 Dividend yield 3.4% 2.8% 2.7% 3.3% 3.6% Payout ratio1 47% 48% 49% 51% 51% Total shareholder return (5.7)% 5.5% 41.1% 6.4% 35.8% 2017 dividend subject to the approval of the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. 2013–2015 numbers refer to Ahold only. 1 Dividend payout ratio for 2017 and 2016 is based on underlying income from continuing operations (on a pro forma basis). Dividends on cumulative preferred financing shares Ahold Delhaize paid an annual dividend on cumulative preferred financing shares in 2017 and plans to pay dividends on these shares in 2018 as required by the terms of the shares. Share buyback On December 7, 2016, Ahold Delhaize announced its decision to return €1 billion to its shareholders by way of a share buyback program during 2017. This share buyback program was completed on December 29, 2017. On November 8, 2017, Ahold Delhaize announced the decision to return an additional €2 billion to shareholders by way of another share buyback program, which is expected to be completed before the end of 2018. Maintaining a balanced approach between funding growth in key channels and returning excess liquidity to shareholders is part of Ahold Delhaize’s financial framework to support our Better Together strategy. The purpose of the program is to reduce Ahold Delhaize’s capital, by cancelling all or part of the common shares acquired through the program. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 280 Key dates Key dates 2018 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders April 11 Ex-dividend date April 13 Dividend record date April 16 Payment date April 26 Announcement of first quarter 2018 results May 9 Announcement of half year 2018 results August 8 Announcement of third quarter 2018 results November 7 AGM 2018 This year’s annual General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the Muziekgebouw aan ‘t IJ in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, on April 11, 2018. The meeting will start at 2.00 pm (CET). Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 281 Shareholder Share capital During 2017, Ahold Delhaize’s issued share Shareholders by region1: % February 2018 February, 2017 Security codes Common shares: structure capital outstanding decreased by approximately U.K. / Ireland 20.8 17.7 Ticker: AD 44 million common shares to 1,228 million North America 19.8 20.0 common shares. Rest of Europe 12.0 8.1 Bloomberg code: AD NA France 9.2 8.6 ISIN code: NL0011794037 The decrease results mainly from the share The Netherlands2 4.9 3.8 buyback of €1 billion as announced in December CUSIP: N0074E105 2016, partly offset by the issuance of shares Rest of the world 4.3 4.3 for the share-based compensation program Germany 3.7 4.0 American Depositary Receipts (ADR): and conversion of cumulative preferred Undisclosed2 26.5 33.5 Ticker: ADRNY financing shares. 1 Source: CMi2i. Bloomberg code: ADRNY US The common shares issued decreased by 2 The Netherlands excludes the percentage of shareholdings of all retail holdings and treasury shares, which are included ISIN code: US5004675014 34 million to 1,247 million at the end of 2017. in Undisclosed. The difference between the common shares CUSIP: 500467501 outstanding and common shares issued are the For additional information about Ahold Delhaize’s Structure: Sponsored Level I ADR treasury shares. share capital, see Notes 20 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements. Ahold Delhaize Exchange: OTC As of December 31, 2017, there were 19 million shares held in treasury, the majority held by is a public limited liability company registered in Ratio (DR:ORD): 1:1 Ahold Delhaize to cover the equity-based longthe Netherlands with a listing of shares (symbol: term incentive plan. AD) on Euronext’s Amsterdam Stock Exchange Other codes: (AEX) and Euronext Brussels. Reuters code: AD.AS Ahold Delhaize’s authorized share capital as of December 31, 2017, was comprised of American Depositary Receipts the following: (ADRs) • 1,923,515,827 common shares at €0.01 par Ahold Delhaize’s shares trade in the United value each States on the over-the-counter (OTC) market (www.otcmarkets.com) in the form of American • 326,484,000 cumulative preferred financing Depositary Receipts (ADRs) (ticker: ADRNY). shares at €0.01 par value each The ratio between Ahold Delhaize ADRs and the • 2,250,000,000 cumulative preferred shares ordinary Netherlands (euro denominated) shares at €0.01 par value each is 1:1, i.e., one ADR represents one Ahold Delhaize ordinary share. Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (the Depositary) acts as the depositary bank for Ahold Delhaize’s ADR program. Please also see Contact information for details on how to contact Deutsche Bank regarding the ADR program. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 282 Five-year overview Results, cash flow and other information € million, except per share data, exchange rates and percentages 2017 20161 2015 2014 2013 Net sales 62,890 49,695 38,203 32,774 32,615 Net sales growth at constant exchange rates2 28.9% 32.3% 2.3% 0.8% 2.0% Operating income 2,225 1,584 1,318 1,250 1,239 Underlying operating margin 3.9% 3.8% 3.8% 3.9% 4.2% Net interest expense (284) (276) (244) (222) (242) Income from continuing operations 1,817 830 849 791 805 Income (loss) from discontinued operations – — 2 (197) 1,732 Net income 1,817 830 851 594 2,537 Net income per common share (basic) 1.45 0.81 1.04 0.68 2.48 Net income per common share (diluted) 1.43 0.81 1.02 0.67 2.39 Income from continuing operations per common share (basic) 1.45 0.81 1.04 0.90 0.79 Income from continuing operations per common share (diluted) 1.43 0.81 1.02 0.88 0.77 Dividend per common share 0.63 0.57 0.52 0.48 0.47 Free cash flow 1,926 1,441 1,184 1,055 1,109 Net cash from operating, investing and financing activities 827 2,114 73 (1,005) 681 Capital expenditures (including acquisitions)3 1,822 16,775 1,172 1,006 843 Capital expenditures as % of net sales 2.9% 33.8% 3.1% 3.1% 2.6% Regular capital expenditures4 1,723 1,377 811 740 830 Regular capital expenditures as % of net sales 2.7% 2.8% 2.1% 2.3% 2.5% Average exchange rate (€ per $) 0.8868 0.9038 0.9001 0.7529 0.7533 1 Included former Delhaize segments as of July 24, 2016. 2 Net sales growth in 2016 and 2015 is adjusted for the impact of week 53 in 2015. 3 The amounts represent additions to property, plant and equipment, investment property and intangible assets. The amounts include assets acquired through business combinations, new finance leases and exclude discontinued operations. 4 The amounts exclude assets acquired through business combinations and conversion expenditure of acquired stores and acquired finance leases. Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 283 Five-year overview Balance sheet and other information December 31, January 1, January 3, December 28, December 29, continued € million, except for number of stores and otherwise indicated 2017 2017 2015 2014 2013 Group equity1 15,170 16,276 5,621 4,844 6,520 Gross debt 7,250 7,561 3,502 3,197 3,021 Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term deposits and similar instruments and available-for-sale financial assets – current portion 4,747 4,317 2,354 1,886 3,963 Net debt 2,503 3,244 1,148 1,311 (942 Total assets 33,871 36,275 15,880 14,138 15,142 Number of stores2 6,637 6,556 3,253 3,206 3,131 Number of employees (in thousand FTEs)2 224 225 129 126 123 Number of employees (in thousands headcount)2 369 370 236 227 222 Common shares outstanding (in millions)1 1,228 1,272 818 823 982 Share price at Euronext (€) 18.34 20.03 19.48 14.66 13.22 Market capitalization1 22,508 25,484 15,944 12,059 12,989 Year-end exchange rate (€ per $) 0.8330 0.9506 0.9208 0.8213 0.7277 1 In 2017, €998 million was returned to shareholders through a share buyback (2016: nil, 2015: €161 million, 2014: €1,232 million and 2013: €768 million). In 2016 and 2014, €1,001 million and €1,007 million, respectively, were returned to shareholders through a capital repayment. 2 At December 29, 2013, the number of stores and employees include discontinued operations (Slovakia). Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 284 Contact Ahold Delhaize proactively maintains an open dialogue with shareholders, providing accurate Electronic communication General information Changes in legislation have removed the Ahold Delhaize Group Communications information information in a timely and consistent way. We do this through press releases, the Annual Report, requirement for companies to mail large Provincialeweg 11 quantities of paper communications to 1506 MA Zaandam presentations, webcasts, and regular briefings shareholders. Instead, companies are choosing The Netherlands with analysts, fund managers and shareholders. to communicate with their shareholders via the Telephone: +31 88 659 5100 Ahold Delhaize is covered by approximately internet, because of its speed and environmental Email: communications@aholddelhaize.com 30 analysts who frequently issue reports on benefits, and to save costs. Ahold Delhaize www.aholddelhaize.com the Company. actively encourages shareholders to sign up to Trade Register No. 35000363 receive electronic communications, as part of Corporate website our commitment to being a sustainable retailer. Shareholder information Whether you want to view the Company’s latest For information about how to register to receive Ahold Delhaize Investor Relations press releases or learn more about our great electronic communications, please visit the Provincialeweg 11 local brands and heritage, our commitment to “Contact us” section of our corporate website. 1506 MA Zaandam being a sustainable retailer, or our approach The Netherlands to corporate governance, Ahold Delhaize’s How to get in touch Telephone: +31 88 659 5213 corporate website provides a wealth of Investor Relations Email: investor.relations@aholddelhaize.com information for shareholders. If you have a investor.relations@aholddelhaize.com general question about your shareholding, the +31 88 659 52 13 Visiting address “Investors” section of our corporate website can Ahold Delhaize Global Support Office help, as it contains much of the information that is Provincialeweg 11 most frequently requested from our shareholder 1506 MA Zaandam helpline. Investors are also encouraged to sign The Netherlands up to receive emailed news alerts, which include all financial news releases throughout the year. ADR information You can access the corporate website at Henk Jan ten Brinke Kim Verdouw Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas www.aholddelhaize.com. SVP Investor Relations Manager Investor c/o American Stock Transfer & Trust Company Relations Peck Slip Station The Company is responsible for the maintenance P.O. Box 2050 and integrity of the financial information on our Media Relations New York, NY 10272-2050 website. This information has been prepared communications@aholddelhaize.com Email: DB@amstock.com under the relevant accounting standards +31 88 659 51 34 and legislation. Shareholder Service (toll-free) Tel. (866) 706-0509 Shareholder Service (international) Tel. (718) 921-8124 www.astfinancial.com Ellen van Ginkel Maarten van Tartwijk Director External Manager External Communications Communications Who we are The world around us Business review Governance Financials Sustainability performance Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2017 285 Cautionary notice This Annual Report includes forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements acceptable terms; exchange rate fluctuations; additional expenses or capital expenditures The Company’s registered name is “Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V.” of historical facts may be forward-looking associated with compliance with federal, Nielsen’s information as included in this Annual statements. Words such as strategy, positioned regional, state and local laws and regulations Report does not constitute a reliable independent to, future, purpose, sustainable, promises, in the U.S., the Netherlands, Belgium and other basis for investment advice or Nielsen’s opinion commitment to, aim, vision, direction, forecasted, countries; product liability claims and adverse as to the value of any security or the advisability assumptions, expectations, estimates, publicity; risks related to corporate responsibility of investing in, purchasing or selling any security. judgments, anticipated, probable, held for and sustainable retailing; the Company’s sale, will, uncertain, achieve, renewal options, inability to successfully implement its strategy, intends, ensure, roadmap, policy, forward, focus, manage the growth of its business or realize the targets, anticipation, potential, program, drive, anticipated benefits of acquisitions; its inability to risks, unpredictable conditions, strive, maintain, successfully complete divestitures and the effect support, manage, prospects, forward-looking, of contingent liabilities arising from completed be, foreseeable, exposure, depending on, divestitures; unexpected outcomes with respect liabilities and contingencies or other similar to tax audits; disruption of operations and other words or expressions are typically used to factors negatively affecting the Company’s identify forward-looking statements. suppliers; the unsuccessful operation of the Company’s franchised and affiliated stores; Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, natural disasters and geopolitical events; uncertainties and other factors that are difficult inherent limitations in the Company’s control to predict and that may cause actual results of systems; the failure or breach of security of IT Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. (the “Company”) systems; changes in supplier terms; antitrust and to differ materially from future results expressed similar legislation; unexpected outcomes in the or implied by such forward-looking statements. Company’s legal proceedings; adverse results Such factors include, but are not limited to, arising from the Company’s claims against its risks relating to competition and pressure on self-insurance programs; increases in costs profit margins in the food retail industry; the associated with the Company’s defined benefit impact of the Company’s outstanding financial pension plans; and other factors discussed in the debt; future changes in accounting standards; Company’s public filings and other disclosures. the Company’s ability to generate positive cash flows; general economic conditions; the Forward-looking statements reflect the current Company’s international operations; the impact views of the Company’s management and of economic conditions on consumer spending; assumptions based on information currently turbulence in the global credit markets and the available to the Company’s management. economy; the significance of the Company’s Forward-looking statements speak only as U.S. operations and the concentration of its of the date they are made, and the Company U.S. operations on the East Coast of the U.S.; does not assume any obligation to update such increases in interest rates and the impact of statements, except as required by law. downgrades in the Company’s credit ratings; Outside the Netherlands Ahold Delhaize competitive labor markets, changes in labor presents itself under the name “Royal Ahold conditions and labor disruptions; environmental Delhaize” or “Ahold Delhaize”. For the reader’s liabilities associated with the properties that convenience, “Ahold Delhaize”, the “Company”, the Company owns or leases; the Company’s the “company”, “Ahold Delhaize Group”, “Ahold inability to locate appropriate real estate or Delhaize group”, the “Group” or the “group” enter into real estate leases on commercially is also used throughout this Annual Report.
