GPC Electronics Global Compact Communication on Progress December 2018 Policy and/or Principle GPC’s Progress Actions 2018 COP Update standard reference Principle 1: GPC respects human rights When tendering and formally Implementation of All GPC employees Businesses within our sphere of influence assessing major suppliers we SD108, Business have attended this should and is committed to operating consider supplier compliance Ethics, and training. Training Matrix support and as a leading employer. Our with our ethical policies and implementation to has been amended. respect the Ethics policy (SD108) outlines practices, GPC has amended Code of Conduct Statement of protection of our approach to human rights. our external and supplier SD109. Targeted all commitment to GC internationally Our Supplier Corporate audit process and questioner personnel will be principles added to proclaimed Responsibility policy requires to ensure conformance to our trained by December Handbook along with human rights. our suppliers to support and policies. 2013. copy of policies. respect the protection of nationally and internationally GPC will add this proclaimed human rights, and training to the ongoing to ensure they are not complicit training requirement for in human rights abuses. employees. Principle 2: GPC implemented and Our Ethics policy is GPC will investigate GPC has increased Businesses deployed our Business Ethics communicated to our people any breaches of our supplier audits. should make policy (SD108) and amended and will be reviewed on policy by suppliers and Questions are being sure that they our Supplier Audit process and regular basis to ensure it is actively consider asked for any internal are not questioner to ensure that new aligned to industry best business continuity breaches of GPC’s complicit in and existing suppliers are practice and meets the with any supplier that policy by suppliers and human rights adhering to human rights. ongoing requirements of breaches our policy. actively consider abuses. Suppliers will be down scored if human rights as well as Investigation will be business continuity with they are found to be abusing GPC’s business. conducted through our any supplier that basic human rights and normal supplier audits. breaches our policy. engaging in child slavery. Confidential reporting Confidential reporting systems are also in systems are also in place to allow such place to allow such reporting without fear reporting without fear of of retaliation. retaliation. Principle 3: GPC does not have any issues GPC have never put a stop to GPC remains fully GPC remains fully Businesses with freedom of association. any action or forbid any committed to ensuring committed to ensuring a should uphold GPC do not tell people or try action by any employee to a fair and supportive fair and supportive the freedom and tell people who they can / join any union or to speak to environment for all of environment for all of of association can not associate with. any union regarding collective our people regardless our people regardless and the bargaining of whether they have of whether they have effective formal employee formal employee recognition of representation or they representation or they the right to do not. do not. collective bargaining. Principle 4: Our Ethics policy (SD108) When tendering and formally In 2013 we intend to All GPC employees Businesses requires our employees to avoid assessing major suppliers we ensure that all GPC’s have attended this should all forms of forced or will consider suppliers’ employees are trained training. Policy added to support the compulsory labour. This compliance with ethical to our Ethics Policy. handbook. Annual elimination of principle is also reflected in our policies and practices. refresher training added all forms of Supplier auditing process. We to company training forced and are working with our suppliers schedule. compulsory to ensure this policy is adhered labour. to. Refresher training is taking place on regular basis. Policy and/or standard Principle GPC’s Progress Actions 2018 COP Update reference Principle 5: Our Ethics policy requires Through regular In 2012 GPC intended to All GPC’s employees are Businesses our employees to support communication of our Ethics ensure that all GPC’s trained to our Ethics Policy. should the effective abolition of policy and review of our employees are trained to our support the child labour. We are employee’s adherence to it, Ethics Policy by December GPC will continue to effective working with our suppliers we ensure we maintain a 2013. investigate any breaches of abolition of to ensure this policy is record of no reported any of our major suppliers’ child labour. adhered to within our incidents of child labour or GPC will continue to investigate adherence to GPC’s Ethics supply chain department. forced labour, within GPC’s any breaches of any of our Policy and Child Slavery, and own operations. major suppliers’ adherence to actively consider contract GPC’s Ethics Policy and Child renewals with offending Slavery, and actively consider suppliers contract renewals with offending suppliers Principle 6: GPC promote and support GPC implemented SD107 to GPC has implemented a new Policy in place – Prevention Businesses a diverse workforce at all ensure employee behaviour EEO, Discrimination, training conducted for all should levels of the organisation. is in line with promoting and Harassment and Bullying policy Managers, Supervisors, Team support the We ensure our people or supporting a diverse (SD107) to enforce our support Leaders, Health and Safety elimination of potential hires are not workforce. for this UNGC principal. Committee Members and discrimination unlawfully discriminated Workplace Trainers. in respect of against directly or employment indirectly as a result of Summary of policy and and their colour, creed, race, Contact Officer details added occupation. nationality, ethnic or to handbook. national origin, GPC delivered this formal connections with a training to all other employees national minority, marital in 2015. Regular refresher or civil partnership status, training will be added to the pregnancy, age, disability, company’s training schedule. religion, or similar philosophical belief, sexual orientation, gender, gender reassignment or trade union membership and will not tolerate harassment or bullying in any form. Principle 7: We aim to continually In addition to our own GPC have implemented since GPC have implemented since Businesses improve the sustainability environmental program, 2007 ISO14001 and has been 2007 ISO14001 and has been should of our operations. Since outlined in our Environment audited for this international audited for this international support a 2007 (ISO14001 policy, we also support our standard on regular intervals. standard on regular intervals. precautionary implementation) we clients in reducing their approach to continued to minimise our environmental impact. GPC have implemented many GPC have implemented many environmental impact on the environmental programs to environmental programs to challenges. environment. reduce water consumptions and reduce water consumptions to reduce waste sent to landfill, and to reduce waste sent to these programs has been very landfill, these programs has successful, all results are been very successful, all audited by an impartial external results are audited by an auditing body. impartial external auditing body. Up to date, CO2 reduction is ~15%; Water usage is down by ~2% and general waste reduced by ~2%. GPC will continue to explore more avenues to reduce its environmental foot print. Principle 8: Through the efforts of our Our internal ISO14001 program In 2010 GPC reduced green In 2018 GPC reduced greenhouse Businesses people, and by harnessing involves regular environment house emissions by 3%. We emissions by 15%, exceeding the should technology, we are reducing awareness events, highlighting are establishing group wide and target. GPC continues to work the energy, carbon and the issue of our business and harder in finding better ways to undertake resource impact of our personal environmental local plans to ensure we meet work more effectively to meet our initiatives to business. We power down responsibilities. In 2010 around our internal carbon reduction internal carbon reduction and promote some of our systems overnight 200 employees participated in and waste reduction targets. waste reduction targets for 2015. greater and at weekends. In the New our environmental awareness environmental Year GPC will be starting a training program. This training In 2013 GPC will continue to In 2016 replaced all of the lighting new environmental program will continue in 2011 and beyond. investigate more ways to in our factory to LED type, which responsibility. in turn further reduced our that aims to reduce power reduce power consumptions to consumption. achieve our target of 5% greenhouse emission. reduction. Policy and/or standard Principle GPC’s Progress Actions 2018 COP Update reference Principle 9: GPC is not involved in GPC have two developed GPC’s DFM document “GPC GPC’s DFM document “GPC Businesses Research and and utilised documents: capability and design guide capability and design guide should Development, GPC is a Design for Manufacturing rev2.doc” and DFT document rev2.doc” and DFT document encourage the provider of Electronics (DFM) and Design for Test “Test Requirement V2.2-FP“Test Requirement V2.2-FPdevelopment Manufacturing Services. (DFT) that we share with all TPT.doc”. TPT.doc”. and diffusion of customers to improve the environmentally As an EMS when and manufacturability of boards These two documents are These two documents are friendly where possible we and assemblies to ensure circulated with existing, new circulated with existing, new and technologies. discuss with our reduction of use in human and potential customers to potential customers to ensure customers to improve and natural resources. ensure better design for better design for Printed Circuit the design of their Printed Circuit Boards is Boards is utilised by designers. products to ensure utilised by designers. better and faster manufacturing steps are employed. Our aim is that all reduction in the manufacturing steps will require fewer resources whether it is human or natural resources. Principle 10: GPC is committed to GPC has implemented a Implementation of Code of GPC implemented Code of Businesses the highest standards of Code of Conduct to ensure Conduct SD 109 Conduct and documentation is should work corporate governance employee behaviour is in line in place – all employees trained. against and professional with anti corruption In 2012 we intend to ensure Policy added to handbook. corruption in all integrity. We conduct principles. that all GPC’s employees are Annual refresher training added its forms, our business around the familiar with our Code of to company training schedule. including world in an ethical, GPC prides its self in Conduct and that they also extortion and honest and accountable conducting business around receive anti-corruption Formal Anti corruption policy / bribery. manner. the world in an ethical, education. training has been implemented honest and accountable manner in accordance with all relevant laws, rules and regulations.
