ULTIMATE ARMOUR WORKS FZC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JULY 2018 ULTIMATE ARMOUR WORKS FZC Plot No. 22 RAK Free Zone Technology Park Ras Al Khaimah United Arab Emirates PO Box 54595 Tel:+971 7 243 4839 Fax: +971 7 243 5257 www.armour-works.com sales@armour-works.com ULTIMATE ARMOUR WORKS FZC (UAW) is a privately owned company registered in RAK Free Zone, United Arab Emirates. The company was established in 2005 and currently employs approximately 300 full time staff from 19 different countries. UAW facilities operate 24 hours, six days per week to ensure annual production targets. We believe that we are among the market leaders for quality and reliability. We aim to be ranked by our staff as the best place to work in our industry. Ultimate Armour Works FZC Plot No. 22 RAK Free Zone Technology Park Ras Al Khaimah United Arab Emirates PO Box 54595 Tel: +971 7 243 4839 Fax: +971 7 243 5257 ISO9001:2015 Quality Management Systems 09 July 2018 United Nations Secretary General António Guterres 1st Ave. and 46th Street New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Sir, Since joining the United Nations Global Compact initiative, Ultimate Armour Works sustains its commitment to the ten principles of the Global Compact, with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are always sensitive to our employees needs and are bringing continual improvement in human rights management. This year we are invested in improving the employee skills and to prevent corruption by further education, advocacy and system review. Therefore it is with great pride that we hereby submit our fifth Communication of Progress Report for July 2017 to July 2018. Yours faithfully Mark Regenass Managing Director HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Protection of human rights is one of our core business principles. We encourage a work environment that fosters mutual respect and acceptance and offer a work environment free from discrimination of all forms and equal opportunity for advancement . Actions in 2017 Measurement of Outcome 2018 Objectives and Targets Continuing construction of new employee Constructed first building for employee Finish the remaining construction of employee accommodation with first aid room, canteen, accommodation with all basic facilities. accommodation within the first quarter of laundry, TV and activities room. New accommodation is closer to UAW facility 2019. which reduced the travel time to and from work. Measures taken to eliminate any harm or Accidents and fatigues are reduced by 80%. threat to human life and health during manufacturing through Risk assessment, induction training and by providing personal protective equipments for every activity. LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3: Business will uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Abolish child labour Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation UAW does not prohibit the right to freedom of association. UAW does not conduct or condone any forms of forced and compulsory labour or child labour. UAW complies with all labour laws, regulations and recommendations in order to ensure a safe, fair and non-discriminative workplace for our employees . Actions in 2017 Measurement of Outcome 2018 Objectives and Targets Staff sent on various courses and seminars 44 members of UAW staff improved their UAW continues to encourage its staff to attend improving their qualifications. knowledge and professional experience in courses and seminars to obtain further training 1. ANSYS Explicit for design team. various sectors. that will enhance their knowledge and working 2. Certification of welding procedure & WQT. skills in their particular profession. 3. Level 2 Emergency First Aid At Work training course. 4. ISO 9001:2008 QMS Internal auditor course. 3. Civil Defence – Health and Safety training course. Encourage teamwork and unity amongst all All professional and private related matters and Our aim is to encourage team spirit and a sense employees. problems risen by employees have been of camaraderie amongst the staff. resolved. Based on the above, we have improved our communication system within the company. Actions in 2017 Measurement of Outcome 2018 Objectives and Targets Bespoke monitoring system to collect data for Human relationship cannot impact on Committee for overseeing and managing fair performance evaluation in every performance score. canteen operations for employees from department. Performance criteria’s are work quality, different countries, and to ensure the efficiency, innovative ideas etc. satisfaction with the provided traditional food. Skills and Ideas of employees are appreciated and rewarded. Having respect for the different cultures and Enhanced respect for each other’s culture and Continue fostering mutual respect and religions of our employees, we celebrate the beliefs. understanding. following holidays and festivities: 1. Chinese New Year for Vietnamese Nationals. 2. Eid Al Fitr and UAE National Day for Arabic community. 3. Easter and Christmas for Christians. 4. Onam for Indian (Kerala) community. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Support a cautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. UAW FZC is committed to protect the environment by reducing carbon emission, energy and water consumption. Our aim is to continuously improve the environmental performance within our facility by using efficient technologies and provide continuous training to our employees. UAW FZC operate in full compliance with applicable national, international, state and local environmental regulations. Actions in 2017 Measurement of Outcome 2018 Objectives and Targets Emergency procedures are in place to prevent 25 Identity, implement and monitor energy saving 20 and address accidents affecting the 20 16 initiatives in each departments. environment and human health. 15 12 10 8 5 0 First Aid UAW Transfer to Hospital 2016-2017 2017-2018 Paint storing and handling method. Less paint wastage and reduction of pollution. Keep educating staff about their work environment and the safety hazards. Health, safety and environment training has The amount of injuries reported, reduced by Continue to follow ISO 14001:2004 and ISO been given to all staff. 25% compared to previous years . 18001:2007 standards. Safe handling, storage of chemical and other dangerous substances, ensuring safe operation and procedure. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Work against corruption, in particular bribery and extortion UAW does not accept or condone any form of corruption including bribery and extortion“. Actions in 2017 Measurement of Outcome 2018 Objectives and Targets Anti-bribery and anti-corruption awareness One employee was found guilty of committing Create and publicize whistle blowing policy in has been risen to all employees and the public. extortion by collecting sum of money from UAW. coworkers. It was followed through an Follow through with a complete investigation Investigation and the employee was after a whistle blowing event. terminated for misconduct. Our suppliers are evaluated via questionnaire Employees of UAW are well vetted prior to We aim to prevent corruption by further based on the ten (10) principles of the UN being employed and are constantly reminded education, advocacy and system review. Global Compact. about the implications related to bribery, corruption and extortion. INNOVATION NOT IMMITATION ULTIMATE ARMOUR WORKS FZC Plot No. 22 RAK Free Zone Technology Park Ras Al Khaimah United Arab Emirates PO Box 54595 Tel:+971 7 243 4839 Fax: +971 7 243 5257 www.armour-works.com sales@armour-works.com
