May 2018 UN Global compact COP Statement by the CEO Nordic Waterproofing is one of Europe's leading suppliers of membranes for roofing and environmental buildings and we develop solutions for public and commercial buildings and constructions. I am pleased to confirm that Nordic Waterproofing supports of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environment protection and anti-corruption. Our sustainability program is based on the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We have identified our prioritized sustainability issues and follow our performance on these issues on a yearly basis. Our Communication on Progress describes our actions to continually anchor and integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy and daily operations. We are committed to share this information with our customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders mainly through our individual company brands. Martin Ellis Nordic Waterproofing Group, CEO NORDIC WATERPROOFING HOLDING A /S, CVR no: 33395361 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Waterproofing products and services for buildings and infrastructure We make waterproofing easy Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 CONTENTS LEADING 2017 in brief .......................................................... 1 Statement by the President and CEO Martin Ellis ............................................................ 2 Business concept, targets and target achievement .......................................................... 4 Strategies that safeguard customer satisfaction and growth ......................................... 6 IN THE NORDIC Group in summary .............................................. 10 Five-year overview .............................................. 13 Business model for the future ............................ 14 WATERPROOFING Operating segment Products & Solutions.......... 16 Operating segment Installation Services ........... 18 Research and development ................................ 19 MARKET Production, purchasing and logistics ................. 20 Leading Nordic player......................................... 22 Distribution and sales channels ......................... 24 Nordic Waterproofing is a Northern European market leader. Decentralized organization close to customers ....................................................... 26 The Group develops, manufactures and distributes a full Sustainable behaviour generates range of products and solutions for the protection of added values ....................................................... 28 buildings and infrastructure. Ease of installation, energy and Risks and risk management ............................... 30 Corporate governance ........................................ 32 environmental optimization are key components of the offer. Board ................................................................... 38 Group Management ............................................ 40 The Nordic Waterproofing share ........................ 42 Management review............................................ 45 A BROAD PORTFOLIO OF PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL INFORMATION .......................... 47–78 DISTRIBUTED BETWEEN TWO SEGMENTS: Consolidated comprehensive income statement 48 Consolidated balance sheet ............................... 49 Consolidated cash flow statement ..................... 50 Consolidated changes in shareholders’ equity .. 51 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 52 Parent company income statement.................... 76 Parent company balance sheet .......................... 76 Parent company changes in PRODUCTS & SOLUTIONS INSTALLATION SERVICES 69% 31% shareholders’ equity ........................................... 77 Assurance by Group Management and the Board of Directors’ ....................................... 79 OF NET SALES FOR 2017* OF NET SALES FOR 2017* Audit report ......................................................... 80 87% 13% Financial definitions and glossary ...................... 84 Shareholder information .................................... 85 OF EBIT BEFORE ITEMS AFFECTING OF EBIT BEFORE ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY IN 2017* COMPARABILITY IN 2017* * Excluding intra-Group sales and earnings. The “Solhuset” kindergarten in PROFESSIONAL AND ESTABLISHED BRANDS Hørsholm, Denmark is an exciting combination of appealing architecture WITH QUALITY AS THE FOREMOST FEATURE and integrated energy design that provides a unique environment for both children and adults. With an area of 1,300m2, the property has been constructed based on an “Overactive House” concept. In an innovative process, many different construction players, have applied unique facade and roofing materials, solar collectors, solar panels and heat pumps, have developed a building that meets all of the requirements that can be imposed on a positive environment for children while the building produces a surplus of energy. Taasinge Elementer has supplied different solutions for roof and wall components for Solhuset. LA-KATTOHUOLTO .FI Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 1 2017 IN BRIEF +21% 2017 was an excellent year for Nordic Waterproofing, with record sales growth and delivering on external growth commitment. Net sales rose by 21 percent to SEK 2,187 million (1,813). –7% Operating profit (EBIT) before items affecting comparability for the full-year 2017 decreased by 7 percent (+23) to SEK 208 million (224). Operating margin before items affecting comparability decreased to 9.5 percent (12.3). +5% Organic growth was 5 percent for 2017. –12% Earnings per share for the full-year 2017 were SEK 5.71 (6.49), a decrease of 12 percent. SEK 3.75 The Board of Directors will propose that the Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2018 resolve to pay out a cash dividend of SEK 3.75 (3.75) per share, totalling SEK 90 million (90). This corresponds to about 66 percent of net profit. IMPORTANT EVENTS 2017 21 FEBRUARY 8 MARCH 4 JULY 17 OCTOBER Changes to the Nomination Committee for Annual Acquisition of Danish Roll-out of the Mataki 2018 Nomination General Meeting 2017 appointed. prefabrication company brand for professional Acqusition of Committee. Taasinge Elementer. users in Norway. Norwegian leading 24 JANUARY 28 APRIL prefabricated wood Acquisition of EPDM Acquisition of Finnish 15 AUGUST 7 NOVEMBER element façade Systems, a leading rooﬁng and service Interim report for Interim report producer Ringsaker Dutch prefabrication company LA Kattohuolto. January to June. for January to Veggog Takcompany. September elementer AS. 2017 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2018 31 JANUARY 9 MAY 2 OCTOBER Acquisition of SPT-Painting Interim report for Nomination Committee a Finnish ﬂoor coating January to for Annual General specialist. March. Meeting 2018 appointed. 1 APRIL 27 APRIL 15 AUGUST 20 DECEMBER Esa Mäki assumes the position as Press release from the Update of the Group’s Acquisition of prefabricated rooﬁng and head of the Finnish organization. Annual General Meeting. ﬁnancial targets. facade elements production plant from Ugilt Savværk. NORDIC WATERPROOFING AS AN INVESTMENT • We are a market-leading supplier of waterproofing products, solutions and installation services. Read more about market positions on page 22–23. • We have a history of improving profitability and have the potential to achieve further profitability improvements. Read more about the strategies on pages 6–9. • We have strong and stable cash flow with good dividend capacity. Read more about the dividend policy on page 42 and comments on the cash flow statement on page 50. • The average number of full-time employees amounts to 830. The Group Management team has long and solid experience of the sector from both international and local operations. Together, we have developed Nordic Waterproofing into a leading player in the waterproofing market. Read the presentation of Group Management on page 40. Contents 2 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 A YEAR OF STRONG GROWTH AND SUCCESSFUL ACQUISITIONS I am proud to report that our Group has in 2017 increased sales by 21 percent over the previous year, thus achieving the highest growth rate in our history. In addition to our organic sales growth of 5 percent, we successfully implemented our strategy of selective acquisitions, delivering on our commitment to develop our business through both internal and external growth, in both our operating segments. ” 2017 IN NUMBERS SUCCESFUL ACQUISITIONS OUR GROUP HAS IN 2017 Net sales increased to SEK 2,187 million Since our last Annual Report we have made INCREASED SALES BY (1,813), while operating profit (EBIT) before four acquisitions, two in 2017 and two in the 21 PERCENT OVER THE items affecting comparability decreased beginning of 2018. The new members of our slightly to SEK 208 million (224). Overall Group all match the focus we have set in our PREVIOUS YEAR, THUS operating margin was 9.5 percent (12.3). The acquisition strategy: downstream integration ACHIEVING THE HIGHEST year was challenged by increased raw for increased exposure to the end customGROWTH RATE IN OUR material prices compared with the excepers, enhanced product and services tionally favorable situation in 2016. Our own portfolios for our existing customers, and HISTORY.” sales price increases resulted in a net portfolio diversification with potential for positive effect in the fourth quarter, but did geographic leverage. LA Kattohuolto in not fully offset the effect of the increased Finland provides roof cleaning and mainteraw material costs for the full year. Earnings nance services, Taasinge Elementer is the per share for the full-year of 2017 were SEK leading provider of sophisticated prefabri5.71 (6.49). The lower operating cash flow of cated wood based elements for roofs and SEK 164 million (211) is temporary, being facades in Denmark. In the beginning of mainly due to the effect on working capital 2018, Taasinge acquired Ugilt in Denmark of strong activity at the end of the year. The and Ringsaker Veggog Takelementer in Board of Directors therefore proposes an Norway. Both companies offer similar unchanged dividend of SEK 3.75 per share. solutions as Taasinge. Their integration into Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 3 ” WE CONTINUOUSLY LOOK FOR OPPORTUNITIES TO FURTHER ENHANCE OUR PORTFOLIO WITH ENERGY EFFICIENT AND SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS FOR THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY.” our Group is an important step towards FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY developing our prefabrication business into The acquisition of Taasinge Elementer and a Northern European market leader. their wood based prefabricated elements has Our strong balance sheet creates allowed us to demonstrate our focus on continued significant acquisition potential to promoting renewable resources in our product further extend our products and services and services portfolio. We continuously look for offer. We draw confidence from our good opportunities to further enhance our portfolio track record in integrating our recent with energy efficient and sustainable solutions acquisitions, since all aqcuired companies for the construction industry. have so far performed better than expected at the time of acquisition. Going forward, CONCLUSION widening and enhancing our products and 2017 has been an exciting year for our Group, ” services offer with new product categories and I would like to take this opportunity to thank will make Nordic Waterproofing increasingly all our customers for their trust and support, OUR STRONG BALANCE a one stop shop opportunity for customers and all my colleagues in Nordic Waterproofing seeking comprehensive solutions for the for their precious contribution to another SHEET CREATES CONTINUED protection of buildings and infrastructure. successful year. SIGNIFICANT ACQUISITION We intend to maintain our focus on small to POTENTIAL TO FURTHER medium sized companies presenting good Martin Ellis synergistic potential with our legacy President and CEO of EXTEND OUR PRODUCTS AND business. Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S SERVICES OFFER.” Contents 4 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 OUR MISSION We make waterproofing easy OUR PROMISE: Protecting people and what’s important to them by creating reliable waterproofing solutions for buildings WE MAKE WATER­ and infrastructure. PROOFING EASY OUR VALUES Enthusiasm We show enthusiasm for what we do, always. Whenever we take on a responsibility, we make sure we follow it through with the highest quality possible, and with accuracy to the last detail. We show pride in our individual BUSINESS CONCEPT responsibilities and never move on until we can look at Nordic Waterproofing develops, manufactures and our customer, fellow collegues or a newly developed distributes innovative products and solutions for product and say: ’it cannot be done better than this’. ­sealing, protecting and preserving buildings and We reward passion and enthusiasm, enabling people to other structures. grow within the company. • Our products and solutions are supplied with the Reliability highest level of service and are characterized by Our customers trust us as a partner as well as the the best available quality, extremely long ­durability, products and solutions we offer. We care for that trust. adaptation to local conditions, smart logistics, And we do everything we can to maintain it. In order to ease of installation, energy and ­environmental maintain this trust we take responsibility for ensuring optimization. our product development, services and customer • Good customer service is based on our employees relations are characterized by first class reliability. responsiveness and ability to understand and Efficiency anticipate our customers’ needs. We are a large organisation, with a well developed, flexible and efficient logistics system. We also have the little company’s characteristics. This is because we have created, and actively maintain, a simple structure which we operate within. For the benefit of our customers we cultivate a highly decentralized corporate culture geared toward efficiency and strategic targets. We trust our people’s own professional judgement and promote quick decision making to help our customers, and their often challenging time schedules. OUR TARGETS With a set of well-defined financial and strategic targets, Nordic Waterproofing seeks to demonstrate how the Group ​generates value ​for its various stakeholders over time. These targets are well-supported and integrated into the business units of the decentralized organization. The following targets are linked to the Group’s ­strategies: Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 5 FINANCIAL TARGETS OUTCOME 2017 SALES GROWTH 5% Consolidated net sales increased by Nordic Waterproofing’s goal is to exceed the 21 percent to SEK 2,187 million growth experienced in the Group’s current (1,813), of which organic growth markets through organic growth. In addition, amounted to 5 percent. the Group expects to grow through selective acquisitions. PROFITABILITY >15 % % Return on capital employed for Nordic Waterproofing’s goal is to generate 20 18.7 2017 decreased by 3.2 percent 16.9 a return on capital employed (ROCE) before 15.7 15.5 and amounted to 15.5 percent, while 15 Target >15 % items affecting comparability exceeding the operating margin before items 15 percent. 10 affecting comparability was 9.5 ­percent (12.3). 5 4.2 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 At the end of 2017, indebtedness, CAPITAL STRUCTURE <2.5 x x 3 calculated as interest-bearing net Net debt in relation to EBITDA before items debt/EBITDA before items affecting affecting comparability (R12M basis), Target <2,5 x 2 comparability over the past 12-month excluding temporary deviations, shall not period, was a multiple of 0.8 (0.1) exceed a multiple of 2.5. and net debt/equity was a multiple 1 0.7 0.8 of 0.2 (0.0). 0.1 0 2015 2016 2017 DIVIDEND POLICY >50 % MSEK % The Board of Directors will propose to Nordic Waterproofing aims to pay an annual 4 100 the Annual General Meeting on dividend exceeding 50 percent of its net profit. 20 April 2018 to resolve to pay out a 3 75 The proposed dividend will be based on the cash dividend of SEK 3.75 (3.75) per Group’s financial position, investment needs, 2 50 Target >50% share, a total of SEK 90 million. liquidity position, as well as general economic This corresponds to about 66 percent 1 25 and business conditions. = dividend, MSEK of net profit. 0 0 = % of net profit 2016 2017 STRATEGIC TARGETS Apart from a set of well-defined financial • Apply geographic leverage to newly By widening and enhancing our products and operational targets, Nordic Waterproofacquired product and service categories. and services with new product categories, ing seeks to generate value for its various • Benefit from mega trends in the we foresee that the Group will increasingly stakeholders over time through the following construction industry: sustainable become a one stop shop opportunity for strategic targets: building solutions, energy efficiency, customers seeking comprehensive solutions • Forward integration to increase exposure renewable energy sources, and site for building and infrastructure protection. to end customers. efficiency through increased exposure We intend to maintain our focus on small to prefabrication. to medium sized companies presenting good • Enhance our product and service offering synergistic potential with our existing for our existing customers. businesses. Contents 6 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 STRATEGIES THAT SAFEGUARD CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND GROWTH Our proximity to customers in each local market is strategically important. With a decentralized organizational format, Nordic Waterproofing as a group offers a broad and strong brand portfolio, and a range of products and services adapted to local standards and preferences. The following characteristics are shared by the Group’s brands and offerings. Knutpunkten (the hub) – the transport hub for ferries, trains and buses in Helsingborg – has been covered with a beautiful sedum roof with Mataki’s products as the sealing membrane. Sedum is a mixture of herbs, succulents, grass and moss that can withstand drought well and cope with a thin layer of soil. Green sedum roofs are suitable for roofs with a slope of less than 27 degrees. REMAIN CLOSE TO THE CUSTOMER CONTINUOUSLY IMPROVE AND EXPAND • Continuously developing competitive Closeness to the customer is a strategic THE PRODUCT AND SERVICE RANGE products and solutions with a particular priority achieved through a decentralized The Group strives to meet expectations focus on ease of installation and organization with business units focusing on across the entire value chain – product environmental friendliness. efficient production and logistics solutions. development, production, marketing and • Offering complete maintenance contracts Being close to customers ensures that we sales, distribution, and installation and for roofs. understand their present and future needs. services. This includes excelling in: • Further optimization of formulations and Local production optimizes the Group’s • Being competitive and attractive as a productivity enhancement. accessibility, combining responsiveness and ­provider of turnkey solutions for customized logistics. waterproofing. PROCUREMENT Our proprietary installation operations in • Providing the entire spectrum of products We utilize economies of scale at the Group Finland and franchise operators in Denmark needed by our customers for the level in procuring the Group’s principal raw are vital for maintaining an understanding of protection of buildings and infra­structure. materials and business-critical offerings such market demand and end customers’ • Emphasizing environmentally innovative as distribution. These measures are aimed at requirements. and energy-efficient solutions. safeguarding the gross margin and that prices are only increased when necessary. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 7 “CLOSE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS AND COMPLEMENTARY ACQUISITIONS WILL STRENGTHEN THE GROUP AND GENERATE GROWTH.” ORGANIC GROWTH procurement, purchasing and administraTaasinge Elementer’s prefabricated Organic growth is possible by: tion, along with sharing experience. components are produced in dry, technically We seek acquisition targets with one or suitable indoor facilities. With the finished • Continuously focusing on operational more of the following characteristics: components, contractors are able to quickly excellence, on suppliers, negotiations, • A strong position in Nordic Waterproofwaterproof buildings, entailing fewer contracting frameworks and on changes ing’s principal markets and/or adjacent transports and, thus, simplified logistics to in the use of raw materials. markets. construction sites, enabling work on the • Maintaining high product quality. interior to commence sooner. • A European EPDM distributor or prefabri• Benefiting from the successes in Sweden, The acquisition of Taasinge Elementer cator. Denmark and Finland in Norway, a represents an important step in Nordic • Offering complementary product ranges. Waterproofing’s strategy to strengthen and market that the Group entered in 2012 through the acquisition of Nortett Bygg. • An attractive valuation. expand the Group’s position as a leader in sealing and building protection. • Reinforcing the EPDM platform in COMPLEMENTARY AND STRENGTHENING The acquisition also means that we are relevant European markets ACQUISITIONS participating in significant trends in system • Continuing to strengthen the position in During the 2017 financial year, the Group offerings and prefabrication, as well as the principal markets by broadening the has made four acquisitions that each have granting us direct access to principal product portfolio and expanding within strengthened the Group’s position in its contractors and architects in the area. Overall, the segments. most important markets, with expansion in the acquisition differentiates our product and both products and segments: EPDM service portfolio from that of our competitors. ACQUISITION-DRIVEN GROWTH Systems of the Netherlands, LA Kattohuolto The Group assesses there to be We have extensive experience of identifying, and SPT-Painting of Finland, and Taasinge favourable opportunities to establish acquiring and integrating units. The Group Elementer of Denmark. Prefabrication Taasinge Elementer’s product range and will continue to focus on opportunities in specialist Taasinge Elementer is the largest manufacturing skills in the other Nordic selected markets in the perimeter of the acquisition, improving our knowledge of, and countries, where demand for prefabricated Nordic region and north of Europe, preferably our ability to deliver within, ”the building items is growing due to increasing constructhrough bolt-on acquisitions that: enhance envelope concept” that encompasses tion volumes and the need for cost-effective the Group’s position in existing markets; comprehensive solutions, including floors and time-efficient comprehensive solutions. bring expansion into new markets; and/or and walls, for the protection of buildings and Nordic Waterproofing’s geographical add new skills and expertise, products, infrastructure. This is an area in which footprint enables Taasinge Elementer to solutions and services. ­Synergies can thus Nordic Waterproofing intends to continue to expand effectively beyond Denmark, which be realized by centralizing functions, such as grow and expand its offering. is its principal market. HISTORY AND ACQUISITIONS Nordic Waterproofing has a history of acquisitions of established businesses and brands. FORMATION OF THE GROUP GEOGRAPHIC EXPANSION DIVERSIFICATION Merger of the Swedish and Acquisition of Acquisition of EPDM Acquisition of Finnish Danish waterproofing AL-Katot, a Finnish Systems, a Dutch roofing and service subsidiaries of Trelleborg roofing contractor prefabricator and company LA Kattohuolto Group and the Finnish roofing distributor business owned by the Lemminkäinen Group 2011 2012 2014 2017 Acquisition of Danish prefabrication company Acquisition of Univex, a Belgian Taasinge Elementer A/S. prefabricator and distributor Acqusition of production Acquisition of Wulva, a Belgian Acquisition of Nortett Bygg, a Norwegian Acquires SPT-Painting, plant for roofing and distributor and prefabricator wholesaler of water and wind protection a Finnish floor coating facade elements from of EPDM materials products for roofs, walls, floors and foundations specialist Ugilt Savværk Contents 8 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 ACQUISITION TAASINGE ELEMENTER: 100% CUSTOMIZED FOR AN EFFICIENT CONSTRUCTION PROCESS A widely used concept in the construction sector today is “the building envelope”, that is, the design of the exterior of the building. A modern “building envelope” entails using materials for the construction of exterior walls, floors and ceilings that are climate-adapted, structurally light, easy to assemble and aesthetically pleasing. The acquisition of Taasinge Elementer is a good example of how Nordic Waterproofing is strengthening its offering with comprehensive solutions for the protection of the entire building. Taasinge Elementer holds a strong market­ solutions for roofs and facades, where Nordic Using 3D-based information technology and position in the Danish market for prefabricaWaterproofing’s products are also used. a knowledge of virtually all structure types, tion of roofs and facades with high quality We see good prospects for expanding our all Taasinge Elementer’s products can be requirements. The key to success is the customer base in Denmark and exporting tailored to optimally suit a specific project. company’s knowledge of materials and Taasinge Elementer’s product range and The company’s sales force and structural customer-specific products with flat manufacturing skills to the other Nordic engineers have great technical know-how elements, including facades, ceilings and countries where Nordic Waterproofing and develop the products in close dialogue floors. operates. with developers and architects to jointly arrive at the best design and solution, A MAJOR STEP IN OUR STRATEGY 100 PERCENT CUSTOMIZED including financial advice for the various The acquisition of Taasinge Elementer Technology and flexibility are important options. Taasinge Elementer’s facilities are represents a major step in our strategy of factors as ever more customer categories based on flexible production technology and providing comprehensive solutions for the progress from structures built on-site to on integrated logistics solutions supplying protection of buildings and infrastructure. prefabricated elements constructed in a customers. Taasinge Elementer has extensive controlled environment. know­ledge of sealing membranes and Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 9 OTHER ACQUISITIONS IN 2017 EPDM SYSTEMS/SEALECO, Netherlands MD: Edwin van Dijk Number of employees: 29 In January 2017, Nordic Waterproofing acquired the majority stake in EPDM Systems B.V, a company that offers a complete portfolio of EPDM products. The company has been integrated into the SealEco business unit and consolidated since 1 January 2017 within the operating segment Products & Solutions. “For our company, 2017 was an intensive year. A few days after completion the acquisition, we chose to be clear to the market, demonstrating that we are now part of SealEco. This changed our conditions, increased our market share and strengthened commitment among all employees, which resulted in our being able to report external sales of SEK 108 million for 2017, an increase of 12 percent compared with The “Solhuset” kindergarten in the preceding year. “ Hørsholm, Denmark has an area of Edwin van Dijk 1,300 m2 and was constructed based on an “Overactive House” concept. Several SPT-PAINTING OY, Finland different construction companies worked MD: Harri Vesterinen together to develop a building that meets Number of employees: 26 all of the requirements that can be imposed on a positive environment for At the end of January 2017, Nordic Waterproofchildren, at the same time as the building ing Finland acquired all of the shares in produces a surplus of energy. Taasinge SPT-Painting Oy. SPT-Painting operates in the Elementer has supplied different fast-growing market for sealing membranes for “ solutions for roof and wall components floors, also known as “coatings”, and supplies for Solhuset. floor installation services to customers in the construction, industrial and shipbuilding segments. The company has been consolidated into the operating segment Products & FLEXIBILITY IS A KEY WORD TAASINGE ELEMENTER A/S, Denmark Solutions in Finland since 1 February 2017. MD: Martin Tholstrup FOR US. WE DEVELOP PRODUCTS Number of employees: 180 “Our objective, now and in the future, is to ensure that the company evolves into a IN CLOSE DIALOGUE WITH In July 2017, Nordic Waterproofing comprehensive partner in liquid sealing DEVELOPERS AND ARCHITECTS acquired 80 percent of the shares in membranes for floors, and to generate value Taasinge Elementer A/S. The remaining for the customer, with high quality in all TO JOINTLY ARRIVE AT THE BEST shares are owned by the company’s products and services. As part of Nordic “ DESIGN AND SOLUTION. OR AS CEO and production manager. Since Waterproofing, we have had the opportunity to expand our business by accelerating our plans July, the company has been consolidated WE USUALLY EXPRESS IT – WE and entering new geographic markets. In 2017, in the Products & Solutions operating our sales increased by 26 percent, from SELL 1% COMPONENTS AND segment. SEK 83 million to SEK 104 million.” 99% KNOW-HOW! Taasing Elementer has developed Harri Vesterinen well in recent years. Customers include Martin Tholstrup, independent larger contractors that Managing Director, Taasinge Elementer LA KATTOHUOLTO, Finland primarily construct commercial MD: Jukka Vasalampi buildings, schools and multiple-family Number of employees: 4 dwellings. As part of Nordic Waterproofing, the company’s growth in the At the end of April 2017, Nordic Waterproofing acquired all of the shares in the Finnish roof Nordic countries will continue. and service company LA Kattohuolto. The Taasinge Elementer’s sales for 2017 acquisition of LA Kattohuolto strengthens the amounted to SEK 179 million, an Group’s market position, partly through its SUSTAINABILITY IN PRACTICE increase of 30 percent compared with geographic presence, and partly through its Taasinge Elementer has a clear sustainabilithe previous year. wide range of services, which target the ty focus, which includes energy savings, consumer market (owners of single-family intelligent logistics solutions and construcdwellings and leisure homes), which can be tion technologies of the future. offered to customers of other companies within The core of Taasinge Elementer’s the Installation Services operating segment. components is wood, a renewable resource, Since 1 May 2017, the company has been part of the Installation Services operating segment. carbon neutral, easy to handle through all Nordic Waterproofing is the market leader stages of production, including waste in installation services in Finland and the management. acquired LA Kattohuolto contributed with sales of SEK 20 million during its first eight months as part of Nordic Waterproofing. “In a short space of time, LA Kattohuolto has developed into a qualified player with a good range of products and appreciated services.” Jukka Vasalampi Contents 10 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 GROUP SUMMARY: FOCUS ON PROFITABLE GROWTH In August 2017, Nordic Waterproofing announced a new financial target NET SALES Yes, in August the Board of Directors updated the Group’s profitability target, with the new target being linked to capital efficiency and the targeted return on capital employed SEK million (ROCE) exceeding 15 percent before items affecting comparability. This target level is 2,400 analogous to the previous EBIT margin target of at least 10 percent, which has been replaced. We believe in our business model with the two segments Products & 2,000 Solutions and Installation Services, and the new profitability target better reflects profitability in the two segments which are caracterised by very different capital 1,600 intensity. Products & Solutions thus requires significantly higher return on sales than Installation Services to achieve the same level of return on investment. Profitability, 1,200 efficient use of capital and increasing shareholder value are at the core of what we do. 800 Could you describe the seasonality of the business? Nordic Waterproofing’s business is affected by seasonal variations – the months of 400 January, February and December being the weakest months. In 2017, sales in these three months accounted for almost 16 percent of the annual total, while the other nine 0 months accounted for 84 percent, which is in line with the five-year average. The 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 decline in the winter months is explained by cold and challenging weather conditions and their impact on the construction industry. In general, there is a certain degree of stockpiling during the winter months, which transfers to a stock depletion during the summer months as a result of increased activity in the market. An early winter could, EBIT BEFORE ITEMS AFFECTING among other things cause many of the Company’s customers to choose to postpone COMPARABILITY AND EBIT MARGIN planned projects, in turn, having a negative impact on annual earnings. The same SEK million % applies if the winter is long and the season starts late in the spring. Seasonal variations 250 15 affect EBIT and the EBIT margin to the same extent as sales. What did growth look like? 200 12 Organic growth for the Group amounted to 5 percent in 2017. The operating segment Products & Solutions showed 3 percent 150 9 and Installation Services showed 9 percent organic growth. In addition, acquisitions contributed by 15 percent. Accordingly, we at Nordic Waterproofing delivered on our 100 6 commitment to expand our business through both internal and external growth. 50 3 Can you comment on the margin trend? Following many years of increased margins, the margins 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 decreased in 2017. Prices for one of our principal raw materials (SBS) were highly volatile and rose rapidly over the second quarter. Although they stabilized in the third quarter, prices remained at a higher level compared with the preceding year. The effects were EARNINGS PER SHARE primarily visible in the income statement for the third quarter, as increased sales prices did not fully offset SEK the increased raw material prices. It is also important 8.00 to remember that 2016 was helped by exceptionally low prices for our principal raw materials. 6.00 Could you comment on the operating cash flow? Operating cash flow amounted to SEK 164 m (211) entailing an operating cash conversion of 66 percent 4.00 (85). The lower cash flow is due to temporarily higher Inventory levels at the end of the year in order to fulfil delivery commitments in early 2018, but also due to 2.00 higher receivables for on-going installation service projects due to a high level of activity at the end of the year. Accordingly, cash flow was postponed to 0.00 later periods. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Jonas Olin, CFO Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 11 FINANCIAL KEY RATIOS SEK MILLION 2017 2016 Sales definitions Organic growth: Change in net sales Sales 2,187 1,813 excluding acquisition-driven growth of which organic growth 5% 5% and changes in exchanges rates. of which structural change 15% 0% Structural change: Net change in sales resulting from changes in Group of which currency translation effects 1% 0% structure (acquisitions). Currency translation effects: EBITDA before items affecting comparability 248 248 Net change in sales resulting from EBITDA margin before items affecting comparability 11.3% 13.7% changes in exchange rates on EBIT before items affecting comparability 208 224 consolidation. EBIT margin before items affecting comparability 9.5% 12.3% Items affecting comparability –14 –17 Operating profit (EBIT) 194 206 Operating margin (EBIT) 8.9% 11.4% Net profit 138 156 Earnings per share before and after dilution 5.71 6.49 Operating cash flow 164 211 Operating cash conversion 66% 85% CHANGE IN OPERATING CASH FLOW 2017 COMPARED WITH 2016 SEK million 250 0 –3 –3 –39 200 211 –2 150 164 100 50 0 2016 EBITDA Share of profit Net investments Changes in Dividend received 2017 in associated in tangible and net working from associated companies1) intangible assets capital2) companies Operating cashflow 1) Non-cash item which is included in EBITDA. 2) Excluding items affecting comparability. EBITDA, EBIT AND IFRS ACCOUNTING RULES In 2017, Nordic Waterproofing has grown to the indentification of certain intangible to 12 months at the time of acquisition. substantially through acquisitions. The assets, such as the value of customer Therefore, EBITDA better reflects the acquisitions have contributed by adding relations as well as the existing order book underlying operations considering the many 15 percent net sales to the Group. At the at the time of the acquisition. The value of acquisitions made during 2017. same time, EBIT, as a consequence of customer relations have been identified and In 2017, EBITDA before items affecting applying IFRS accounting rules, is affected estimated in most acquisitions, which are comparability was unchanged and amounted by increased amortizations of intangible amortized over 5–7 years. The acquired to SEK 248 m, while EBIT before items assets. The purchase price allocation order book in Taasinge Elementer is affecting comparability amounted to process has led amortized over its delivery time, estimated SEK 208 m (224). Contents Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 13 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REVIEW Shown over a five-year period, the development of the Group is described by the following financial highlights: Profit/loss SEKm unless otherwise stated 2017 Change 2016 2015 2014 2013 Net sales 2,187 21% 1,813 1,720 1,679 1,668 EBITDA 234 1% 231 165 143 141 EBITDA before items affecting comparability 248 0% 248 204 187 161 Operating profit (EBIT) 194 –6% 206 143 122 122 Operating profit (EBIT) before items affecting comparabilty 208 –7% 224 182 165 142 Net financial items –20 48% –13 –27 –25 –30 Profit/loss for the year before tax 174 –10% 193 116 96 92 Tax on profit/loss for the year –37 –1% –37 –34 –19 –21 Net profit/loss for the year 138 –12% 156 82 77 71 Earnings per share, SEK/share 5.71 –12% 6.49 3.40 3.19 2.95 Balance sheet, SEKm Total assets 1,756 12% 1,568 1,345 1,345 1,238 Net investments in property, plant and equipment 20 100% 10 27 15 24 Capital employed 1,370 4% 1,317 1,071 1,083 1,021 Capital employed excluding goodwill 637 –9% 701 472 469 431 Equity 1,010 5% 964 748 683 596 Net interest-bearing debt 204 718% 25 141 259 361 Cash flows, SEKm – from operating activites 126 –2% 128 153 158 85 – from investing activities –159 n/a –19 –29 –20 –16 – from financing activities –140 n/a 31 –75 –61 –51 Total cash flow for the period –173 n/a 140 49 78 18 Operating cash flow 164 –22% 211 197 189 133 Ratios EBITDA margin before items affecting comparability 11.3% –2.3pp 13.7% 11.9% 11.1% 9.6% EBIT margin before items affecting comparability 9.5% –2.8pp 12.3% 10.6% 9.9% 8.5% Operating cash conversion 66% –19pp 85% 97% 101% 83% Net debt/EBITDA before items 0.8x 0.7x 0.1x 0.7x 1.4x 2.2x affecting comparability, multiple Net debt/equity ratio, multiple 0.2x 0.2x 0.0x 0.2x 0.4x 0.6x Solvency: equity/assets ratio 57% –4pp 61% 56% 51% 48% Return on shareholders’ equity 13.9% –4.3pp 18.2% 11.4% 12.1% 12.7% Return on capital employed 14.4% –2.9pp 17.3% 13.2% 11.5% 12.2% Return on capital employed before items affecting comparability 15.5% –3.3pp 18.7% 16.9% 15.7% 14.2% Return on capital employed before tems affecting comparability excluding goodwill 31.0% –7.1pp 38.1% 38.7% 36.8% 34.4% Number of employees, FTE 830 200 630 634 644 635 Contents 14 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 BUSINESS MODEL FOR THE FUTURE A CLOSE BUSINESS PARTNER Nordic Waterproofing has a position as a quality supplier, which, with professional and established brands, offers extensive product guarantees. The swimming and activity centre Vattnets Hus in Ängelholm, Sweden, has been topped off with a bitumen roof and waterproofing products from Mataki, both exposed and covered with sedum. STRONG BRANDS The brand portfolio is dynamic, meaning that Tagmaterialer (Denmark), Kerabit (Finland), Strong brands grow over time and provide a brand targeting a particular type of end Nortett (Norway), SealEco (established a stable platform for profitable growth. customer in its geographic home market brand in Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland, Several brands join forces within Nordic can target other types of end customers in the UK and Germany, but with sales Waterproofing. What they have in common is adjacent geographic markets. throughout Europe), Taasinge Elementer their strong position in their local markets Our brand portfolio includes several (Denmark) and the Finnish brands AL-Katot, through close relationships with customers of the most established and well-known LA Kattohuolto and SPT-Painting. and partners, as well as their day-to-day brands in both the Nordic and European Marketing initiative decisions are taken focus on delivering on their promises of markets, including Mataki (Sweden and at the local level so as to be tailored to local reliability, superior quality and effective Norway), Trebolit (Sweden and Finland), preferences, behaviours and channel solutions. Phønix Tag Materialer (Denmark), Hetag strategies. The Group’s strategy is to manage and develop these reputable brands with high STRONG BRANDS DIVIDED INTO TWO SEGMENTS product quality combined with partner programmes and training courses, as well PRODUCTS & SOLUTIONS INSTALLATION SERVICES as technical services. RELATIONSHIPS THROUGH TRAINING We build long-term relationships with our customers and roofing installers by providing training for professional installers and retailers. This provides feedback on products and possible improvements, although building relationships and loyalty is even more important. LA-KATTOHUOLTO .FI Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 15 Having passed a course, the installer EXTENSIVE PRESENCE IN EACH SALES BROADENED COORDINATION THROUGH becomes approved for Nordic WaterproofCHANNEL DIGITAL CHANNELS ing’s products. This can, in turn, be used The market is reached through two sales Increasingly, customers and users are as a differentiator by customers as their channels, direct sales and builders reached via digital channels. One example of guarantee period can be extended when merchants. making waterproofing easy for DIY customhaving a Nordic Waterproofing product Distribution channels vary depending on ers is the QR-code on roofing felt packaging installed by a qualified installer. product complexity and on local laws and sold by builders’ merchants. standards in each country. Flat roofing This QR-code leads to instructional SALES products are marketed via direct sales, due videos on the Internet through smartphone The Group’s sales are organized to best be to the fact that they impose higher demands apps, for both DIY-customers and profesadapted to local standards and to strengthen on advanced installation. Pitched roofing and sionals, containing assembly instructions important customer relationships. The sales building products, such as protective and product information. force is the Group’s third-largest personnel membranes, are mainly sold via the builders Another example is the Phønix Tag category, engaging 163 employees. Most merchants. Materials Tagdæcker appTM, which has made sales agreements are signed at local level. The Group’s own contracting operations it easier for roofers to perform accurate Sales in other markets are managed by and partnerships are important complemenquality assurance. As work is completed, the local partners, and retailers. tary sales channels. roofer takes pictures with his smartphone and can add comments. CUSTOMER SERVICE BROAD AND DIVERSIFIED CUSTOMER BASE The app automatically collects the documenThe Group’s sales staff and order departA highly diversified customer base leads to tation into a PDF that can be forwarded to ment maintains a continuous dialogue with low customer risk and dependency, in the developer. customers to increase the understanding addition to the large customer base with and ensure that their needs are met in long-lasting customer relationships. Many FROM ORDER TO REVENUE terms of scheduled and future deliveries. small recurring orders from numerous All of our customer agreements are signed customers provide stable cash flow. at the local level. Accordingly, customers with operations in more than one country generally have relationships with more than one business unit. Contents 16 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 OPERATING SEGMENT: PRODUCTS & SOLUTIONS COMPREHENSIVE SOLUTIONS FOR PROTECTION OF BUILDINGS AND INFRASTRUCTURE In our operating segment Products & of roofing and needs. The products provide owned by Nordic Waterproofing, while in Solutions, we primarily offer roofing long-term and robust protection for roofs Finland, installation services are also products and solutions produced in-house, and properties, irrespective of the climate to provided by in-house personnel through the but also products produced by subcontracwhich they are exposed. The Group’s roofing Installation Services operating segment. tors, such as plastic sheeting, foundations products are broken down into flat roofing and moisture barriers, to complement the waterproofing products, pitched roofing Accessories – for complete solutions Group’s proprietary products. waterproofing products and roofing As a provider of complete roofing solutions, Through the acquisition of the prefabricaaccessories. Nordic Waterproofing also offers a broad tion specialist Taasinge Elementer we gain range of essential accessories that access to a fast-growing market for Flat roofing – mainly non-residential buildings complement the Group’s products, such as customized wooden roof and facade The Group’s products have unique technical plastic sheets, foundations, moisture components. This represents an important qualities and can easily be adapted to different barriers and roof safety. The accessories are step in the Group’s strategy to offer environments, property types and underlay. sourced from a number of subsuppliers and comprehensive solutions for protection of The products are primarily made of often constitute an important factor in the buildings and infrastructure. bitumen roofing felt with a life span of 40 complete solution. years and of EPDM (rubber membranes) Accessories are sold both through STRONG SALES ARGUMENTS with a life span up to 50 years. builders’ merchants and to installation Our key selling points are the following: Flat roofs make waterproofing and companies. • Always close – short time between order installation particularly difficult, and this and delivery matters. work is usually performed by professional BUILDING PRODUCTS installation companies. These products are Building products, such as building • Keen listener – our customers opinion is sold through direct sales to installation chemicals for roof installation and repairs, important. companies. as well as protection against radon radiation • Win-win partner – support to clients via and sealing of roof lanterns, are highly services and training programs, helping Pitched roofing – mainly residential buildings technical and therefore often require them in their service and/or product Products installed on pitched roofs are more customer support and training. deliveries. visible than products used for flat roofs. The Nordic Waterproofing produces building • Quality supplier – in both the products design and appearance of the products are products in-house, but also sells building properties as in the services provided. therefore important factors for the customer. products purchased from subcontractors and • Guarantees – Nordic Waterproofing has The products are sold primarily to sold mainly under the Group’s own brands. an extensive guarantee programme. builders’ merchants and are usually Building products are sold and marketed installed by private individuals and small under the Group’s brands primarily to ROOFING PRODUCTS construction companies or carpenters. builders’ merchants in the Nordic region. The Group offers a broad range of roofing In Denmark, the products are mainly sold products that are adapted to different types and installed by franchise companies jointly Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 17 BRANDS AND GEOGRAPHIC PRESENCE Bitumen manufacturing units and sales offices Manufacturing unit for liquid bitumen and sales office t EPDM manufacturing unit and sales office t EPDM prefabrication units Production units for prefabricated facade and roof elements Sales offices Predominantly bitumen market Predominantly EPDM market PREFABRICATED ROOF, FLOOR AND WALL COMPONENTS Prefabricated components include customer-specific products with flat components, including facades, ceilings and floors. Using 3D-based information technology and a knowledge of virtually all structure types, products can be tailored to optimally suit a specific project. The sales force and structural engineers have tt great technical know-how and develop the products in close dialogue with developers and architects to jointly arrive at the best design and solution. t Prefabricated components are t primarily sold and marketed directly to t medium-sized and large construction companies, as well as through centralized t procurement processes. RUBBER MEMBRANES Rubber membranes of EPDM are intended to be used primarily for the waterproofing of roofs, facades and foundations. The product range consists of airtight, KEY FIGURES PRODUCTS & SOLUTIONS, SEK MILLION 2017 2016 sound-proof and waterproof systems Net sales 1,568 1,341 providing long-term environmental EBITDA before items affecting comparability 239 243 efficiency and energy savings for up to 50 years. Since the products are primarily Operating profit (EBIT) before items affecting comparability 205 221 tailored to customers needs at prefabricaNumber of employees (FTE) 413 319 tion units, they are produced in various types, based on their thickness and mix of materials, for example. The products are sold primarily to customers in, Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, Sweden and the UK. NET SALES, OPERATING PROFIT (EBIT) BEFORE ITEMS SHARE OF GROUP, 2017* AFFECTING COMPARABILITY, 2017* 69% 87% * Excluding intra-Group sales and earnings. Contents 18 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 OPERATING SEGMENT: INSTALLATION SERVICES ADAPTED INSTALLATION In 2017, LA Kattohuolto, was acquired – WITH OWN STAFF OR IN a Finnish roofing and service company, both strengthening the Group’s geographical COOPERATION WITH FRANCHISEE presence and contributing a range of services that can be offered to private individuals and customers of other companies within the segment. In Denmark, installation of Nordic Waterproofing’s p ­ roducts MINORITY-OWNED FRANCHISE is offered through independent franchisees and in Finland COMPANIES IN DENMARK sales are conducted through proprietary subsidiaries. In Denmark, installations are offered through franchise companies under the Phønix Tag and Hetag Tagdækning brands. The franchise companies are owner-­managed businesses, The Installation Services operating segment standing of the customer’s needs and in in which Nordic Waterproofing has minority is fully integrated into the Group’s business educating the market of the importance of interests. and consists mainly of the installation, mainusing high-quality products. The link to the tenance and assembly primarily of the end-users provides control of the entire FAST-GROWING IN SEALING MEMBRANES Group’s own roofing products for commervalue chain which also protects the Group’s FOR FLOORS cial properties and homes. market position and brands. In 2017, the Group acquired the Finnish company SPT-Painting, which operates ADDITIONAL SALES CHANNEL CLOSE TO INSTALLATION OF DOMESTICALLY within the fast-growing market for liquid THE CUSTOMERS’ NEEDS PRODUCED PRODUCTS IN FINLAND sealing membranes and coverings for floors, Installation Services acts as a sales channel In Finland, installation is performed by also known as “coatings”, and supplies floor for the Group’s waterproofing products and wholly owned subsidiaries under the brands installation services to customers in the solutions. Value is added in the direct AL-Katot and KerabitPro, through district construction, shipbuilding and industrial contact with end-users, in greater underoffices across the country. segments. KEY FIGURES INSTALLATION SERVICES, SEK million 2017 2016 Net sales1) 714 560 NET SALES, EBITDA before items affecting comparability2) 36 30 SHARE OF GROUP, 2017* Operating profit (EBIT) before items affecting comparability2) 31 29 Number of employees (FTE) 407 303 1) Sales do not include the Danish franchise companies. 2) Including share of profit in associated companies’ (Danish franchise companies). 31% BRANDS AND GEOGRAPHIC PRESENCE OPERATING PROFIT (EBIT) BEFORE ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY SHARE OF GROUP, 2017* ▼ ~15 13% * Excluding intra-Group sales and earnings. ▼ ~20 t t Proprietary district offices Franchise companies Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 19 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FOCUS ON SAFETY, SIMPLICITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT Products and solutions are continuously developed and improved within the Group, resulting in new solutions and building systems, focused on ease of installation and environmental awareness. The development process is performed at both Group and business unit levels. Efforts are focused on developing new products and improving existing products and solutions, and conducting product and factory tests. The Group’s product development unit is also responsible for quality assurance, certifications and patents. The development process is based on trends and analyses of customer needs and requirements. In addition, product development initiatives are introduced that affect the Group as a whole. The development process is designed to encourage cooperation between the business units and includes sharing best practices with regard to recipe optimization, product improvements, materials efficiency and waste management, for example. EXAMPLES OF RECENT PRODUCTS Mataki POWER and Trebolit Elit Mataki Supersafe extra AND SYSTEMS IN ROOFING AND Complete hot air welding systems have been Improved adhesion at low temperatures WATERPROOFING launched in Sweden and Norway. It meets makes it easier to install this sealant even high safety requirements in projects were an during colder periods. RubberShell open flame would not be applicable. RubberShell is a waterproofing product Nature Impact® Roof combining the favourable properties of LESSNOX® Nature Impact® Roof is a unique systems EPDM and Bitumen. With Nordic Waterproofing’s LESSNOX solution for larger installations of green waterproofing, the amount of nitrogen roofs. Shingle Easy oxides in the air can be reduced, improving Shingle Easy is a new type of shingle with air quality. Nitrogen oxides are converted Nordic Waterproofing’s development the advantage that installers do not need to into water-soluble nitrates. departments work with material efficiency remove release strips, allowing both quicker and identifying solutions with a lower installation and less waste at the work site. Haloproof radon systems environmental impact by, for example, using A system for protecting buildings, both new recycled materials or renewable raw Mataki Haloten Steel and existing, from radon. This is an entirely materials. Mataki Haloten Steel is a roofing underlay complete system that has SINTEF’s offering numerous advantages, including technical approval and that is one of unique overlapping seams that give the Norway’s most widely used systems. overlying plate an even surface. Contents 20 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 COORDINATION OF PRODUCTION, PURCHASING AND LOGISTICS Automated production close to customers, centralized procurement that safeguards the availability of raw materials and cost control, along with efficient logistics, shortening customer lead times are success factors that both strengthen the customer offering and the Group’s long-term profitability. PRODUCTION CLOSE TO CUSTOMERS solutions to meet specific customer needs. price increases on input products through Production close to markets and customers Customized products are cut to the right size agreements with customers, there may be a represents an important part of the service and welded together, enabling single -piece delay of up to nine months between the offering. We manufacture products at waterproofing to be used. The pieces are adjustment of the Group’s purchasing price production units in Denmark, Finland and delivered directly from the Group’s unit to and the price to customers. Nordic WaterSweden, and at prefabrication units for the project, enabling quick, easy and safe proofing hedges the price of bitumen for a EPDM-products in Belgium, the Netherlands installation. The prefabrication process is period up to 24 months, to further reduce the UK and Sweden. generally carried out in a factory under ideal the risk of fluctuations in raw materials conditions which, combined with improved prices. Decisions on hedging and levels are Simple and automated production process quality control, ensures higher quality taken according to a defined policy and The process is relatively automated with a products and less spillage. reported to the Board on a monthly basis. limited level of labour intensity, meaning Hedging exceeding six months must be that labour accounts for a low proportion of PURCHASING BY BEST PRACTICE approved by the Chairman of the Board. production costs. The Group has good The Group’s purchasing is managed through a The supplier base comprises companies insight into the production process flow and small central group that shares knowledge of with long-term relationships with the Group. continuously measures key ratios to market data and best practice together with In 2017, the largest supplier accounted for streamline and improve production. the local units. Market-specific products and approximately 16 percent of the total costs of Examples of measures taken include the materials are purchased by the local purchasraw materials and, combined, the five handling of residues and ensuring the ing functions in order to increase flexibility largest suppliers accounted for approxithickness of bitumen products. and ensure that local needs are met. mately 49 percent. To ensure an efficient production process Products manufactured by subcontracfor bitumen membranes, a high level of Four key raw materials tors primarily comprise various accessories expertise is required, combining continuous Purchasing of the most important input complementing the Group’s products and and small-scale efficiency measures, but materials – bitumen, polyester, EPDM and helping ensure that customers receive also specific knowledge to produce the SBS – is coordinated at the Group level to complete solutions. The range of products optimum mix of raw materials. achieve economies of scale and strengthen manufactured by subcontractors varies from The Group owns the recipes for all of its the Group’s negotiating position. market to market and includes plastic bitumen and EPDM products. Ongoing sheeting, foundations, moisture barriers and optimization measures also form part of Supplier assurance roof safety. Nordic Water­proofing’s intellectual property Nordic Waterproofing applies a two-supplier rights. strategy and, accordingly, generally has at LOW PROPORTION OF FIXED COSTS Production volumes are based on both least one alternative to each subcontractor. The fixed costs for the Group’s production projections and customer orders. The price for bitumen, the foremost input amount to approximately 9 percent of the product, is determined monthly as a function total production costs, while variable costs, Prefabricated rubber membranes of oil prices, exchange rates for USD rate which primarily relate to raw materials, The rubber membrane prefabrication and a product surcharge. Pricing in the amount to approximately 91 percent. Accordprocess is a value-adding process that sealing market is affected by fluctuating ingly, the production model means that high embodies the product with unique qualities, commodity prices. Although there are capacity utilization is not crucial to achieving making it possible to produce tailored opportunities to adjust prices to offset any profitability. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 21 Delivery within 24 hours Lojo Askim Värnamo Glasgow Hampen Jelgava Hedensted Höganäs Vejen Greve Svendborg Lemelerveld Lodz Sales offices and/or warehouses. The spread Brecht Marsberg of the warehouses contributes to short lead times (reduced inventory levels among customers) and the option of delivering products directly to customers. Effective logistical solutions allows Nordic Waterproofing to reach its customers within 24 hours in most European countries. In Finland, Norway and Sweden, the majority of customers receive their materials 24 hours after placing the order. SHORT LEAD TIMES DECISIVE FOR CUSTOMERS Efficient logistics are an important part of the The Group’s objective is to keep all products imposed on logistics that safeguard service offering, since customers expect short in stock to simplify and assure delivery in “just-in-time” deliveries of the components lead times. Transport expenses for bitumen the case of orders placed late. Nordic Waterin pace with the speed at which the products are relatively high compared with proofing is constantly seeking to streamline construction companies assemble them. product cost. Most products are delivered and improve its inventory management and Efficient and flexible production, customer within a day. Local distribution platforms are logistics, and therefore regularly carries out awareness, and advanced logistics solutions connected to the production facilities which, various analyses to identify opportunities for are therefore key factors for success. combined with local production, provide cost improvement. Taasinge Elementer offers good growth benefits. The Group has strategically located potential. With the current factory set-up, sales offices and/or warehouses around PRODUCTION AND ASSEMBLY IN A SINGLE there is still room for considerable expannorthern Europe. The local distribution FLOW WITH NEW PRODUCTION sion of production capacity. Order bookings platforms contribute to short lead times, TECHNOLOGY are strong, particularly in the company’s reduced inventories for customers and the Advanced logistics solutions and good home market, Denmark. In addition, there option of delivering products directly to the awareness of customers’ production are clear opportunities for exports to customer’s site, which improves relations with processes are important components of the neigh­bouring countries, and these are customers and increases benefits for customer offering when Taasinge Elementer further strengthened by the company now customers. delivers prefabricated elements built in being able to take part in Nordic WaterproofInventories are managed internally by controlled environments at proprietary ing’s market coverage. each business unit individually in order to factories in Denmark and Latvia. facilitate planning, while transportation Pre-assembled details, such as windows, services are provided by external companies electrical installations, insulation and seals, to ensure consistently short delivery times are in put in place already at the factory. At for products and solutions to customers. the same time, specific requirements are Contents 22 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 The roof of the swimming facility in Herninge, Denmark, was designed to imitate a wave. Roofing felt from Phønix Tag Materialer has been used to safeguard both design and protection. LEADING NORDIC PLAYER Nordic Waterproofing operates in the waterproofing market, a sub-market within the broader construction market. The Group primarily operates in Northern Europe. DRIVING FORCES IN THE WATERPROOFING MARKET The waterproofing market comprises both of acquisitions made in 2017, prefabricated Our ability to grow and create value in our products and services for protecting elements for floors, walls and ceilings are home markets is affected by a number of buildings and other structures against water also offered. In Finland the Group also external factors and drivers. Some of and wind. provides proprietary installation services for these variables – macroeconomic as well In the Group’s main markets – the Nordic roofing and floor coating. as more sector-specific – are presented below. countries of Sweden, Denmark, Finland and In Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland, the Norway – Nordic Waterproofing provides United Kingdom and Germany, the Group GDP DEVELOPMENT AND POLITICAL waterproofing products and solutions. The provides different types of rubber memFACTORS In general, the development of the waterproofing market, as well as the primary product offered is roofing felt, and branes made of the synthetic rubber broader construction market, follow the its principal material is bitumen. By means material EPDM. overall national GDP trend. Strong GDP growth is a key prerequisite for the construction industry, although weaker periods may also be beneficial in certain cases. Via a fiscal policy solution, it is common during economic downturns for governments to initiate construction and civil engineering projects to stimulate the economy. The Swedish government, for example, has changed the subsidies in renovation for private households, and the Finnish government is backing a social housing production project with EUR 1,170 million. MAINTENANCE AND RENOVATION Maintenance and renovation of the waterproofing is less dependent on the business cycle and is normally not affected by a recession. Neglected maintenance, especially of waterproofing, leads to costly consequences which constitutes a key driver. A growing stock of buildings leads in long term to a growing market. URBANIZATION Increasing urbanization is leading to a housing shortage in major cities. Most of the Nordic capitals, for example, are among the top-ten fastest-growing cities in Europe, leading to higher demand for construction projects in these regions. RETAIL Changes in infrastructure because of changed patterns in retail shopping and increasing e-commerce leads to increased construction and maintenance of large logistics centres and shopping malls. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 23 LEADING PLAYER IN WELL-DEFINED material, quality and installation could have Installation Services MARKET far-reaching consequences. Waterproofing The installation services market segment The estimated value of the total waterproofing products and solutions are crucial to the includes installations of waterproofing market for buildings in the Nordic region lifetime of the building and account for a products, as well as maintenance services. amounts to approximately SEK 15 billion. The small fraction of the total construction cost. The total value of the Nordic installation value of the European market for EPDM Thus construction companies are sourcing services market is estimated at approxiproducts is estimated at about SEK 1.5 billion. the roofing from qualified installers who have mately SEK 10 billion, corresponding to the necessary understanding of the best approximately 70 percent of the total STRENGTHS material for the building or structure. waterproofing market in the Nordic region. We consider the following market characteristics to be favourable. Stable demand for bitumen products STABLE RENOVATION MARKET OFFSETS We have noted a continued preference for POSSIBLE DECLINE Mature and consolidated industry bitumen as the most suitable waterproofing Renovation is less affected by the general The waterproofing market is consolidated material. Accordingly, bitumen remains the economic cycle. Renovation is estimated to and the market shares tend to remain stable primary choice of material in Nordic account for almost 60 percent of the Nordic over time. The industry requires local Waterproofing’s markets. construction market and new-build for production, since transportation costs slightly more than 40 percent. The Nordic account for a considerable proportion of the CONTINUED STRONG MARKET SHARE renovation market did not decrease during total costs (high weight in proportion to the The waterproofing market in the Nordic the 2007–2009 economic recession, while value of the product) and since customers region can be broken down into two market the new-build market declined by 27 expect short delivery times (requiring segments: Products & Solutions, and percent. Accordingly, exposure to the manufacturers to have reliable and efficient Installation Services. renovation market would appear to strengthlogistic solutions). Production processes in en the Group’s operations. the industry involve a high level of automaProducts & Solutions The renovation market is driven by: tion, reducing competition from countries The total value of the Nordic products and • Composition and age of property stocks. able to take advantage of low-cost labour. solutions market is estimated at approxi• Renovating buildings is cheaper than The various waterproofing markets are mately SEK 5 billion. The products and building new ones. In addition, inadecharacterized by differences in construction solutions market segment can be further quate maintenance could incur considerregulations and traditions. broken down into: able costs due to water damage, for • Roofing products, including products for example, making renovation decisions Long-term reliability is of crucial importance flat and pitched roofs made primarily of crucial. As a result, the renovation Customers generally seek proven and bitumen roofing felt, PVC, EPDM (rubber market is relatively stable and less well-established products and materials membranes) and TPO (thermoplastic cyclical compared with new production. from strong brands with a long tradition of olefin, a synthetic plastic material) and quality and expertise, since long-term products for roofing accessories, such as The Group’s markets can also be broken reliability is of crucial importance. fastening devices. down by type of building, such as residential The Group’s well-reputed brands, • Building products, including various and commercial properties. It is estimated combined with partnerships, training types of membranes for buildings, such that around 70 percent of the value of the programmes, technical service and highly as moisture, wind and vapour underlay total waterproofing market in the Nordic motivated employees have contributed to the barriers made of bitumen and EPDM. region is attributable to commercial creation of long-term relationships with properties and other structures (bridges for customers. Through acquisitions completed in 2017 example). The higher proportion of (Taasinge Elementer, see page 8), Nordic commercial properties is attributable to High-quality waterproofing is crucial Waterproofing also offers prefabricated these more frequently having flat roofs Flawless waterproofing is key to a safe and components for floors, walls and ceilings. compared with residential properties. sustainable building, and failure in choice of Contents 24 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 WELL DEFINED PATH FOR GROWTH There are relatively few local suppliers of waterproofing in the Nordic region, since the market is mature, the entry barriers high, and the sales channels well-defined. DISTRIBUTION CHAIN IN OPERATING SEGMENT PRODUCTS & SOLUTIONS Own roofers (Installation DIRECT SALES Services) and franchisee roofing contractors General contractors 65% Independent BUILDING OWNER roofing contractors DISTRIBUTION Builders’ Independent 35% merchants smaller contractors Small construction companies and DIY merchants carpenters In addition to market-listed Nordic WaterDIRECT SALES VIA CONTRACTORS non-independent installation companies proofing, the following major private Since flat roofing waterproofing products varies from country to country. Non-indemanufacturers of waterproofing products require special expertise, they are mainly pendent companies are more established in are to be found in the Nordic region: Icopal, sold through installation companies. This link Finland and Denmark. Katepal, Protan and Isola. The small number to end-users accounts for approximately 65 Independent installation companies can of local manufacturers in the Nordic market percent of the Products & Solutions operating buy products from both manufacturers. has a relatively fragmented customer base. segment’s sales. The installation stage of the Accordingly, manufacturers of waterproofing distribution chain is fragmented and consists SALES VIA BUILDERS’ MERCHANTS products have a strong position in the predominantly of small, local companies. The builders’ merchants level of the distribution chain. Apart from Nordic The companies can be broken down into distribution chain is relatively consolidated, Waterproofing, the largest suppliers of independent and non-independent installaconsisting mainly of large building material EPDM products in the Europe market are tion companies. chains with a regional or national presence considered to be Firestone, Carlisle and Manufacturer-controlled installation and offering waterproofing products as a Duraproof, of which Firestone and Carlisle companies are wholly or partly owned by small part of a wide product range. are estimated to be the largest and manufacturers of waterproofing products. Approximately 35 percent of the Products & second-largest providers, respectively, with The non-independent installation companies Solutions operating segment’s sales of Nordic Waterproofing being the third-largest have exclusive sales agreements with the roofing products in the Nordic region are provider. owning manufacturer, and almost exclusively made through builders’ merchants. buy products from that manufacturer. The Builders’ merchants can be divided into share of the waterproofing market held by two categories: traditional builders’ Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 25 The Glasvasen office building immediately adjacent to the Central Station in Malmö, Sweden, has built-in waterproofing from Mataki overlaid with sedum. This green roof has biotopes with vegetation that attracts butterflies and small birds – as well as one or two other tenants. The green roof also keeps the building cooler in the summer and warmer in winter, while cleaning the air, dampening noise and absorbing rainwater. merchants, such as XL Bygg, Beijer Construction companies that operate at both Ejendomme, but also Copenhagen Airport Byggmaterial and Optimera, K-Rauta, Silvan, the regional and global level include JM, and government-owned real estate and DIY merchants, such as Byggmax and NCC, Skanska and Peab in Sweden and companies, such as Akademiska Hus; as Bauhaus whose customers consist primarily MT Højgaard, HusCompagniet and Hoffman well as private homeowners. of individuals and small construction in Denmark and Veidekke in Norway. With companies. regard to flat roofing waterproofing ADRESSING NEW CUSTOMER SEGMENTS Traditional building supply stores products, these companies secure direct In early 2017, Nordic Waterproofing acquired specialize in providing products to profesagreements with installation companies, SPT-Painting, a Finnish specialist company sional construction companies, generally delivering a complete package of roofing that operates within the fast-growing floor have more specialized staff and focus on solutions, for example Nordic Waterproofcoverings market. The customer base strong and established brands. DIY ings Installation Services. consists primarily of medium and large merchants generally offer simpler and construction companies, industrial compacheaper products. INSTALLATION SERVICES TO nies and shipyards and their sub-contractors. BUILDING OWNERS Taasinge Elementer, which was acquired CONSTRUCTION COMPANY CUSTOMERS End-users consist of property owners who in 2017 and which offers prefabricated floor, Construction companies are either large use waterproofing products on their wall and ceiling components, also brings general contractors with a global, national properties. This level of the distribution new customer names in the segment of or regional presence or a fragmented chain is fragmented and includes private medium-sized and large construction market of smaller contractor companies real estate companies, such as Kungsleden, companies, major architectural firms and (builders and carpenters). Castellum, Hufvudstaden and Carlsberg other procuring companies. Contents 26 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 DECENTRALIZED ORGANIZATION CLOSE TO CUSTOMERS The Group has a decentralized organization structure with local management in each individual business unit that are supported by Group functions for finances and R&D that accelerates both efficiency within the Group and local flexibility. Each business unit constitutes a profit process for employee dialogue, in which unit offering roofing services, is certified in centre and is responsible for local producemployees and company management have accordance with the OHSAS 18001 work tion, marketing and sales. The decentralized a mutual exchange of expectations and environment management system. management model helps to form close suggestions on how to improve working Each individual site shall report to the local relationships with customers, conditions. Group level, all occupational injuries and increases involvement and ensures faster illnesses resulting in at least one day’s and more efficient processes in each unit. ATTRACTING THE RIGHT COMPETENCES absence caused by accident, defined as Equally, the central functions contribute to LOCALLY Lost Work Cases (LWC). maximizing synergies throughout the Group An important part of the strategy of a In 2017, 61 LWC accidents (37) were in areas such as R&D and centralized decentralized Group lies in attracting the reported. Most of these were reported from purchasing of raw materials. right expertise locally. Nordic Waterproofing Finland and are associated with installation is often a major employer in the communiwork, which is the most risky work performed COMPETENCE, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT ties where its operations are based, and by by the Group. We saw a negative trend regarding AND MOTIVATION employing personnel locally, personnel workplace accidents in 2017 in several of the In 2017, the Group had an average of 830 turnover is kept more stable with motivated Group’s operations. Part of the explanation as (630) full-time employees (calculated as employees. to why the number of accidents has increased is full-time equivalents). During the summer The professional roof installer business that we acquired the companies accounting for season, the workforce in Installation has experienced a staff shortage. In order to most of the accidents reported over the year. Services increases through the addition of increase access to potential staff. Nordic However, even when taking into account this, more than 100 subcontractors. Waterproofing supports educational and also taking into account the total number The HR-functions are decentralized and programmes in roof installation and offers of hours worked, 2017 brought an undesirable HR issues differ regionally, although they trainee positions for future professionals, deterioration. In 2018, we will further sharpen show certain mutual trends: increasing the attraction. our focus on the risks involved in our operations • Staff turnover is generally low, contributto prevent accidents and reverse this trend. An ing to the stability of the organization. HEALTH AND SAFETY important part of this will involve integrating Nordic Waterproofing’s operations include newly acquired companies into our systematic • The subsidiaries apply introduction factories, warehouses and offices. The efforts, but also, as the pace of production and programmes when recruiting new Finnish operations also include installation installation rises, raising awareness and colleagues. services. Each workplace and environment knowledge among the many new employees • Employees’ skills are developed has its own specific risks and, accordingly, who have joined our operations. continuously, focusing, for example, each subsidiary is responsible for systematic All the companies in the Group that have on productivity and broader production health and safety work. This includes production sites have contracted external skills, thereby increasing the flexibility information on, and assessment of, Occupational Health Care services to support of the organization. site-­specific risks and reporting of accidents their employees, such as in the case of to the Group. rehabilitation. Employee surveys are conducted locally, The process of reducing the occurrence providing a basis for management to focus of incidents and accidents is also achieved DIVERSITY AND EQUAL TREATMENT on actions that increase job satisfaction and by analyzing the underlying causes. All Diversity and equal treatment are fundamental motivation. subsidiaries have an Occupational Health to Nordic Waterproofing value base and are a Nordic Waterproofing has built up a and Safety Policy. self-evident part of the updated Code of successful working climate with a proven The Finnish subsidiary, the only business Conduct that was introduced during the Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 27 CEO Martin Ellis CFO and IR Technology, Research & Development Jonas Olin Catharina Svenningsson Market Council Production Council Products & Solutions Installation Services* Martin Ellis Esa Mäki Denmark Finland Norway Finland * Nordic Waterproofing is minority share­ holder in the Danish franchise companies. Sweden SealEco Taasinge Elementer Group-wide functions Decentralized functions financial year. In 2018, the implementation of a new code for the Group’s suppliers will commence. The gender distribution target of 15–20 830 EMPLOYEES 2017 DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES percent women on the Board of Directors BY COUNTRY, 2017 by 2018 was met in 2016. With an additional Administration R&D Other woman elected in 2017, the proportion of women on the Board of Directors is now 7% 1% Norway 3% 9% 33 percent.* Sales and The roofing industry has historically been marketing Installation Sweden uneven in its gender distribution, with the 20% services 15% vast majority of people across employee 44% Finland categories being men. We work continuously to attract, develop and retain talented people Production Denmark 56% regardless of gender or other aspects. Independent of gender or other aspects of 28% 17% diversity, each individual should offered equal opportunities in terms of career paths etc. In 2016, it was decided with regard to the gender target, that the operations as a whole should also work for a more balanced mix in terms ACCIDENTS, LWC DISTRIBUTION OF GENDER, of ethnicity and gender. NORDIC WATERPROOFING NEW EU GDPR LAW REPLACES PERSONAL Number h % INFORMATION ACT 60 100 100 The General Data Protection Regulation 90 50 (GDPR) is the new data protection reform 80 80 that will apply throughout the EU, a new law 40 70 on the processing of personal data that will 60 60 replace the Personal Information Act. In May 30 50 2018, all companies in the EU shall meet the 40 40 20 30 requirements of the new law. During 2017, a special working group 20 20 10 within Nordic Waterproofing defined the 10 areas in which the Group needs to strength0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Average Average The Group The board en its routines and harmonize its various total of senior Manageof LWC=Lost Work Cases, accidents resulting number of positions, ment, directors, markets, and are therefore prepared for the employees, 44 persons 8 persons 6 persons in more than eight hours of absence 830 persons new legal requirement. Number of accidents resulting in more than eight hours absence per million work hours Women Men * Account in accordance with Chapter 99b of Acquired units (Taasinge and two operations in the Danish Annual Accounts Act. Finland) have been added in the reporting for 2017. Contents 28 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 SUSTAINABLE BEHAVIOUR GENERATES ADDED VALUES Nordic Waterproofing works to create added value for its stakeholders without compromising the standards set in terms of environmental and social responsibility. We strive to conduct our business in an The review also gave rise to a series of new within the Group in connection with employee environmentally and socially sustainable indicators that the Group should follow up, development interviews. manner and have established a number of as well as proposals for updating the Code In 2018, the Group will establish and comprehensive policy and control docuof Conduct and introducing a separate code implement a separate Code of Conduct for ments: a Code of Conduct, a whistleblower for suppliers. suppliers. policy, an environmental policy and a work environment policy. The Code of Conduct CODES, ANTI-CORRUPTION AND PRODUCTION AND ENVIRONMENT includes the areas of human rights, labour BUSINESS ETHICS The production facilities for bitumen and rubber rights, environmental protection, and In the autumn of 2017, the Board adopted an sheeting in Denmark, Finland and Sweden are anti-corruption. The code relates to the updated version of the Group’s Code of subject to mandatory reporting obligations and working environment, the marketplace and Conduct. In connection with this, new require permits. The operations affect the the community. instructions on safeguarding anonymity external environment primarily through noise Since 2012, we have been signatories of were also provided in connection with and direct and indirect emissions. The Group’s the UN Global Compact and are working on reporting of events, known as whistleblowproduction requires resources such as raw an overarching sustainability strategy for the ing. In 2017, 0 (0) whistleblower cases were material, water, energy and chemicals. Group that is in line with the ten basic reported. The Group cares for and continues All subsidiaries are covered by our Group principles of the Global Compact. to develop a corporate culture based on a Environmental policy, which covers energy In our decentralized organization, dialogue with employees at all levels. consumption, emissions and raw material sustainability targets are set and implementStarting from 2018, the awareness of the use. If necessary, they have formulated a local ed by the local company management teams. Code of Conduct, related business and policy to complement it. All manufacturing In a Group-wide review of sustainability work ethics policies will be followed up by each units have a management system for carried out in 2017, it was identified that business unit reporting to the Group environmental management. The operations implementation of, and training in, the Code controller. Effective from 2018, the Code of in Finland and Sweden are certified in of Conduct, together with suppliers’ delivery Conduct will be included as part of the accordance with ISO 14001. Each production in relation to the Code, gender equality and introduction plan for new employees and will site has environmental targets. diversity, are issues of relevance for the be followed up annually by all employees A mapping of energy consumption and Group to coordinate. climate emissions at an aggregated Group level commenced in early 2017. Energy consumption and climate emissions are key UN GLOBAL COMPACT figures to be reported at the Group level PRINCIPLES starting in 2017. HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and REDUCTION OF WASTE, SPILLAGE AND 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ENERGY LABOUR Several projects are in progress to identify 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to additional environmentally efficient products, collective bargaining; environmental improvements, and waste/spill 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; reduction. 5. the elimination of child labour; and The Group’s total energy consumption 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. increased by 1.1 percent (2.5), mainly attributaENVIRONMENT ble to the production units acquired during the 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; year. Disregarding production capacity acquired 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and in 2017, the Group’s energy consumption 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. decreased by 2.9 percent between 2016 and ANTI-CORRUPTION 2017. The Group’s combined CO2 emissions 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. amounted to 4,694 tonnes. The Swedish facility Since 2012 is Nordic Waterproofing a signatory to the UN’s Global Compact and is committed to honouring the Global in Höganäs had the greatest impact at 1,452 Compact’s 10 principles. Our Group Code of Conduct covers human rights, freedom of association, forced labour, child tonnes, followed by the newly-acquired labour, discrimination, environmental management, anti-corruption, anti-competitive behaviour and conflicts of interest. Nordic Waterproofing accounts for compliance in the Group’s annual report to meet the UN Global Compact’s reporting Taasinge Elementer at 1,470 tonnes. obligations. The annual report is available on the Group’s website and on the UN Global Compact website. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 29 Sedum is a durable plant blend for low-incline roofs and is decorative while offering a number of environmental benefits. At the same time, good preparation with a high-quality sealing membrane is required to guarantee the roof’s protective function. Nordic Waterproofing offers a range of products for green roofs. As early as in 2009, a project was initiated to inspect, for example, the district heating distribution, energy consumption per source, carbon dioxide emissions from energy SUSTAINABILITY plant, compressors and hot air units at the Höganäs production unit, which, together consumption and the proportion of waste for recycling or landfill. Additional indicators that IN PRACTICE with Siemens, is subsequently gradually and may be considered are productionwaste and The newly acquired Taasinge Elementer partly replaced. Following this, Siemens task other personnel-related key ratios. has a clear sustainability focus that has been to monitor the system and optimize The continued work will be conducted includes energy savings, intelligent and make suggestions for further improvewith both internal and external stakeholders logistics solutions and construction ments. This work has resulted in a signifito ensure that Group-level reporting meets technologies of the future. cant reduction of district heating consumpthe needs of non-financial information and The core of Taasinge Elementer’s tion compared with the base year of 2009. results in priorities for where and how we components consists of wood, an An example of a unit that works actively can contribute most to the UN Global environmentally friendly material that with waste and spill management is the Compact and the UN Sustainable Developis well proven and works well in the Group’s unit in Vejen, Denmark. Rolls and ment Goals. Nordic building tradition. Wood is a dumpster bags of spillage and waste are renewable resource, carbon neutral and sold as raw material as filler for roads. easy to handle through all stages of Continuous adjustments in energy consumpWASTE DISPOSAL METHODS production, including waste managetion and appropriate energy sources have Landfill ment. lowered the production unit’s total carbon 8% A significant proportion of compodioxide levels. nents from Taasinge Elementer is used The Group’s total production waste when concrete facades are refurbished amounts to 3,306 tones. Of this waste, Recycling or replaced to reduce future heating 92 percent goes to recycling, as by-products or to incineration, for energy recovery. The 37% costs. In the 1960s and 70s, the Nordic countries constructed many buildings Energy remaining 8 percent goes to landfill. recovery with concrete components. Extensive CONTINUED SUSTAINABILITY WORK 55% efforts are now being made to improve the energy efficiency of these buildings, Our subsidiaries act as independent profit which can be done cost-effectively by centres in their respective national markets, retrofitting a new, light facade with and sustainability work is managed locally. A ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER ENERGY components from Taasinge Elementer. broader effort to align the sustainability SOURCE 1) approach in the Group’s operations and MWh enable further sharing of best practices 35,000 between its sites, has been initiated. A 30,000 28,271 27,797 27,944 28,606 27,259 baseline assessment is being undertaken by 25,000 surveying the subsidiaries’ sustainability processes. A good example of knowledge 20,000 sharing that already works is the prioritized 15,000 area of waste management – efficiency enhancements and best practices are 10,000 shared between the Group’s various units to 5,000 achieve continuous improvement. 0 The mapping of the subsidiaries’ 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 processes from a sustainability perspective Electricity District heating Natural gas conducted in 2017 has been important in Light heating oil Wood Pellets setting reference points. 1) The diagram shows the energy consumption for During the process, a number of production units and offices at all business units, with indicators and key ratios have been identified the exception of Installation Services, which primarily comprises installation, maintenance and assembly. for follow-up at the Group level. These Energy consumed by company vehicles and forklifts, indicators include accident reporting, gender or by suppliers, is not included in these figures. Contents 30 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management is an integral part of Directors for appropriate responses and quences and measures for reducing or Nordic Waterproofing’s management actions. Effective from 2017, an annual preventing those risks – will then be processes. Risks and opportunities are bottom-up risk assessment is conducted in consolidated from each business unit up to regularly reviewed and reported to the each business unit. A risk matrix with the 10 the Group level, forming the basis for a Executive Management and the Board of greatest risks – their probability, conseGroup-wide list of risks (see below). MAJOR RISKS AT NORDIC WATERPROOFING RISK DESCRIPTION DEVELOPMENT IN 2017 Market Development The waterproofing market is a relatively small niche within Demand from the construction industry remained of the the construction market and generally follows the strong throughout 2017. Nordic Waterproofing’s construction fluctuations in the construction industry. Demand for Nordic distribution of sales was stable, with 60 percent market Waterproofing’s products and services may fall because of to renovation and 40 percent to new build. lower construction activity. Competition By developing their products, improving their production Nordic Waterproofing is constantly monitoring methods or offering their products at lower prices, Nordic the development in its market. The overall Waterproofing’s competitors could cause customers to demand for bitumen and EPDM products, and prefer their products. Synthetic materials, such as PVC and other materials supplied via Nordic WaterproofTPO, which account for a small proportion of the Group’s ing’s local representatives, is stable in the turnover, may increase in popularity at the expense of Group’s market. bitumen. Operational Unforeseen Unforeseen business-related problems associated with the During 2017, the Group made four acquisitions. problems in acquired companies or the integration processes may take Plans for integrating the new acquisitions were connection longer or be costlier than anticipated, and that expected included in the acquisition process. A senior with synergies fail to, or only partially, materialize. Thus, the team of managers are involved from the start, acquisitions value of assets relating to the acquisitions – goodwill – may supported by a structured due diligence process, not be realized and may need to be written down. and the Group’s Code of Conduct. Seasonality Irregular seasonal variations, e.g. an earlier winter season, The Group maintain an agile organization to meet may affect building activities. the changes posed by the Nordic winter and summer weather conditions. Disruption in The Group’s manufacturing and installation operations The bitumen manufacturing units in Denmark, production could suffer stoppages or disruptions in the form of, for Finland and Sweden are maintained routinely and example, fire, engine breakdowns, failures in IT systems, once a year the production is stopped for a disputes with labour organizations, weather conditions or systematic service. In addition, Nordic Waternatural disasters. proofing has spare capacities in its production units, allowing for a shorter accidental stop. Environmental The production facilities in Denmark, Finland and Sweden The Group has all necessary permits for its permits are subject to mandatory reporting obligations and require operations and is monitoring any changes in the permits. The operations affect the external environment environmental regulations and permit regulaprimary through noise and emissions. tions in each relevant country. IT system and The Group’s IT systems can be disrupted by software A central organization is continually monitoring process failure failures, computer viruses, hacking, sabotage and physical the system’s status and carrying out monthly damage, for example. updates to protect the Group’s IT systems. No major disruptions were reported in 2017. Supplier Access to alternative suppliers from whom bitumen and The Group has integrated risk mitigation and relationships rubber components can be purchased is considered crucial dependency into the sourcing process. Potential in the event that partnerships with the Group’s primary suppliers are evaluated and a two-tier supplier suppliers were to come to an end. The supply agreement for scheme is used when possible. rubber products contains minimum volume commitments for the Group, reducing the option to purchase rubber compounds from alternative suppliers and adapt to lower demand. Raw material There is a risk that the Group will be unable to compensate The Group is exposed to volatility of raw materials, costs for an increase in the cost of input goods by imposing a and can decide to hedge the price levels for a higher price on a customer or that this compensation will certain period and/or respond by increasing the only be obtained after a period of time, which will have an price of its products. At the beginning of 2017, the adverse effect on the Group’s results and financial position. prices for two vital raw material categories increased and the Group implemented measures to mitigate any negative effects. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 31 MAJOR RISKS AT NORDIC WATERPROOFING RISK DESCRIPTION DEVELOPMENT IN 2017 Legal Competition Competition authorities have the power to take legal action Nordic Waterproofing A/S and other providers of law and may require a party to cease applying terms and waterproofing products are subject to an investigation conditions or prices in agreements that are found to be by the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority anti-competitive. (KFST). The examination has been completed and has entered the assessment phase. The outcome is expected to be announced in the spring of 2018. Nordic Waterproofing is cooperating with KFST. Changes to Changes in stimuli to encourage the construction of Nordic Waterproofing’s products are well established regulations new-buildings, e.g. legislation, regulations and rules in all relevant markets and the Group is exposed to a affecting town planning, zoning plans and land development, limited extent to changes in the subsidies in different as well as building permit/planning permission regulations, countries. A reduction in the Swedish ROT deduction may change in the future. Furthermore, changes may occur has had a limited impact. Announced lending in the regulations for contributions, such as the ROT restrictions and amortization requirements also had a deductions in Sweden and household allowances in Finland. certain, albeit limited, impact in 2017. Intellectual The Group has developed products that lack patent The Group has assigned an external party and property protection that may be more important to the Group and its established routines to register and maintain its rights competitive position on the market than what has previously patents, trade marks and other intellectual property. been considered to be commercially reasonable. There is also a risk that the Group will be unable to defend trademarks and patents granted. Compliance With 830 employees in ten countries there is an inherent risk In 2017, an updated version of the Group’s Code of risks that any Nordic Waterproofing employee is involved in Conduct was implemented and this will be followed up unethical behavior in terms of bribery, corruption, fraud or annually in the Annual performance reviews. In other illegal or unethical behaviour. The same goes for the addition, a Code of Conduct for Suppliers has been Group’s suppliers. initiated – planned to be introduced in 2018. Financial Currency The Group is exposed to currency risk in the form of The Group has significant cash flows in foreign risks transactions and currency conversions. Transaction currencies (DKK, EUR and NOK) that arise in the exposure arises in connection with acquisitions and sales of ordinary course of the Group’s business. Inflows and goods and services in currencies other than the local outflows of those foreign currencies are naturally well currency of the relevant subsidiary. balanced and any net transaction exposure is The translation exposure constitutes the risk represented by therefore considered insignificant. the translation difference in the form of the change in equity. Credit risks Credit risks Credit risks may occur in relationships with In each country, Nordic Waterproofing has a large customers failing to perform their obligations. number of customers, most with low outstanding credit. As the Group maintain a close relationship with its customers and any delays are monitored and rectified as soon as possible. No major credit loss was reported in 2017. Sustaina­ Environmental The Group is exposed to environmental and production risks With regard to fires in proprietary production, this is bility and Occupaas major fires with both production stoppages and followed up for each individual business unit in an tional Health environmental impact as a consequence as well the Group annual assessment with preventive action programmes and Safety operations, especially the installation businesses which and testing of emergency contingencies. The follow-up risks involves roof laying, are subjected to risks of accidents, is reported to Group Management. The Group with very severe injuries or even deadly outcomes as a continuously trains personnel with the aim of consequence. minimizing risks and accidents. Best practice comparisons are made between the different countries’ organizations. Human rights The Group has both common supply chains, and supply In 2018 we will initiate a project, looking further into chains specific for our business units. We evaluate our the possible impact of our business. We are also in the suppliers but there is a risk that there are breaches of process of developing a Supplier Code of Conduct. labour and human rights down the valuechain. Contents 32 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE WITHIN NORDIC WATERPROOFING Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S is a Danish public limited liability company, with company registration ­number 33395361, and is governed by the provisions of the Danish Companies Act. The registered office of the ­company is situated in Vejen, Denmark, with operational headquarters in Helsingborg, Sweden. The company’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, Mid Cap. This report on Nordic Waterproofing’s CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK the date of the listing of the company’s ­corporate governance 2017 is issued in Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S aims to shares on Nasdaq Stockholm. In 2017, accordance with the Danish Annual Accounts maintain an appropriate corporate governNordic Waterproofing deviated from Article Act and the Swedish Code of Corporate ance framework to ensure active, reliable 2.1 of the Code in that Danish law requires Governance. and profitable business management. The the Board of Directors to nominate auditors. corporate governance is based upon applicable Danish legislation and other THE SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS external rules and instructions, including Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S has been the Danish Company Act, Nasdaq Stocklisted on Nasdaq Stockholm, Mid Cap OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AS PER 31 holm’s Rulebook, the Swedish Securities segment since 10 June 2016. The number of DECEMBER 2017, HOLDINGS, % shares outstanding on 31 December 2017 Council on good practices in the stock Anonymous market, the Swedish Code of Corporate was 24,083,935. Each share entitles the Other ­ shareholders Governance (the Code), and internal holder to one vote. The number of shareholdshare­­holders 5% 8% guidelines including Articles of Association, ers on the same date was more than 2,900, instructions, policies and guidelines. which is approximately 200 more than at the Swedish end of 2016. The largest shareholder on 31 private Swedish APPLICATION OF THE SWEDISH CODE December 2017 was Carnegie funds, holding individuals institutional OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2,316,500 shares, representing 9.6 percent of 9% share­ The application of the Code is fully consistthe votes and share capital in the company. holders Further details on Nordic Waterproofing’s ent with the Danish Companies Act and Foreign 52% Danish recommendations on corporate share and the company’s shareholders are ­institutional governance. The Code applies to all Swedish available in the section “Share and shareshareholders companies with shares listed on a regulated holders”, on pages 42–44 and on the 26% Source: Monitor by Modular Finance AB. market in Sweden and must be applied on company’s website. Compiled and processed data from various sources, including Euroclear, Morningstar and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. INFORMATION SHAREHOLDERS RESOLUTIONS NOMINATION ELECTIONS form the Annual General Meeting PROPOSALS COMMITTEE AUDITORS INFORMATION Board of Directors Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Objectives, Strategies, Steering Reports instruments Control Executive Management Staff functions Products & Solutions Installation Services Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 33 THE GENERAL MEETINGS AND announced in Swedish daily newspaper company, as per the last banking day in SHAREHOLDERS’ INITIATIVES Svenska Dagbladet that notice has been August in the year before the Annual General Under the Danish Companies Act, the Annual given. The notice is expected to specify the Meeting, who wish to participate in the General Meeting (AGM) is the company’s time and place of the General Meeting and Nomination Committee. In addition to these highest decision-making body. The Annual contain the agenda of the business to be four members, the Chairman of the Board General Meeting may resolve upon every addressed at the General Meeting. If a must also be a member of the Nomination issue for Nordic Waterproofing which does proposal to amend the Articles of Association Committee. The instructions for the not specifically fall within the scope of the is to be addressed at the General Meeting, a Nomination Committee follow the Code as exclusive powers of another corporate body. summary of such proposal must be included regards the appointment of members. At the Annual General Meeting, shareholders in the notice. For certain material amendThe main duties of the Nomination exercise their voting rights. At the Annual ments, the specific wording must be set out Committee are to nominate candidates for General Meeting, the shareholders vote on in the notice. General meetings must be held the positions of Chairman of the Board and matters such as approval of the annual in the City of Stockholm or the Municipality of other members of the Board, and to submit report, appropriation of Company profits or Helsingborg in Sweden. Decisions made by proposals for fees and other remuneration to losses, resolutions to discharge the the Annual General Meeting are published in be paid to each of the members of the Board . members of the Board of Directors and the a press release after the meeting and the Since 2 October 2017, the Nomination executive management from liability for the minutes of the meeting are published on the Committee ahead of Annual General financial year, the appointment of members company’s website. Meeting 2018 consists of the following five of the Board of Directors, the appointment of persons: an auditor, and remuneration for the Board ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING IN 2017 • Viktor Henriksson, appointed by Carnegie of Directors and the auditor. At the Annual Annual General Meeting 2017 was held on funds and Chairman of the Nomination General Meeting, shareholders also have the 27 April in Stockholm, Sweden, and Committee opportunity to ask questions regarding the approved the annual report for 2016, • Joachim Spetz, appointed by Swedbank Group’s operations. approved a dividend of SEK 3.75 per share Robur The Annual General Meeting must be in accordance with the Board’s proposal, held in such time that the annual report, to approved fees for the Board of Directors and • Ulf Hedlundh, appointed by Svolder AB be adopted by the Board of Directors and the auditor, discharged the Board and • Michael Green, appointed by Handelsthereafter submitted to the General Meeting executive management from liability, and banken fonder, as well as for approval, can be submitted to the Danish elected members to the Board of Directors • Ulf Gundemark, Chairman of Nordic Business Authority within four months after (re-election of Ulf Gundemark as Chairman Waterproofing Holding A/S. the end of the financial year. of the Board, re-election of Christian Frigast, Shareholders who wish a matter to be Jörgen Jensen and Riitta Palomäki and new On the forming of the Nomination Commitaddressed at the Annual General Meeting election of Mats O. Paulsson and Kristina tee, 28.5 percent of the voting rights for all must submit a written request to the Board Willgård) and elected the auditor (re-elecshares in Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S of Directors no later than six weeks prior to tion of PricewaterhouseCoopers, authorized were represented. the date of the Annual General Meeting. In firm of auditors) for the period extending up According to the Swedish Code of addition to the Annual General Meeting, until the next Annual General Meeting. Corporate Governance the Nomination Extraordinary General Meetings may be Furthermore, the meeting approved, Committee observes the rules regarding the convened to deal with other specific matters. among other things, a mandate to increase independence of members of the Board as Extraordinary General Meetings must be share capital (valid until Annual General well as versatility and breadth. The Nominaheld upon request from the Board of Meeting 2018) and to acquire treasury tion Committee has declared that it has Directors or the auditor elected by the shares corresponding to at most 10 percent applied regulation 4.1 of the Code as its General Meeting. In addition, shareholders of the number of shares outstanding in the diversity policy. In addition, each member of that individually or collectively hold five (5) company at any given time, updated general the Nomination Committee has considered percent (or more) of the share capital can guidelines for performance-based compenany potential conflict of interest before make a written request to the Board of Direcsation, and authorization to decide on the accepting the assignment, as stated in the tors that an Extraordinary General Meeting introduction of a long-term perforCode. On the company’s website, www. shall be held to deal with a specific matter. mance-based compensation program (LTIP nordicwaterproofing.com, a special section Extraordinary General Meetings to consider 2017). entitled “Nomination Committee” contains specific matters must be convened within additional information about the Nomination two weeks of receipt of a request to such ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2018 Committee and its proposals to the Annual effect. In accordance with the Articles of The Annual General Meeting 2018 will take General Meeting. Association, all General Meetings must be place on Friday, 20 April 2018 at 10.00 a.m., convened by the Board of Directors giving at Mindpark, Bredgatan 11 in Helsingborg, INDEPENDENCE OF THE NOMINATING written notice between three and five weeks Sweden. For more information, see section COMMITTEE prior to the meeting. As regards the Annual on “Annual General Meeting 2018” on The Code also requires the majority of the General Meeting, the date of the intended page 85 and www.nordicwaterproofing.com Nomination Committee’s members to be meeting must be published no later than independent in relation to the company and eight weeks prior to the date of such meeting NOMINATION COMMITTEE its management and that at least one of and state the deadline for shareholder Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S’s these shall also be independent in relation proposals. Notice of General Meetings must, shareholders have resolved to establish a to the company’s largest shareholder in in the form and substance required under Nomination Committee and to adopt rules of terms of voting power. Of the appointed the Danish Companies Act, be published on procedure for the Nomination Committee. members, all are independent in relation to www.nordicwaterproofing. com. FurtherAccording to the current rules of procedure the company and its management and the more, written notice of the General Meeting for the Nomination Committee, the Nominamajority are independent in relation to the must be e-mailed to all shareholders who so tion Committee shall consist of four members company’s largest shareholder in terms of request. At the same time, it shall also be appointed by the largest shareholders in the voting power. Contents 34 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 BOARD WORK IN 2017 December Approval of budget and strategy plan. November Review of potential acquisitions. Interim report for the February period January-September. DEC JAN Year-end report. Report from the auditor. OV FE N B March October Review of potential acquisitions. Approval of updated Code of Conduct. Review of potential acquisitions. OCT WORK OF MAR Valuation of board performance. THE BOARD SEP OF DIRECTORS APR September April Review of risk analysis and evaluation. G Annual report. M Review of potential acquisitions. Status AU AY and review of preparations for GDPR. JUL JUN May Interim report for the period January–March. August June Interim report for the Decision on Long Term Incentive Program. period January–June. Update and approval of different policies. Review of potential acquisitions. A minimum of six ordinary Board meetings will be held each year. In 2017 the Board held 13 Board meetings. The work of the Board of Directors follows an annual cycle, in order for the Board to best fulfil its duties. Discussed at the beginning of the year are the year-end report and the annual report and the matters to be submitted to the Annual General Meeting. At the end of the year, the budget for the coming year is addressed. Each quarter, consolidated earnings are reported and interim reports are approved for publication. MEETINGS OF THE NOMINATION relation to both the company, its manage• the bookkeeping and financial reporting COMMITTEE ment and the company’s major shareholdprocedures are satisfactory, having regard The Nomination Committee ahead of Annual ers. The members of the Board are to the circumstances of the company General Meeting 2018 has held five meetpresented in closer detail on pages 38–39. • adequate risk management and internal ings. No fees have been paid for work on the Under Danish law, members of the Board of control procedures have been impleCommittee. Directors may be removed at any time by the mented shareholders in a General Meeting, by a • the Board of Directors receives requisite THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS simple majority of votes. Pursuant to the regular information about the company’s The Board of Directors is the highest Code, no more than one member of the financial position decision-making body after the General Board of Directors may be a member of the Meeting. The responsibilities of the Board of executive management of the company or a • the executive management performs its Directors are set out in the Danish Compasubsidiary. Furthermore, such Board duties properly and as directed by the nies Act, the Articles of Association, and the member may not be the Chairman or the Board of Directors and Board’s rules of procedure adopted by the Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors. • that the financial resources of the Board of Directors. In addition, the Board of Similarly, under the Danish Companies company are adequate at all times, and Directors must comply with the Code and Act, the majority of the members of the that the company has sufficient liquidity Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers, Board of Directors must be members who to meet its current and future liabilities as well as other Swedish, Danish and other are not also members of executive manageas they fall due. The company is therefore foreign laws and regulations, as applicable. ment, and a Board member who is also a required to continuously assess its Members of the Board of Directors (other member of the executive management financial position and ensure that the than employee representatives, if any) are cannot be the Chairman or Deputy Chairman existing capital resources are adequate. appointed annually by the shareholders at of the Board of Directors. the Annual General Meeting for the period Pursuant to the Danish Companies Act, The Board of Directors has adopted, and until the next Annual General Meeting. The the Board of Directors is responsible for regularly evaluates, a number of governing Articles of Association state that the Board Nordic Waterproofing’s overall and strategic documents including the rules of procedure of Directors (not including any employee management. In addition to performing for the Board of Directors, executive representatives) must consist of a minimum overall management duties and strategic management instructions, financial manual, of four members and a maximum of eight management duties and ensuring proper treasury policy, IT policy, information members. The Board of Directors currently organization of the company’s business, the security policy, diversity policy, Code of consists of six ordinary members. The Board of Directors must, inter alia, ensure Conduct inclucing whistleblower policy, composition of the Board complies with the that: information policy and insider and log book Code’s requirements for independence in policy. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 35 Adopted control documents are implemented evaluation and presenting the results to the Ulf Gundemark. The Remuneration in the organization through the business unit Nomination Committee. The purpose of the Committee’s main function is to: managers. In addition, the Board of evaluation is to gather the Board members’ • Consider and make decisions as to the Directors regularly adopts and evaluates the views on the Board’s performance, what framework for the remuneration Nordic Waterproofing’s business plan, measures can be taken to improve the packages of the CEO of the company, including goals, strategies, risks and budget, efficiency of Board work, and whether the including but not limited to salary, salary and reviews the company’s website and Board has a well balanced mix of competenincreases, pension rights and any ensures that such website has a special cies. The evaluation provides the basis for compensation or terminations payments, corporate governance section containing a the work of the Nomination Committee ensuring that the contractual terms are copy of, among other things, the most recent ahead of the Annual General Meeting. In fair to the individual and the Company, corporate governance report. 2017, the Chairman conducted a self-asthat failure is not rewarded and that the The Board of Directors also ensures that sessment of the Board’s work, including the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognized. there are efficient systems for follow-up and collaboration between the CEO and CFO. • Consider and make decisions on issues control of the company’s operations and that This is based on the principle of comparing concerning principles for remuneration there is a satisfactory control of the “to be” with “as is” evaluations. The results and other terms of employment for the company’s compliance with laws and other have been communicated and discussed executive management, including regulations applicable to the company’s within the Board and senior management as evaluate whether the remuneration level operations. well as the Nomination Committee. is in accordance with, and not exceeding, comparable market practice levels at any COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD BOARD MEETINGS given time. According to the Articles of Association, In 2017 the Board held 13 scheduled Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S’s Board of meetings. The CEO and the CFO, who is also • Consider and make decisions on Directors shall consist of at least four and no the Board secretary, take part in the Board’s remuneration matters of material more than eight members elected by the meetings. Other executives take part as importance to the Company, including Annual General Meeting. The Annual needed as rapporteurs for special items of incentive programmes and payments for General Meeting on 27 April 2017 resolved business. the CEO of the Company. The decisions that the Board shall have six members for concerning the remuneration of the CEO the period until the next Annual General BOARD COMMITTEES including any incentive program shall be Meeting. Accordingly, the Board consists of Audit Committee in accordance with and not exceed Ulf Gundemark (Chairman), Christian The Board of Directors has internally comparable market practice levels at any Frigast, Jørgen Jensen, Riitta Palomäki, established an Audit Committee, which must given time. Mats O. Paulsson and Kristina Willgård. All comprise three members. The Audit • Consider and make decisions on the Board members have attended Nasdaq’s Committee prepares proposals for the Board targets (bonus levels and performance stock market training course for Board and of Directors which either adopts resolutions targets) for company-operated performanagement. The average age of the Board on the matters or, if appropriate, decides mance related incentive programmes for members elected by the Annual General upon proposals for resolutions to be adopted executive managers of the Company as Meeting was 59 at the end of 2017, and two by the shareholders at General Meetings. In well as monitor and evaluate the of the six members were women. For 2017, the Audit Committee held seven fulfilment of such targets. information about the Board members’ meetings at which minutes were recorded. • Monitor and evaluate programmes for assignments outside the Group and holdings Five meetings are planned for 2018. variable remuneration, both ongoing and of shares in Nordic Waterproofing, see The current Audit Committee consists of those that have ended during the year, for pages 38–39. three members: Jørgen Jensen (Chairman), the executive management. Riitta Palomäki and Mats O. Paulsson. Its • Monitor and evaluate the application of INDEPENDENCE OF THE BOARD main duties, without having any impact on the guidelines for remuneration that the In accordance with the Code, the majority of the duties and responsibilities of the Board Annual General Meeting is legally obliged the Board members elected by the Annual of Directors, are to assist with oversight of: to establish, as well as the current General Meeting shall be independent in • The company’s financial reporting. remuneration structures and levels in the relation to Nordic Waterproofing and its • Systems of internal control and risk company. management and at least two of these shall management related to finances. • Oversee the implementation of any also be independent in relation to the company’s major shareholders. Of the • External audit of the annual report. pension, retirement, death or disability or Board’s six members, all are independent in • Control of the auditor’s independence, life assurance scheme and any incentive relation to the company and its management including oversight of non-audit services. schemes for executive managers of the and all are independent in relation to the company. • Preparing a recommendation to the company’s major shareholders. Board of Directors as regards the auditor • Review its own terms of reference and to be nominated by the Board of effectiveness on the above, on an annual EVALUATION OF BOARD PERFORMANCE Directors and elected by the Annual basis. The Board of Directors regularly evaluates General Meeting. its work through a systematic and structured EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT process with the purpose of developing the REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Pursuant to the Danish Companies Act and Board of Directors’ work methods and Effective from 2017, the Board has estabthe Articles of Association, the Board of efficiency. In addition, the Board of Directors lished a Remuneration Committee. In 2017, Directors appoints and removes the evaluates the company’s IT strategy and its the Remuneration Committee held three members of an executive management, implementation and monitors compliance meetings at which minutes were kept. Four which is responsible for the day-to-day with the policies, instructions and guidelines meetings are planned for 2018, The current ­management of Nordic Waterproofing established by the Board of Directors. The Remuneration Committee consists of two Holding A/S. The Articles of Association state Chairman is responsible for carrying out the members: Christian Frigast (Chairman) and that an executive management consisting of Contents 36 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 one to five members must be appointed. follows: SEK 500,000 to the Chairman of the to receive variable salary and other benefits. Currently, the company has only appointed Board and SEK 275,000 to all remaining The variable salary to which the company’s one member to the executive management: Board members. Remuneration for the CEO and CFO and the six business units Martin Ellis as CEO (Dk. administrerande Chairman of the Audit Committee amounts managers currently capped at 60 percent of direktør). to SEK 100,000 and each member of the their fixed salary. The members of the execuThe executive management reports to the Audit Committee is paid SEK 50,000. tive management team and Group ManageBoard of Directors. The executive manageMembers of the Board of Directors are not ment will be offered a salary which is on ment’s responsibilities are set out in the entitled to any special benefits when they market terms and based on each individual’s Danish Companies Act, the Articles of resign from the Board. responsibilities, expertise and performance. Association, directions and instructions In addition, the Annual General Meeting may given by the Board of Directors, and other Executive management and Group resolve to offer long-term incentive schemes internal regulations and instructions Management team such as equity-based and share price-based established by the Board of Directors. In The Board of Directors’ policy is that salaries incentive schemes. The purpose of these addition, the executive management is and other benefits be on market terms and incentive schemes will be to contribute to required to comply with the Code and adequate to attract sufficiently qualified long-term value growth and provide a shared Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers, employees for the relevant positions. The interest in value growth for shareholders and as well as other Swedish, Danish and other Board of Directors determines the remuneremployees. For further information on foreign laws and regulations, as applicable. ation payable to the members of executive remuneration to the Board and Group The executive management must, inter alia, management, including the CEO. The Management, see pages 38–41 and Note 7. take any measures necessary to ensure the salaries for the members of executive The long-term performance-based company’s bookkeeping is maintained management consist of a fixed salary, incentive program (LTIP 2017) aims at pursuant to law and that the management of variable salary and other benefits. The strengthening Nordic Waterproofing’s ability funds is conducted in a sound manner. The annual fixed salary to the company’s CEO to retain the most talented individuals in key executive management may in specific cases amounts to EUR 0.5 million and additional to positions, and at stimulating participants to be authorized by the Board of Directors to this a variable salary of up to 60 percent of increase their efforts by linking their carry out management-related measures, the annual fixed salary. The CEO, supported financial interests and perspectives with which are outside the scope of the company’s by the Board of Directors, determines the those of shareholders. day-to-day business. remuneration payable to other members of LTIP 2017 will run over a period of three Group Management.The salaries to the years, with the outcome being dependent on GROUP MANAGEMENT members of Group Management consist of a the fulfilment of various financial perforThe executive management is supported by fixed salary and pension, and the possibility mance requirements. To obtain the a number of senior officers of the company. Together with the executive management, these senior officers of the subsidiaries constitute the Group Management team. REQUIREMENT TO DISCLOSE SHAREHOLDINGS Martin Ellis has been the CEO of Nordic Since Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S’s registered office is located in Denmark, the Waterproofing since October 2015. In Swedish Financial Instruments Trading Act (1991:980) provides that corresponding addition to the CEO, Group Management Danish rules apply as regards the requirement to disclose shareholdings. For the consists of the CFO and the six business unit purpose of designating the home member state pursuant to the Transparency Directive managers for Denmark, Finland, Norway, (2004/109/EC, as amended), Denmark is the company’s home member state. Pursuant Sweden, SealEco and Taasinge Elementer. to section 29 of the Danish Securities Trading Act, holders of shares in Danish compaThe CEO and other members of the Group nies with shares admitted to trading on Nasdaq Stockholm are required to give Management team are presented in more simultaneous notice to the company and the Danish FSA of the shareholdings in the detail on pages 40–41. company immediately, when the shareholding reaches, exceeds or falls below threshThe Group Management team holds olds at intervals of 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 50 or 90 percent. and limits of 1/3 or 2/3 of the management meetings at regular intervals, voting rights or nominal value of the total share capital. When a company has received a with ten such meetings being held in 2017. notification, it must publish the content of the notification as soon as possible. The meetings are focused on the Group’s Holders of shares in a company mean a natural or legal person who, directly or strategic and operative development and indirectly, holds (1) shares in the company on behalf of himself and for his own account, financial performance. In addition to these (2) shares in the company on behalf of himself, but for the account of another natural meetings, the senior executives work in or legal person, or (3) share certificates, where such holder is considered a shareholdclose daily cooperation regarding various er in relation to the underlying securities represented by the certificate. matters. The notification must be made immediately and during the same trading day (before midnight) of the transaction and in accordance with the provisions of the REMUNERATION FOR MEMBERS OF THE Executive Order no. 1256 of 5 November 2015 and must state the number of voting BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND GROUP rights and shares held directly or indirectly following the transaction. The notification MANAGEMENT must further state the transaction date on which the threshold was reached or no Board of Directors longer reached and the identity of the shareholder as well as the identity of any Fees and other remuneration for members natural or legal person with the right to vote on behalf of the shareholder. In the case of the Board of Directors, including the of a group structure, the chain of controlled undertakings through which voting rights Chairman of the Board, are determined by are effectively held shall also be disclosed. The information must be notified to the the company’s shareholders at the Annual company and simultaneously submitted electronically to the Danish FSA. Failure to General Meeting based on proposals made comply with the notification requirements is punishable by fine. by the Board of Directors and the NominaPlease refer to www.nordicwaterproofing.com/en/information-for-shareholders/ for tion Committee. The shareholders have more information. resolved at a General Meeting that fees be payable for the 2017 accounting year as Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 37 maximum allocation of rights to perforcompany and a third party, or legal other things, price-sensitive information. In mance shares, EBIT growth over the period proceedings against a third party, if the this context, the company has established 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019 must member has a material interest in such routines for handling the distribution of correspond to an annual average of 12 business and that material interest could information. percent. More information on LTIP 2017, conflict with the interests of the company. is provided on page 58. THE IR FUNCTION AUDITING The IR function is headed by the company’s FINANCIAL REPORTING AND INTERNAL Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the CFO. Its primary duties are to prepare CONTROL Annual General Meeting must appoint a quarterly and annual reports, analyst conferThe responsibilities of the Board of Directors state-authorized public accountant to audit ences, General Meetings and capital market and the executive management for financial Nordic Waterproofing’s accounts. The presentations, and to regularly report on IR reporting and internal control is, among company’s auditor is the state-authorized activities. other things, governed by the Danish firm of public accountants PricewaterhouseExternal financial information is regularly Accounting Act, the Danish Annual Reports Coopers Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerprovided in the form of: Act, the Danish Companies Act and the selskab with Lars Almskou Ohmeyer as the • Interim reports Code. chief auditor. Lars Almskou Ohmeyer is • Annual report The Board of Directors regularly currently also the auditor for Nordic considers whether it would be expedient to Waterproofing Holding A/S. For 2017, the • Press releases about important news include additional financial and non-finantotal remuneration to the company’s auditor that is assessed to have a potential cial information in the company’s financial amounted to SEK 9.5 (7.3) million. The total impact on the share price reports. The Board of Directors regularly remuneration to other auditors in the Group • Presentations for financial analysts, assesses the material risks associated with during the period amounted to SEK 0.3 (2.2) investors and the media on the date of the company’s operations, the implementamillion. publication of the year-end and interim tion of the company’s strategy and the risks The auditor is appointed for a term of one reports associated with the financial reporting, and year by the shareholders following a • Meetings with financial analysts, seeks to ensure that such risks are proposal by the Board of Directors and investors and media representatives. managed in a proactive and efficient following recommendation from the Audit manner. Committee. The scope of the auditor’s ADDITIONAL INFORMATION As part of the company’s risk manageduties, including audit and non-audit duties, Please visit www.nordicwaterproofing.com ment, various internal control systems have is agreed annually between the Board of for information such as the Articles of been established, which are reviewed Directors and the auditor based on Association, the Code of Conduct, and regularly by the Board of Directors to ensure recommendations by the Audit Committee. information from previous General Meetings that such systems are appropriate and The company has regular discussions and as well as media releases. sufficient in the context of the company’s regularly exchanges information with the business and operations. The company’s auditor. To ensure that the dealings of the annual report includes information about Board and Audit Committee’s treatment are the management of operational risks. conducted in a structured manner, and to The financial reporting and internal meet the Board’s information requirements, controls are aimed at providing the Board of Nordic Waterproofing’s auditors met the Directors and executive management with Audit Committee on two occasions in 2017, reasonable assurance that: and the Board of Directors, without executive • reporting by the executive management management in attendances. is reliable and in compliance with The auditor is obliged to attend the internal policies and procedures and Annual General Meeting and is entitled to gives a true and fair view of the compaattend other General Meetings. At the ny’s financial performance and financial Annual General Meeting, the auditor is position obliged to answer questions raised relating to the annual report. The auditor is also • material risks are identified and entitled to attend any Board meeting at minimized which the annual report of the company is • internal controls are in place to support presented and – under the Board’s rules of the quality and efficiency of the business procedure – any other Board meetings at processes and to safeguard the compawhich financial statements are considered, ny’s business and assets and on which the auditor must provide a • business is conducted in compliance with statement. applicable laws, regulations and internal policies. INFORMATION POLICY AND INSIDER AND LOGBOOK POLICY CONFLICT OF INTEREST TRANSACTIONS Nordic Waterproofing has prepared an Under the Danish Companies Act, no information policy and an insider policy for member of the Board of Directors or the purpose of informing employees and executive management may participate in other relevant parties inside and outside the the transaction of business that involves any Company about the laws and regulations agreement between the company and that applicable to the distribution of information member, or legal proceedings against that by the Company, and the special requiremember, or the transaction of business that ments imposed on persons who are active in involves any agreement between the a listed company with regard to, among Contents 38 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 BOARD Name Ulf Gundemark Christian Frigast Jørgen Jensen Position Chairman of the Board since 2015. Board member since 2015. Board member since 2015. Member of the Remuneration Committee. Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Audit Committee. Member of the Nomination Committee. Committee. Year elected 2015 2015 2015 Born 1951 1951 1968 Nationality Swedish Danish Danish Other assignments Board member of AQ Group AB, Chairman of the Board of Axcel, CEO of Widex A/S, board member and Constructor Group AS, GUMACO AB, Axcelfuture, Danmarks Skibskredit CEO of JFJ Invest ApS, board member and Papyrus Holding AB, Ripasso Energy AB, Holding and Danmarks Eksportkredit member of the Audit Committee of DFDS Scandi Standard AB (publ), Solar A/S and (EKF). Deputy Chairman of the Boards of A/S and member of the advisory board for Lantmännen ekonomiska förening. Pandora A/S, Danish Venture Capital Maersk Container Industries A/S. Association and Axcel Advisory Board. Board member of Danmarks Skibskredit, Denmark-America Foundation, Frigast Aps and Bestyrelseforeningen. Previous assignments Chairman of the Board of Bridge to China Vice Chairman of the Board of Torm A/S President and CEO of Nilfisk-Advance AB, Chairman of the Board and Board and Board member of Esko-Graphics A/S, Chairman of Alto Danmark A/S and member of Lindab International AB and Holding A/S. several companies in the Nilfisk Group, Ripasso Energy Systems AB and Board member of the board and the audit member of Lönne International AS. committee of Auriga A/S and member of the board of TCM A/S. Education Graduate engineer in electronics from Master of Science from the University of Master of Science in Economics from Chalmers University of Technology, Copenhagen, Denmark and a Bachelor in Aarhus University, Denmark. Gothenburg, Sweden. banking from Wharton Business School, University of Pennsylvania, USA. Independent in relation to Yes. Yes. Yes. major shareholders Independent in relation to Yes. Yes. Yes. company management Shareholding in 26,500 shares. 23,000 shares. 20,976 shares. Nordic Waterproofing1) Board meeting 12 of 13 meetings. 10 of 13 meetings. 12 of 13 meetings. attendance Audit Committee attendance – – 7 of 7 meetings. Remuneration Committee 3 of 3 meetings. 3 of 3 meetings. – attendance Fees in 20172) Board assignments SEK 500,000 SEK 275,000 SEK 275,000 Committee assignments – – SEK 100,000 Total 2017 SEK 500,000 SEK 275,000 SEK 375,000 1) Own and closely related. Board assignments and holdings in Nordic Waterproofing as stated above reflect the situation as per 31 December 2017. This information is updated regularly at www.nordicwaterproofing.com. 2) The fees paid to the members of the Board of Directors elected by the Annual General Meeting are approved by the Annual General Meeting based on the proposals of the Nomination Committee. For the 2017 calendar year, remuneration was paid as per Note 7. No consulting fees were paid to Board members. Remuneration excludes travel allowances. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 39 Name Riitta Palomäki Mats O. Paulsson Kristina Willgård Position Board member since 2016. Board member since 2017. Board member since 2017. Member of the Audit Committee. Member of the Audit Committee. Year elected 2016 2017 2017 Born 1957 1958 1965 Nationality Finnish Swedish Swedish Other assignments Board member, Chairman of the Audit Board member of Win Group AG, Eleda CEO of AddLife AB, Chairman of the Committee and member of the Holding AB, Nordisk Bergteknik AB, Board of AddLife Development AB, Board Remuneration Committee of HKScan Oyj Modulbetong i Lund AB and Brösarps member of Mediplast AB, Serneke Group and member of the management advisory Grus och Torrbruk AB. AB and assignments as member and council and Deputy Chairman of the Audit shareholder in Willgård AB. Committee of OP Cooperative. Previous assignments Executive Vice President and CFO of CEO of Bravida AB, Strabag Scandinavia CFO of Addtech AB, Ericsson AB, Netwise Uponor Oyj, Board member and Chairman AB and Peab Industri AB. AB, Acando AB and auditor at Arthur of the Audit Committee of Componenta Andersen, as well as other senior Oyj, CFO of Kuusakoski Group, various positions. senior positions at Konecranes and ABB Finland. Education MBA from Turku School of Economics, Graduate engineer, Lund University, Lund, MBA, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. Finland. Sweden. Independent in relation to Yes. Yes. Yes. major shareholders Independent in relation to Yes. Yes. Yes. company management Shareholding in 3,000 shares. 15,000 shares. 0 shares. Nordic Waterproofing1) Board meeting 12 of 13 meetings. 104) of 13 meetings. 95) of 13 meetings. attendance Audit Committee attendance 53) of 7 meetings. 44) of 7 meetings. – Remuneration Committee – – – attendance Fees in 20172) Board assignments SEK 275,000 SEK 275,000 SEK 275,000 Committee assignments SEK 50,000 SEK 50,000 – Total 2017 SEK 325,000 SEK 325,000 SEK 275,000 1) Own and closely related. Board assignments and holdings in Nordic Waterproofing as stated above reflect the situation as per 31 December 2017. This information is updated regularly at www.nordicwaterproofing.com. 2) The fees paid to the members of the Board of Directors elected by the Annual General Meeting are approved by the Annual General Meeting based on the proposals of the Nomination Committee. For the 2017 calendar year, remuneration was paid as per Note 7. No consulting fees were paid to Board members. Remuneration excludes travel allowances. 3) Riitta Palomäki succeeded Holger C. Hansen in the Audit Committee from meeting number 3. 4) Mats O. Paulsson was alected in April 2017, from meeting number 4 and succeeded Vilhelm Sundström in the Audit Committee from meeting number 3. 5) Kristina Willgård was alected in April 2017, from meeting number 4. Contents 40 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 GROUP MANAGEMENT Name Martin Ellis Jonas Olin Petter Holth Mats Lindborg Position President and CEO. Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Head of Nordic Waterproofing Head of Nordic Waterproofing Norway. Sweden. Employed since 2011 2007 2012 1986 In current 2015 2011 2017 2011 position since Born 1956 1972 1959 1964 Nationality British Swedish Norwegian Swedish Education Diploma from HEC Paris Bachelor of Science in Diploma in construction and Four year technical high school Business School, France. In economics and business civil engineering from Gjøvik diploma in Building and Civil addition, attended Stern accounting, Lund University, Technical College, Norway. Engineering from Erik Business School in New York, Lund, Sweden. Dahlbergs Gymnasium in US and Getulio Vargas Business Jönköping, Sweden. School in Sao Paulo, Brazil. Selection of previous CEO of Nordic Waterproofing Twenty years of experience Thirty years of experience in Thirty years of experience in positions and from positions as CFO, marketing and sales in the sales and marketing positions, Chairman of the Board of controller and auditor at construction industry. CEO of including at Trelleborg Nordic Waterproofing. Thirty Trelleborg Waterproofing, Nortett Bygg A/S. Waterproofing. years of senior management Abdon Finax, IKEA Industry experience, including CEO of and Mazars. Icopal and Head of Saint Gobain, Building Materials Division. Shareholding in 366,270 shares. 50,010 shares. 154,395 shares. 61,414 shares. Nordic Waterproofing1) 1) Own and closely related. Holdings in Nordic Waterproofing as stated above reflect the situation as per 31 December 2017. PRINCIPLES FOR REMUNERATION maximum cash bonus shall be equivalent to 60 percent of the fixed The following are the principles for remuneration of senior execubase salary of each eligible participant from the board of directors tives adopted by the 2016 Annual General Meeting: and the executive management. Payment of bonus is only relevant when conditions and targets have been fully or partly met (as Members of the Company’s board of directors and Executive agreed). If no targets are met, no bonus is paid out. Management receive a fixed annual remuneration. In addition, Targets for the board of directors shall be agreed upon by the members of the board of directors and Executive Management may board of directors and the nomination committee. Targets for the receive incentive-based remuneration consisting of cash bonus executive management shall be agreed upon the board of directors (including cash bonuses based on development in the share price and the executive management. (phantom shares or similar)) – on both an ongoing, single-based and Other bonus schemes that may lead to cash bonuses of up to event-based basis. 60 percent of the base salary may be made in special cases. Such schemes shall typically be made so as to take effect upon the CASH BONUS REMUNERATION occurrence of a specific event. Subject to the restrictions of Cash bonus schemes may consist of an annual bonus, which the applicable law, specific events can be the acquisition of a controlling individual member of the board of directors and the executive interest in a company, the completion of a takeover bid, or the management can receive if specific targets of the Company and completion or reaching of other significant transactions or objecother possible personal targets for the relevant year are met. The tives. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 41 Name Esa Mäki Paul Erik Rask Martin Tholstrup Thomas Zipfel Position Head of Nordic Waterproofing Head of Nordic Waterproofing Head of Taasinge Elementer. Head of SealEco. Finland. Denmark. Employed since 2017 1992 2017 2009 In current position since 2017 2011 2017 2011 Born 1969 1962 1976 1961 Nationality Finnish Danish Danish Swedish Education Master of Science in building Bachelor’s degree in business Carpenter from the Svendborg Master of Science in electronics economics and a Bachelor in administration and economics Vocational School, Denmark, engineering from Industrie und building construction from Aarhus University, and engineering degree in Handelskammer in Bochum, technology from Tampere Denmark and Executive Master building construction from the Germany. In addition, he has University, Finland. of Business Administration Lillebælt Academy, Denmark. studied an Executive Marketing from Scandinavian Program and Executive International Management Management Program at IFL, Institute, Copenhagen, Stockholm School of Denmark. Has also studied the Economics, Sweden. Advanced Management Program at INSEAD. Selection of previous CEO of Nesco Group, various Thirty years of experience of CEO of AtticGroup A/S and Twenty years of experience of positions management positions at leading positions and within AtticGroup AB and 20 years of management positions, Icopal Finland and other sales and marketing, including experience in development, including at Trelleborg companies in the construction at Trelleborg Phønix A/S. sales and prefabrication in the Waterproofing. sector. construction sector. Shareholding in 4,000 shares. 103,683 shares. 19,000 shares. 90,504 shares. Nordic Waterproofing1) 1) Own and closely related. Holdings in Nordic Waterproofing as stated above reflect the situation as per 31 December 2017. REMUNERATION OF GROUP MANAGEMENT Total including SEK million Fixed salary Variable salary Other benefits Total Pension pension CEO 2017 5.0 2.5 0.0 7.5 0.0 7.5 2016 4.9 2.9 0.0 7.8 0.0 7.8 Group Management (7 persons) 2017 11.5 3.8 1.1 16.4 2.5 18.9 (5 persons) 2016 8.8 6.1 0.7 15.6 2.3 17.9 Total 2017 16.5 6.3 1.1 23.9 2.5 26.4 Total 2016 13.7 9.0 0.7 23.4 2.3 25.7 Contents 42 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 THE NWG SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S has been listed since 10 June 2016 and is traded on the Nasdaq Stockholm Mid Cap list. The company’s ticker is NWG. On 31 December 2017, the share capital amounted to DKK 24,083,935. The total number of shares amounted to 24,083,935. All shares in the market convey equal voting rights and equal rights to the company’s earnings and capital. SHARE PRICE AND TRADING As part of the long-term performance-based DIVIDEND POLICY AND DIVIDEND FOR 2017 The closing price for the NWG share on incentive program, LTIP 2017, Nordic Nordic Waterproofing’s long-term intention 30 December 2017 was SEK 70.50 (86.50), Waterproofing held 0 treasury shares on is a dividend payout of more that 50 percent corresponding to a market capitalization of 31 December 2017. The purpose of holding of its net profit. The payout decision will be approximately SEK 1,698 million (2,083). In treasury shares is to secure the supply of based on the company’s financial position, 2017, a total of 23,300,661 NWG shares were shares on the exercise of rights to perforinvestment needs, liquidity position as well traded on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange mance shares under LTIP 2017. More as general economic and business condifor a total value of SEK 2,083 million, information on LTIP 2017, is provided on tions. Neither the Danish Companies Act nor corresponding to approximately 96.7 percent page 58, in Note 7. Nordic Waterproofing’s Articles of Associaof the total number of NWG shares on the tion contain any restrictions regarding the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange at the end of SHARE CAPITAL AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE right to dividends for shareholders outside the period. The average number of shares Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S’s share Sweden. Aside from any limitations related traded per trading day was approximately capital at 31 December 2017 amounted to to banking or clearing activities in the 53,181, corresponding to a value of DKK 24,083,935. The total number of shares affected jurisdictions, payments to foreign SEK 4 million. An average 3,945 trades were is 24,083,935. The quota value per share is shareholders will be carried out in the same completed per trading day. The highest price DKK 1.00. manner as to shareholders in Sweden. paid during the period 1 January to 31 The ambition is for future cash flows to December 2017 was SEK 105.00 (98.75) on continue to be used for repayment of debt [date and month] and the lowest price paid and share dividends, but also to create was SEK 69.00 (66.00) on November 24. The financial flexibility for complementary share price on 31 December 2017 was SEK acquisitions. 70.50 (last price paid). During the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017, Nordic KEY DATA PER SHARE Waterproofing’s share price decreased by 22.7 percent, while the OMX Mid Cap list as a SEK 2017 2016 whole rose by 6.0 percent (13.3). Earnings before and after dilution 5.71 6.49 Earnings excl. items affecting comparability 6.29 7.21 SHAREHOLDERS Shareholders’ equity 41.91 40.02 On 31 December 2017, most of the total share capital was owned by Swedish Dividend* 3.75 3.75 institutions, mutual funds (51.7%) and Dividend as a % of earnings per share 65.7% 57.8% private investors (9.4%). On 31 December Total dividend, SEK million 90.3 90.3 2017, Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S had Yield, % 5.3% 4.3% more than 2,900 (2,700) shareholders. The Market price, 31 December, last paid price, SEK 70.50 86.50 ten largest shareholders accounted for 54.2 (52.7) percent of the votes and share capital. P/E ratio 12.35 13.33 The members of Nordic Waterproofing’s Number of shares Board of Directors held a total of 88,476 At 31 December 24,083,935 24,083,935 (164,680) NWG shares. The holdings of the Average 24,083,935 24,083,935 individual members appear on pages 38–39. Group Management held a total of 804,276 * According to the Board of Directors proposal (592,302) NWG shares. Each executive’s Source: Monitor by Modular Finance AB. Compiled and processed data from various sources, shareholding can be found on pages 40–41. including Euroclear, Morningstar and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 43 GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION INDIVIDUALS WITH AN INSIDER POSITION KEY INVESTOR RELATIONS ACTIVITIES OF SHAREHOLDERS AS PER The members of the Board, the Group’s DURING THE YEAR INCLUDED 31 DECEMBER 2017, VOTES, % management Team, the authorized public • February 2017 – Investor meetings in accountant, a number of employees/ Stockholm Anonymous contract personnel in Nordic Waterproofing shareholders • March 2017 – Investor meetings in and individuals with certain functions in the 8% Group’s subsidiaries, who have a position Frankfurt and Madrid that can normally be assumed to provide • April 2017 – Annual General Meeting 2017 access to non-publicized share price • May 2017 – Presentation of the first Foreign ­ sharesensitive information, have been registered quarter, Stockholm holders as insiders in Nordic Waterproofing. • August 2017 – Presentation of the second 28% Listed companies are required to record a logbook of individuals who are employed or quarter, Stockholm and London. Swedish • November 2017 – Presentation of the ­sharecontracted by the company and have access to third quarter, Stockholm ­holders insider information relating to the company. 64% These can include statutory insiders, and other individuals who have insider information • November 2017 – Participation in Remium’s Capital Markets Day in Source: Monitor by Modular Finance AB. without being registered as insiders. Stockholm Compiled and processed data from various sources, including Euroclear, Nordic Waterproofing records a logbook • December 2017 – Investor meetings in Morningstar and the Swedish Financial for each financial report or press release Helsinki Supervisory Authority. containing information that could affect the share price. ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2018 The Annual General Meeting of Nordic INVESTOR RELATIONS Waterproofing Holding A/S will be held at For 2017, the Board proposes a dividend of Nordic Waterproofing aims to be informative Mindpark, Bredgatan 11 in Helsingborg, SEK 3.75 per share (3.75), which is equal to and accessible to all shareholders. For Sweden, on 20 April 2018 at 10:00 a.m. 66 percent (58) of net profit for the year. results and other key announcements we Based on the share price of NWG shares provide information on a timely basis to both ANALYSTS at the end of 2017, the direct yield for 2017 retail and institutional shareholders. The The following analysts monitor Nordic was 5.3 percent (2.3). Nordic Waterproofing corporate website, Waterproofing’s development: The total dividend payment of SEK 90 www.nordicwaterproofing.com, contains a • ABG Sundal Collier: Anders Idborg million is to be resolved on by the Annual wealth of material for shareholders, (anders.idborg@abgsc.se) General Meeting and disbursement is including the current share price, press • Carnegie: Kenneth Toll Johansson handled by VP Securities A/S and Euroclear releases and information on dividends. (kenneth.toll.johansson@carnegie.se) and Sweden AB. Nordic Waterproofing maintains a quiet Agnieszka Vilela (agnvil@carnegie.se) Entitlement to dividends is granted to period from the first day following the last those persons who are listed as shareholdday of the quarter until the publication of the • Remium: Carl Ragnestam ers in the share register maintained by VP Group’s quarterly financial reports. During (carl.ragnerstam@remium.com) Securities A/S on the record date resolved this period, representatives of the Group will by the Annual General Meeting. not meet with financial media, analysts or IR CONTACT investors Jonas Olin, CFO and investor relations. Phone: +46 (0)708 29 14 54. e-mail:jonas.olin@nordicwaterproofing.com THE NORDIC WATERPROOFING SHARE 1 JANUARY 2017–28 FEBRUARY 2018 Number SEK of shares 120 10,000 100 8,000 80 6,000 60 4,000 40 Nordic Waterproofing 2,000 OMX Stockholm Construction & Materials PI 20 OMX Mid Cap Stockholm Index 0 0 Number of shares traded per month, thousands Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Source: SIX Financial AB. Contents 44 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 SHARE DATA SELECTION OF PRESS RELEASES 2017 Marketplace Nasdaq Stockholm • 20 December: Nordic Waterproofing Date of listing 10 June 2016 increases its production of prefabricated Segment Mid Cap roof and facade elements Sector Construction & Materials • 7 November: Interim report for the third Ticker symbol NWG quarter, January–September 2017 ISIN code DK0060738409 • 17 October: Nordic Waterproofing’s Mataki Currency SEK brand is being rolled out for to the Norwegian professional market Standard trading unit 1 share • 2 October: Nomination Committee No. of shares outstanding 24,083,935 shares appointed in Nordic Waterproofing Holding Highest closing price paid in 2017 SEK 105.00 (19 July) A/S Lowest closing price paid in 2017 SEK 69.00 (24 November) • 15 August: Nordic Waterproofing updates Last price paid 2017 SEK 70.50 Group’s long-term financial targets Share price development in 2017 –22.7 percent • 15 August: Interim report for the second quarter, January–June 2017 • 4 July: Nordic Waterproofing acquires prefabrication specialist Taasinge Elementer TEN LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 A/S of Denmark Owner No. of shares Percentage of votes and capital • 3 June: Nordic Waterproofing updates Carnegie funds 2,316,500 9.6 information on competition cases in Swedbank funds 2,187,095 9.1 progress Mawer Investment Management 1,642,737 6.8 • 9 May: Interim report for the first quarter, Catella funds 1,359,991 5.6 January-March 2017 Svolder Aktiebolag 1,207,514 5.0 • 28 April: Nordic Waterproofing acquires BMO Global Asset Management 1,168,369 4.9 Finnish company LA Kattohuolto Norron funds 1,030,212 4.3 • 27 April: Communication from the Annual Länsförsäkringar Småbolag Sverige 877,898 3.6 General Meeting of Nordic Waterproofing Tredje AP-fonden 638,916 2.7 Holding A/S Handelsbanken funds 625,000 2.6 • 19 April: Adjusted proposal from Nordic Total, ten largest shareholders 13,054,232 54.2 Waterproofing Holding A/S’ Nomination Committee Other shareholders 11,029,703 45.8 Total 24,083,935 100.0 • 5 April: Nomination Committee’s proposal to Annual General Meeting 2017 Source: Monitor by Modular Finance AB. Compiled and processed data from various sources, including Euroclear, Morningstar and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. • 5 April: Notice of Annual General Meeting of Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S • 4 April: Nordic Waterproofing’s annual SIZE CATEGORIES AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 report for financial year 2016 is published Number Number % of votes • 8 March: New Nomination Committee for Range of shareholders of shares and capital Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 1–500 2,258 319,187 1.3 • 14 February: Year-end report, 501–3,000 492 621,113 2.6 January–December 2016 3,001–30,000 121 1,225,569 5.1 • 31 January: Nordic Waterproofing acquired 30,001–150,000 25 1,968,515 8.2 SPT-Painting if Finland – complementing 150,001–300,000 8 1,746,526 7.3 with new product categories 300,001– 17 16,286,369 67.5 • 24 January: Nordic Waterproofing acquires Anonymt ägande n.a. 1,916,656 8.0 leading EPDM specialist in the Netherlands Total 2,921 24,083,935 100.0 • 16 January: Esa Mäki new head of Nordic Source: Monitor by Modular Finance AB. Compiled and processed data from various sources, Waterproofing Finland including Euroclear, Morningstar and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 45 MANAGEMENT REVIEW NET SALES Hence, the financial performance for the BALANCE SHEET Consolidated net sales in 2017 increased by year was based on the combination of The balance sheet total increased SEK 188 21 percent to SEK 2,187 m (1,813), with both organic growth in both operating segments m and amounted to SEK 1,756 m (1,568). our operating segments contributing. in most of our markets, an unfavorable Equity increased by SEK 46 m and came Organic growth amounted to 5 percent, and development of our cost position, contributo SEK 1,010 m (964) at year-end 2017. In sales in acquired companies contributed by tion from acquired business, as well as May, a cash dividend of SEK 90 m was paid. 15 percent following the acquisitions made favorable weather conditions during the Percentage-wise, the solvency ratio was 58 during the year. The currency translation fourth quarter in all the Nordic countries. percent (62) at the end of the year. effect was positive and affected net sales by Nordic Waterproofing’s principal external 1 percent. The Products & Solutions NET FINANCIAL ITEMS financing agreement is valid until June 2021 operating segment reported a sales increase Net financial items were SEK 6 m higher and contains a EUR 37.5 m term loan facility of 17 percent, and the Installation Services than in the preceding year and amounted to and a EUR 22 m revolving loan facility, of operating segment achieved an increase of SEK -19 m (-13). The change is primarily which EUR 14.4 m is allocated to the Group 28 percent. Denmark continued to see a very explained by a negative SEK 6 m fair value cash pool. The revolving loan facility favorable demand trend, with a strong adjustment of call/put options and additional increased by EUR 4 m, from EUR 18 m to market all over the country. Our Swedish purchase considerations for the acquired EUR 22 m, in connection with the acquisition operations showed growth, although companies EPDM Systems and Taasinge of Taasinge Elementer in July. The loan and affected during the first half year by the Elementer, since both of those companies credit facilities bear variable interest and repayment rules on private house loans have performed better than originally run without requiring repayment in which were enforced during the summer in anticipated at the time of acquisition. instalments. The financing agreement the preceding year. Sales in Norway contains financial covenants which are decreased primarily as a result of increased TAXES monitored and followed up on a quarterly competition and consolidation within the Income tax for 2017 was unchanged at SEK basis. Every quarter, Nordic Waterproofing Builders Merchants segment. The Finnish -37 m. The Group’s effective tax rate for the has fulfilled the terms and conditions of the Flat Roofing market developed well, while year amounted to 21 percent (19), and was facility agreements. the Builders Merchants were stable. In affected by a lower contribution in Finland Consolidated net interest-bearing debt general the weather was favorable during where no tax cost is recorded due to tax-loss has increased following the acquisitions the year and particularly during the fourth carryforward. In addition, the tax cost in the made and dividend payment and amounted quarter, except for the early arrival of the acquired companies in Finland may not be to SEK 204 m at the end of the period, autumn with rainy weather in September. offset against tax losses during the year of compared with SEK 25 m at the end of the acquisition. preceding year. Consolidated cash and cash OPERATING PROFIT (EBIT) equivalents decreased by SEK 171 m and Operating profit (EBIT) for the period NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR amounted to SEK 157 m (328) at the end of January–December decreased to SEK 194 m Net profit for the year decreased to SEK 138 the period. Since no portion of the Group’s (206) and the EBIT margin decreased to 8.9 m (156). The decrease in profit in compariSEK 142 m (139) overdraft facility was percent (11.4). Items affecting comparability son with the preceding year is primarily utilized at the end of the year, the total amounted to SEK -14 m (-17), primarily attributable to the unfavorable development liquidity available was SEK 299 m (467). consisting of consultancy costs related to of our raw material cost position not fully Indebtedness calculated as interacquisitions. Hence, the operating profit offset by increased sales prices. est-bearing net debt/EBITDA before items (EBIT) before items affecting comparability affecting comparability was 0.8x (0.1x) at the for the period January–December decreased end of the period, and the net debt/equity to SEK 208 m (224). The EBIT margin before ratio was 0.2x (0.0x). items affecting comparability decreased to 9.5 percent (12.3 percent). Raw material purchase prices, especially for SBS, were very volatile during the first half of the year. These effects primarily affected the income statement negatively during the third RECONCILIATION – ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY quarter, as the increasing raw material prices were not fully offset by the increased SEK million 2017 2016 sales prices. In addition, the result was Operating profit (EBIT) 194 206 negatively affected by the amortization of Costs related to the IPO of the company 0 14 customer relations in the acquired compaCosts related to acquisitions 10 0 nies as well as the acquired order book in Taasinge Elementer being amortized over 12 Restructuring costs 0 1 months, resulting in a limited contribution Other 4 2 from Taasinge Elementer to EBIT over the Operating profit (EBIT) before items first year following the acquisition. All affecting comparability 208 224 acquired businesses are developing Operating profit (EBIT) margin before items according to plan or better, than was affecting comparability 9.5% 12.3% expected at the time of acquisition. Contents 46 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 CASH FLOW Nordic Waterproofing a major player in the meet its financial targets, and the Group’s Operating cash flow for the full year 2017 Nordic market for prefabricated roofing and organic net sales growth is expected to compared with the preceding year defaçade elements. exceed the general growth rate where the creased, amounting to SEK 164 m (211), Group operates. In addition to organic growth, entailing an operating cash conversion of 66 EXPECTATIONS FOR FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 the Group also expects to continue growing percent (85). The lower cash flow and cash For the financial year 2018, general demand through selective acquisitions. EBIT before conversion is primarily explained by is expected to be similar as in 2017 in most items affecting comparability is expected to temporarily higher inventory levels at the markets. Nordic Waterproofing expects to increase slightly compared with 2017. end of the year in order to fulfil delivery obligations early 2018, but also due to higher receivables for on-going projects in the installation services due to high activity at the end of the year. SEASONALITY The cash flow from operating activities Nordic Waterproofing’s business is affected requirement decreased between 2013 and was in line with the preceding year, by seasonal variations – the months of 2016 but increased in 2017 which is amounting to SEK 126 m (128). January, February and December being the primarily a consequence of increased net The negative cash flow from investing weakest months. In 2017, sales in these working capital following the acquisitions activities was higher than in the correspondthree months accounted for almost 16 made during the year. Historically, the ing period in the previous year, amounting to percent of the annual total, while the other working capital at year-end has amounted to SEK -159 m (-19). During 2017 four nine months accounted for 84 percent which approximately SEK 150 million, adjusted for companies were acquired and two smaller is in line with the five-year average. The items affecting comparability and the asset deals were finalized. The net cash decline during the winter is explained by the market value of the commodity hedges. At impact due to these acquisitions of business cold and poor weather conditions and their the end of 2017, the net working capital was was SEK 123 m (0), while gross investments impact on the construction industry. In higher than normal due to temporarily in tangible and intangible assets amounted general, there is a certain degree of higher inventory levels in order to fulfil to SEK 23 m (20). stockpiling during the winter months, which delivery obligations in early 2018, but also The cash flow from financing activities transfers to a stock depletion during the due to higher receivables for projects in amounted to SEK -140 m (31). In May, a cash summer months as a result of increased progress in the installation services due to a dividend of SEK 90 m was paid. In addition, activity in the market. An early winter could, high level of activity at the end of the year. external loans in Taasinge Elementer were among other things cause many of the The graph below illustrates the seasonal repaid following the acquisition of the Company’s customers choose to postpone pattern in the Company’s working capital by company in July. planned projects, in turn, having a negative quarter during 2013–2017. impact on annual earnings. The same Seasonal variations affect EBIT and the SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE END OF applies if the winter is long and the season EBIT margin to the same extent as sales. THE PERIOD starts late in the spring. As a result of active The graph below illustrates the seasonal On 20 December 2017, Taasinge Elementer efforts in the management of working pattern in the Company’s sales and earnings A/S signed an agreement to acquire a capital, the average working capital per quarter 2013–2017. production plant in Denmark for prefabricated roofing and façade elements, by means of an acquisition of assets, from Ugilt Savværk. SEK m SEASONAL VARIATIONS IN WORKING CAPITAL % The unit has 40 employees in northern 350 30 Jutland and sales for 2017 was approximately 300 25 SEK 50 m. The consideration amounts to DKK 18 m and is being financed through 250 20 Nordic Waterproofing’s available cash and 200 15 bank balances. The acquisition was finalized 150 as of 4 January 2018 and is consolidated into 100 10 the Products & Solutions segment. 5 50 On 1 March 2018, Taasinge Elementer 0 0 A/S acquired 75 percent of the shares in the Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Norwegian company Ringsaker Veggog Net sales EBIT before items affecting comparability EBIT margin before items affecting comparability, % Takelementer AS (“RVT”). The company is one of Norway’s leading manufacturer of prefabricated façade elements based on SEK m % wooden frame constructions to the SEASONAL VARIATIONS IN NET SALES AND PROFITABILITY 600 18 construction industry. RVT has an annual sales of approximately SEK 100 m and 50 employees. The consideration amounts to 400 12 SEK 38 m on a cash and debt-free basis. Sellers are the company’s management and founders and the acquisition was financed 200 6 through Nordic Waterproofing’s existing credit facilities. RVT is consolidated into the Products & Solutions segment as of 1 March 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 0 2018. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Both Ugilt and RVT forms part of the Net working capital balance (before items affecting comparability) Net working capital as % of LTM sales strategy to make Taasinge Elementer and Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 47 CONTENTS FINANCIAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of profit or loss...............................................................48 Consolidated statement of financial position.......................................................49 Consolidated statement of cash flows.................................................................50 Consolidated statement of changes in equity......................................................51 LIST OF NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Basis of preparation 1 Accounting policies ........................................................................................52 2 Changes in accounting policies .....................................................................54 3 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions ................54 Results for the year 4 Operating segments ......................................................................................54 5 Significant types of income ...........................................................................56 6 Operating costs by nature .............................................................................56 7 Employees and personnel expenses .............................................................57 8 Pensions ........................................................................................................58 9 Other operating income and expenses .........................................................58 10 Financial income and expenses ....................................................................59 11 Taxes ..............................................................................................................59 Group structure 12 Participation in associated companies .........................................................61 13 Group companies and subsidiaries ...............................................................62 14 Acquisitions ...................................................................................................63 15 Information on the Parent Company .............................................................64 16 Related parties ..............................................................................................64 Operating assets and liabilities 17 Goodwill .........................................................................................................65 18 Other intangible assets .................................................................................66 19 Property, plant and equipment ......................................................................67 20 Operating leases ............................................................................................68 21 Inventory ........................................................................................................68 22 Trade receivables ..........................................................................................69 23 Receivables for on-going construction contracts .........................................69 24 Other current receivables .............................................................................69 25 Prepaid expenses and accrued income ........................................................69 26 Other current liabilities .................................................................................69 27 Accrued expenses and prepaid income ........................................................69 Capital structure and financing 28 Other investments .........................................................................................69 29 Cash and cash equivalents ............................................................................69 30 Equity .............................................................................................................69 31 Earnings per share ........................................................................................70 32 Interest-bearing liabilities ............................................................................70 33 Other non-current liabilities..........................................................................70 34 Financial risks and finance policy .................................................................71 35 Contingent liabilities .....................................................................................74 Other disclosures 36 Audit fees and expenses ................................................................................74 37 Statement of cash flows ................................................................................75 38 Events after the reporting date .....................................................................75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY Parent company statement of profit or loss..........................................................76 Parent company statement of financial position.................................................76 Parent company statement of changes in equity.................................................77 Parent company notes..........................................................................................77 Contents 48 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS SEK Million Note 2017 2016 Net sales 4, 5 2,186.8 1,813.1 Cost of goods sold 6 –1,602.7 –1,272.6 Gross profit 584.1 540.4 Selling expenses 6 –272.3 –229.6 Administrative expenses 6 –130.5 –116.0 Research and development expenses 6 –6.5 –6.6 Other operating income 9 6.3 8.3 Other operating expenses 6, 9 –2.5 –2.7 Share of profit in associated companies 12 15.1 12.5 Operating profit 4, 7, 36 193.7 206.3 Financial income 0.2 5.9 Financial expenses –19.7 –19.1 Net finance items 10 –19.5 –13.2 Profit before tax 174.2 193.1 Tax 11 –36.6 –36.9 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 137.6 156.3 Attributable to: Shareholders of the Parent company 136.9 156.2 Non-controlling interests 0.7 0.1 137.6 156.3 Earnings per share before and after dilution (SEK) 31 5.71 6.49 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SEK Million Note 2017 2016 Profit for the year 137.6 156.3 Other comprehensive income Items that are or may be reclassified to profit for the year Exchange differences for the year in translation of foreign operations 19.8 18.2 Gains/losses on hedging of currency risk in foreign operations –4.5 –7.1 Gains/losses on raw material hedging –22.1 26.5 Tax on gains/losses on other comprehensive income 5.7 –4.2 Other comprehensive income for the year –1.1 33.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 136.5 189.7 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to: Shareholders of the Parent company 135.8 189.6 Non-controlling interests 0.7 0.1 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 136.5 189.7 Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 49 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION SEK Million Note 2017 2016 Assets Goodwill 17 732.8 616.0 Other intangible assets 18 63.7 16.2 Property. plant and equipment 19 209.8 180.1 Investments in associated companies 12 30.7 19.5 Receivables from associated companies 5.8 5.2 Other investments 28 2.0 1.9 Deferred tax assets 11 0.0 0.0 Other non-current receivables 12.0 5.1 Total non-current assets 1,056.8 844.0 Inventory 21 259.6 173.6 Trade receivables 22 199.8 149.7 Receivables for on-going construction contracts 23 43.9 24.7 Receivables from associated companies 13.0 7.1 Current tax assets 1.9 0.9 Other current receivables 24 10.9 27.9 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 25 13.5 11.6 Cash and cash equivalents 29 156.8 328.4 Total current assets 699.3 724.0 TOTAL ASSETS 1,756.1 1,568.0 Equity Share capital 30.0 30.0 Reserves 23.0 24.1 Retained earnings including profit for the year 866.1 819.5 Proposed dividend for the financial year 90.3 90.3 Equity attributable to shareholders of the Parent company 1,009.4 963.8 Non-controlling interests 0.5 –0.2 TOTAL EQUITY 30 1,009.8 963.6 Liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 32 360.3 352.9 Other non-current liabilities 33 37.1 0.0 Provisions 5.8 4.9 Deferred tax liabilities 11 52.6 40.3 Total non-current liabilities 455.9 398.0 Current interest-bearing liabilities 32 0.0 0.5 Trade payables 90.7 66.0 Current tax liabilities 9.4 9.9 Other current liabilities 26 57.2 20.2 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 27 133.1 109.8 Total current liabilities 290.4 206.3 TOTAL LIABILITIES 746.3 604.3 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,756.1 1,568.0 Information on the Group’s contingent liabilities, see Note 35. Contents 50 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS SEK Million Note 2017 2016 Operating activities Operating profit/loss 193.7 206.3 Adjustment for non-cash items etc 37 23.7 7.2 Interest received 0.2 0.1 Interest paid –7.6 –11.5 Dividends received 10.8 13.4 Income tax paid –38.1 –53.5 Cash flow from operating activities before working capital changes 182.6 161.9 Cash flow from working capital changes Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in inventories –45.2 –1.0 Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in trade receivable –13.7 –24.0 Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in other operating receivables –20.1 –0.6 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in trade payable 9.3 –10.2 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in other operating liabilities 13.1 1.8 Cash flow from operating activities 126.1 128.1 Investing activities Acquisition of intangible assets –2.0 –10.4 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment –21.2 –10.0 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.0 0.0 Acquisition of business, net cash impact 14 –123.2 0.0 Acquisition of participations in associated companies –6.6 –3.2 Disposal of participations in associated companies 0.2 0.8 Increase in receivables in associated companies –0.5 0.0 Decrease in receivables in associated companies 0.0 4.9 Increase in other non-current receivables –6.6 –1.2 Proceeds from other financial investments 0.0 0.1 Cash flow from investing activities –158.8 –18.9 Financing activities Acquisition of participations in non-controlling interests 0.0 0.4 Proceeds from loans and borrowings 32 0.4 347.6 Repayment of borrowings 32 –50.1 –343.0 New issue through exercised warrants 0.0 48.6 Repurchased warrants 0.0 –23.0 Dividends paid –90.3 0.0 Cash flow from financing activities –140.0 30.7 Cash flow for the year –172.7 139.8 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 328.4 181.3 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 1.0 7.2 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 156.8 328.4 Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 51 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders ­Reserves TransNon­ Share for lation Retained controlling Total SEK million capital ­hedging reserve Dividend earnings Total interests equity Equity as at 1 January 2016 0.1 –3.4 –5.9 0.0 757.8 748.6 –0.7 747.9 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit/loss for the year – – – – 156.2 156.2 0.1 156.3 Other comprehensive income for the year – 26.5 11.1 – – 37.6 – 37.6 Tax on gains/losses on comprehensive income – –5.8 1.6 – – –4.2 – –4.2 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 20.7 12.7 0.0 156.2 189.6 0.1 189.7 Transactions with the Group’s owners Repurchased warrants – – – – –23.0 –23.0 – –23.0 Bonus issue of shares 28.6 – – – –28.6 0.0 – 0.0 New issue of shares 1.2 – – – 47.4 48.6 – 48.6 Proposed dividend for the financial year – – – 90.3 –90.3 0.0 – 0.0 Total contributions from and distribution to owners 29.8 0.0 0.0 90.3 –94.5 25.6 0.0 25.6 Changes in participating interest in subsidiaries Transactions with non-controlling interests – – – – – 0.0 0.4 0.4 Total changes in participating interest in subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.4 Total transactions with the Group’s owners 29.8 0.0 0.0 90.3 –94.5 25.6 0.4 26.1 Equity as at 31 December 2016 30.0 17.3 6.8 90.3 819.5 963.8 –0.2 963.6 Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders ­Reserves TransNon­ Share for lation Retained controlling Total SEK million capital ­hedging reserve Dividend earnings Total interests equity Equity as at 1 January 2017 30.0 17.3 6.8 90.3 819.5 963.8 –0.2 963.6 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit/loss for the year – – – – 136.9 136.9 0.7 137.6 Other comprehensive income for the year – –22.1 15.3 – – –6.8 – –6.8 Tax on gains/losses on comprehensive income – 4.8 1.0 – – 5.7 – 5.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 –17.3 16.2 0.0 136.9 135.8 0.7 136.5 Transactions with the Group’s owners Paid dividend – – – –90.3 – –90.3 – –90.3 Proposed dividend for the financial year – – – 90.3 –90.3 0.0 – 0.0 Total contributions from and distribution to owners 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 –90.3 –90.3 0.0 –90.3 Changes in participating interest in subsidiaries Transactions with non-controlling interests – – – – – 0,0 – 0,0 Total changes in participating interest in subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total transactions with the Group’s owners 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 –90.3 –90.3 0.0 –90.3 Equity as at 31 December 2017 30.0 0.0 23.0 90.3 866.0 1,009.4 0.5 1,009.8 Contents 52 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Net investment in a foreign operation Monetary long-term receivables or liabilities attributable to a foreign operation for which settlement is not planned or will not likely occur BASIS OF ACCOUNTING within the foreseeable future are in practice a part of the company’s net The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with investment in the foreign operation. An exchange-rate difference that International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by Interna­ arises on the monetary long-term receivable or monetary long-term tional Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as adopted by the EU and liability is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated additional Danish disclosure requirement applicable for class D entities. in a special reserve, called a translation reserve. Upon the divestment of In addition, the Group applies interpretations from IFRS Interpretations a foreign operation, the accumulated exchange-rate differences Committee (IFRIC). attributable to monetary long-term receivables or liabilities are included The accounting policies in this note and in the following notes have in the accumulated translation differences that are reclassified from the been applied to the financial statement prepared as at 31 December 2017 translation reserve in equity to profit/loss for the year. and for the comparative information as per 31 December 2016. Below is a description of which accounting policies the Group applies FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS as of 1 January 2012. Financial instruments that are recognised in the statement of financial position include cash and cash equivalents, loan receivables, trade BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS receivable, other investments and derivatives on the asset side. On the Assets and liabilities are recognised at historical cost, except some liabilities side, there are trade payable, borrowings and derivatives. financial assets and liabilities that are valued at fair value. Financial assets and liabilities that are valued at fair value consist of derivative Recognition in and derecognition from the statement of instruments and contingent liabilities arising from acquisitions. financial position Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are recognised, A financial asset or liability is recognised in the statement of financial with some exceptions, as of the classification of such assets at the lower position when the company becomes a party to the instrument’s of the carrying amount at the time of reclassification and the fair value contractual terms. A receivable is recognised when the company has less cost of disposal. performed and a contractual obligation exists for the counterpart to pay, even if an invoice has not yet been sent. Trade receivable are recognised FUNCTIONAL CURRENCY AND PRESENTATION CURRENCY in the statement of financial position when an invoice has been sent. A The Parent Company’s functional currency is Danish kronor (DKK) while liability is recognised when the counter-party has performed and a the presentation currency for the Group is Swedish kronor (SEK) due to contractual obligation exists to pay, even if an invoice has not yet been the Group’s primary stakeholders. This means that the financial received. Trade payable are recognised when an invoice has been statements are presented in SEK. All amounts are rounded to the received. nearest hundred thousand, unless otherwise stated. A financial asset and a financial liability are offset and reported in a This rounding off process may mean that the total sum of the net amount in the statement of financial position only when there is a sub-items in one or more rows or columns does not match the total sum legal right to offset the amounts and there is an intention to settle the for the row or column. items with a net amount or to simultaneously realise the asset and settle the liability. CONSOLIDATION POLICIES AND BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Acquisitions and disposals of financial assets are recognised on the Transactions eliminated upon consolidation transaction date. The transaction date is the date the company commits The intra-Group receivables and liabilities, revenues and expenses that to acquire or dispose the asset. arise from intra-Group transactions between Group companies, are Financial instruments that are not accounted for at fair value are eliminated in their entirety when preparing the consolidated accounts. initially recognised at cost corresponding to the instrument’s fair value plus transaction expenses for all financial instruments except with FOREIGN CURRENCIES regard to those belonging to the category of financial assets at fair value Transactions in foreign currencies through profit or loss, which are recognised at fair value excluding Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional transaction expenses. A financial instrument is classified at initial currency at the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date. The recognition based in part on the purpose for which the instrument was functional currency is the currency in the primary economic environacquired. The classification determines how the financial instrument is ments in which the companies conduct their activities. Monetary assets valued after initial recognition as described below. and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated to the functional Derivatives are initially recognised at cost and at fair value subsecurrency at the exchange rate on the reporting date. Exchange-rate quently. Both realised and unrealised gains and losses are recognised in differences that arise in the translations are recognised in the profit/loss the income statement unless the derivatives are part of hedging of future for the year. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are recognised at transactions. Value adjustments of derivatives for hedging of future historical cost are translated to the exchange rate on the transaction transactions are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. As date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities recognised at fair value are hedged transactions are realised, gains or losses are recognised in the translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing at hedging instrument from other comprehensive income in the same item the time of the fair value measurement. as the hedged items. Any non-effective part of the financial instrument in question is recognised in the income statement. Financial statements of foreign operations Derivatives are recognised under other receivables or other payables. Assets and liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and other Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash funds and immediately consolidated surpluses and deficits, are translated from the foreign available balances at banks and equivalent institutes and short-term operation’s functional currency to the Group’s presentation currency, liquid investments with a duration from the time of acquisition of less Swedish kronor (SEK), at the exchange rate prevailing on the reporting than three months, which are only subject to an insignificant risk of value date. Revenues and expenses in a foreign operation are translated to SEK fluctuations. at an average exchange rate that constitutes an approximation of the exchange rates existing at the respective transaction date. Translation Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss differences that arise in the currency translation of foreign operations The category comprises derivate financial assets and liabilities of which are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a some are designated as hedging instruments as described below. special reserve, called a translation reserve. When a controlling influence, significant influence or joint controlling influence ceases for a foreign operation, the accumulated translation differences attributable to the operation are realised, whereby they are reclassified from the translation reserve in equity to profit/loss for the year. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 53 Loans and receivables IMPAIRMENT LOSSES Loans and receivables are financial assets that are non-derivatives, have The Group’s recognised assets are assessed every balance sheet date to determined or determinable payments and are not listed on an active determine if there is an indication of impairment requirements. IAS 36 is market. These assets are valued at amortised cost. Trade receivable are applied regarding impairment of assets other than financial assets, recognised in the amount expected to be received, i.e. less doubtful which are recognised according to IAS 39, inventory and deferred tax receivables. assets. For exempt assets as per the above, the carrying amount is assessed according to the respective standard. Other financial liabilities Borrowings and other financial liabilities, such as trade payable, are Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets and included in this category. These liabilities are valued at amortised cost. participations in associated companies The categories to which the Group’s financial assets and liabilities If there is an indication of impairment requirements, the asset’s belong are presented by Note 34 Financial risks and finance policy. recoverable amount is calculated (see below). For goodwill, other Recognition of finance income and expenses is also addressed above. intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet completed for use, the recoverable amount is also calculated annually. If Derivatives and hedging activities it is not possible to establish significant independent cash flows for an Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative individual asset, and its fair value less costs of disposal cannot be used, contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair the assets are grouped in impairment testing at the lowest level where it value at the end of each reporting period. The accounting for subsequent is possible to identify significant independent cash flows a so-called changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as cash-generating unit. a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The An impairment loss is recognised when an asset’s or cash-generating group designates certain derivatives as either: unit’s (group of units) carrying amounts exceed the recoverable amount. • hedges of a particular risk associated with the cash flows of An impairment loss is recognised as an expense in profit/loss for the recognised assets and liabilities and highly probable forecast year. Once an impairment requirement has been identified for a transactions (cash flow hedges), or cash-generating unit (group of units), the impairment loss is primarily • hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation (net investment allocated to goodwill. Then a proportional impairment loss is applied to hedges). the other assets included in the unit (group of units). The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of The group documents at the inception of the hedging transaction the disposal and value in use. In the calculation of the value in use, future relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as cash flows are discounted with a discount factor that takes into account its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various risk-free interest and the risk associated with the specific asset. hedge transactions. The group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that Impairment of financial assets are used in hedging transactions have been and will continue to be highly At each reporting occasion, the company evaluates if there is objective effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged evidence that a financial asset or group of assets requires impairment. items. Objective evidence is comprised of observable conditions that have occurred and have a negative impact on the possibility to recover the cost. Cash flow hedge The impairment requirements of trade receivable are determined The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are based on historical experience of customer bad debts on similar designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other receivables. Trade receivable with impairment requirements are comprehensive income and accumulated in reserves in equity. The gain recognised at the present value of expected future cash flows. Receivaor loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in bles with a short duration are however not discounted. profit or loss within other operating income or other operating expense. Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the Reversal of impairment losses periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss (for instance when An impairment loss on assets that are included in the area of application the forecast purchase that is hedged takes place). The gain or loss of IAS 36 is reversed if there is both an indication that the impairment relating to the effective portion of forward contracts hedging prices of requirement no longer exists and a change has occurred in the raw materials is recognised in profit or loss within cost of goods sold. assumptions that formed the basis for the calculations of the recoverable However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the amount. An impairment of goodwill is, however, never reversed. A recognition of a non-financial asset (for example, inventory or fixed reversal is only applied insofar as the asset’s carrying amount after the assets) the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are reclassified reversal does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the recognised, less depreciation/amortisation where applicable, if no asset. The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised in profit or loss impairment loss had been applied. as cost of goods sold in the case of inventory, or as depreciation or Impairment losses on loans and receivables recognised at amortised impairment in the case of fixed assets. cost are reversed if the previous reasons for the impairment losses no When a hedging instrument expires or is sold or terminated, or when longer exist and full payment from the customer is expected to be a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any received. cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised PROVISIONS in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to A provision differs from other liabilities in that there is uncertainty about occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is the payment date or the amount to settle the provision. A provision is immediately reclassified to profit or loss. recognised in the statement of financial position when there is an existing legal or constructive obligation as a result of an event that has Net investment hedges occurred, and it is likely that an outflow of financial resources will be Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount similarly to cash flow hedges. can be made. Loans in foreign currency are used as hedging instruments. Provisions are made in the amount that is the best estimate of what Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective will be required to settle the existing obligation on the reporting date. portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and Where the effect of when in time payment is made is material, provisions accumulated in reserves in equity. The gain or loss relating to the are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flow using an ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss within other interest rate before tax that reflects current market assessments of the operating income or other operating expenses. time value of money and, if applicable, the risks associated with the Gains and losses accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or liability. loss when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold. Contents 54 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 NOTE 2 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES estimates made that may entail material adjustments in the subsequent year’s financial statements are described in more detail in below. Some assumptions regarding the future and some estimates and NEW IFRS THAT HAVE NOT YET BEGUN TO BE APPLIED assessments at the reporting date are of particular importance to the A number of new or revised IFRS standards will enter into effect in future valuation of the assets and the liabilities in the statement of financial financial years. position. The areas where the risk of material value changes in the No new or revised IFRS that enter into effect in future financial years subsequent year is significant due to the assumptions or estimates have been applied in advance in preparation of these financial statehaving to be changed are discussed below. ments. IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL IFRS 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The value of recognised goodwill is tested at least once a year with IFRS 9 Financial instruments replaces IAS 39 as of 1 January 2018. The regard to possible impairment requirements. The testing requires an standard introduces an expected loss model for impairment losses on assessment of the value in use of the cash-generating unit, or group of loans and receivables. The number of classification categories for cash-generating units, to which the goodwill is attributable. This requires financial assets are reduced to three: amortised cost, fair value through that several assumptions regarding future conditions and estimates of profit or loss and fair value through other comprehensive income. Fair parameters are made. A description of these are provided in Note 17. value changes to financial liabilities which are attributable to the fair value and which arise from changes in own credit risks must be OTHER recognised in other comprehensive income. Simplified rules on hedge As described in Note 35, the Danish Competition and Consumer accounting are introduced. During the year, the Group has analyzed the Authority conducted a so-called dawn raid at Nordic Waterproofing A/S in effects of an introduction on the financial statements and concluded that Vejen, Denmark in 2014. The management does not expect the outcome IFRS 9 will not have any significant impact on the financial statements. of this investigation to lead to any material impact on the Group’s position or performance, which is why no reservation has been made in IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM CONTRACT WITH CUSTOMERS the year-end accounts. This assessment is associated with uncertainty IFRS 15 Revenue from contract with customers replaces IAS 18, which due to the nature of the investigation. covers contracts for goods and services, and IAS 11, which covers Furthermore, as described in note 35, in 2016 Nordic Waterproofing constructions contracts, as of 1 January 2018. A/S received a letter of claim from a competitor stipulating an alleged The new standard is based on the principle that revenue is recognised claim with regard to the on-going investigation mentioned above. The when control (instead of risks and benefits) of goods or services are management finds that the claim is unsubstantiated/unfounded and transferred to the customer. therefore no provision has been made in the annual report. However, During the year, the Group has analyzed the effects of an introduction an assesment of this kind is by nature associated with uncertainty. on the financial statements and IFRS 15 will not have any significant impact on the financial statements. The new standard also introduces expanded disclosure requirements and changes in presentation. These will change the nature and extent of the Group’s disclosures about its NOTE 4 OPERATING SEGMENTS income and contract assets/liabilities from 1 January 2018. ACCOUNTING POLICIES IFRS 16 LEASES An operating segment is a part of the Group that conducts IFRS 16 Leases contains principles for leases and is mandatory for operations from which it can generate revenues and incur expenses financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2019. It will result in and for which independent financial information is available. An almost all leases being recognised in the balance sheet, as the operating segment’s profit or loss is also monitored by the distinction between operating and finance leases is removed. Under the company’s highest executive decision-maker to evaluate the profit new standard, an asset (the right to use the leased item) and a financial or loss and to be able to allocate resources to the operating liability to pay rentals are recognised. The only exceptions are short-term segment. Two operating segments have been identified: “Products or low-value leases. There is work ongoing in the Group in analyzing the & Solutions” and “Installation Services”, respectively. effects from IFRS 16. The work includes collection and valuation of lease agreements and evaluation of the need for system support. It is too early to quantify the effects from the introduction of IFRS 16, but the The Group’s operations are divided into operating segments based on introduction will have significant effects on the financial statements. what parts of the business the company’s highest executive decision-maker follows up, the so-called “management approach”. The Group’s operations are organised in the manner that Group management  IGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, S follows up the earnings that the Group’s various goods and services NOTE 3 ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS generate. As Group management follows up the results of operations and decides on the distribution of resources based on the goods and services the Group provides and sells, they constitute the Group’s operating ASSESSMENTS AND ESTIMATES IN THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS segments. At 31 December 2016 and 2017, the chief operating decision Preparing the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires maker followed up the segments’ operating profit (EBIT) before items management to make assessments and estimates as well as assumpaffecting comparability. tions that affect the application of the accounting principles and the carrying amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. The The following operating segments have been identified: actual outcome may deviate from these estimates and assessments. • Products & Solutions: includes sales of both own produced and The estimates and assumptions are regularly reviewed. Changes in externally sourced products and services associated therewith. estimates are recognised in the period the change is made if the change • Installation Services: includes the Group’s wholly and partially owned only affects this period, or in the period the change is made and future contracting operations. periods if the change affects both the current period and future periods. Assessments made by corporate management in the application of IFRS that have a material impact on the financial statements and Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 55 2017 Products & Installation Group items and SEK million Solutions Services eliminations Group Revenues from external customers 1,472.9 713.8 0.0 2,186.8 Revenues from other segments 95.2 0.0 –95.2 0.0 Revenues, total 1,568.1 713.8 –95.2 2,186.8 EBITDA before items affecting comparability 238.6 35.9 –26.5 248.0 Depreciation & amortization –33.3 –5.2 –1.9 –40.3 EBIT before items affecting comparability 205.3 30.7 –28.4 207.6 Items affecting comparability –9.4 –3.9 –0.7 –14.0 Operating profit (EBIT) 195.9 26.8 –29.0 193.7 Net finance items –19.5 Profit after finance items but before tax (EBT) 174.2 Tax –36.6 Profit for the year 137.6 Assets Intangible assets 674.1 122.5 0.0 796.6 Property, plant and equipment 199.4 9.4 1.0 209.8 Participations in associated companies 0.0 30.7 0.0 30.7 Inventory 254.3 5.2 0.0 259.6 Other assets 204.6 117.9 –29.5 293.0 Non-allocated assets 166.5 166.5 Total assets 1,332.4 285.7 138.0 1,756.1 Liabilities and Equity Equity 1,009.8 1,009.8 Other liabilities 254.3 74.0 –41.4 286.9 Non-allocated liabilities 459.4 459.4 Total liabilities and equity 254.3 74.0 1,427.8 1,756.1 Investments in property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 19.2 3.1 0.9 23.2 2016 Products & Installation Group items and SEK million Solutions Services eliminations Group Revenues from external customers 1,252.7 560.3 0.0 1,813.1 Revenues from other segments 88.3 0.0 –88.3 0.0 Revenues, total 1,341.0 560.3 –88.3 1,813.1 EBITDA before items affecting comparability 243.4 30.1 –25.4 248.1 Depreciation & amortization –22.2 –1.0 –1.4 –24.6 EBIT before items affecting comparability 221.3 29.1 –26.8 223.6 Items affecting comparability –4.2 1.4 –14.4 –17.3 Operating profit (EBIT) 217.1 30.5 –41.3 206.3 Net finance items –13.2 Profit after finance items but before tax (EBT) 193.1 Tax –36.9 Profit for the year 156.3 Assets Intangible assets 556.0 69.9 6.3 632.2 Property, plant and equipment 175.5 3.1 1.5 180.1 Participations in associated companies 0.0 19.5 0.0 19.5 Inventory 172.0 1.7 0.0 173.6 Other assets 131.3 81.5 13.3 226.1 Non-allocated assets 336.4 336.4 Total assets 1,034.8 175.6 357.6 1,568.0 Liabilities and Equity Equity 963.6 963.6 Other liabilities 165.2 54.1 –18.5 200.8 Non-allocated liabilities 403.5 403.5 Total liabilities and equity 165.2 54.1 1,348.7 1,568.0 Investments in property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 16.9 0.9 2.7 20.4 Contents 56 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 Directly attributable items and items that can be reasonably and reliably Significant types of income allocated to the segments have been included in the operating segments’ SEK million 2017 2016 profit/loss, assets and liabilities. The items recognised in the operating Net sales include revenues from: segments’ profit/loss, assets and liabilities are valued in accordance with Sale of goods 1,472.9 1,252.7 the profit/loss, assets and liabilities that the company’s Group manageInstallation services 713.8 560.3 ment monitors. The same accounting principles are applied in both 2,186.8 1,813.1 internal segment reporting as in the external reporting. Non-allocated items comprise net finance items and tax expenses. GEOGRAPHIC AREAS Assets and liabilities that have not been allocated to segments are deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, financial investments and Revenues from external customers financial liabilities. SEK million 2017 2016 Sales between the operating segments have occurred at market-­ Denmark 493.0 374.6 based prices. Sweden 348.1 328.4 Norway 193.4 192.9 ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY Finland 810.0 660.8 Items affecting comparability include income statement items that are Europe (excluding Nordic region) 333.5 249.4 non-recurring, has significant impact on profit and is important for Other countries 8.8 7.0 understanding the underlying development of operations. Total 2,186.8 1,813.1 SEK million 2017 2016 Non-current assets Costs related to the IPO of the Company 0.0 –13.9 SEK million 2017 2016 Acquisition-related costs –9.9 0.0 Denmark 326.6 204.8 Restructuring costs 0.0 –1.1 Sweden 367.6 372.0 Other –4.1 –2.2 Norway 27.8 32.6 Total –14.0 –17.3 Finland 244.2 182.0 Europe (excluding Nordic region) 40.2 20.9 Total 1,006.4 812.3 NOTE 5 SIGNIFICANT TYPES OF INCOME Revenues from external customers have been attributed to individual countries according to the country the customer is domiciled in. ACCOUNTING POLICIES Non-current assets have been allocated to individual countries according Sales of goods to the owning company’s domicile. Revenues for the sale of goods are recognised in profit/loss for the year when all of the following criteria are met: INFORMATION ON MAJOR CUSTOMERS • significant risks and benefits associated with ownership of the No single customer accounted for more than 10 percent of consolidated goods have been transferred to the buyer, sales. A maximum of approximately 3.7 percent of consolidated sales • no managerial involvement with the goods is retained, were attributable to a single customer. • the amount of revenue and cost of the transaction can be measured reliably and NOTE 6 O PERATING COSTS BY NATURE • receipt of payment from the customer is probable. The criterias above usually coincide with the date of delivery. SEK million 2017 2016 Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received, or expected to be received, less discounts provided. Material costs and goods for resale 1,095.6 833.8 Change in inventory of finished goods and Installation services work in progress –72.8 –8.4 Revenues from installation services are recognised in profit/loss for Employee benefits 511.3 415.0 the year based on the stage of completion on the reporting date. Depreciation & amortization 38.8 24.5 The stage of completion is determined on the basis of contract Other external costs 439.1 359.9 expenditures incurred relative to the total estimated expenditures. Other operating expenses 2.5 2.7 Expenses comprise expenses directly and indirectly attributable to Total 2,014.5 1,627.5 the construction work. When the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognized only to the extent of contract expenses incurred and subject to recoverability being probable. If the contract expenses are expected to exceed contract revenue, the expected loss is recognized immediately. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 57 NOTE 7 EMPLOYEES AND PERSONNEL EXPENSES Fixed Variable Other ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2017 salary salary Pension benefits Total Remuneration of employees Chairman of the board: Short-term employee benefits Ulf Gundemark 0.5 – – – 0.5 Short-term employee benefits are calculated without discounting Boardmember: and recognised as an expense when the related services are Holger C. Hansen 0.1 – – – 0.1 received. Boardmember: A liability is recognised for the anticipated cost for profit-sharing Christian Frigast 0.3 – – – 0.3 and bonus payments when the Group has a current legal or Boardmember: constructive obligation to make such payments as a result of Vilhelm Sundström 0.1 – – – 0.1 services being received from employees and the obligation can be Boardmember: reliably calculated. Jørgen Jensen 0.4 – – – 0.4 Benefits upon termination Boardmember: Riitta Palomäki 0.3 – – – 0.3 An expense for benefits in connection with the terminations of Boardmember: personnel is recognised at the earliest time of when the company Mats O. Paulsson 0.2 – – – 0.2 can no longer withdraw the offer to the employees or when the Boardmember: company recognises expenses for restructuring. The benefits that Kristina Willgård 0.2 – – – 0.2 are estimated to be settled after 12 months are recognised at their President and CEO: present value. Benefits that are not expected to be fully settled Martin Ellis 5.0 2.5 – – 7.5 within 12 months are recognised according to long-term employee Other senior benefits. executives (7 persons) 11.5 3.8 2.5 1.1 18.9 Total 18.5 6.3 2.5 1.1 28.5 Expenses for employee benefits SEK million 2017 2016 Fixed Variable Other Salaries and benefits, etc. 417.9 331.8 2016 salary salary Pension benefits Total Pension expenses, defined-contribution plans 15.3 11.1 Chairman of the board: Ulf Gundemark 0.5 – – – 0.5 Social security contributions 78.1 72.1 Boardmember: 511.3 415.0 Holger C. Hansen 0.4 – – – 0.4 Boardmember: of of Christian Frigast 0.2 – – – 0.2 Average number of employees which which Boardmember: FTE (Full Time Equivalents) 2017 men 2016 men Vilhelm Sundström 0.2 – – – 0.2 Parent Company Boardmember: Denmark 1 100% 1 100% Jörgen Jensen 0.4 – – – 0.4 Total Parent Company 1 100% 1 100% President and CEO: Martin Ellis 4.9 2.9 – – 7.8 Subsidiaries Other senior executives (5 persons) 8.8 6.1 2.3 0.7 17.9 Denmark 141 80% 80 73% Total 15.3 9.0 2.3 0.7 27.3 Sweden 125 80% 113 79% Norway 22 73% 21 76% PRINCIPLES FOR REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD Finland 465 93% 374 93% The Chairman of the Board receives a fixed fee of SEK 500 thousand per Other 75 82% 41 73% year, and the remaining Board members receives SEK 275 thousand per Total in subsidiaries 829 87% 629 86% year. Committee members receives an additional SEK 50 thousand. Group total 830 87% 630 86% PRINCIPLES FOR THE REMUNERATION OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO FTE is defined as average number of employees after re-calculation to Remuneration full-time equivalents. Remuneration of the CEO is decided by the Board. The amount of the remuneration shall be market based and based on factors such as SALARIES AND OTHER BENEFITS, PENSION EXPENSES AND PENSION expertise, experience and performance. The remuneration consists of OBLIGATIONS FOR SENIOR EXECUTIVES fixed salary and, in addition to this, variable salary and non-monetary SEK million 2017 2016 benefits. The variable salary shall be based on the achievement of Remuneration to the Board and CEO of Nordic quantitative and qualitative targets. Remuneration of the CEO amounted Waterproofing Holding A/S: in 2017 to SEK 7.5 (7.8) million. Remuneration of Board members 2.1 1.6 Periods of notice and severance pay Salaries and benefits to CEO 7.5 7.8 Upon termination of the CEO by the company, a period of notice of 24 9.6 9.4 months applies. If the CEO resigns, a period of notice of 12 months Remuneration to Group management in Nordic applies instead, however following the IPO as per 10 June 2016, the CEO Waterproofing Group 1 AB with subsidiaries: cannot terminate the employment within the first 24 months. This means Salaries and benefits 16.3 15.6 that the notice of termination cannot be given by the CEO until after 10 Pension expenses, defined-contribution plans 2.5 2.3 June 2018. 18.9 17.9 Total remuneration to the Board, CEO and Group management team in the Group 28.5 27.3 Contents 58 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 Pension benefits Commitments for retirement pensions and family pensions for white-­ The employment contract for the CEO ends without prior cancellation at collar employees in Sweden are secured through insurance with Alecta. the time of the CEO’s retirement. No pension premiums for the CEO have According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, been reserved, but rather are taken into account in the determination of UFR 10, this is a defined-benefit plan that comprises multiple employers. the fixed remuneration. For the 2017 financial year, the company has not had access to information that makes it possible to recognise this plan as a defined-benefit PRINCIPLES FOR REMUNERATION OF OTHER MEMBERS OF GROUP plan. The pension plan according to ITP is secured through insurance in MANAGEMENT Alecta and is therefore recognised as a defined-contribution plan. The Remuneration year’s fees for pension insurance taken out in Alecta amount to Remuneration is decided by the CEO with assistance from the Board. The SEK 6.1 m (5.6). Alecta’s surplus can be distributed to the policyholders level of remuneration for the individual executive shall be based on factors and/or the beneficiaries. At the end of 2017, Alecta’s surplus in the form such as position, expertise, experience and performance. Remuneration of the collective solvency level amounted to 154 percent (149). The collecconsists of fixed salary and pension and shall also be able to consist of tive solvency level is comprised of the market value of Alecta’s assets as variable salary and non-monetary benefits. The variable salary shall be a percentage of the insurance commitments calculated according to based on the achievement of qualitative and quantitative targets. Alecta’s actuarial assumptions, which is not in accordance with IAS 19. Periods of notice and severance pay DEFINED-CONTRIBUTION PLANS Other members of Group management team have a 12-month period of In Sweden, the Group has defined-contribution pension plans for workers notice upon termination by the company and a 6-month period of notice that are entirely paid by the companies. Outside Sweden, there are upon resignation. defined-contribution plans that are partially paid for by the subsidiaries Pension benefits and partially covered through fees that the employees pay. Payment to Other members of Group management team have the right to retire at these plans takes place on a running basis in accordance with the rules the age of 67, and are entitled to pension benefits in accordance with the of the respective plan. company’s pension policy. Expenses for defined-contribution plan 1) INCENTIVE PROGRAM SEK million 2017 2016 The 2017 Annual General Meeting in April resolved to authorize the Board 15.3 11.1 of Directors to establish a Long-Term Incentive Program (“LTIP 2017”) 1) This includes SEK 6.1 m (5.6) for ITP plans financed in Alecta, see above. offered to 23 employees of the Group, and the program was established by the Board in June. The participants shall be allotted, free-of-charge, Next year’s expected contributions to defined-benefits plans covered by performance share rights entitling them to allocations of shares in the several employers, but recognised as if the plan was a defined-contribuCompany. Performance shares may be granted to the individual tion plan amount to approximately SEK 6.1 m. participant when targets have been met over a period of three years. The target is measured each year and the outcome is set after three years. Performance shares may only be granted to the individual participant if  THER OPERATING INCOME O the participant is still employed by the Company and has not given, or been served, notice during the three-year vesting period. Targets for the NOTE 9 AND EXPENSES participants are based on annual growth of operating profit before items affecting comparability, interest and taxes (“EBIT growth”). ACCOUNTING POLICIES The total costs for the 3-year program in accordance with IFRS 2, Royalty included in other operating income is related to sales to including social security charges, are estimated to be at most SEK 7 m associated companies for using brands and concepts. Royalty under the assumption of an average annual growth of operating profit income is recognised in profit/loss for the year at the time the (EBIT) before items affecting comparability of 12 percent. associated companies recognize the sales to their customers. No new shares will be issued in the Company due to LTIP 2017. However, the Company will acquire 97,309 treasury shares (of which 21,389 are allocated to the CEO, 38,825 to Group Management and 37,095 to others), Other operating income corresponding to approximately 0.4 per cent of the outstanding shares and SEK million 2017 2016 votes in the Company in order to secure the provision of shares under LTIP Royalty 4.6 7.6 2017 and to secure and cover social security charges. The costs for the Capital gains 0.0 0.5 program are expected to have a marginal effect on Nordic Waterproofing Change in fair value of commodity derivatives 0.0 0.2 Group’s key ratios and no expenses have been booked in 2017. Exchange gains on operating receivables/ liabilities 1.7 0.0 NOTE 8 PENSIONS Total 6.3 8.3 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Other operating expenses SEK million 2017 2016 Defined contribution plans The pension plans where the company’s obligations are limited to Change in fair value of commodity derivatives 0.0 –0.2 the contributions the company has committed to pay are classified Exchange losses on operating receivables/ liabilities –2.0 0.0 as defined contribution plans. In such cases, the size of the employee’s pension depends on the contributions the company pays Other –0.5 –2.5 to the plan or to an insurance company and the capital returns that Total –2.5 –2.7 the contributions provide. Consequently, it is the employee that bears the actuarial risk (that the compensation is less than expected) and the investment risk (that the invested assets will be inadequate to provide the anticipated compensation). The company’s commitments in respect of contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense in profit/loss for the year as they are earned by the employees performing services for the company during a period. The Group only has defined contribution pensions. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 59 NOTE 10 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES NOTE 11 TAXES ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES Financial income consists of interest income on invested funds, Income taxes comprise current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes dividend income, gains on the disposal of financial assets available are recognised in profit/loss for the year except when underlying for sale, gains upon a change in value of financial assets valued at transactions have been recognised in other comprehensive income fair value through profit or loss and such gains on hedging or in equity whereby the associated tax effect is recognised in other instruments that are recognised in profit/loss for the year. Dividend comprehensive income or in equity. Current tax is tax that shall be income is recognised when the right to receive a dividend has been paid or received with regard to the current year, with the application established. The results from the disposal of a financial instrument of the tax rates that are enacted or practically enacted at the are recognised when the risks and benefits associated with balance sheet date. Current tax also includes adjustments of ownership of the instrument have been transferred to the buyer and current tax attributable to earlier periods. Deferred tax is calculated the Group no longer has control over the instrument. using the balance sheet method based on temporary differences Financial expenses consist of interest expenses on loans, losses between carrying amounts and amounts for tax purposes of assets upon a value change in financial assets valued at fair value through and liabilities. The valuation of deferred tax is based on how profit or loss, impairment of financial assets and such losses on underlying assets or liabilities are expected to be realised or hedging instruments that are recognised in profit/loss for the year. settled. Deferred tax is calculated with the application of the tax Exchange-rate gains and losses are recognised net in operating rates and tax regulations that are enacted or practically enacted at profit if they are attributable to operating-related items or in net the reporting date. finance items if they are attributable to finance items. Deferred tax assets concerning deductible temporary differences and tax-loss carry-forwards are only recognised insofar as it is likely that they will be able to be utilised. SEK million 2017 2016 Potentially additional income tax that arises upon dividends is Interest income 0.2 0.1 recognised at the same time as when the dividend is recognised as Dividend 0.0 0.1 a liability. Net exchange-rate changes 0.0 5.6 Other financial income 0.0 0.1 Financial income 0.2 5.9 RECOGNISED IN THE STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS Interest expenses on loans at amortised cost –8.5 –17.2 SEK million 2017 2016 Fair value adjustment call/put options –5.7 0.0 Current tax expense (–)/tax revenue (+) Net exchange-rate changes –2.7 0.0 Tax expense for the period –34.0 –32.7 Other financial expenses –2.8 –1.9 Adjustment of tax attributable to earlier years 0.0 0.0 Financial expenses –19.7 –19.1 –34.0 –32.7 Net finance items –19.5 –13.2 Deferred tax expense (–)/tax revenue (+) Deferred tax for temporary differences –2.5 –4.2 All interest income and expenses are attributable to items valued at Deferred tax resulting from changes in tax amortised cost. rates 0.0 0.0 –2.5 –4.2 Interest expenses include period-allocated arrangement fee for liabilities to credit institutions in an amount of SEK 0.8 (3.6) million. Total reported tax expense in the Group –36.6 –36.9 Reconciliation of effective tax SEK million 2017 % 2016 % Profit/loss before tax 174.2 193.1 Tax according to current tax rate for the Parent Company –38.3 22.0 –42.5 22.0 Effect of other tax rates for foreign subsidiaries –0.3 0.2 –0.6 0.3 Non-deductible expenses –1.8 1.0 –3.5 1.8 Non-taxable revenues 0.1 0.0 0.3 –0.2 Result from participations in associated companies 3.6 –2.1 2.7 –1.4 Increase in loss carry-forwards without corresponding capitalisation of deferred tax –1.0 0.6 0.0 0.0 Utilisation of earlier, non-capitalised loss carry-forwards 0.3 –0.2 2.9 –1.5 Effect of changed tax rates/and tax regulations 0.0 0.0 0.6 –0.3 Other 0.8 –0.5 3.2 –1.6 Reported effective tax -36.6 21.0 –36.9 19.1 Contents 60 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 RECOGNISED IN THE BALANCE SHEET CHANGE IN DEFERRED TAX IN TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES AND LOSS CARRY-FORWARDS DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Balance Recognised Recognised Balance Deferred tax assets and liabilities are primarily long term and pertain to as per in profit/ in other Acquisition/ as per 1 Jan loss for the comprehen­ Divestment 31 Dec the following: SEK million 2017 year sive income of business 2017 Property, Deferred tax 2017 plant and SEK million Asset Liability Net equipment –12.1 0.3 – –5.5 –17.3 Property, plant and equipment 0.1 17.4 –17.3 Intangible assets –1.4 2.4 – –7.3 –6.3 Intangible assets 0.2 6.5 –6.3 Inventory 0.5 0.9 – – 1.4 Inventory 1.8 0.4 1.4 Other current Other current assets 0.0 7.0 –7.0 assets 0.0 –1.8 – –5.2 –7.0 Untaxed reserves 0.0 26.9 –26.9 Other current Loss carry-forwards 2.8 0.0 2.8 liabilities –4.8 – 4.8 – 0.0 Other 0.8 0.1 0.7 Untaxed Tax assets/liabilities 5.7 58.3 –52.6 reserves –22.4 -4.5 – – –26.9 Offset –5.7 –5.7 0.0 Loss Tax assets/liabilities, net 0.0 52.6 –52.6 carry-­ forwards 0.0 –0.4 – 3.2 2.8 Deferred tax 2016 Other –0.2 0.6 – 0.1 0.7 SEK million Asset Liability Net –40.3 –2.5 4.8 –14.7 –52.6 Property, plant and equipment 0.1 12.1 –12.1 Intangible assets 0.1 1.5 –1.4 Balance Recognised Recognised Balance Inventory 0.9 0.5 0.5 as per in profit/ in other Acquisition/ as per Other current liabilities 0.0 4.8 –4.8 1 Jan loss for the comprehen­ Divest­ment 31 Dec SEK million 2016 year sive income of business 2016 Untaxed reserves 0.0 22.4 –22.4 Property, Other 0.0 0.2 –0.2 plant and Tax assets/liabilities 1.2 41.5 –40.3 equipment –10.4 –1.5 –0.2 – –12.1 Offset –1.2 –1.2 0.0 Intangible Tax assets/liabilities, net 0.0 40.3 -40.3 assets –2.4 1.3 –0.2 – –1.4 Inventory 1.0 –0.5 – – 0.5 Non-recognised deferred tax assets Other current Total unrecognised deferred tax assets amount to SEK 12.6 (11.4) million, liabilities 0.0 – –4.8 – –4.8 hereof tax loss carry-forwards for which deferred tax assets have not Other current been recognised in the income statement and balance sheet amount to receivables 1.0 – –1.0 – 0.0 SEK 12.6 (11.4) million, of which SEK 9.5 million expires within 1–5 years Untaxed and the remaining after 5 years. reserves –17.1 –5.3 – – –22.4 Other –1.9 1.9 –0.2 – –0.2 –29.8 –4.2 –6.3 0.0 –40.3 Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 61  ARTICIPATIONS IN ASSOCIATED P NOTE 12 COMPANIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES When the Group’s share of recognised losses in the associated Associated companies company exceeds the carrying amount of the participations in the Associated companies are companies over which the Group has a Group, the value of the participations is reduced to zero. The equity significant, but not a controlling influence over the operational and method is applied until the date that significant influence ends. financial governance, usually through an interest of between 20 and 50% of the number of votes. The vast majority of the associated The Group has assessed that no significant holdings in any individual companies in the Group are customers to the Denmark subsidiarassociated company exist. Specified below, a summary of financial ies, and also franchisees where they have access to the concepts information for non-significant holdings in associated companies are and brands Phønix Tag and Hetag Tagdækning. shown, based on the amounts included in the consolidated financial As of the date that controlling influence is obtained, participastatements. tions in associated companies are recognised according to the equity method in the consolidated accounts. The equity method means that the value of the shares recognised in the Group SEK million 2017 2016 corresponds to the Group’s share of the associated companies’ Carrying amount at beginning of the year 19.5 16.6 equity and consolidated goodwill and other potential remaining Acquisitions of associated companies 6.6 3.2 value of consolidated surpluses and deficits. In the consolidated Divestment of associated companies –0.2 –0.5 profit/loss for the year, the Group’s share of the associated Dividend for the year –10.8 –13.4 companies’ profit or loss adjusted for any depreciation, amortisaShare of profit in associated companies 15.1 12.5 tion, impairment losses and reversals of acquired surpluses or Reclassification 0.0 –1.0 deficits is recognised in ”Share of profit in associated companies”. Reversed impairment losses 0.0 1.8 These shares in profit less dividends received from the associated Translation difference for the year 0.4 0.3 companies comprise the main change in the carrying amount of Carrying amount at the end of the year 30.7 19.5 participations in associated companies. Any difference in the acquisition between the cost of the holding and the owner company’s share of the fair value of the associated Share of profit in associated companies 15.1 12.5 company’s identifiable assets and liabilities is recognised according Other comprehensive income 0.0 0.0 to the same policies as in the acquisition of subsidiaries. Total comprehensive income 15.1 12.5 Transaction costs that arise are included in the cost. SPECIFICATION OF HOLDINGS OF PARTICIPATIONS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES. 2017 2016 Voting and capital Voting and capital Associated companies Domicile share in % share in % Takkonsulten i Helsingborg AB Helsingborg, Sweden 25% 25% AB Tätskiktsgarantier i Norden Sundsvall, Sweden 50% 50% Hetag JK Tagentreprise ApS Herlev, Denmark 40% 40% Hetag Nordjysk Tag ApS Hjallerup, Denmark 40% 0% Hetag Tagdækning Nord A/S Risskov, Denmark 40% 40% Hetag Tagdækning Syd A/S Hedensted, Denmark 40% 40% Nordisk Tagdækning A/S Gadstrup, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag Energi A/S Hadsten, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag Esbjerg A/S Esbjerg, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag Fyn A/S Årslev, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag Grønland ApS Esbjerg, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag Holbæk-Næstved A/S Holbæk, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag København A/S Ishøj, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag Nordjylland A/S Svenstrup, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag Nordsjælland A/S Fredensborg, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag Storenterprise ApS Vejle, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag Sønderjylland A/S Aabenraa, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag Vejle A/S Vejle, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag Århus A/S Hadsten, Denmark 40% 40% Garantiselskabet Dansk Tagdækning A/S Copenhagen, Denmark 50% 50% Contents 62 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 NOTE 13 GROUP COMPANIES AND SUBSIDIARIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES Business combinations conducted after the transition to IFRS Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are reported using the aquisition method. This means Subsidiaries are companies that stand under a controlling influence that the acquisition of a subsidiary is viewed as a transaction through from the Parent Company. A controlling influence exists if the Parent which the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and Company has influence over the investment object, is exposed to or assumes its liabilities at fair value. In the acquisition analysis, the fair has the right to variable returns from its engagement and can use its value is determined on the acquisition date of the acquired identifiable influence over the investment to affect the returns. In the assessment assets and assumed liabilities, as well as any non-controlling as to whether a controlling influence exists, potential shares that interests. Transaction costs that arise are recognised directly in profit/ entitle the holder to votes are taken into account as well as whether loss for the year. de facto control exists. In business combinations where transferred consideration exceed The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities, the consolidated accounts as of the acquisition date until the date that the difference is reported as goodwill. When the difference is negative, the controlling influence ends. If the subsidiary’s accounting policies do negative goodwill is recognised directly in the profit/loss for the year. not correspond with the Group’s accounting poilicies, adaptation have Contingent considerations are recognised at fair value at the been made to conform to the Group’s accounting poilcies. Losses acquisition date. Contingent considerations are revalued at every reportattributable to non-controlling interests are also distributed if ing date and the change is recognised in the profit/loss for the year. non-controlling interests will be negative. In step acquisitions, goodwill is determined on the date that a When acquiring less than 100 percent of the equity interests of a controlling influence arises. Earlier holdings are valued at fair value subsidiary, the Group may enter into arrangements under which and changes in value are recognised in profit/loss for the year. Nordic Waterproofing has an obligation to acquire the minority Business combinations made before 1 January 2012 shareholders’ shares at a predetermined price at a future point in (date for the transition to IFRS) time (put options). Further, Nordic Waterproofing may have the right For acquisitions that took place before 1 January 2012 goodwill has, to acquire the shares (call options) on similar terms. Such arrangeafter impairment testing, been recognised at a cost that corresponds ments are generally treated as if the option had been exercised to the carrying amount according to previously applied accounting resulting in accounting for purchase of 100 percent of the equity policies. The classification and the accounting handling of business interest. The put option liability is treated as contingent consideration combinations that occurred before 1 January 2012 have not been and measured at fair value with changes in fair value reocognised in reviewed according to IFRS 3 in the preparation of the Group’s opening financial items. balance under IFRS at 1 January 2012. HOLDINGS IN SUBSIDIARIES The Group consists of 30 subsidiaries. These subsidiaries are owned through a majority of the votes in the respective subsidiary. 2017 2016 Voting and capital Voting and capital Subsidiary (domicile, country) share in % share in % Nordic Waterproofing Group 1 AB (Stockholm, Sweden) 100% 100% Nordic Waterproofing Group AB (Stockholm, Sweden) 100% 100% Nordic Waterproofing Holding ApS (Vejen, Denmark) 100% 100% Hetag Tagmaterialer A/S (Hedensted, Denmark) 100% 100% Nordic Waterproofing A/S (Vejen, Denmark) 100% 100% Hetag Tagdækning Vest A/S (Hedensted, Denmark) 100% 100% Tagselskabet af 1 maj 2014 A/S i likv. (Hedensted, Denmark) 100% 100% Hetag Tagdækning Sjælland A/S (dormant) (Vejen, Denmark) 100% 100% Taasinge Elementer A/S (Hampen, Denmark) 80% 0% LV Elements (Riga, Latvia) 100% 0% Nordic Build A/S (Svendborg, Denmark) 100% 0% Nordic Waterproofing AB (Trelleborg, Sweden) 100% 100% Nordic Waterproofing AS (Askim, Norway) 100% 100% Nordic Waterproofing Oy (Helsinki, Finland) 100% 100% AL-Katot Oy (Helsinki, Finland) 100% 100% KerabitPro Oy (Helsinki, Finland) 100% 100% LA Kattohuolto Oy (Muurame, Finland) 100% 0% Nordic Waterproofing Property Oy (Helsinki, Finland) 100% 100% SPT-Painting Oy (Helsinki, Finland) 100% 0% Nordic Waterproofing SpZoo (Lodz, Poland) 100% 100% SealEco AB (Värnamo, Sweden) 100% 100% SealEco BV (former EPDM Systems BV) (Lemelerveld, Netherlands) 67% 0% SealEco AG (Herzogenbuchsee, Switzerland) 51% 51% SealEco Su Yalitim Teknolojileri A.Ş. (Nilüfer, Turkey) 100% 100% SealEco GmbH (Marsberg, Germany) 100% 100% SealEco Holding Belgium NV (Brecht, Belgium) 100% 100% SealEco Belgium NV (Brecht, Belgium) 100% 100% SealEco Ltd (London, United Kingdom) 100% 100% SealEco Contracts Ltd (London, United Kingdom) 100% 100% SealEco NV (Brecht, Belgium) 100% 100% Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 63 NOTE 14 ACQUISITIONS On 24 January 2017, the acquisition of 67 percent of the shares and votes amounted to SEK 2 m in the form of consulting fees in connection with in the Dutch company EPDM Systems B.V. (“EPDM Systems”, renamed to the acquisition process. These consulting expenses have been recogSealEco BV) was completed by Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S’s nized as administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of profit subsidiary, SealEco AB, for SEK 12 m, of which SEK 12 m was paid in cash or loss and other comprehensive income, and are excluded from on the transaction of ownership. Nordic Waterproofing has a call option operating result (EBIT) before items affecting comparability of the Nordic and the minority shareholder (the CEO of EPDM Systems) has a put option Waterproofing Group. for the remaining 33 percent of the shares. The option gives SealEco AB The acquired business contributed net sales of SEK 19 m and net the right to buy, and the minority shareholder the right to sell, the shares profit of SEK 5 m to the Group for the period from 1 May to 31 December after 1 January 2022. For accounting purposes, the combined call and put 2017. option has been classified as a financial liability, and consequently, no If the acquisition had occured on 1 January 2017, consolidated non-controlling interest has been recognized. Goodwill includes the value proforma net sales and profit for the year ended 31 December 2017 of market knowledge and synergies from the transaction. No portion of the would have been SEK 2,188 m and SEK 137 m. These amounts have been goodwill is expected to be tax deductible. Acquisition-related costs calculated using the subsidiary’s results and adjusting them for: amounted to SEK 1 m in the form of consulting fees in connection with the • differences in accounting policies between the Group and the acquisition process. These consulting expenses have been recognized as subsidiary, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and • the additional amortization that would have been charged assuming other comprehensive income, and are excluded from operating result the fair value adjustments to intangible assets had applied from (EBIT) before items affecting comparability of the Nordic Waterproofing 1 January 2017, together with consequential tax effects. Group. On 4 July 2017, the acquisition of 80 percent of the shares and votes in The acquired business contributed net sales of SEK 80 m and net the Danish prefab specialist Taasinge Elementer A/S were acquired by profit of SEK 7 m to the Group for the period from 1 January to Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S’s subsidiary, Nordic Waterproofing 31 ­December 2017. Holding DK ApS, for SEK 94 m on a cash and debt free basis, of which On 31 January 2017, the acquisition of 100 percent of the shares and SEK 72 m was paid in cash on the transaction of ownership. It has also votes in the Finnish company SPT-Painting Oy was completed by Nordic been agreed that an earn-out may be paid within one year after Waterproofing Holding A/S’s subsidiary, Nordic Waterproofing Oy, for SEK completion of the acquisition depending on the financial performance of 31 m, of which SEK 31 m was paid in cash on the transaction of Taasinge Elementer A/S. Nordic Waterproofing has a call option and the ownership. It has also been agreed that an earn-out may be paid within minority shareholders (the CEO and COO of Taasinge Elementer A/S) has two years after completion of the acquisition depending on the financial a put option for the remaining 20 percent of the shares. The option gives performance of SPT-Painting. Goodwill includes the value of market Nordic Waterproofing DK Holding ApS the right to buy the shares after 4 knowledge and synergies from the transaction. No portion of the July 2024, and the minority shareholder the right to sell the shares after goodwill is expected to be tax deductible. Acquisition-related costs 4 July 2022. For accounting purposes, the combined call and put option amounted to SEK 2 m in the form of consulting fees in connection with has been classified as a financial liability, and consequently, no the acquisition process. These consulting expenses have been recognon-controlling interest has been recognized. Intangible assets include nized as administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of profit the value of the order book at the date of the acquisition amounting to or loss and other comprehensive income, and are excluded from approximately SEK 11 m, which will be amortized, and thus affecting operating result (EBIT) before items affecting comparability of the Nordic operating profit (EBIT) during approximately one year following the Waterproofing Group. acquisition. Goodwill includes the value of market knowledge and The acquired business contributed net sales of SEK 75 m and net synergies from the transaction. No portion of the goodwill is expected to profit of SEK 5 m to the Group for the period from 1 February to be tax deductible. Acquisition-related costs amounted to SEK 4 m in the 31 December 2017. form of consulting fees in connection with the acquisition process. These If the acquisition had occured on 1 January 2017, consolidated consulting expenses have been recognized as administrative expenses in proforma net sales and profit for the year ended 31 December 2017 the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive would have been SEK 2,192 m and SEK 138 m. These amounts have been income, and are excluded from operating result (EBIT) before items calculated using the subsidiary’s results and adjusting them for: affecting comparability of the Nordic Waterproofing Group. • differences in accounting policies between the Group and the The acquired business contributed net sales of SEK 92 m and net subsidiary, and profit of SEK 3 m to the Group for the period from 1 July to 31 December • the additional amortization that would have been charged assuming 2017. the fair value adjustments to intangible assets had applied from 1 If the acquisition had occured on 1 January 2017, consolidated January 2017, together with consequential tax effects. proforma net sales and profit for the year ended 31 December 2017 would have been SEK 2,272 m and SEK 143 m. These amounts have been On 28 April 2017, 100 percent of the shares and votes in the Finnish calculated using the subsidiary’s results and adjusting them for: company LA Kattohuolto Oy was completed by Nordic Waterproofing • differences in accounting policies between the Group and the Holding A/S’s subsidiary, Nordic Waterproofing Oy, for SEK 22 m on a subsidiary, and cash and debt free basis. It has also been agreed that an earn-out may • the additional amortization that would have been charged assuming be paid within two years after completion of the acquisition depending on the fair value adjustments to intangible assets had applied from 1 the financial performance of LA Kattohuolto. Goodwill includes the value January 2017, together with consequential tax effects. of market knowledge and synergies from the transaction. No portion of the goodwill is expected to be tax deductible. Acquisition-related costs In addition, a number of minor acquistions were carried out during 2017. Jan 2017 Jan 2017 Apr 2017 Jul 2017 2017 2017 Purchase ­consideration, EPDM SPTLA KattoTaasinge SEK million Systems B.V. Painting Oy huolto Oy Elementer A/S Other Total Cash paid 12.3 30.6 26.2 71.5 9.9 150.5 Call/put option 10.6 0.0 0.0 16.1 0.0 26.7 Earn-out 0.0 0.0 0.0 16.3 4.7 21.0 Total purchase consideration 22.9 30.6 26.2 103.9 14.6 198.2 Contents 64 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 The acquired companies’ net assets on the acquisition date: Jan 2017 Jan 2017 Apr 2017 Jul 2017 2017 2017 Acquisition analysis EPDM SPTLA KattoTaasinge SEKm, unless otherwise stated Systems B.V. Painting Oy huolto Oy Elementer A/S Other Total Intangible assets 10.0 8.2 7.8 33.2 0.0 59.2 Tangible assets 1.2 2.8 2.8 22.6 2.9 32.3 Inventories 12.4 2.5 0.2 22.0 0.7 37.8 Trade and other receivables 7.7 7.2 1.8 27.8 0.0 44.5 Cash and equivalents 0.0 3.9 4.8 18.6 0.0 27.3 Other non-interest bearing liabilities –6.2 –5.7 –1.8 –29.5 0.0 –43.2 Interest bearing liabilities –4.6 –4.6 –1.0 –40.8 –0.3 –51.3 Deferred tax liabilities –2.5 –1.6 –1.6 –9.0 0.0 –14.7 Net assets and liabilities 18.0 12.7 13.0 44.9 3.3 91.9 Goodwill 4.9 17.9 13.2 59.0 11.3 106.3 Consideration 22.9 30.6 26.2 103.9 14.6 198.2 Of the total consideration of SEK 22 m related to EPDM Systems, SEK of Taasinge Elementer A/S. Following the agreed acquisition balance, the 12 m has been paid in cash and SEK 10 m related to the call/put option final purchase price allocation analysis for Taasinge Elementer A/S was has been deferred and classified as long-term debt. Of the total adjusted and minor adjustments (SEK 3 m) of the fair values for the consideration of SEK 104 m related to Taasinge Elementer, SEK 72 m has combined call/put option and the additional purchase have been made, been paid in cash and SEK 16 m relating to the earn-out has been increasing goodwill accordingly. In addition, the purchase price allocation classified as short-term debt. SEK 16 m related to the call/put option has for EPDM Systems was restated and the fair value for the combined call/ been deferred and classified as long-term debt. put option at the time of the acquisition was increased (SEK 4 m), During the fourth quarter, the determination of the final initial increasing goodwill accordingly. purchase price and the acquisition balance were agreed with the sellers Jan 2017 Jan 2017 Apr 2017 Jul 2017 2017 2017 Acquisition of business –net cash impact, EPDM SPTLA KattoTaasinge SEK million Systems B.V. Painting Oy huolto Oy Elementer A/S Other Total Cash consideration 12.3 30.6 26.2 71.5 9.9 150.5 Less cash balances acquired 0.0 –3.9 –4.7 –18.6 0.0 –27.3 Net cash impact – investing activities 12.3 26.6 21.5 52.9 9.9 123.2 INFORMATION ON NOTE 15 THE PARENT COMPANY 50 percent however as the intention of the Group is to remain a minority owner the interest shall decrease as soon as possibly viable. Therefore, Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S is the Parent Company in the Group. temporary ownership exceeding 50 percent does not change the status of The Parent Company is a Danish company with CVR number 33395361 a associated company to subsidiary unless effects are considered to be domiciled in Vejen. substantial. The vast majority of the associated companies in the Group are customers to the Denmark subsidiaries, and also franchisees where The address of the company’s registered office is Vester Allé 1, 6600 they have access to the concepts and brands Phønix Tag and Hetag Vejen, Denmark, while the address of the Group’s operational head office Tagdækning. is Drottninggatan 11, 252 21 Helsingborg, Sweden. The following capital owners are listed in the company’s shareholders’ COMPILATION OF RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS register as owners of at least 5 percent of the votes or the capital: SEK million 2017 2016 Carnegie funds, Stockholm, Sweden Sale of goods/ services and royalties Swedbank Robur funds, Stockholm, Sweden to related parties 188.4 164.8 Mawer Investment Management, Calgary, Canada Purchases of goods/ services Catella funds, Stockholm, Sweden from related parties 0.0 0.0 Svolder, Stockholm, Sweden Other (e.g. interest, dividends) 10.8 13.5 Receivables on related parties at 31 December 18.9 12.3 NOTE 16 RELATED PARTIES Liabilities to related parties at 31 December 0.0 0.0 RELATED PARTY RELATIONSHIPS Transactions with related parties are priced on market-based terms. The Group has related party relationships with the associated companies stated in Note 12. The Parent Company also has a related party TRANSACTIONS WITH KEY PERSONS IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS relationship with its subsidiaries; see Note 13. Transactions with key persons in management positions are presented in Associated companies are companies over which the Group has a Note 7. These transactions comprise salaries, benefits and pension significant, but not a controlling influence over the operational and commitments, as well as participation in the Group’s incentive program. financial governance, usually through an interest of between 20 and No further transactions or commitments exist that cover key persons in 50 percent of the number of votes. The interest can temporarily exceed senior positions. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 65 NOTE 17 GOODWILL The recoverable amount for the respective segment has been based on ACCOUNTING POLICIES its value in use. This value is based on forecast cash flows established in Goodwill is valued at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. company management’s business forecast for the upcoming three years. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and impairment The cash flows have then been assumed to grow by 2 percent (2) per tested at least once a year. Goodwill that has arisen in the year. The cash flows have been present value calculated with a discount acquisition of associated companies is included in the carrying rate before tax of 10.2 percent (10.1) for Products & Solutions and amount for participations in associated companies. 9.1 percent (9.1) for Installation Services, respectively. For goodwill in acquisitions that took place before 1 January Important assumptions in the business forecast that affect the 2012, the Group has not applied IFRS retroactively in the transition estimate of the cash flows are presented below. The important to IFRS, but rather the carrying amount at that date constitutes in assumptions used and the types of assessments made for the respective continuation the Group’s cost after impairment testing. segments are similar to each other, even if cost structure and margin levels differ. The description below therefore applies to both segments. SEK million 2017 2016 Important Accumulated cost variables Estimation method Opening balance 616.0 598.4 Sales growth Forecasts of future sales are based on assessments of Acquisition of business 106.3 0.0 sales volumes and prices. Forecasts of the developExchange-rate differences for the year 10.5 17.6 ment of volumes and prices in future years are based on current market situations in the various submarkets Closing balance 732.8 616.0 and on an assessment of how they are expected to develop in the near future. The forecast largely agrees Carrying amounts with external information sources (approx. 2 percent) and prior experiences, with the difference that the At 1 January 616.0 598.4 prevailing market situation and thereby tough At 31 December 732.8 616.0 competition set pressure on volumes and prices for Installation Services. Consolidated goodwill consists of strategic business values that has Prices on Significant input goods are comprised of petroleum-­ arisen in business acquisitions. The main goodwill arose in 2011 in input goods based products. The price trend on these has been connection with the establishment of the Group, which is earlier than the negative and based on the expected future development date of transition to IFRS. Therefore, goodwill for instance comprises of on the commodities market, today’s development has customer relations, brands, the franchise concept and royalty and is been extrapolated and forecast in five years to increase allocated to segments in accordance with the agreed acquisition prices to a level in excess of today’s levels, which have historically been affected by the so-called supercycle for the respective company and business. for commodities. The forecast agrees with external Effective as of 1 January 2012, the Group’s contracting operations information sources. were incorporated. In connection with this incorporation, goodwill was allocated between the segments in relation to expected discounted cash Personnel The forecast for personnel costs is based on expected costs inflation, some real salary growth (historical average) flows. and planned efficiency enhancements to the company’s production (according to a set three-year plan). The IMPAIRMENT TESTING FOR CASH-GENERATING UNITS CONTAINING forecast agrees with earlier experiences and external GOODWILL information sources. The company has identified the following cash-generating units that contain goodwill: Testing has not led to any impairment losses and company management assesses that no reasonably possible changes in important assumptions SEK million 2017 2016 would mean that the recoverable amount would drop below the carrying Products & Solutions 625.3 546.1 amount. Installation Services 107.5 69.9 732.8 616.0 Contents 66 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 NOTE 18 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS ACCOUNTING POLICIES Research and evelopent Other intangible assets Expenditures for development, where research results or other Other intangible assets acquired by the Group are recognised at cost knowledge is applied to achieve new or improved products or processless accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. Other es, are recognised as an asset in the statement of financial position if intangible assets primarily comprise acquired customer relationships. the product or process is technically and commercially usable, the Customer relationships are amortised straight-line over the expected company may reliably calclulate the expenditure that will be activated, useful life, normally 5–7 years, and are included in the statement of and the company has adequate resources to complete development, profit or loss item Cost of goods sold. The order book included in that will provide economic benefits in the future. The carrying amount other intangible assets relates to earnings in acquired order book. includes all directly attributable expenditures, e.g. for materials and It is amortised straight-line over 12 months and is included in the services, compensation to employees, registration of a legal right, statement of profit or loss item Cost of goods sold. Software that has amortisation on patents and licences, borrowing expenses in been developed or extensively adapted on behalf of the Group is also accordance with IAS 23. Development expenditures recognised in the included among other intangible assets. Amortisation of software is statement of financial position are initially measured at cost less applied straight-line over the useful life, although a maximum of accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. 5 years, and is included in the statement of profit or loss item Administrative expenses. Capitalized expenses for ongoing Customer SEK million Software R&D projects ­relationships Order book Total At 1 January 2016 Cost 1.9 0.0 0.0 19.2 0.0 21.0 Accumulated amortization and impairment –1.9 0.0 0.0 –10.5 0.0 –12.4 Net book amount 0.0 0.0 0.0 8.7 0.0 8.7 2016 Opening net book amount 0.0 0.0 0.0 8.7 0.0 8.7 Reclassification 6.5 0.2 3.7 0.0 0.0 10.4 Amortization –0.6 –0.1 0.0 –2.9 0.0 –3.6 Exchange-rate differences 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.7 0.0 0.7 Closing net book amount 5.8 0.1 3.7 6.5 0.0 16.2 At 31 December 2016 Cost 8.4 0.2 3.7 21.1 0.0 33.4 Accumulated amortisation and impairment –2.5 –0.1 0.0 –14.6 0.0 –17.2 Net book amount 5.8 0.1 3.7 6.5 0.0 16.2 2017 Opening net book amount 5.8 0.1 3.7 6.5 0.0 16.2 Acquisitions 0.0 0.1 0.0 47.9 11.2 59.2 Investments 0.9 0.1 1.0 0.0 0.0 2.0 Reclassification 0.6 3.4 –3.9 0.0 0.0 0.1 Amortization –1.5 –0.4 0.0 –7.4 –5.6 –14.9 Exchange-rate differences 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.9 0.1 1.1 Closing net book amount 5.9 3.4 0.8 47.9 5.7 63.7 At 31 December 2017 Cost 10.0 3.9 0.8 69.9 11.3 95.9 Accumulated amortization and impairment –4.1 –0.5 0.0 –22.0 –5.6 –32.2 Net book amount 5.9 3.4 0.8 47.9 5.7 63.7 The Group’s customer relationships and order book have arisen in Amortizations are included in the following items in the consolidated connection with business acquisitions. statement of profit or loss: SEK million 2017 2016 Cost of goods sold 13.1 3.0 Administrative expenses 1.8 0.6 14.9 3.6 Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 67 NOTE 19 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Estimated useful lives: Owned assets Office buildings: Property, plant and equipment are recognised in the Group at cost Framework, facades, roofs and windows 25–57 years less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. The cost Other  25–57 years includes the purchase price and expenditures directly attributable to Industrial buildings: Framework, facades, roofs  25–57 years the asset to put it in place and in the condition to be used in accordOther  25–57 years ance with the purpose of the acquisition. Plant and machinery 5–10 years Property, plant and equipment that consist of components with Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 5 years different useful lives are treated as separate components of property, plant and equipment. Applied depreciation methods, residual values and useful lives are The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment reviewed at the end of every year. is taken off the statement of financial position upon disposal or divestment or when no future financial benefits are expected from the Leased assets use or disposal/divestment of the asset. Gains or losses that arise Leases are classified either as finance or operating leases. Finance upon divestment or disposal of an asset comprise the difference leases exist when the financial risks and benefits associated with between the selling price and the asset’s carrying amount less direct ownership are essentially transferred to the lessee. When this is not selling expenses. Gains and losses are recognised as other operating the case, it is an operating lease. income/expenses. Assets leased under finance leases are recognised as property, Subsequent expenditures plant and equipment in the statement of financial position and initially Subsequent expenditures are capitalised only if it is likely that the valued at the lower of the leased asset’s fair value and the present future financial benefits associated with the asset will flow to the value of the minimum lease payments upon entering the lease. company and the cost can be reliably calculated. All other subsequent The obligation to pay future lease payments is recognised as a expenditures are expensed in the period they arise. non-­current or current liability. The leased assets are depreciated A subsequent expenditure is capitalised if the expenditure pertains over the respective asset’s useful life while the lease payments are to replacements of identified components or parts thereof. The recognised as interest and repayment of the liabilities. expenditure is also capitalised if a new component has been created. Assets leased under operating leases as a rule are not recognised Any non-depreciated carrying amounts on replaced components, or as an asset in the statement of financial position. Operating leases parts of components, are disposed of and expensed in connection with also do not give rise to a liability. the replacement. Repairs are continuously expensed. Finance lease Depreciation policies The minimum lease payments are distributed between interest Depreciation is applied straight-line over the asset’s estimated useful expense and repayment of the outstanding liability. The interest life; land is not depreciated. Leased assets are also depreciated over expense is distributed over the term of the lease so that each the estimated useful life or, if it is shorter, over the agreed term of the accounting period is charged an amount that corresponds to a fixed lease. The Group applies component depreciation, which means that interest rate for the liability recognised in the respective period. the components’ estimated useful life forms the basis of depreciation. Variable payments are expensed in the periods in which they arise. Land and Equipment Construction SEK million ­buildings Machinery & tools in progress Total At 1 January 2016 Cost 100.1 112.3 37.6 19.5 269.5 Accumulated amortisation and impairment –17.8 –46.5 –18.1 0.0 –82.4 Net book amount 82.2 65.8 19.5 19.5 187.1 2016 Opening net book amount 82.2 65.8 19.5 19.5 187.1 Investments 0.2 5.4 6.1 8.9 20.7 Divestments and disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 –0.1 Reclassification 0.0 11.5 3.6 –25.3 –10.2 Depreciation –3.2 –13.4 –4.4 0.0 –20.9 Exchange-rate differences 2.1 0.9 0.3 0.2 3.5 Closing net book amount 81.4 70.2 25.1 3.4 180.1 At 31 December 2016 Cost 103.0 130.4 47.9 3.4 284.7 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –21.6 –60.3 –22.7 0.0 –104.6 Net book amount 81.4 70.2 25.1 3.4 180.1 Contents 68 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 Land and Equipment Construction SEK million ­buildings Machinery & tools in progress Total 2017 Opening net book amount 81.4 70.2 25.1 3.4 180.1 Acquisitions 19.4 8.8 2.8 1.3 32.3 Investments 0.4 7.5 3.3 10.0 21.2 Divestments and disposals –0.5 –0.5 0.0 0.0 –1.0 Reclassification 0.3 12.0 0.2 –12.6 –0.1 Depreciation –4.2 –16.9 –4.4 0.0 –25.5 Exchange-rate differences 1.5 1.0 0.3 0.0 2.8 Closing net book amount 98.3 82.1 27.3 2.1 209.8 At 31 December 2017 Cost 124.1 159.3 54.3 2.1 339.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –25.8 –77.2 –27.0 0.0 –130.0 Net book amount 98.3 82.1 27.3 2.1 209.8 Depreciations are included in the following items in the consolidated statement of profit or loss: SEK million 2017 2016 Cost of goods sold 22.0 18.0 Selling expenses 1.0 0.9 Administrative expenses 2.5 2.1 Total 25.5 20.9 NOTE 20 OPERATING LEASES NOTE 21 INVENTORY ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES Expenses concerning operating leases are recognised in profit/loss Inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. for the year straight-line over the term of the lease. Variable The cost of inventory is calculated using the first-in, first-out policy payments are expensed in the periods in which they arise. (FIFO) and includes expenses arising in the acquisition of the inventory assets and their transport to their current location and condition. For manufactured goods and work in progress, the cost LEASES WHERE THE COMPANY IS LESSEE includes a reasonable share of indirect expenses based on a normal Future payments for leases that cannot be cancelled amount to: capacity. SEK million 2017 2016 The net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the Within one year 25.4 23.4 operating activities, less estimated costs for completion and to Between one and five years 38.6 43.0 achieve a sale. After more than five years 1.0 0.1 Total 65.0 66.5 SEK million 2017 2016 Of the Group’s operating leases, most pertain to leases for properties Raw materials and consumables 61.1 45.4 and premises where operations are conducted. Finished goods and goods for resale 198.5 128.2 Total 259.6 173.6 Expensed payments for operating leases amount to: All inventory items are recognized as cost of goods sold at the time of the SEK million 2017 2016 sale or scrapping of products. No additional write-downs have been Minimum lease fees 26.6 24.9 made other than the physical scrapping of products identified as being Variable fees 0.0 0.1 obsolete. Total leasing costs 26.6 25.0 No leased assets have been subleased. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 69 NOTE 22 TRADE RECEIVABLES  CCRUED EXPENSES AND A Trade receivable are recognised after consideration is taken to bad debt NOTE 27 PREPAID INCOME losses arising during the year that amounted to SEK –3.5 (–0.3) million. SEK million 2017 2016 For more information on credit risk in trade receivable, refer to Personnel-related expenses 90.7 79.3 Note 34. Interest expenses 1.2 1.2 Customer bonuses 17.3 13.4  Claims 6.9 5.3 RECEIVABLES FOR ON-GOING NOTE 23 Other 17.0 10.7 ­CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS Total 133.1 109.8 SEK million 2017 2016 Performed revenues on on-going ­construction contracts 516.5 345.8 NOTE 28 O THER INVESTMENTS Invoicing on on-going construction contracts –472.6 –321.1 Total 43.9 24.7 SEK million 2017 2016 Financial assets available for sale Shares and participations 2.0 1.9 NOTE 24 OTHER CURRENT RECEIVABLES This item is essentially comprised of shares in unlisted companies. The company has deemed that the fair value of the shares have not been able ACCOUNTING POLICIES to be estimated with sufficient reliability. The shares have therefore been Current receivables essentially consist of amounts expected to be valued at cost in accordance with the requirements in IAS 39. The shares recovered within 12 months of the reporting date. belong to the measurement category “Financial assets available-­for­-sale” in IAS 39. SEK million 2017 2016 VAT receivables 3.2 3.0 Fair value, commodity derivatives 0.0 22.1 NOTE 29 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Balance on tax account 5.4 1.7 SEK million 2017 2016 Other receivables 2.3 1.1 The following subcomponents are included Total 10.9 27.9 in cash and cash equivalents: Cash and bank balances 156.8 328.4  PREPAID EXPENSES AND Total as per balance sheet 156.8 328.4 NOTE 25 ACCRUED INCOME Total as per cash flow statement 156.8 328.4 NOTE 30 EQUITY SEK million 2017 2016 Prepaid sales and marketing expenses 2.4 1.1 Prepaid energy costs 0.2 0.2 SHARE CAPITAL AND NUMBER OF SHARES IT 1.5 1.8 Stated in number of shares 2017 2016 Insurance 1.3 1.0 Issued at 1 January 24,083,935 11,546,831 Rent 2.4 1.7 Issue of bonus shares, May 2016 – 2,297,819,369 Supplier bonuses 0.0 2.8 Change of the nominal value of each Other 5.7 2.9 share, May 2016 – –2,286,272,538 Total 13.5 11.6 Elimination of liquidation preference – 22,389 Exercise of warrants, June 2016 – 967,884 NOTE 26 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES Issued at 31 December – paid 24,083,935 24,083,935 Number of shares by class: ACCOUNTING POLICIES Class A shares 24,083,935 24,083,935 Current liabilities essentially consist of amounts expected to be paid Total 24,083,935 24,083,935 within 12 months of the reporting date. All shares have a quotient value of DKK 1.00 (1.00). Holders of ordinary SEK million 2017 2016 shares are entitled to dividends determined in arrears and the shareholding entitles to voting rights at the General Meeting with one vote per Personnel-related liabilities 9.4 6.0 share. VAT liabilities 18.7 5.3 Customer bonuses 4.6 4.4 RESERVES Advances from customers 2.9 0.0 Translation reserve Short term earn-out liability 18.6 0.0 The translation reserve includes all exchange-rate differences that arise Other liabilities 3.0 4.5 in the translation of financial statements from foreign operations that Total 57.2 20.2 have prepared their financial statements in a currency other than the currency that the consolidated financial statements are presented in. The Group presents its financial statements in SEK. In addition, the translation reserve consists of exchange-rate differences that arise in the revaluation of liabilities that have been taken up as hedging instruments by a net investment in a foreign operation. Contents 70 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 Hedging reserve The hedging reserve includes unrealised fair value gains and losses on NOTE 32 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES hedging instruments. ACCOUNTING POLICIES RETAINED EARNINGS INCLUDING PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Non-current liabilities essentially consist of amounts expected to be Retained earnings including profit for the year include profits earned in paid after more than 12 months from the reporting date. Current the Group. Earlier reservations to the statutory reserve, excluding liabilities essentially consist of amounts expected to be paid within transferred share premium reserves, are included in this equity item. 12 months of the reporting date. The item also includes other equity contributed by the shareholders. This includes premiums paid in connection with new share issues. SEK million 2017 2016 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Non-current liabilities The Group strives to maintain a strong financial position that contributes Bank loans 360.3 352.9 to retaining the confidence of creditors and the market, which constitutes Finance lease liabilities 0.0 0.0 a basis for continued development of the business. The Group defines Total 360.3 352.9 managed capital as total recognised equity. The financial targets for Nordic Waterproofing Group, which are valid The non-current part of bank loans has been reduced by SEK 2.8 (3.6) as from 2016, include a dividend policy and targets for the capital million with regard to period-allocated arrangement costs for bank loans. structure. Nordic Waterproofing aims to have an annual dividend of more than 50 percent of its net profit. The pay out decision will be based on the SEK million 2017 2016 Company’s financial position, investment needs, liquidity position as well Current liabilities as general economic and business conditions. Net debt in relation to Current part of bank loans 0.0 0.0 EBITDA before items affecting comparability (measured on a rolling-­ Current part of finance lease liabilities 0.0 0.5 twelve months basis), excluding temporary deviations, shall not exceed Total 0.0 0.5 2.5 times. Dividend of SEK 90.3 (0.0) million has been paid to the owners during 2017, why leverage has increased and amounts to 0.8x EBITDA The current part of bank loans has been reduced by SEK 0.0 (0.0) million (0.1x) as per the end of the reporting period. with regard to period-allocated arrangement costs for bank loans. RECONCILIATION OF DEVELOPMENT OF LOANS AND BORROWINGS TO NOTE 31 EARNINGS PER SHARE FINANCING ACTIVITIES IN THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT SEK million 2017 2016 SEK million 2017 2016 Interest-bearing liabilities Earnings per share before and after dilution 5.71 6.49 at the beginning of the year 353.4 322.8 The calculation of the numerator and denominator used in the above Assumed loans and borrowings in acquired calculations of earnings per share is presented below. companies 48.8 0.0 Proceeds from loans and borrowings 0.4 347.6 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR ATTRIBUTABLE TO PARENT COMPANY Repayment of loans and borrowings –50.1 –343.0 SHAREHOLDERS, BEFORE AND AFTER DILUTION Period-allocated arrangement costs for bank loans 0.8 3.6 SEK million 2017 2016 Capitalized interest cost 0.0 9.3 Profit/loss attributable to Parent Company shareholders, before and after dilution 136.9 156.2 Exchange-rate differences for the year 7.0 13.1 Interest-bearing liabilities WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF OUTSTANDING SHARES, at the end of the year 360.3 353.4 BEFORE AND AFTER DILUTION In shares Total number of shares, 1 January 2017 24,083,935 2016 23,093,662 NOTE 33 O THER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Effect of new share issue – 990,273 Weighted average number of shares ACCOUNTING POLICIES during the year, before and after Non-current liabilities essentially consist of amounts expected to be dilution 24,083,935 24,083,935 recovered or paid after 12 months of the reporting date. SEK million 2017 2016 Long term put option liabilities 31.0 0.0 Long term additional consideration liability 4.3 0.0 Other liabilities 1.8 0.0 Total 37.1 0.0 Other non-current liabilities consists primarily of contingent liabilites in relation to acquired companies. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 71  INANCIAL RISKS AND F NOTE 34 FINANCE POLICY TREASURY POLICY AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT June 2021. On 31 December 2017, the Group’s non-current interest-­ The Group’s treasury policy for the management of financial risks has been bearing liabilites comprises of a EUR 37.5 (37.5) million term loan facility. established by the Board and forms a framework of guidelines and rules in The loan facility bears variable interest and runs without requiring the form of risk mandates and limits for financing activities. The CFO is repayment in instalments. responsible for compliance to the policy and for reporting any deviations to The financing agreement contains financial covenants regarding the the CEO, who in turn informs the Board. The Board updates and establishes net debt/EBITDA ratio as well as interest coverage ratio. The covenants the policy once a year, or more often if circumstances require. are monitored and followed up on a quarterly basis. At the reporting The management of financial risks within Nordic Waterproofing is date, the Group fulfilled all covenants. centralised to the Group’s finance function (”Group Finance”), which also The Group’s bank loans are raised in EUR and in SEK. serves as the Group’s internal bank. With the aim of managing the liquidity risk, the finance policy The Board has identified the following financial risks as the most prescribes that the Group shall have a liquidity reserve consisting of cash significant to the Group: liquidity and financing risk, interest rate risk, and bank balances, current investments and unutilised credit facilities of currency risk, raw material price risk and credit risk. at least SEK 40 million. If the liquidity reserve falls below, or is expected to fall below, this amount the Board shall be informed. At the reporting LIQUIDITY AND FINANCING RISK date, cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 156.8 (328.4) million. Financing risk is defined in the finance policy as the risk that loans In addition, there were unutilised credit facilities in the form of overdraft cannot be refinanced when necessary, that financing cannot be obtained facilities of EUR 14,4 (14,4) million, corresponding to SEK 141.8 (137.8) or that refinancing is only possible at unfavourable terms. It is incumbent million. on Group Finance to continuously forecast the Group’s liquidity The table below shows the maturity structure for the Group’s financial requirements and to continuously maintain contracts with relevant credit liabilities including derivative liabilities. For each period, due dates are institutions to maintain access to competitive financing. presented for capital amounts and payment of interest. For liabilities with In connection with the Initial Public Offering in June 2016, the Group’s variable interest, the future interest payments have been estimated based principal external financing was replaced by a new agreement valid until on the variable spot rate that applied on the reporting date. 2017 Contractual payments of capital amounts and interest SEK million Nominal amounts Jan–June 2018 July–Dec 2018 2019 2020 to 2023 After 2023 Interest-bearing liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Bank loans 360.3 – – – 360.3 – Current interest-bearing liabilities Finance lease liabilities 0.0 – – – – – Interest 20.8 3.0 3.0 5.9 8.9 – Non-interest-bearing liabilities Non-current non-interest-bearing liabilities Long term put option liability 31.0 – – – 31.0 – Long term additional consideration liability 4.3 – 0.3 0.7 2.9 0.4 Other long term liabilities 1.8 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.9 0.5 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities Trade payable 90.7 90.7 – – – – Accrued interest expenses 1.5 1.5 – – – – Total 510.4 95.3 3.4 6.9 404.1 0.9 Less bank balances –156.8 –156.8 – – – – Net 353.6 –61.5 3.4 6.9 404.1 0.9 2016 Contractual payments of capital amounts and interest SEK million Nominal amounts Jan–June 2017 July–Dec 2017 2018 2019 to 2022 After 2022 Interest-bearing liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Bank loans 352.9 – – – 352.9 – Current interest-bearing liabilities Finance lease liabilities 0.5 0.5 – – – – Interest 26.2 2.9 2.9 5.8 14.6 – Non-interest-bearing liabilities Trade payable 66.0 66.0 – – – – Accrued interest expenses 1.4 1.4 – – – – Total 446.9 70.8 2.9 5.8 367.5 0.0 Less bank balances –328.4 –328.4 – – – – Net 118.5 –257.6 2.9 5.8 367.5 0.0 Contents 72 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 INTEREST RATE RISK The Group’s exposure in EUR against SEK is affected by part of the Interest rate risk consists of the risk that a change of market rates has a Group’s bank loans being raised in EUR, as well as net investment hedge negative impact on the consolidated statement of profit or loss or arrangements. A 10 percent strengthening/weakening of the EUR against statement of financial position. The Group’s bank loans run with variable the SEK would have affected the Group’s net financial items by SEK interest in the form of EURIBOR 3M plus a margin. +/– 2.7 (4.9) million, given the net liabilities that were outstanding on the reporting date (less cash holdings). Other comprehensive income would Sensitivity analysis, interest rate risk have been affected by translation differences of SEK +/– 11.8 (4.8) million An increase/decrease of EURIBOR 3M by 100 interest rate points would including the effect of hedge arrangements metioned above and as set have increased/decreased the Group’s annual interest expenses by out in the below schedule: approximately SEK 2.0 (0.2) million based on the size of the bank loans and finance lease liabilities less bank balances at the reporting date. SEK million 2017 2016 Bank loan in EUR 156.3 151.8 CURRENCY RISK Bank overdraft in EUR 27.4 49.0 Currency risk consists of the risk of negative impact on the consolidated Gross exposure in EUR 183.7 200.8 statement of profit or loss, statement of financial position or statement Hereof designated as net investment hedge of cash flows as a result of exchange-rate changes. Exposure to currency instrument –156.3 –151.8 risk can be divided into transaction exposure and translation exposure. Net exposure in EUR 27.4 49.0 Transaction exposure Transaction exposure is the risk of a negative impact on the consolidated The effect on the profit and loss statement and comprehensive income profit due to changes in exchange rates that affect the value of a can be summarized as follows (illustrating a 10 percent weakening of the commercial transaction in a foreign currency relative to the functional EUR against SEK): currency for the Group company making the transaction. The Group has significant cash flows in foreign currencies (DKK, EUR and NOK) that SEK million 2017 2016 arise in the ordinary course of the Group’s business. However, inflows Profit and loss statement and outflows of those foreign currencies are naturally well balanced and Exchange gain on bank loan 15.6 15.2 any net transaction exposure is therefore considered insignificant. Exchange gain on bank overdraft 2.7 4.9 Accordingly, only cash flows that are unusual for the Group are currency Gross effect on profit and loss statement 18.3 20.1 hedged, such as binding significant contracts in foreign currencies with Hedge part of gain on bank loan –15.6 –15.2 longer durations than apply for normal transactions. As at 31 December Net effect on profit and loss statement 2.7 4.9 2017, there were no outstanding currency hedges. Translation exposure Other comprehensive income Translation exposure arises in the translation of the statements of Translation loss on subsidiaries in EUR financial position and statements of profit or loss for foreign subsidiaries countries –27.4 –20.0 to SEK, which is the Group’s presentation currency. The translation (Finland, Belgium and the Netherlands) exposure is related to the subsidiaries in Finland, Belgium, the Hedge part of gain on bank loan 15.6 15.2 Netherlands, Denmark and Norway as the functional currency for these Net effect on comprehensive income –11.8 –4.8 subsidiaries are EUR, DKK and NOK. A strengthened SEK compared to EUR, DKK and NOK will lead to negative translation differences and a Total effect on profit & loss statement and weakened SEK will lead to positive translation differences. In accordance and comprehensive income –9.1 0.1 with the accounting policies these translation differences are recognised A 10 percent strengthening/weakening of the NOK against the SEK would in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a special reserve, have affected the Group’s net financial items by SEK +/– 3.8 (3.0) million, called a translation reserve. In 2017 the translation differences given the cash holdings on the reporting date, and other comprehensive amounted to SEK 19.8 (18.2) million. income would have been affected by translation differences of SEK Part of the Group’s borrowing in EUR is used to hedge the Group’s net +/– 3.9 (3.6) million. investments in the same currency, i.e. the translation exposure related to subsidiaries in Finland, Belgium and the Netherlands. The assets for RAW MATERIAL PRICE RISK these subsidiaries are at the reporting date SEK 274.2 (199.8) million Raw material price risk consists of the risk that changes in the price of compared to oustanding loans in EUR of SEK 156.3 (151,8) million. The raw materials have an unexpected impact on the consolidated statement part of exchange rate gains/losses on the loans in EUR related to the of profit or loss, statement of financial position or statement of cash hedge of translation exposure is recognised in other comprehensive flows. Nordic Waterproofing is primarily exposed to the risk of price income, while the remaining part of the exchange rate gains/losses is fluctuations on four kinds of raw materials: bitumen, SBS, polyester and recognised as finance income/costs in the consolidated statement of EPDM. In 2017, these materials accounted for 64 percent (59) of the profit or loss. Gains/losses on the loans in EUR related to the hedge of Group’s total raw materials costs. The largest exposure is in bitumen, the translation exposure recognised in other comprehensive income price of which is the most volatile in the short term. Derivative instruamounted to SEK –4.5 (–7.1) million. ments based on HSFO (High Sulphur Fuel Oil) are used to hedge the The net translation differences, which mainly related to Denmark and Group’s exposure to the price of bitumen, as there is a high correlation Norway, amounted to SEK 15.3 (11.1) million. At the reporting date the between the bitumen and HSFO price. As from December 2015 hedge accumulated translation differences after tax recognised in the accounting is applied as conditions for qualification are fulfilled. translation reserve amounted to SEK 23.0 (6.8) million. The treasury policy does not allow translation exposures to be hedged Sensitivity analysis, bitumen price using currency derivatives. A 10 percent increase/decrease in the price of bitumen would have impacted the statement of profit and loss in an amount of SEK +/– 12.1 Sensitivity analysis, currency risk (10.4) million without taking into consideration the effect of fair value The Group has a significant exposure in DKK, EUR and NOK against SEK, changes on any outstanding bitumen derivate contracts. Expressed as of which the exposure in DKK is the most significant. A 10 percent changes in the underlying HSFO price, a 10 USD per ton increase/ strengthening/weakening of the DKK against the SEK would have decrease would have impacted the statement of profit and loss by affected the Group’s net financial items by SEK +/– 8.5 (16.8) million, approximately SEK +/– 3.6 (3.4) million. given the cash holdings on the reporting date, and other comprehensive As at 31 December 2017, there were no outstanding hedge agreements income would have been affected by translation differences of SEK (expected purchases of bitumen for delivery during January to September +/– 40.4 (11.8) million. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 73 2017, in total equivalent to 30,000 tons or approximately 80 percent of the Loans and expected annual purchasing volume were hedged at the end of 2016). receivables A 10 percent increase/decrease in the price of bitumen would have SEK million 2017 2016 impacted the fair value of outstanding derivative instruments in an Financial assets not measured at fair value amount of SEK +/– 0.0 (8.1) million, which would have affected other Non-current receivables from associated comprehensive income for 2017. companies 5.8 5.2 Other non-current receivables 12.0 0.0 CREDIT RISK Current receivables from associated Commercial credit risk companies 13.0 7.1 Commercial credit risk is comprised of the risk of losses if any of the Receivables for on-going construction Group’s customers become insolvent and cannot fulfil their undertakcontracts 43.9 24.7 ings. Credit risk is managed locally at the respective business unit Current tax assets 1.9 0.0 through internal procedures and controls for the evaluation and check of Other current receivables 10.9 27.9 credit ratings from external credit rating companies. If deemed viable in Accounts receivable 199.8 149.7 relation to risk exposure, credit insurance can be used. Total financial assets not measured In 2017, no single customer accounted for more than 3.7 (4.0) percent at fair value 287.3 214.6 of consolidated sales, and the five largest customers accounted for 13.2 (14.1) percent of consolidated sales. Total financial assets 287.3 236.7 On the reporting date, there is no significant concentration of credit exposure. The maximum credit risk exposure is apparent from the carrying amount for receivables in the statement of financial position. Financial liabilities at fair value AGE ANALYSIS, OVERDUE UNIMPAIRED TRADE RECEIVABLE through profit or loss SEK million 2017 2016 SEK million 2017 2016 Financial liabilities at fair value Trade receivable not overdue 147.7 111.9 Other non-current liabilities Overdue 1–30 days 40.8 24.8 Long term put option liability 31.0 0.0 Overdue 31–90 days 6.2 8.4 Long term earn out liability 4.3 0.0 Overdue > 90 days 5.1 4.6 Other current liabilities Carrying amount 199.8 149.7 Short term earn out liability 18.6 0.0 RESERVE FOR DOUBTFUL RECEIVABLES Total financial liabilites at fair value 53.9 0.0 SEK million 2017 2016 Opening balance –1.8 –2.1 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Reversal of previously applied impairment losses 0.8 0.2 SEK million 2017 2016 Write-off of previous credit losses 0.5 0.3 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Credit losses for the year –3.5 –0.3 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 360.3 352.9 Exchange-rate differences for the year 0.0 0.0 Current interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 0.5 Closing balance –3.9 –1.8 Trade payable 90.7 66.0 All impaired trade receivables are overdue more than 90 days. Other current liabilities 38.9 21.4 Accrued interest expenses 1.2 1.2 Financial credit risk Total financial liabilites not measured The financial activities in the Group entail an exposure to credit risks. at fair value 491.1 441.8 The Group’s exposure to financial credit risk is primarily comprised of receivables from banks in the form of bank balances. In addition to this, Total financial liabilities 545.0 441.8 exposure arises through receivables from counter-parties linked to positive market values on derivative contracts entered into. Financial instruments measured at fair value in the balance sheet consist of contingent liabilities arising from acquisitions. The fair value CARRYING AMOUNTS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY of these liabilities has been established through a discount of expected MEASUREMENT CATEGORY future payments. The fair value measurement belong to level 3 in the fair The table below presents the carrying amounts for financial assets and value hierarchy in IFRS 13. liabilities by measurement category in IAS 39. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss SEK million 2017 2016 Financial assets at fair value Other current receivables Commodity derivatives 0.0 22.1 Total financial assets at fair value 0.0 22.1 Contents 74 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 NOTE 35 C ONTINGENT LIABILITIES Nevertheless, if the Danish Competition Appeals Board follows the ACCOUNTING POLICIES recommendations of the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority A contingent liability is disclosed when there is a possible and decides that Nordic Waterproofing A/S is in breach of the Danish commitment that originates from events occurred and the existence competition rules, the Company may risk an order to pay a fine and of which is confirmed only by one or more uncertain future events compensation in a civil action. The amount of such a fine cannot be beyond the Group’s control, or when there is a commitment that is predicted, but according to a legal assessment, it is probable that the not recognised as a liability or provision on the grounds that it is not breach will be considered a “serious breach”, which under applicable likely that an outflow of resources will be required or cannot be guidelines on fines will be assessed based on a basic amount of DKK calculated with sufficient reliability. 4–20 million. As the Management of the Nordic Waterproofing Group disagrees with the decision of the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority and SEK million 2017 2016 considering that the investigation is still pending and the outcome is Contingent liabilities uncertain, provisions have not been made in the Annual Report in this Guarantees for the benefit of subsidiaries 39.4 40.7 respect. Guarantees for the benefit of associated The decision of the Authority has resulted in two civil law proceedings companies 42.5 40.2 raising a claim (in solidum) totalling DKK 136.3 million due to the Total contingent liabilities 81.9 80.8 claimed restrictive trade agreement. As Nordic Waterproofing A/S disputes this decision, it also disputes Security in the form of guarantee commitments have been made for the any liability in respect of the two civil law proceedings referred to above. benefit of the Finnish Group companies’ completion guarantees for Both proceedings have however been suspended to await the decision contractor projects in a maximum of EUR 4.0 (4.25) million correspond(preliminary) from the Danish Competition Appeals Board. A final ing to SEK 39.4 (40.7) million at the reporting date, and a total of DKK decision in respect of the two proceedings is therefore not expected to be 17.1 (16.2) million (corresponding to SEK 22.6 (20.8) million at the made until the final decision has been made in the first case. Additionally, reporting date) for the benefit of the Danish associated companies’ credit it should be noted that Nordic Waterproofing A/S does not consider the commitments. The latter guarantees are, however, limited per company claims raised substantiated and justified. and amount to a maximum of DKK 2.5 (1.5) million corresponding to SEK 3.3 (1.9) million for an individual associated company. In addition to this, Group companies have guaranteed completion guarantees regarding associated companies’ project corresponding to a NOTE 36 A UDIT FEES AND EXPENSES maximum of DKK 15.0 (15.0) million corresponding to SEK 19.8 (19.3) SEK million 2017 2016 million. PwC On 20 November 2014, the Danish Competition and Consumer Statutory audit 2.4 2.1 Authority (“DCCA”) carried out an investigation of, among others, the Other assurance services 0.3 1.4 Danish subsidiary Nordic Waterproofing A/S due to its involvement in the Tax consulting 1.1 1.7 trade organisation Danske Tagpapfabrikanters Brancheforening and, in Other services 5.7 2.1 particular, the independent information council Tagpapbranchens Oplysningsråd (“TOR”). This investigation formed part of an investigaTotal 9.5 7.3 tion carried out by the DCCA of the felt roofing industry in Denmark. On 31 May 2017, the DCCA decided that Nordic Waterproofing A/S, Other auditors Icopal Danmark ApS, Danske Tagpapfabrikanters Brancheforening and Statutory audit 0.3 0.3 TOR were in breach of the Danish Competition Act by having concluded a Tax consulting 0.0 1.0 restrictive trade agreement. The Authority assesses that the Danish Other services 0.0 1.0 Prosecutor for Serious Economic and International Crime (SØIK) should Total 0.3 2.2 be notified of this case for the purpose of prosecution. However, the notification of SØIK by the Danish Competition and Non-statutory services delivered by PricewaterhouseCoopers Stats­ Consumer Authority awaits the outcome of the appeal of the Company autoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab SEK 0.7 (3.1) million consist of and the other parties. review of quarterly report, accounting advice related to aqusitions and The Company and the other parties dispute the Authority’s decision general accounting advice. and have thus brought the case before the Danish Competition Appeals Board. The decision of the Competition Appeals Board is expected during the second half of 2018 and may be brought before the courts. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 75 NOTE 37 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS NOTE 38 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE ACCOUNTING POLICIES On 20 December 2017, Taasinge Elementer A/S signed an agreement to The Statement of cash flows shows how income and changes in acquire a production plant in Denmark for prefabricated roofing and balance sheet items affect cash and cash equivalents, ie the cash façade elements, by means of an acquisition of assets, from Ugilt generated or used in the period. Savværk. The unit has 40 employees in northern Jutland and sales for Cash from operating activities converts income statement items 2017 was approximately SEK 50 m. The consideration amounts to DKK 18 from the accrual basis of accounting to cash basis. As such, starting m and is being financed through Nordic Waterproofing’s available cash with operating profit/loss, non-cash items are reversed and actual and bank balances. The acquisition was finalized as of 4 January 2018 payments included. Further, change in working capital is taken into and is consolidated into the Products & Solutions segment. account as this shows the development in money tied up in the On 1 March 2018, Taasinge Elementer A/S acquired 75 percent of the balance sheet. shares in the Norwegian company Ringsaker Veggog Takelementer AS Cash from investing activities shows payments related to the (“RVT”). The company is one of Norway’s leading manufacturer of purchase and sale of long term investments. This includes fixed prefabricated façade elements based on wooden frame constructions to assets such as purchase and construction of new production sites, the construction industry. RVT has an annual sales of approximately SEK intangible assets and financial assets. 100 m and 50 employees. The consideration amounts to SEK 38 m on a Cash from financing activities reports repayment of loans, cash and debt-free basis. Sellers are the company’s management and finance leases and payment of dividends. founders and the acquisition was financed through Nordic WaterproofCash and cash equivalents consist of cash and bank balances. ing’s existing credit facilities. RVT is consolidated into the Products & The Statement of cash flows is presented in accordance with the Solutions segment as of 1 March 2018. indirect method commencing with Operating profit/loss for the year. Both Ugilt and RVT forms part of the strategy to make Taasinge Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated to SEK at the Elementer and Nordic Waterproofing a major player in the Nordic market average exchange rate for the respective month. for prefabricated roofing and façade elements. Cash and cash equivalents SEK million 2017 2016 The following subcomponents are included in cash and cash equivalents: Cash and bank balances 156.8 328.4 Total as per statement of financial position 156.8 328.4 Total as per statement of cash flows 156.8 328.4 Adjustment for non-cash items SEK million 2017 2016 Depreciation/amortization 40.3 24.5 Participations in associated company earnings –15.1 –12.5 Reversed impairment losses 0.0 –1.8 Exchange-rate differences 6.6 –1.5 Other items –8.1 –1.5 Total 23.7 7.2 Contents 76 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS SEK million Note 2017 2016 Net sales 5.9 4.8 Administrative expenses –18.7 –23.1 Operating profit –12.8 –18.4 Financial income – dividend received from subsidiaries 100.0 28.1 Financial expenses –0.4 –1.9 Net finance items 99.6 26.2 Profit before tax 86.8 7.9 Tax 2 2.9 2.4 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 89.7 10.3 Proposed distribution of profit, see Note 6. PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION SEK million Note 2017 2016 Assets Investments in subsidiaries 3 523.6 509.4 Total non-current assets 523.6 509.4 Other current receivables from Group companies 6.2 3.5 Current tax assets 7.2 2.4 Cash and cash equivalents 31.2 35.5 Total current assets 44.6 41.5 TOTAL ASSETS 568.2 550.8 Equity Share capital 30.0 30.0 Retained earnings including profit for the year 437.7 423.5 Proposed dividend for the financial year 90.3 90.3 TOTAL EQUITY 5 558.0 543.8 Liabilities Trade payable 1.0 0.6 Accrued expenses 3.5 6.5 Other non-interest bearing liabilities 0.8 0.0 Other current liabilities to Group companies 4.9 0.0 Total current liabilities 10.2 7.1 TOTAL LIABILITIES 10.2 7.1 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 568.2 550.8 Information on the parent company’s contingent liabilities, see Note 7. Information on the fees paid to the auditors, see Note 8. Information on subsequent events, see Note 9. Information on remuneration of the Executive Board and Board of Directors, see Note 7 in the Consolidated financial statements. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 77 PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Retained SEK million Share capital Dividend earnings Total Equity as at 1 January 2016 0.1 0.0 481.9 482.0 Repurchased warrants – – –23.0 –23.0 Bonus issue of shares 28.6 – –28.6 0.0 New issue of shares 1.2 – 47.4 48.6 Profit/loss for the financial year – – 10.3 10.3 Proposed dividend for the financial year – 90.3 –90.3 0.0 Exchange differences for the year in translation of foreign operations – – 25.8 25.8 Equity as at 31 December 2016 30.0 90.3 423.5 543.8 Retained SEK million Share capital Dividend earnings Total Equity as at 1 January 2017 30.0 90.3 423.5 543.8 Paid dividend – –90.3 – –90.3 Profit/loss for the financial year – – 89.7 89.7 Proposed dividend for the financial year – 90.3 –90,3 0.0 Exchange differences for the year in translation of foreign operations – – 14.8 14.8 Equity as at 31 December 2017 30.0 90.3 437.7 558.0 NOTE 1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES NOTE 3 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES The accounting principles are the same as last year. SEK million 2017 2016 The parent company’s financial statements are prepared according to Accumulated cost the Danish Financial Statements Act applying to entities in reporting Opening balance, 1 January 509.4 484.5 class D. Exchange-rate differences for the year 14.2 24.8 Investment in subsidiaties are measured at cost. Closing balance, 31 December 523.6 509.4 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S applies an exemption whereby the parent company is not required to prepare a separate cash flow Holdings in subsidiaries statement. See the consolidated cash flow statement for the Group. Refer to note 13 in the notes for the consolidated financial statements. For other accounting principles refer to note 1 and to the Accounting Dividend received from subsidiaries are recognised as financial income policies in the notes for the consolidated financial statements. in the profit and loss statement. Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S holds 100 percent of the shares in NOTE 2 TAXES Nordic Waterproofing Group 1 AB, which had a result for 2017 of SEK 85.4 (88.6) million and a shareholders equity at 31 December 2017 SEK million 2017 2016 of SEK 676.7 (691.3) million. Current tax expense (–) / tax revenue (+) Tax expense for the period 2.9 2.4 Adjustment of tax attributable to earlier years 0.0 0.0 NOTE 4 RELATED PARTIES 2.9 2.4 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S is the Parent Company in the Group. Deferred tax expense (–) / tax revenue (+) The Parent Company is a Danish company with CVR number 33395361 Deferred tax for temporary differences 0.0 0.0 domiciled in Vejen. Deferred tax resulting from changes The address of the company’s registered office is Vester Allé 1, 6600 in tax rates 0.0 0.0 Vejen, Denmark, while the address of the Group’s operational head office 0.0 0.0 is Drottninggatan 11, 252 21 Helsingborg, Sweden. Total reported tax expense 2.9 2.4 The following capital owners are listed in the company’s shareholders’ register as owners of at least 5 percent of the votes or the capital: Carnegie funds, Stockholm, Sweden Swedbank Robur funds, Stockholm, Sweden Mawer Investment Management, Calgary, Canada Catella funds, Stockholm, Sweden Svolder, Stockholm, Sweden Contents 78 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 NOTE 5 EQUITY NOTE 7 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 2017 2016 Contingent liabilities Stated in number of shares The parent company is jointly liable, together with the other Danish group companies, for tax payments relating to the jointly taxed income as Issued as at 1 January 24,083,935 11,546,831 well as other Danish withholding taxes in the form of tax on dividends, Issue of bonus shares, May 2016 – 2,297,819,369 royalty and interest. Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S is the administraChange of the nominal value of each tion company in relation to the joint taxation. share, May 2016 – –2,286,272,538 Elimination of liquidation preference – 22,389 NOTE 8 A UDIT FEES AND EXPENSES Exercise of warrants, June 2016 – 967,884 Issued as at 31 December – paid 24,083,935 24,083,935 SEK million 2017 2016 Number of shares by class: PwC Class A shares 24,083,935 24,083,935 Statutory audit 0.5 0.5 Total 24,083,935 24,083,935 Other assurance services 0.3 0.4 Tax consulting 0.0 0.4 All shares have a quotient value of DKK 1.00 (1.00). Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to dividends determined in Other services 0.4 2.3 arrears and the shareholding entitles to voting rights at the General Total 1.2 3.6 Meeting with one vote per share. Non-statutory services delivered by PricewaterhouseCoopers Stats­ autoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab SEK 0.7 (3.1) million consist of review of quarterly report, accounting advice related to aqusitions and NOTE 6 PROPOSED DISTRIBUTION OF PROFIT general accounting advice. SEK million 2017 2016 Proposed dividends Retained earnings 90.3 –0.6 90.3 –80.0 NOTE 9 E VENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE Total 89.7 10.3 Refer to note 38 Events after the reporting date in the notes for the consolidated financial statements. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 79 STATEMENT BY THE EXECUTIVE BOARD AND THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors and the Executive Act. Management’s Review has been includes a true and fair account of the Board have today considered and adopted prepared in accordance with the Danish development in the operations and financial the Annual Report of Nordic Waterproofing Financial Statements Act. circumstances of the Group and the Parent Holding A/S for the financial year 1 January– In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Company, of the results for the year and of 31 December 2017. Statements and the Parent Company the financial position of the Group and the The Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements give a true and fair Parent Company as well as a description of have been prepared in accordance with view of the financial position at 31 December the most significant risks and elements of International Financial Reporting Standards 2017 of the Group and the Parent Company uncertainty facing the Group and the Parent as adopted by the EU and further requireand of the results of the Group and Parent Company. ments in the Danish Financial Statements Company operations and consolidated cash We recommend that the Annual Report Act, and the Parent Company Financial flows for the financial year 1 January– be adopted at the Annual General Meeting. Statements have been prepared in accord31 December 2017. ance with the Danish Financial Statements In our opinion, Management’s Review Vejen, 27 March 2018 EXECUTIVE BOARD Martin Ellis President and CEO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Ulf Gundemark Christian Frigast Chairman Mats O. Paulsson Jørgen Jensen Riitta Palomäki Kristina Willgård Contents 80 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the shareholders of Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S OUR OPINION statement of changes in equity, the Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial consolidated statement of cash flows and Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Statements give a true and fair view of the the notes, including summary of significant Code) and the additional requirements appliGroup’s financial position at 31 December accounting policies. cable in Denmark. We have also fulfilled our 2017 and of the results of the Group’s The Parent Company Financial Stateother ethical responsibilities in accordance operations and cash flows for the financial ments of Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S with the IESBA Code. year 1 January to 31 December 2017 in for the financial year 1 January to 31 To the best of our knowledge and belief, accordance with International Financial December 2017 comprise the profit or loss prohibited non-audit services referred to in Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU statement, the statement of financial Article 5 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 and further requirements in the Danish position, the statement of changes in equity were not provided. Financial Statements Act. and the notes, including summary of Moreover, in our opinion, the Parent significant accounting policies. Appointment Company Financial Statements give a true Collectively referred to as the “Financial Following the admission of the shares of and fair view of the Parent Company’s Statements”. Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S for listing financial position at 31 December 2017 and on Nasdaq Stockholm, we were first of the results of the Parent Company’s BASIS FOR OPINION appointed auditors of Nordic Waterproofing operations for the financial year 1 January to We conducted our audit in accordance with Holding A/S on 27 April 2017. We were 31 December 2017 in accordance with the the International Standards on Auditing appointed by shareholder resolution for the Danish Financial Statements Act. (ISAs) and the additional requirements financial year 2017. Our opinion is consistent with our applicable in Denmark. Our responsibilities Auditor’s Long-form Report to the Audit under those standards and requirements are KEY AUDIT MATTERS Committee and the Board of Directors. further described in the Auditor’s responsiKey audit matters are those matters that, in bilities for the audit of the Financial our professional judgement, were of most What we have audited Statements section of our report. significance in our audit of the Financial The Consolidated Financial Statements of We believe that the audit evidence we Statements for 2017. These matters were Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S for the have obtained is sufficient and appropriate addressed in the context of our audit of the financial year 1 January to 31 December to provide a basis for our opinion. Financial Statements as a whole, and in 2017 comprise the consolidated profit or forming our opinion thereon, and we do not loss statement and statement of compreIndependence provide a separate opinion on these matters. hensive income, the consolidated statement We are independent of the Group in of financial position, the consolidated accordance with the International Ethics Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 81 KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Goodwill and other intangible assets The group has recognized intangible assets totaling SEK 797 In addressing the risk, we considered the appropriateness of million at December 31 2017, comprising goodwill of SEK 733 Management defined cash-generating units (CGUs) within the million, customer relationships of SEK 48 million, software of business. We tested whether there were factors requiring SEK 6 million and other of SEK 10 million. Management to change their classification since the prior reporting period. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. Other intangible assets are assessed for impairment annually, and if indicators We assessed whether the models applied by Management to exist, an impairment test is performed. calculate the value in use of the individual cash-generating units comply with the requirements of IFRS. We recalculated the model The assessment of the carrying values of intangible assets is to ensure mathematical accuracy. dependent on future cash flows and if these are below initial expectations, there is a risk that the assets will be impaired. The We challenged Management on the appropriateness of the reviews of carrying values performed by the Group contain a discount rates applied and underlying assumptions and discussed number of significant judgements and estimates such as revenue Management judgement, as relevant. growth, profit and discount rates. We performed our own sensitivity analysis around key estimates We focused on this area because the impairment assessments of to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions that either these assets are dependent on complex and subjective judgeindividually or collectively would be required for the intangible ments by Management. assets to be impaired. Refer to Note 17 (Goodwill) and 18 (Other intangible assets). We assessed the Group’s disclosures of the quantitative and qualitative considerations by comparing these disclosures to our understanding of the matter. Contingent liabilities On 31 May 2017 the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority We inquired with both Management and financial staff in respect has issued a decision to providers of waterproofing products in of the potential risks related to the competition case, inspected Denmark, including Nordic Waterproofing A/S. The Decision relevant correspondence, inspected the minutes of the meetings relates to the application of the standard setting organization of the Audit Committee and Supervisory Board, obtained external TOR’s product standards for waterproofing products and orders legal confirmation letter and obtained a representation letter TOR to repeal its product standards and Nordic Waterproofing A/S from the Group. to seize its participation in TOR. Furthermore the Danish Competition Council has assessed that the case has to be handed We also assessed the disclosure regarding contingent liabilities over to the Danish Prosecutor for Serious Economic and as contained in Note 35 Contingent liabilities. International Crime (SØIK) in order to pursue a fine to be imposed. However, this awaits Nordic Waterproofing A/S and the We used professional scepticism by challenging Management’s other parties’ appeal. judgement comparing responses to our inquiries with relevant correspondence, other audit evidence obtained and our general A decision from the Competition Appeals Board is expected knowledge of the Group and its activities. during the second half of 2018 and this decision can be appealed to the ordinary courts. The Group may be fined, just as there is a risk of secondary damages. The outcome of the case cannot be predicted with certainty, but a decision that goes against the Group’s expectations could have an adverse effect on the consolidated financial position and results of operations and cash flows. We focused on this area, because of the significant level of judgement and uncertainty related to this contingent liability. Refer to Note 35 (Contingent liabilities). STATEMENT ON MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW Management is responsible for Manageconsider whether Management’s Review is Based on the work we have performed, in ment’s Review. materially inconsistent with the Financial our view, Management’s Review is in Our opinion on the Financial Statements Statements or our knowledge obtained in accordance with the Consolidated Financial does not cover Management’s Review, and the audit, or otherwise appears to be Statements and the Parent Company we do not express any form of assurance materially misstated. Financial Statements and has been prepared conclusion thereon. Moreover, we considered whether in accordance with the requirements of the In connection with our audit of the Management’s Review includes the Danish Financial Statements Act. We did not Financial Statements, our responsibility is to disclosures required by the Danish Financial identify any material misstatement in read Management’s Review and, in doing so, Statements Act. Management’s Review. Contents 82 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR ISAs and the additional requirements or conditions may cause the Group or the THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS applicable in Denmark, we exercise Parent Company to cease to continue as Management is responsible for the professional judgement and maintain a going concern. preparation of consolidated financial professional scepticism throughout the • Evaluate the overall presentation, statements that give a true and fair view in audit. We also: structure and content of the financial accordance with International Financial • Identify and assess the risks of material statements, including the disclosures, Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU misstatement of the Financial Stateand whether the Financial Statements and further requirements in the Danish ments, whether due to fraud or error, represent the underlying transactions Financial Statements Act and for the design and perform audit procedures and events in a manner that achieves fair preparation of parent company financial responsive to those risks, and obtain presentation. statements that give a true and fair view in audit evidence that is sufficient and • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit accordance with the Danish Financial appropriate to provide a basis for our evidence regarding the financial Statements Act, and for such internal opinion. The risk of not detecting a information of the entities or business control as Management determines is material misstatement resulting from activities within the Group to express an necessary to enable the preparation of fraud is higher than for one resulting opinion on the Consolidated Financial financial statements that are free from from error, as fraud may involve Statements. We are responsible for the material misstatement, whether due to collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, direction, supervision and performance fraud or error. misrepresentations, or the override of of the group audit. We remain solely In preparing the Financial Statements, internal control. responsible for our audit opinion. Management is responsible for assessing • Obtain an understanding of internal the Group’s and the Parent Company’s ability We communicate with those charged with control relevant to the audit in order to to continue as a going concern, disclosing, governance regarding, among other design audit procedures that are as applicable, matters related to going matters, the planned scope and timing of the appropriate in the circumstances, but not concern and using the going concern basis audit and significant audit findings, including for the purpose of expressing an opinion of accounting unless Management either any significant deficiencies in internal on the effectiveness of the Group’s and intends to liquidate the Group or the Parent control that we identify during our audit. the Parent Company’s internal control. Company or to cease operations, or has no We also provide those charged with realistic alternative but to do so. • Evaluate the appropriateness of governance with a statement that we have accounting policies used and the complied with relevant ethical requirements AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE reasonableness of accounting estimates regarding independence, and to communiAUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and related disclosures made by cate with them all relationships and other Our objectives are to obtain reasonable Management. matters that may reasonably be thought to assurance about whether the Financial • Conclude on the appropriateness of bear on our independence, and where Statements as a whole are free from Management’s use of the going concern applicable, related safeguards. material misstatement, whether due to basis of accounting and based on the From the matters communicated with fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s audit evidence obtained, whether a those charged with governance, we report that includes our opinion. Reasonable material uncertainty exists related to determine those matters that were of most assurance is a high level of assurance, but is events or conditions that may cast signifisignificance in the audit of the Financial not a guarantee that an audit conducted in cant doubt on the Group’s and the Parent Statements of the current period and are accordance with ISAs and the additional Company’s ability to continue as a going therefore the key audit matters. We describe requirements applicable in Denmark will concern. If we conclude that a material these matters in our auditor’s report unless always detect a material misstatement when uncertainty exists, we are required to law or regulation precludes public discloit exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud draw attention in our auditor’s report to sure about the matter or when, in extremely or error and are considered material if, the related disclosures in the Financial rare circumstances, we determine that a individually or in the aggregate, they could Statements or, if such disclosures are matter should not be communicated in our reasonably be expected to influence the inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our report because the adverse consequences of economic decisions of users taken on the conclusions are based on the audit doing so would reasonably be expected to basis of these Financial Statements. evidence obtained up to the date of our outweigh the public interest benefits of such As part of an audit in accordance with auditor’s report. However, future events communication. Vejle, 27 March 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab CVR no 33 77 12 31 Lars Almskou Ohmeyer Morten Elbæk Jensen State Authorised Public Accountant State Authorised Public Accountant mne24817 mne27737 Contents Contents 84 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 FINANCIAL DEFINITIONS Key performance indicator according to IFRS INTEREST COVER RATIO R12 Profit after net financial items plus interest The mast recent twelve months/rolling EARNINGS PER SHARE expenses in relation to interest expenses. twelve-month period Profit after tax for the period attributable to Parent Company share­­­­holders divided by the ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED average number of outstanding shares for Statement items that are non-recurring, EBIT as a percentage of average capital the period. have a significant impact on profit and employed, calculated as the average of the therefore constitute important adjustments period’s opening and closing balances. Key performance indicators not defined for understanding the underlying developaccording to IFRS ment of operations. RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED BEFORE ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY CAPITAL EMPLOYED NET DEBT Operating profit (EBIT) before items affecting Total assets less non-interestbearing Interest-bearing liabilities less cash and comparability as a percentage of average provisions and liabilities. cash equivalents capital employed, calculated as the average of the period’s opening and closing EBIT NET DEBT/EBITDA BEFORE ITEMS balances. Operating profit. AFFECTING COMPARABILITY Net debt in relation to EBITDA before items RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED BEFORE EBIT MARGIN affecting comparability. ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY AND EBIT as a percentage of net sales. EXCLUDING GOODWILL NET DEBT/EQUITY RATIO Operating profit (EBIT) before items affecti EBITDA Net debt in relation to shareholders equity. ng comparability as a percentage of average Operating profit before depreciation, capital employed, excluding goodwill, amortization and impairment of tangible OPERATING CASH CONVERSION calculated as the average of the period’s and intangible assets. Op erating cash flow as a percentage of opening and closing balances. EBITDA before items affecting comparability EBITDA MARGIN for the period. RETURN ON SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Operating profit before depreciation, Profit after tax attributable to Parent amortization and impairment of tangible OPERATING CASH FLOW Company shareholders as a percentage and intangible assets as a percentage of EBITDA before items affecting comparability of average shareholders equity, excluding net sales. plus dividends from associated companies, ­non-controlling interests. less cash flow related from investments EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO intangible and intangible assets, cash flow RETURN ON SHAREHOLDERS’ Shareholders’ equity, including non-­ from chang es in working capital and income EQUITY BEFORE ITEMS AFFECTING controlling interests, as a percentage from associated companies. COMPARABILITY Profit after tax attributable to Parent of total assets. Company shareholders including reversed ORGANIC GROWTH items affecting comparability as a percentGROSS MARGIN Net sales growth adjusted for enterprises age of average capital employed, excluding Gross profit as a percentage of net sales. acquired and sold off and any exchange rate non-controlling interests. changes. No adjustments have been made for number of working days. GLOSSARY BITUMEN FLAT ROOF SBS Bitumen, also known as asphalt, is a sticky, Roofing with a gradient of less than Styrene-Butadiene-Styrene, an elastomeric black and highly viscous liquid or semi-solid approximately 14°. compound which is added to bitumen to form of petroleum which constitutes the increase the flow characteristics and waterproofing component in roof felt. PITCHED-ROOF improves the low-temperature flexibility and Roofing with a gradient of more than fatigue resistance of roof felt. EPDM approximately 14°. EPDM rubber (ethylene propylene diene TPO monomer M-class rubber) a type of PVC Thermoplastic olefin (TPO), or olefinic synthetic rubber, is an elastomer characterPolyvinyl chloride is the world’s third-most thermoplastic elastomers refer to polymer/ ized by a wide range of applications. widely produced synthetic plastic polymer, filler blends usually consisting of some after polyethylene and polypropylene. PVC fraction of a thermoplastic, an elastomer comes in two basic forms: rigid (sometimes or rubber, and a filler. abbreviated as RPVC) and flexible. Contents Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2017 85 NORDIC WATERPROOFING ON THE INTERNET, IN YOUR MOBILE AND ON YOUR TABLET Keep track of Nordic Waterproofing’s performance via the INFORMATION ABOUT ANNUAL Group’s website at www.nordicwaterproofing.com. GENERAL MEETING 2018 The Annual General Meeting of Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S will take place on Friday, 20 April at 10:00 a.m., at ANNUAL REPORT SUBSCRIBE TO INFORMATION Mindpark, Bredgatan 11, Helsingborg, Nordic Waterproofing only distributes a Via e-mail, you can choose to subscribe Sweden. paper version of the Annual Report to those to our financial reports, press releases who have specifically requested a copy. If and share information. PROGRAMME you wish to receive a paper copy of the 9:00 a.m. Registration and light Annual Report, it can be ordered on the FINANCIAL PRESENTATIONS – WATCH refreshments company’s website. LIVE ON DEMAND 10:00 a.m. Annual General Meeting Watch presentations in conjunction with ­commences NEWS ABOUT PRODUCTS quarterly reports or other events. AND SOLUTIONS The majority of presentations can be NOTIFICATION TO ATTEND THE ANNUAL At www.nordicwaterproofing.com you can followed live or watched later on our GENERAL MEETING follow the development and successes of the website. The complete notification convening the various products and solutions that we offer Annual General Meeting will be available our customers. on the company’s website www.nordic­ waterproofing.com/en/shareholder-­ meetings/. FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2018 1 April-2 May Silent period To participate in the meeting and to be able to exercise their voting rights, 20 April Annual General Meeting shareholders must be included in the 3 May Interim Report, January–March 2018 share register maintained by VP 1 July–15 August Silent period Securities A/S by Friday 13 April 2018 at 16 August Interim Report, January–June 2018 the latest, and notify the company of their 1–31 October Silent period intention to participate by the same date. Shareholders who have registered 1 November Interim Report, January–September 2018 their shares with a trustee must have temporarily registered their shares in their own name by Friday 13 April 2018. Please note that specific information applies to shareholders who hold their shares through Euroclear Sweden AB. PROPOSALS TO ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2018 The Board of Directors and the CEO propose that shareholders be paid a cash dividend of SEK 3.75 per share (3.75). Tuesday, 24 April 2018 is proposed as the Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S is a Danish public limited liability company domiciled in Vejen, Denmark. C ­ orporate record date for the dividend. If the Annual registration number: 33395361. LEI code: 549300EJEXC4KOSUI651. The Group’s operational headquarters are in General Meeting resolves in accordance Helsingborg, Sweden. with the proposal, the dividend is The Annual Report is published in Swedish and English. The English language version is the original and in the case of discrepancies between the versions, the English version shall prevail. The printed version of the Annual Report is only expected to be distributed by Euroclear distributed to shareholders who request a copy. The Annual Report is also available in its entirety at the company’s website Sweden AB on Friday, 27 April 2018. www.nordicwaterproofing.com. The 2017 Annual Report was published in March 2018. All values are expressed in Swedish kronor. Kronor is abbreviated to SEK and millions of kronor to SEK million. Unless otherwise stated, figures in parentheses relate to the preceding financial year, 2016. This report contains future-oriented information based on Nordic Waterproofing’s current expectations. No guarantee can be provided that these expectations will prove correct. Accordingly, results could differ materially from those implied in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, changes in economic, market and competitive conditions, change in the regulatory environment and other government actions, fluctuations in exchange rates and other factors. This annual report was produced in collaboration with RHR/CC in Malmö, Sweden. Contents Nordic Waterproofing is one of the leading providers in the waterproofing market in northern Europe. The Company provides high-quality products and solutions for waterproofing in Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Norway, Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland, the United Kingdom and Germany. Nordic Waterproofing also provides installation services through wholly-owned subsidiaries In Finland and through part-owned franchise companies in Denmark. The Company markets its products and solutions under nine brands, all with an extensive heritage, most of which are among the most established and well-recognized brands in waterproofing in their respective markets, such as Mataki, Trebolit, Phønix Tag Materialer, Kerabit, Nortett, SealEco, SPT-Painting and Taasinge Elementer. Nordic Waterproofing is listed in the Mid Cap segment on Nasdaq Stockholm with the stock ticker NWG. In 2017, the Group had revenues of SEK 2,187 million, with more than 830 employees and operations in 10 countries. NORDIC WATERPROOFING HOLDING A/S. COMPANY REG. NO. 33395361 DROTTNINGGATAN 11, SE-252 21 HELSINGBORG, SWEDEN W W W.NORDICWATERPROOFING.COM
