2017 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S delivering responsibly TA B L E O F C O N T E N T S iii About This Report 11 Delivering to Our Environment Report Scope 12 Highlights References 13 Statistics & Goals Assurance iv Company Snapshot 14 Delivering to Our Community v Corporate Structure Overview 15 Highlights & Goals Direct Management Approach 16 Donations vi From the Executives vii Report Breakdown 18 Awards & Recognition 19 Performance Highlights 21 UNGC Reporting Index 1 Delivering to Our Associates 22 GRI Indicators 2 Associate Highlights 23 Compliance, Ethics & Anti-Corruption 3 Improving Our Work Environment 24 Contact 4 Associate Benefits 5 Health & Safety 6 Statistics & Goals 7 Delivering to Our Customers 8 Services 9 Highlights 10 Statistics & Goals ii 2016/17 Communication on Progress ABOUT THIS REPORT NAC became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2008. Over the past 9 years, the UNGC Ten Principles have been thoroughly integrated in NAC’s best business practices, company policies, and reporting structure. In addition to the UNGC Ten Principles, NAC utilized the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Guidelines to assist in assembling and organizing the information in this report. The specific locations of the UNGC Ten Principles and GRI Indicators within this report are outlined in indices found on pages 21-22. REPORT SCOPE The 2016-2017 Communication on Progress (COP) encompasses company performance information, initiatives, and statement for North American Communications (NAC) and its partner companies, North American Mailing Services (NAMS), NAMSdirect, and NAC Logistics, LLC. This is NAC’s seventh annual COP. Its boundaries are limited to July 2016 to December 2017. Company statistics are calculated per reporting period and represent all U.S. and Mexico locations. Statistics referenced in this report represent combined averages of data sets from all NAC facilities for July 2016 December 2017, unless otherwise stated. REFERENCES Reference to “NAC” within the scope of this report refers to “NAC and its partner companies, NAMS, NAMS Direct, and NAC Logistics, LLC”. References to “NAC facilities, operations, systems, and locations: refers to “NAC, NAMS, NAMSdirect, NAC Logistics, LLC facilities, operations, systems, and locations, unless otherwise stated. Use of the words “we” and “our” within the scope of this report means of, belonging to, or on behalf of “NAC and its partner companies, NAMS, NAMS Direct, and NAC Logistics, LLC”. ASSURANCE NAC is committed to providing accurate information to our stakeholders. At this time NAC has chosen to forego seeking outside assurance for this report. 2016/17 Communication on Progress iii C O M PA N Y SNAPSHOT Born out of a passion for success, we’ve spent the last 38 years mastering the art of direct mail. This passion began with our founder, Abe Herman, in 1934 when he established Metro Envelope with just one single machine. Soon that machine turned into twelve and eventually transitioned into the international powerhouse known today as NAC, Inc. Through the decades, we’ve been through times of struggle, transformation and triumph. We’ve faced significant challenges, but have always come out a better, stronger and more resilient company. As we continue to learn and grow there is one thing that remains unchanged. The passion that Abe Herman embodied over 80 years is enveloped into each one of our associates. We are the hands, the hearts and the minds that work together to ensure that we are creating the ultimate reflection of our customer’s brand. This passion pours over into our daily work as well as our commitment to our associates, customers, environment and communities. C O R P O R AT E S T R U C T U R E OVERVIEW NAC is a privately owned U.S. company operating in North America. The NAC Board of Directors is comprised of current owners. The Board of Directors steers the overall vision for NAC and offers guidance to aid in and promote strategic growth. D I R E C T M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OAC H NAC has compiled this report based exclusively on the areas of interest of our stakeholders. NAC’s board of directors, clients, associates, and local communities, all play crucial role in defining which of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Aspects are material to our organization. Our stakeholders also aid in determining which economic, environmental, and human rights goals are prioritized for future pursuit. When an Aspect is highlighted by a stakeholder, NAC ensures that all necessary steps are taken to incorporate this Aspect into the NAC framework. This includes the creation of new reports, tracking mechanisms, the development of new policies and procedures, and the training of associates and management as needed. 2016/17 Communication on Progress v FROM THE EXECUTIVES To our fellow stakeholders, January is the perfect time for reflection, resolutions and new beginnings. We believe that every day is a chance to get better. To improve and grow, we must remember to not only celebrate our accomplishments, but also identify our mistakes and create new goals for the future. As we journey into a new year, it gives us great joy to reaffirm our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. For the last 38 years, we’ve had an unspoken responsibility to our associates, customers, environment and community. It is our responsibility to provide a safe and positive workplace, to continuously develop and implement innovative processes and ideas to help our customers succeed, to ensure we are operating in a sustainable manner and to do our part to create a positive impact in our local communities. NAC is proud to support the UN Global Compact and its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption, as they complement our business values and goals. Sincerely, Rob Herman Nick Robinson President & COO CEO vi 2016/17 Communication on Progress REPORT BREAKDOWN Delivering to Delivering to Our Delivering to Delivering to Our Our Associates Stakeholders Our Environment Communities 2016/17 Communication on Progress vii DELIVERING TO Our greatest asset has always been our remarkable O U R A S S O C I AT E S associates. We believe that people are at their best when working for a company they believe in and in a positive, inclusive work environment where they feel safe, healthy, respected and engaged. As a signatory of the UN Global compact, we seek to inspire and nurture our associates by providing opportunities to grow individually and within the company. By offering programs and initiatives to maximize employee potential, we hope to empower them to make a difference at home, work and in their communities. 1 2016/17 Communication on Progress A S S O C I AT E H I G H L I G H T S • A  nnually, an Associate Appreciation/Awards of Distinction event is held company-wide. Associates nominate their peers to win the following awards, Viola Merrits Esteem, Community Service, Frank Reed Innovation, Rookie of the Year, Manager of the Year and Outstanding Associate of the year. Years of Service Awards are also presented to associates who reach significant milestones. •  Giving Committee was established to bridge our company and the community together. Some of A their projects included: »» Installing NACares bulletin boards to advertise for charity/company events and donations. »» Organizing a catered holiday luncheon and appreciation gift for all associates. »» Distribution of $20 Giant Eagle gift cards to help with associates’ Easter grocery shopping. »» A  n Earth Day celebration to reduce plastic waste. The committee asked associates to bring in one plastic water bottle and in return they would receive an NAC branded reusable bottle. • P  acks of school supplies were distributed to 623 children of employees in August 2017. All children 12 and under were eligible. • A  s a part of our dedication to the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we continue to release an NAC Associate Handbook to all employees upon hire. The Handbook reflects our commitment to equal opportunity, freedom of association, elimination of forced labor, child labor, employee discrimination, harassment and workplace violence. 2016/17 Communication on Progress 2 IMPROVING OUR WORK ENVIRONMENT •  s an added benefit, we provide 15 on-site garden plots to interested associates. A This not only allows associates to learn how to plant and grow their own fruits and vegetables, but also encourages them to make healthier dietary choices. • T  o maintain a healthy work-life balance, we show our appreciation throughout the year with luncheons, contests and complimentary treats/gifts. During this reporting period we hosted holiday/associate appreciation/retirement luncheons, “Hot Dog” Day, Pumpkin Pie Day, Halloween Dress Up Day, Children’s Day, Dia de Los Muertes Altar Decorating contest, and monthly birthday and anniversary celebrations. • L  eadership training was given to all management associates. The program covered conflict resolution, effective team management, what makes a good leader and tips for a positive attitude. Upon completion, each manager received a certificate and a company water bottle. •  he Marketing and International Relations department were the first to test the option T of working remotely. An increase in productivity and job satisfaction was observed. •  he first Monday of each month the cafeteria explores their culinary skills by offering a T new dish that differs from the traditional menu. • Our Mexico location offers the following additional bonuses for associates: »» Shift differentials »» Attendance & punctuality bonuses »» Food coupons to S*Mart, a local grocery store »» Seniority, tutor and recommendation bonuses »» Savings fund »» Quality at the Source bonus 3 2016/17 Communication on Progress A S S O C I AT E B E N E F I T S • NAC offers bonuses to hourly associates that achieve perfect attendance. • E  ach month NAC recognizes one non-management associate that displays exemplary performance through our Above and Beyond program. Each Above and Beyond Associate is nominated by his peers and selected by a group of senior management members. The winner receives $100, one paid day off, $50 NAC bucks, an embroidered shirt and a designated parking spot for one month. •  nnually, we offer two academic scholarships to NAC associates and their children/grandchildren. A Scholarship winners receive $500 to be sent to their respective school and a $500 Best Buy gift card to purchase a computer and/or necessary supplies. • N  AC offers all associates a Volunteer Day that allows each associate one paid day off to volunteer at the non-profit organization of their choice. The program aims to create positive change in the community while improving company morale. Associates donated their time helping the following organizations Blair County Respiratory Disease Society, Ronald McDonald House, Flight 93 Memorial, Relay for Life and Read Across America. • To celebrate associate birthdays, $5.00 is added to their Company Kitchen card. 69 A S S O C I AT E S W I T H 2 0 + Y E A R S E X P E R I E N C E AT O U R A D M I N I S T R AT I V E HEADQUARTERS 2016/17 Communication on Progress 4 HEALTH & SAFETY • N  AC held an educational and interactive Health Fair in April 2017. This event was designed to provide basic preventative medical screenings and educate on health and wellness, weight management, and lifestyle improvements »»  2% of female employees completed gynelogical exams as part of 3 our efforts to help assocites prevent and detect breast and cervical cancers. »» 18% of all employees requested dental ultrasounds to detect any disease of the mouth. »» 43% of employees completed eye glass exams including those who work in critical areas such as press, quality and customer service. »» Deworming medication was given to employees, their spouses and children. »» 92% of employees completed weight and size evaluations, blood pressure and glucose screenings, and were administered vaccines to prevent tetanus disease. »» 667 toothbrushes were distributed along with educational material on dental hygiene. »» An orientation module was presented on the benefits of IMSS, ways to address cases of family violence and options on how to lose weight. »» 667 bottles of vitamins were handed out. »»  1,500 condoms and 3,000 envelopes for oral hydration were distributed. •  hroughout the year The Medical Department advertises a variety of T general health reminders to associates. They distribute brochures, hang posters and loop slideshows on the cafeteria televisions on topics such as organ and blood donation, importance of mammograms and prostate exams, flu prevention, family planning, tobacco addiction and more. • F  lu shots were offered to all associates. The cost was free to those with UPMC insurance and $25 for those without. All associates who acquired the vaccine also received a discount from Giant Eagle, a local grocery chain. •  earing tests were administered to 56 production employees who are H exposed to 85 decibels. Zero cases of hearing impairment were identified from the testing. 5 2016/17 Communication on Progress 5 2016/17 Communication on Progress 36 SAFETY COMMITTEE MEMBERS Our Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) is a score based on the total number of recorded accidents in relation to the hours worked. 51% 49% 4% January December 2017 0.6 AVG. ACROSS ALL FACILITIES of committee of committee of total workforce members are members are represented on the non-management management safety committee 6 RECORDABLE INCIDENTS THAT REQUIRED TIME OFF WORK 0 INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION 0 GRIEVANCES FILED ABOUT HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACTS GOALS • Expand remote work option to additional departments. • Offer Spanish as second language training for global management team. • Introduce “Lunch and Learn” seminars that focus on educating and refreshing our associate’s skills and knowledge in areas such as Adobe Suite, Microsoft Office, Compliance, Safety, Quality, etc. • Work toward 0 recordable incidents at all facilities and maintain an average TRIR of 0.7 or below. 2016/17 Communication on Progress 6 DELIVERING TO OUR CUSTOMERS At NAC, we realize that our customers have played a significant role in shaping the company that we are today. As the foundation of our success and continued growth, we understand the importance of listening to their needs and expectations. Over the last 38 years, those needs and expectations have expanded beyond the traditional concerns of quality, customer service and time to market. Transparency across the entire mail process has become increasingly important to our customers. As one of the first direct mail manufacturers to sign the UN Global Compact, we pride ourselves on being on the forefront of this new focus. As we continue to refine our processes, plans and initiatives, our goal is to produce quality direct mail packages without sacrificing the environment, human integrity or our beloved communities. SERVICES CREATIVE SERVICES FOIL EMBOSSING BINDERY DATA PROCESSING IMAGING/PERSONALIZATION LETTERSHOP OFFSET PRINTING DIGITAL PRINTING COMMINGLING ENVELOPE CONVERTING INKJET PRINTING POSTAL/LOGISTICS 2016/17 Communication on Progress 8 HIGHLIGHTS • N  AC became a Champion of Cyber Security Awareness Month in October of 2017. As an official champion, we recognize our commitment to cyber security, online safety and privacy. Security awareness tips, informational materials and articles were posted throughout the buildings, on social media platforms and sent via email. • In our continual efforts of evolving and investing in our assurance platforms, NAC earned HITRUST CSF™ v8.1 Certification. This certification demonstrates our implementation and maintenance of comprehensive security controls scaled to meet compliance requirements and technical practices to both healthcare and financial services industries. • In August 2017, NAC demonstrated our commitment to security through SOC 2® Type II Certification. Based upon the American Institute of Certified Public Accounts (AICPA) attested to the design and operating effectiveness of our controls against all five trust principles: Security, Availability, Processing Integrity, Confidentiality and Privacy. • W  e expanded our inkjet capabilities by installing the Canon ColorStream® 3900 in January 2017. This enabled us to offer highspeed color and monochrome production on both short and long run jobs with increased flexibility, stunning color and decreased waste and turnaround time. • In March 2016, NAC successfully completed an ISO: 9001 audit. • N  AC installed a high speed MBO letter fold system. This highly flexible system has two times the output and efficiency than similar folding machines. •  AC President, Rob Herman, was a panelist at the third annual N thINK Conference in Boca Raton, Florida. He shared his inkjet expertise and best practices with fellow inkjet users and nonadopters interested in leaning more about the capabilities. 9 2016/17 Communication on Progress STAT ISTICS 2 facilities 954,192,157 mail units produced 98.18%¹ mail units produced with no errors 0 information security breaches identified 0 32 19 100% 2 3 customer complaints customer inquires/ customer complaints complaints warranting action customer complaints rectified due to loss of data/ breach of privacy FUTURE GOALS •  omplete development of an ethics training that includes topics related to Unlawful Harassment, Human, Rights, Labor, C Environmental Initiatives, Community Outreach and Anti-Corruption. • Expand our capabilities to include additional technology that reduces our environmental impact 1  he numbers we report regarding the percentage of units produced with no errors is representative of our throughput quality rate. This takes into T consideration our internal quality rate, including rework performed to ensure all products released into the mail stream are accurate and meet specifications. 2 Complaints are defined as any inquiry made by customers regarding either accuracy or subjective quality characteristics of products or services. ³ Action is defined as the significant modification or implementation of permanent controls, processes, procedures, or solutions specifically designed to address the root cause of a complaint. 2016/17 Communication on Progress 10 Environmental responsibility goes beyond producing a sustainable DELIVERING product. It means diving into all aspects of our business and everyday practices to reduce our environmental impact and create change. As TO OUR one of the first direct mail manufacturer’s to sign the United Nations Global Company, we hold ourselves to a higher standard. We remain ENVIRONMENT dedicated to developing new environmentally friendly procedures and processes and aim to inspire others to do the same. HIGHLIGHTS • To reduce paper waste, 21 air hand dryers were installed in the restrooms. • A  Styrofoam initiative was implemented to remind associates to use these products sparingly in order to reduce Styrofoam usage. •  AC recycled 24,645 gallons of water through our Water Reuse Program. N Each season the water collected is used to water the vegetation surrounding our facility. •  ince the primary element of our product is paper, we have made practicing S responsible forest stewardship one of our top priorities since 2008. NAC maintains Chain of Custody Certifications through the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) and the Sustainable Forestry Initiative® (SFI®) allowing us to provide our customers with paper options for responsibly managed forests. •  AC associates volunteered their time by planting trees at the Flight 93 N Memorial in Stoystown, PA. Each spring, approximately 500 volunteers work with trained foresters to plant trees, create wildlife habitats and make a living memorial for passengers and crewmembers of Flight 93. 2016/17 Communication on Progress 12 RECYCLING 17,032,364 Recycling paper does not only save trees. 3,236,149 GALLONS OF OIL 25,549 CUBIC YARDS OF SPACE IN LANDFILLS LBS OF PAPER RECYCLED OR By recycling 144,775 34,064,728 KILOWATTS OF ENERGY paper we have also saved: 59,613,274 GALLONS OF WATER 332,410,874 Recycled Cardboard: 1,374,531 pounds Recycled Plastic: 733 pounds mail pieces produced using FSC® certified materials4 Recycled Window Film: 2,883 pounds 137,239,584 Recycled Magazines: 240,853 pounds Water recycled: 24,645 gallons mail pieces produced using SFI® certified materials4 GOALS • Continued improvement of tracking mechanisms and reporting between facilities. • C  reate an Environmental Task Force that brings together associates from different areas throughout the facility. This task force will hold meetings discussing the status of current environmental initiatives and brainstorming new initiatives for future pursuit. 13 2016/17 Communication on Progress DELIVERING At NAC, we believe in the power of social good. We see our company growth as a unique opportunity to do more in our communities and make every effort to leave our stamp on society. TO OUR We believe that there is no greater calling than to use that opportunity to empower others by giving back. These beliefs reflect our values and who we are as a company. By creating a positive impact COMMUNITY together and individually, we continue to strengthen our neighborhoods both locally and globally. 2016/17 Communication on Progress 14 HIGHLIGHTS 121,750 mail pieces • N  AC sent 25 safe sleep resources from The Baby Box Company to victims of Hurricane Harvey. The Box serves primarily as a safe, comfortable place for infants to sleep, similar to a bassinet. The company also provided parents with the vital education and resources needed to give babies a safe, healthy start. produced as in-kind •  AC participated in the Stuff the School Bus campaign, a community-wide effort to collect N school supplies for preschool to Grade 12 students throughout Blair County. Sponsored donations for by the Family Resource Center at the United Way, this program helped over 720 children attend school with necessary supplies and materials they otherwise may not have had. 15 organizations • T  o capture the true spirit of the holiday season, NAC introduced its 12 Days of Christmas program. Associates were chosen at random to receive a $50 Visa gift card. Each winner also got to choose from three non-profit organizations, Mending Hearts Animal Rescue, Special Olympics and The Griffith Family Foundation, to receive $100 from NAC. • N  AC sponsored two teams to compete in the 2017 Wallyball Tournament to benefit the Blair County Respiratory Disease Society. Our teams earned 2nd and 3rd place. This year NAC was awarded second place in fundraising with a total collection of $2,469.31. In Kind Donations in the form of business cards, brochures, and mail pieces were given to the • T  o create a connection between employees and client missions, NAC introduced “Your following organizations: Efforts Make a Difference,” an internal marketing program. Whenever production bonuses o Operation Our Town were met between December 2016 and March 2017, money was donated toward o Central PA Humane Society sponsoring a Special Olympics Athlete to attend the World Winter Games in Austria. o Hollidaysburg School Foundation Production goals were not only met, but exceeded which enabled Carmen to fulfill her o Vietnam Veterans dream. Carmen received sixth place in individual figure skating and second in pairs figure o Highland Community Library skating. o Duncansville EMS o Martinsburg Volunteer Fire Company •  n occasion, homeless dogs find their way to our Mexico facility. Associates graciously O opened their hearts and homes by adopting four of the dogs. Additionally, NAC provides o Duncanville Volunteer Fire Company o Phoenix Fire Company food and permanent shelter for two other dogs. o Geeseytown Fire Company • In October 2017, associates collected food, water, pet food clothing and cleaning supplies o Blair County Respiratory Disease Society to benefit the victims of the earthquakes in Mexico City, Oaxaca, Morelos and Chiapas. o Hollidaysburg Area Public Library Employees added a personal touch by writing inspirational messages on the donated o Martinsburg Area Community Fund items. o James Ott for Sheriff o Rebuilding Together Philadelphia G OA L S • Expand our community outreach by looking for additional organizations that are in need of volunteers. 15 2016/17 Communication on Progress DONATIONS American Cancer Society Mending Hearts Animal Rescue Blair County Arts Foundation MS Society Keystone Country Blair County Chamber of Commerce Penn State Altoona Blair County Respiratory Disease Society Phoenix Volunteer Fire Coompany Dick McEldowney Academic Scholarship Fund Southern Allegheny Museum of Art Dreams Go On Special Olympics Duncansville Volunteer Fire Company Spring Cove Middle School Family Services of Blair County St. Patrick’s School Gilwell Fund of Blair County St. Leonard’s Home Griffith Family Foundation Toys for Tots Hollidaysburg Area School District Foundation United Way of Blair County Junior Achievement of Western PA UPMC Altoona Foundation 27% 44% 10% 9% 10% community health & social education culture & arts economic outreach services development 2016/17 Communication on Progress 16 M E M B E R S H I P S & A S S O C I AT I O N S 17 2016/17 Communication on Progress AWA R D S & RECOGNITIONS 2017 Winner of the Hermes Creative Platinum Award for our Communication on Progress Report. 2017 Winner of the Hermes Creative Gold Award for Company Brochure Writing. 2017 Winner of the Hermes Creative Gold Award for Company Brochure Design. 2016 Winner of the Blair County Chamber of Commerce Business Awards of Distinction for Technology. 2016/17 Communication on Progress 18 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Total NAC facilities 4 Average Total Workforce 904 Male 60% Female 40% Total number of management positions 57 WORKPLACE Percentage of management positions occupied by women 23% Percentage of senior management positions occupied by women: 31% Percentage of total workforce comprised of women: 40% TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE (TRIR): Average across all facilities 2017 0.6 SAFETY COMMITTEE COMPOSITION Total number of associates on the Safety Committee 33 % of Safety Committee Members in management positions 51% % of Safety Committee Members in non-management positions 49% LABOR MANAGEMENT Number of Employees under the age of 18 0 Number of Incidents of Discrimination 0 HUMAN RIGHTS Number of Human Rights grievances filed against NAC 0 MARKETPLACE VALUE Number of Mail Units Produced 954,192,157 Percentage of mail units produced with no errors1 98.18% Number of Customer complaints due to loss of data/breach of privacy 0 Number of Customer inquires/complaints 2 32 Number of Customer complaints that warranted action3 19 Percentage of customer complaints rectified 100% 19 2016/17 Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENTAL Gallons of water recycled through NAC’s Water Reuse Program: 24,645 Pounds of Recycled Paper 17,032,364 Number of trees saved due to paper recycling initiatives 144,775 Gallons of oil saved due to paper recycling initiatives 3,236,149 Reductions in landfill space due to paper recycling initiatives (cubic yards) 25,549 Reductions in energy consumption due to paper recycling initiatives (kilowatts) 34,064,728 Gallons of water saved due to paper recycling initiatives 59,613,272 SUSTAINABLE MAIL PRODUCTS Percentage of corporate production facilities with FSC® Chain-of-Custody Certification 100% Percentage of corporate production facilities with SFI® Chain-of-Custody Certification 100% Number of mail pieces produced using FSC® certified materials 332,410,874 Number of mail pieces produced using SFI® certified materials 137,239,584 GLOBAL COMMUNITY STATS Number of mail pieces produced as in-kind donations 121,750 Number of organizations that received in-kind donations 15 ANTI-CORRUPTION Number of instances of fines, sanctions, or legal actions taken for non-compliances with 0 environmental regulations, product-use regulations, product health and safety codes, or anti-competitive behavior The numbers we report regarding the percentage of units produced with no errors is representative of our throughput 1  quality rate. This takes into consideration our internal quality rate, including rework performed to ensure all products released into the mail stream are accurate and meet specifications. 2 Complaints are defined as any inquiry made by customers regarding either accuracy or subjective quality characteristics of products or services. ³A  ction is defined as the significant modification or implementation of permanent controls, processes, procedures, or solutions specifically designed to address the root cause of a complaint. 2016/17 Communication on Progress 20 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T R E P O R T I N G I N D E X As a United Nations Global Compact signatory, NAC has integrated all ten principles into its best business practices. The index below lists all ten principles and their location within this report. PRINCIPLES PAGE Principle 1 Protection of Human Rights 1-6 Principle 2 Complicity in Human Rights Abuses 23 Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2, 19 Principle 4 Forced and Compulsory Labor 2, 19 Principle 5 Child Labor 2, 19 Principle 6 Discrimination 6, 19 Principle 7 Precautionary Approach 11 Principle 8 Environmental Responsibility 11 13 Principle 9 Environmentally Friendly Technologies 9, 11-12 Principle 10 Anti-Corruption 20, 23 21 2016/17 Communication on Progress GRI REPORTING INDEX SECTOR/INDICATOR PAGE # SECTOR/INDICATOR PAGE # STRATEGY & ANALYSIS ENVIRONMENTAL G4-1 vi EN10 13 EN29 20,23 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 iii LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT G4-4 8 WORK G4-5 24 LA5 6, 19 G4-6 24 G4-7 v HUMAN RIGHTS G4-9 10, 19 HR3 6, 19 G4-10 19 HR12 6, 19 G4-15 iii, 16-17 G4-16 16 SOCIAL DISCLOSURE G4-18 iii SO7 23 G4-28 iii SO8 23 G4-30 iii G4-31 24 PUBLIC RELATIONS G4-33 iii PR2 23 PR8 10, 19 ETHICS & INTEGRITY G4-56 23 2016/17 Communication on Progress 22 COMPLIANCE, ETHICS & A N T I C O R R U P T I O N S TAT E M E N T NAC upholds the strongest commitment to meeting all of our legal, regulatory, and contractual obligations. Beyond ensuring compliance with all government mandated regulations, NAC adheres to many voluntary codes promoting ethical business practices. In the 2016-2017 reporting period, NAC had 0 instances of sanctions, fines, or legal action for non-compliances with environmental regulations, product-use regulations, product health and safety codes, or anti-competitive behavior. Within all NAC operations, our core values promoting honesty, integrity, and transparency are actively executed and processes are designed to eliminate the opportunities for corrupt practices. Our Code of Ethics guides all business transactions and stakeholder interactions. Reinforcing our commitment to anti-corruption and ethical practices across our supply chain, NAC participates in programs designed to promote anti-corruption and transparency through adherence to practices governing security, customs, and fiscal responsibilities, including certification through the Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) and Esquema de Empresas Certificadas (NEEC) programs. DISCLAIMER The contents of this report are correct to the best of our knowledge, information, and belief. The data contained herein is for informational purposes only. It is not represented to be error-free, and is subject to change. 23 2016/17 Communication on Progress C O M PA N Y H E A D Q U A R T E R S NAC Administrative Headquarters 7 Edgemont Road Katonah, NY 10536 OTHER CORPORATE LOCATIONS NAC East 141 NAC Drive Duncansville, PA 16635 814-696-3553 North American Mailing Services Avenida Enrique Pinocelli #9019 int 1 y 2 Parque Industiral Aerojuarez, Cd. Juarez, Chih. Mexico 32695 NAC Logistics, LLC 9660 Joe Rodriguez, Suite 2 El Paso, TX 79227 C O N TA C T Questions regarding the content of this report may be directed to: marketing@nacmail.com 2016/17 Communication on Progress 24 141 NAC Drive Duncansville, PA 16635 www.nacmail.com
