COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 CONTENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 03 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS 04 LABOR 07 ENVIRONMENT 09 ANTI-CORRUPTION 12 CONTENTS 02 DRAHTZUG CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT Since Drahtzug joined the United Nations our company and outside. In 2016, we Global Compact three years ago, we have established a corporate philosophy and been supporting the Global Compact’s code of conduct that are fully in line with the mission to turn business into a force principles and goals of the Global Compact. for good. We share its commitment to For this reason, from our point of view, sustainability and the belief that businesses ensuring compliance with all legal regulations can take responsibility for achieving a better and our own ethical standards is the best way world. In pursuance of the goal of creating to promote human rights, children’s rights a sustainable and inclusive economy and labor rights, as well as to fight corruption. that achieves lasting benefits for people, Building on our well-established and communities and markets, we have made comprehensive environmental management the 10 universal principles of the Global Comsystem, we not only ensure compliance with pact a guideline for everything we do. our own rules but constantly work to improve our environmental record by working towards By engaging in the Global Compact initiative, achieving the environmental goals we have we are also publicly communicating our set ourselves. ongoing commitment to protect human rights, labor rights and the environment, as In accordance with the spirit of the Global well as to fight corruption. We are proud to Compact, we hereby disclose our actions openly demonstrate the values we stand for by submitting our annual Communication on and we hope to inspire others to join us. Progress report. This report demonstrates our continued support for the goals of the Ever since we made corporate compliance Global Compact and provides a good overall a focal point of our activities in 2015, we sense of our activities and their results. Our have taken action to spread the necessary support will continue. knowledge and raise awareness within CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT Sincerely, Dr. Matthias Grundmann CEO DRAHTZUG Holding GmbH & Co. KG 03 DRAHTZUG Communication ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS A business built on mutual trust and Continuing this theme of proactive support, respect together with a number of companies from our region, we set up the “Leiningerland Training Mutual trust and respect for one another are Association” with the aim of interesting young the cornerstones on which the relationship people in an occupational apprenticeship. For with all our partners and employees is built. this purpose, the network makes information We comply with all legal standards for available via different channels. For example, occupational health and safety at all our sites. representatives of the companies regularly One example of this is our membership of go to parents’ evenings to introduce parents the United Nations Global Compact, which and pupils to the opportunities offered by we joined at the beginning of 2015. As part dual vocational training. The highlight of this of this global corporate governance initiative initiative is the training fair, which takes place we are committed, among other principles, once a year towards the end of the summer to protecting human and children’s rights holidays. At this event, the companies and fighting corruption. Last year, we as a introduce themselves, give an overview of their company once again implemented a whole training opportunities and explain the career series of actions and measures to ensure that prospects they can offer. we live up to our social responsibility. Education and training is another major theme Flexible requirements, flexible solutions at Drahtzug. Given the high level of interest and success we have experienced in recent As a company, we try to respond as indiyears, we were more than happy to continue vidually as possible to the wishes of our our English courses in Cusset in 2017. employees. That is why we reached a flexible 18 employees are currently taking advantage compensation settlement in 2017 with four of the foreign language offerings. Good English employees at our Come site who have health language skills promote integration into the problems, enabling them to focus on their Drahtzug Group and also make it easier to health. deal with international customers at all levels. The two double language lessons per week HUMAN RIGHTS available to each employee are thus well invested. 04 DRAHTZUG Working to improve and maintain health Numerous charitable organizations collect plastic closures from bottles to generate Since 2017, we have offered our employees money for their charities. To support this the opportunity to participate in a health activity, we set up collecting containers for the program. To support them in their healthplastic closures next to the vending machines promoting activities, they receive a free health at the Omim plant. The campaign was very and training card. This gives them free access well received by employees. to all fitness facilities, the public bike-sharing system and further medical advice throughout As in previous years, our New Bern site the country. Through regular small initiatives, continued its support of the YMCA’s annual we regularly remind our employees about the Thanksgiving charity run in 2017. The runners advantages of a healthy lifestyle. were not primarily focused on winning, but rather in participating in support of the Young As part of the healthcare program at our Men’s Christian Association. Via their “Turkey Cusset site, we once again conducted a free Trot” charity run, over a distance of five or flu vaccination campaign for our employees ten kilometers, the Twin Rivers Section of the last fall. With the vaccination, our employees association collects donations to support the not only protect themselves, but also their children of needy families. families, friends and colleagues. The high take-up rate and the success of the initiative Elsewhere, as in previous years, the Altleiningen has proved us right – we did not register a site supported the Pfalz Trail in Carlsberg, single case of flu. Employees were also able which is a unique event in the walking sports to refresh their tetanus protection on this scene. In this way, Drahtzug once again occasion – also free of charge, of course. underlined its commitment in the region and not just as a donor of sponsorship money. This Active support for good causes time, we also organized the shuttle service from the car parks to the starting and finishing Drahtzug is always keen to get involved in local points. This was very well received and greatly charitable projects, such as collecting items appreciated by the runners. It is gratifying to HUMAN RIGHTS that would otherwise go to waste and using see just how many of our employees again them to generate money for good causes. competed in the various disciplines. 05 DRAHTZUG Promoting employee autonomy We are firm believers in the value of choice and being able to make decisions that affect your own work and private life. With the aim of giving our industrial employees the opportunity to take advantage of taxdeductible social benefits, both our Come and Omim locations have taken part in the “Easy Welfare Program”. This involves company bonuses being converted into services that our employees can take advantage of without tax deductions. Because our company also participates in this savings program, we were able to give our employees a special bonus. They can easily use the benefits via a new intranet platform, which allows them to choose between personal services in the areas of family, childcare and school, sports, culture, leisure and work-life balance, or to boost their pension schemes. HUMAN RIGHTS 06 DRAHTZUG LABOR Making working life easier and more but also gained flexibility, minimized interfaces enjoyable and, last but not least, relieved the workload on our employees. The result was a 25 % Following our excellent experience with increase in productivity. In this way, we are camera-supported quality control at one of also ideally positioned to meet customer our production lines in the Altleiningen plant, requirements in terms of quality and we have installed this technology on other adherence to delivery dates at the highest lines too. The camera monitoring system not level. only automatically ensures that all parts are correctly and fully mounted on the basket Constantly increasing occupational safety after assembly but also makes the work easier for our employees. In October 2017, Occupational safety remains a core focus of we introduced this technology at the Lodz our activities at Drahtzug. Among numerous plant as well. Alongside greatly increased other initiatives, our Saprofil site again paid accuracy and quality, these measures enable great attention to occupational safety last more ergonomic assembly processes and year. In December 2017, the Quality, Health, have been very well received by our staff. Safety and Environment unit launched a communications initiative to further reduce Automation boosts productivity and the number of accidents at work. Monthly reduces stress accident statistics now provide ongoing information on the current status. In addition, By automating a bending process at the new educational material is being produced Come plant, we were able to increase proand there is regular personal training on ductivity by 30 %. For this purpose, we occupational safety. integrated a new machine that bends parts fully automatically and significantly reduces Continuing this theme, we again invested in manual handling processes. our machinery park in Lodz in 2017, whereby older machines were either modernized At Drahtzug USA last year, we invested or replaced. This also applies to the heavily in improving production processes electroplating process. The best example is LABOR and expanding capacity. A production line a new eccentric press, which has been in for dishwasher baskets was expanded and operation since March 2017. This enabled us 07 converted using the latest machinery and both to significantly increase efficiency and DRAHTZUG equipment. This not only increased capacity also improve occupational safety. Concrete solutions to specific challenges This has made it possible to decouple the supply of goods pallets from their supply One specific measure in the area of to the packing station, with the result that occupational safety concerned hearing stacker movements have been reduced protection. Durable personal protective by 30 %. equipment has been introduced in specific areas of high noise exposure. This took place Increased flexibility and improved at the turn of the year 2017/2018. The higher ergonomics costs will be offset by increased acceptance and more effective protection. In the summer of 2017, we set up new work processes and requirements in the final As part of our commitment to continuously assembly area at our main plant in Altleiningen. optimize occupational safety, we have The disadvantages of rigid assembly line work improved the safety grids in the automated have been overcome by the use of flexible areas of the hydraulic line at the Cusset plant. working methods. The integration of efficient This has further minimized the risk of injury storage and buffer systems not only makes as a result of accidentally entering the safety production more efficient but also improves areas. ergonomics. We are also improving our processes to both In September, together with an expert in improve productivity and reduce the workload work ergonomics, we carefully examined the on our employees. In the past, our team in workflows in the area of dispatch preparation Altleiningen had to take a new pallet from and at the welding stations at our Cusset a pallet stack, which also involved handling plant. Working conditions have improved and the risk of accidents. At the same time, considerably as a result. Just a short time a forklift truck needed to be on hand to later, our employees were already reporting a immediately transfer packed pallets to the reduction in workload and fatigue. packing station. Any delay risked interrupting the assembly process. To alleviate this situation, our engineering team developed LABOR and implemented a new, semi-automatic pallet magazine. 08 DRAHTZUG ENVIRONMENT Living our commitment to responsible Protecting people and the environment is a action global task and the sum of many successes that we can achieve every day. For example, We regard our efforts to save energy as a the roofing of the bicycle parking spaces in process that we are continually updating, our Omim plant still consisted of asbestos which is why we constantly work on this topic panels. During the refurbishment of the at our Altleiningen plant. Monthly meetings are entire plant, these asbestos panels were held to examine whether and how measures dismantled and disposed of in a professional already implemented are proving their worth and environmentally friendly manner. The and whether further innovative solutions bicycles of employees who choose this are emerging, which will further improve environmentally friendly way of getting to the carbon footprint of our production prowork – and thereby reduce environmental cesses. An important task is to maintain stress – are now protected by durable, our ISO 50001 certification on a permanent galvanized trapezoidal sheets. basis. At present, the use of new, more efficient electric drives and energy-saving Active energy-reduction measures potentials in our lighting systems and heat supply are being investigated and approIn early 2017, we equipped the entire priate measures planned. prefabrication hall at our Come plant with LED lights. The switch from conventional Since September 2017, we have also been lighting to LEDs noticeably reduced electricity working with testing specialists DEKRA to consumption (-10 %) and thus also CO2 ensure compliance with all environmental emissions. Not only that, but the illumination regulations. Alongside our internal environof the hall and the workplaces has also mental management system, an external improved significantly. Everyone wins: better expert now tests all environmental aspects light at lower costs. associated with production. As a result, we have initiated an additional safety layer, which ensures that we comply with all requirements. ENVIRONMENT 09 DRAHTZUG The production hall itself was fully equipped Improved heating and air-management with LED lights in 2017. This reduces energy systems costs and improves the illumination of the hall and the working conditions of our employees. In the heating plant at the Cusset site, the We expect to save more than 120,000 burner and boiler for the central heat supply kilowatt hours of electricity per year across were both replaced. To ensure more efficient the entire plant. temperature management and a more uniform heat level, the temperature sensors To save even more energy, the gas burners in the factory were replaced as well. The new of the kiln in the coating area were replaced technology saves energy and costs while the by more modern versions in December 2017. reduced CO2 emissions relieve the burden on In addition to reduced environmental impact the environment. as a result of lower emissions, we were able to significantly reduce interruptions to the To save heating energy, modern radiators production process. were installed in part of the office space in Come in spring 2017, saving energy and We also replaced the gas burner in our elecreducing CO2 emissions. The people who troplating facility at the Omim plant in 2017. work in these offices are also delighted with This investment has seen a considerable the more pleasant room climate. reduction in gas consumption (-15 %) and the associated energy costs. The measure has Generating compressed air requires a also resulted in a corresponding reduction in comparatively large amount of energy. At our CO2 emissions. Altleiningen plant, we installed a measuring device that records the compressed air consumption of individual production lines. This enables us to measure fluctuations in compressed air requirements and gives us clear indications of possible savings potential. This is the prerequisite to being able to ENVIRONMENT intervene and increase these potentials, and enables us to quickly achieve sustainable savings in energy consumption. 10 DRAHTZUG Avoiding emissions and conserving The renovation of this machine was the resources prelude to a larger program to adapt older, fundamentally sound machines, piece by The new filter system installed in Come in piece, to today’s requirements in terms 2017 for the heating system of the coating of environment, occupational safety and furnace has led to a verifiable improvement in ergonomics. the environmental balance. The filters prevent unburned oil residues from entering the air Recycling for a good cause with the exhaust gases. At the end of their working lives, the filters are collected and At Drahtzug USA, wooden pallets, beverage disposed of safely. cans and copper and stainless steel waste are collected throughout the plant and Using toxic substances is unavoidable in disposed of centrally. In 2017, we collected many galvanic processes. That is why we a total of 840 pallets that were then sold to a are constantly upgrading our protective local company. 15,717 beverage cans yielded measures to the current state of the art. We 230 kilograms of aluminum, from which we have taken additional measures to prevent raised 500 dollars. Once again this year, the escape of toxic vapors in the chrome the proceeds were donated to the nearby bath of the electroplating shop at the Omim “Coastal Women’s Shelter” organization. plant. This has been achieved by building up an additional foam barrier. In total, we also collected 377 kilograms of copper and 73 kilograms of stainless steel. At our Omim plant, a straightening and cutting This scrap metal was sold to recycling machine has been adapted to meet the latest companies and the proceeds were fed into environmental protection and occupational social projects. Through consistent recycling, safety standards. As well as eliminating leaks we have reduced our waste volumes, made in the oil circuit, we have above all been a positive contribution to our environmental able to achieve efficient sound insulation by performance and supported charitable installing suitable insulation mats. causes. ENVIRONMENT 11 DRAHTZUG ANTI-CORRUPTION Our commitment to ethical business Since 2016, we have been actively promoting practices clear and uniform standards of behavior in our company. An important milestone Compliance with all applicable law is a mainin this direction was the introduction of our stay of Drahtzug business conduct. We adcompany guidelines. These include our here to all relevant national and international philosophy and Code of Conduct, which is law at all times, regardless of our location or binding for all our employees. We also run the location of the business. We also respect training courses to raise awareness of critical several international conventions that we issues among our employees. These courses have chosen to recognize. provide them with the necessary knowledge to act in accordance with the law and with To help our employees comply with these our own values. At each of our locations, our legal standards and the ethical standards employees have direct access to at least one we have set ourselves, we introduced a compliance coordinator as an on-site contact company-wide compliance management person for all questions relating to compliance system in 2016. This system also serves to issues. protect the company and our employees from the fallout of any misconduct. By taking As a further step to support our employees an active stance against illegal actions such in their decision-making during their everyday as corruption, infringements of antitrust law work, we issue information materials sumor acts of fraud, we inform all our employees, marizing the most important facts. For stakeholders and business partners that example, we have developed a comprehenDrahtzug will have nothing to do with any sive guideline detailing the circumstances illegal business practices. We do business under which employees can offer or accept strictly in accordance with the law and with gifts or invitations without running any risk. our own principles of integrity and mutual By the same token, we ensure that they are respect. Complying with these standards absolutely clear about when they need to ensures that we minimize any risk of illegal seek qualified advice. To make this guideline ANTI-CORRUPTION business transactions that could result in even easier to follow during everyday work, fines or sanctions that might jeopardize the we compiled and published a simple onefuture of our company. sheet decision-making aid that details all restrictions and guides employees through 12 the decision-making process. DRAHTZUG Additionally, our local compliance coordinators support these measures through compliance training courses on site. Building on our established track record, we will continue to expand our compliance management system to ensure that it takes into account any regulatory changes while helping us to continually improve our processes. ANTI-CORRUPTION 13 DRAHTZUG DRAHTZUG Holding GmbH & Co. KG Drahtzug Stein Talstraße 2 divisione come S.R.L 67317 Altleiningen Via Monferrato, 4 Deutschland I-15030 Conzano (AL) Tel.: +49 (0) 6356/966-0 Tel.: +39 (0) 142/925545 Fax: +49 (0) 6356/966-118 Fax: +39 (0) 142/924908 www.drahtzug.com www.drahtzug.com Drahtzug Stein drahtwaren Drahtzug Stein GmbH & Co. KG divisione omim Talstr. 2 Via J.F. Kennedy, 8 D-67317 Altleiningen I-30027 San Donà di Piave (VE) Tel.: +49 (0) 6356/966-0 Tel.: +39 (0) 421/497511 Fax: +49 (0) 6356/966-116 Fax: +39 (0) 421/497598 www.drahtzug.com www.drahtzug.com Drahtzug Stein cusset SAS Drahtzug Stein łódź Sp. z o.o. Siège Social et Usine: ul Techniczna 8/10 12, Boulevard Alsace Lorraine 92-518 Łódź, Polska BP 20045 Tel.: +48 (0) 4225/42000 F-03300 Cusset Cedex Fax: +48 (0) 4225/42020 Tel.: +33 (0) 470/309760 www.drahtzug.com Fax: +33 (0) 470/309769 www.drahtzug.com Drahtzug Stein usa Corp. 197 Bosch Boulevard Drahtzug Stein saprofil S.A.R.L. New Bern, NC 28562, USA Siège Social et Usine: Tel.: +1 (0) 252-637/9660 Z. l. des Fruchardières Fax: +1 (0) 252-635/9473 5, rue Clément Ader info.usa@drahtzug.com F-85340 Olonne-sur-Mer www.drahtzug.com Tel.: +33 (0) 251/211309 Fax: +33 (0) 251/957410 www.drahtzug.com klimaneutral natureOffice.com | DE-212-975344 gedruckt DRAHTZUG Holding GmbH & Co. KG Tel: +49 (0) 6356/966-0 info@drahtzug.com 67317 Altleiningen (Germany) Fax: +49 (0) 6356/966-118 www.drahtzug.com
