ABN AMRO Bank GroupN.V. N.V. Integrated Annual Review 2017 ﻿﻿﻿ OUR REPORTS ABN ABN AMRO AMRO Group Group N.V. N.V. ABN ABN AMRO AMRO Group Group N.V. N.V. ABN ABN AMRO AMRO Group Group N.V. Other sustainability N.V. ABN ABN AMRO AMRO Group Group N.V. Other sustainability N.V. ABN ABN AMRO Bank Bank N.V. AMRO Group Group N.V. N.V. N.V. ABN Bank N.V. Bank AMRO Group ABN AMRO Group N.V. N.V. N.V. Other Other sustainability disclosures sustainability ABN ABN AMRO AMRO Group Bank Bank N.V. Group N.V. N.V. N.V. disclosures disclosures Integrated Annual Report 2017 Pillar III Report disclosures Annual Review 2017 Integrated Annual Annual Report Pillar III Report Sustainability Review 2017 Group and Bank disclosures Purpose: This is Purpose: The board Purpose: This report Purpose: The Sustainable ABN AMRO’s Integrated reports and the Annual provides detailed Banking website Annual Review, which Financial Statements quantitative information complements our describes the group’s provide information in the area of risk and Integrated Annual Review. ability to create value about our financial and capital management. It provides detailed over time. As our primary non-financial performance A description of our sustainability disclosures, report, it examines the in compliance with main approach to risk background information, themes that are central regulatory requirements. management and qualitative key figures and highlights to achieving our longand Pillar 3 requirements is under Reporting including medium-term strategy. Readership: Intended included in the our Human Rights Report. Welcome to the ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017. Information has been taken readers of this report ABN AMRO Group N.V. from the reports listed are primarily regulators Annual Report. Readership: Intended The Integrated Annual Review describes the themes that are here, where applicable. and providers of financial readers of this report central to achieving our longand medium-term strategy and the Readership: Intended capital (investors). Readership: Intended readers of this report are employees, clients, investors and society group’s ability to create value over time. To achieve this, we readers of this report are investors, clients, Frameworks used Å International Financial are primarily regulators and providers of financial at large. have used the International Integrated Reporting Framework to employees and society Reporting Standards capital (investors). See: abnamro.com/en/ at large. It will be of special (IFRS) sustainable-banking/ describe our activities and achievements during 2017. interest to providers of Å Dutch Civil Code Title 9, Frameworks used reporting-and-publications/ financial capital (investors). Book 2 Capital requirements reporting/index.html. Å Capital requirements regulation (CRR, EBA) Frameworks used regulations (Basel III, Frameworks used Our goal is to continuously enhance our reporting International Integrated CRD IV, CRR, EBA) Assurance Not applicable as we move forward, and we welcome your Reporting Framework (IIRC) Å Financial supervision act The figures presented Å Corporate Governance in this document have not Assurance feedback concerning this report. Please address Assurance Code been audited or reviewed The figures presented your questions, comments and suggestions to EY has performed a limited Å Dutch Banking Code by our external auditor on this website have not branding.&.communications@nl.abnamro.com. assurance engagement been audited or reviewed on this report Assurance by our external auditor EY has audited the Annual Financial Statements, including certain disclosures in the Risk, Funding & Capital Report, and has expressed an unqualified audit opinion ﻿ ABOUT INDEX This Integrated Annual Review provides a concise This report includes the highlights of 2017, overview of ABN AMRO’s approach to creating our strategic targets, priorities, and business line developments, and an overview of THIS true value for its stakeholders: clients, employees, investors and society at large. It includes the our governance and financial performance. 4 highlights of 2017, our strategic targets, priorities, REPORT and business line developments, and a look INTRODUCTION 4 Profile at our governance and financial performance. 6 What we did in 2017 8 Interview with the CEO 13 Report of the Supervisory Board This report contains the following information. The strategy and value creation section shows our plans The introduction gives an overview of ABN AMRO and its and ambitions for the future, and how we delivered on main developments in 2017. The driving forces section our strategy. The progress report shows our progress over 13 describes the key trends in our environment. 2017, including business line performance.  OPERATING ENVIRONMENT 16 Driving forces 18 Stability of our financial system DRIVING FORCES IN THIS REPORT 20 Connectivity 22 Convenience ÅÅ Stability of our financial system ÅÅ Disintermediation ÅÅ Our reporting approach for a selected set of target readers 24 Disintermediation ÅÅ Connectivity ÅÅ Responsible ÅÅ Our further implementation of integrated reporting principles 26 Responsible 27 business ÅÅ Convenience business ÅÅ Our material topics for 2017 as identified by our stakeholders 28 Our stakeholders ÅÅ Our limited assurance engagement with EY on the entire LONG-TERM STRATEGIC FOUNDATION Integrated Annual Review STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION 30 Preparing for the future 31 Our strategy OUR REPORTING SCOPE 32 Creating value for our stakeholders The main scope of our corporate reporting on financial 36 How we create & share value results is ABN AMRO Group N.V. and its consolidated 38 Performance on strategic targets ClientInvest in Moderate Sustainable entities. This reporting scope may differ for non-financial driven the future risk growth results, and is indicated where applicable. profile 37 The interests and wishes of our stakeholders have an PROGRESS REPORT MEDIUM-TERM STRATEGIC PRIORITIES impact on ABN AMRO’s activities, and the Our Stakeholders 40 Financials section of this report describes our approach to responding 44 Capital and regulation to their views. We use materiality analyses to investigate 46 Technology and innovation and develop the opportunities, outcomes and risks that 50 Responsible business our stakeholders consider important – and that enable 54 Workforce and organisation ABN AMRO to create value for them. 57 Progress per business line Bring Enhance Innovate Deliver 58 Retail Banking expertise the client & grow fast A description of our material topics is provided under 60 Commercial Banking experience Material topics and connectivity. Definitions of the metrics 62 Private Banking GOVERNANCE, LEADERSHIP we use can be found in the Non-financial indicators section. 64 Corporate & Institutional Banking AND FIGURES 64 PROGRESS See Reporting approach for more information. 67 Governance 68 Leadership Progress on topics that are important to our 70 Statement of financial position stakeholders, both financial and non-financial. STATEMENT FROM THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 71 Income statement OF ABN AMRO GROUP N.V. APPENDIX 72 Non-financial indicators 74 Reporting approach This report aims to give our stakeholders a balanced, 76 Our material topics transparent picture of our short-term and long-term 78 Material topics and connectivity performance. We have embraced integrated reporting 80 Assurance report of principles and focus on how we create value in response the independent auditor to what matters most to our stakeholders. Please see the Reporting approach in this report for more information. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 4 5 Introduction / Profile ABN AMRO PROFILE ABN AMRO is a modern full-service bank with a transparent ABN AMRO and client-driven business model with traditional and Retail Banking Commercial Banking Private Banking Corporate & Group Functions Institutional Banking digital banking products, a moderate risk profile, a clean Corporate & Retailposition Leading Banking in the Commercial Banking Established business Private Market Banking leader in key Present in theBanking Group Functions Innovation & and strong balance sheet, a solid capital position and Institutional Netherlands partner of the Dutch the Netherlands financial and logistical Technology strong funding profile. We serve retail, private and corporate Principalposition Leading bank forin20%the1 Established business corporate sector Market Ranked leader top 5 ininFrance Present in the key hubs providing sector Innovation & Finance including Netherlands partner ApproximatelyDutch of the the Netherlands financial logistical andexpertise Technology banking clients, with a primary focus on the Netherlands of the Dutch population 65,000 and Germany and product Investor Relations, Principal Top bank2for 3 position in 20% 1 corporate clients withsector an annual Present top Ranked France 5 ineurozone in the hubs providing ± 3,000 domestic sector and Finance including ALM, Treasury and Tax and with selective operations internationally. of the Dutch population Approximately 65,000 and Germany and product expertise Investor Relations, savings (including turnover between with more than international clients Risk Management Top 3 position Private Banking)in 2 clients with an EUR 1 million and annual Present 50 branches in the eurozone ±in3,000 selected sectorsand domestic ALM, Treasury and Transformation & HRTax savings #23 in new(including mortgage turnover between EUR 250 million across with more than Fully integrated international clients Five product units: Risk Management Group Audit, Corporate Private production Banking) EUR 1 million 15 defined and sectors 50 branches financial advice and a in selected sectors Structured Finance, Transformation & HR& Office and Strategy ±#25,000,000 3 in new mortgage retail clients EUR 250 million across Broad range of products Fully broadintegrated array of digital Tradeproduct Five units: & Commodity Group Audit, Sustainability Corporate production ± 300,000 small 15 defined sectors and services based4 financial advice and services focused on a Structured Finance, Finance, Global Office and Strategy & Geography ±businesses 5,000,000 retail clients Broad rangeclient on in-depth of products broad array of wealth structuring, digital Trade & Commodity Markets, Clearing Sustainability Europe Number of employees ±Seamless 300,000 small omnichannel and services based4 and sector knowledge services focused on wealth protection Finance, Global and Private Equity (in FTEs) businesses distribution with a on Utilising theclient in-depth wealth structuring, and wealth transfer Markets, Clearing Adding value by Seamless nationwideomnichannel and sector knowledge wealth protection and Equity Privatethe 19,954 network opportunities presented combining expertise distribution of 202 branches,with a24/7 Utilising the by innovation, and wealth transfer Adding value by and creativity of nationwide network Contact Center and opportunities presented digitalisation and withexpertise our people the combining the of 202 branches, top-class 24/7 digital offering by innovation, standardisation and creativity power and speed of of Contact Center and digitalisation and our people with the technology top-class digital offering standardisation power and speed of technology By business segment By geography 1 GfK online tracker, 2017. 2 Calculated based on DNB Domestic MFI statistics and internal analyses, H1 2017 figures. 3 Calculated based on information provided by the Dutch Land Registry (Kadaster), 2017. 428 490 139 4 ABN AMRO Commercial Finance clients and ABN AMRO Lease clients are often also serviced by other units at Commercial Banking. The number of unique clients is approximately 57,000. 1 GfK online tracker, 2017. 2 Calculated based on DNB Domestic MFI statistics and internal analyses, H1 2017 figures. 3 Calculated based on information provided by the Dutch Land Registry (Kadaster), 2017. The Netherlands 4 ABN AMRO Commercial Finance clients and ABN AMRO Lease clients are often also serviced by other units at Commercial Banking. The number of unique clients is approximately 57,000. 5,192 Amsterdam 2,628 Operating income Credit ratings 6,206 9,290 (in EUR millions) ABN AMRO Bank S&P: A Positive outlook Moody’s: A1 Stable outlook 2,773 2,542 Fitch: A+ Stable outlook 16,269 3,240 Operating income Operating income The Netherlands Retail Banking By type By type of of income income By business segment By business segment By By geography geography Commercial Banking Rest of Europe Private Banking USA Corporate & Asia 12 33 11 12 11 Institutional Banking Rest of the world 20 20 Group Functions 11 11 19 43 % % % 19 43 17 17 Branch offices 70 70 78 78 Rest of the world 18 18 Australia: Sydney Japan: Tokyo United Arab Emirates: Dubai Brazil: São Paulo Russia: Moscow United States: Dallas, Net Net interest interest income income Retail Retail Banking Banking Corporate & Corporate & The The Netherlands Netherlands China: Shanghai, Hong Kong Singapore New York, Chicago Net fee fee and Net commission income and commission income Commercial Banking Commercial Banking Institutional Banking Institutional Banking Rest of Rest of Europe Europe Other operating income Other operating income Private Private Banking Banking Group Group Functions Functions USA, Asia and and rest USA, Asia the world of the rest of world ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 6 7 Introduction / What we did in 2017 WHAT WE DID IN 2017 ÅÅ ABN AMRO makes further ÅÅ ABN AMRO’s circular pavilion commitment to sustainability: ÅÅ ABN AMRO participates in the is named Circl. It underpins we aim to improve the average National Blockchain Coalition the bank’s commitment to the energy efficiency of our own ÅÅ The Supervisory Board appoints ÅÅ ABN AMRO prepares for the circular economy and our clients’ properties to CEO Kees van Dijkhuizen. ÅÅ The annual report ‘Giving voice future with the launch of its label A by 2030 A streamlined management to value’ is published, leading ÅÅ The Supervisory Board announces Developer Portal with a series ÅÅ ABN AMRO increases its stake structure with increased executive to the award for most innovative the intended appointment of ÅÅ Sustainable investment will be the of commercial APIs, as well in Swedish FinTech TINK level attention to business report in the Transparency Clifford Abrahams as CFO and norm for private banking from as its challenger proposition activities is introduced Benchmark Study Tanja Cuppen as CRO 2018 onwards ÅÅ Tikkie reaches 1.5 million users Prospery in Private Banking JAN MAR MAY AUG OCT DEC FEB APR JUNE JULY SEPT NOV ÅÅ Transavia becomes the first ÅÅ ABN AMRO closes the sale of ÅÅ Smart loyalty app wins ABN AMRO’s ÅÅ According to the Dutch Association ÅÅ ABN AMRO launches New10, ÅÅ ABN AMRO’s first Health Impact company to give its customers private banking activities in ‘Beyond Banking’ Hackathon of Investors for Sustainable a fully digital small business Bond and sixth Social Impact Bond: access to the innovative Tikkie app, Asia and the Middle East Development, ABN AMRO has loan application a broad alliance of parties join ÅÅ A Vlerick Business School study followed by the University of set the example by providing hands to support employees ÅÅ EIB and ABN AMRO provide names ABN AMRO a frontrunner ÅÅ The Dutch State reduces its stake Groningen, the Dutch Heart more transparency on risks and who have or have had cancer EUR 150 million to finance in digital transformation in ABN AMRO Group to 56% Foundation and Ajax in later months actions regarding human rights in returning to work faster and green shipping ÅÅ The results of an internal investigation more successfully ÅÅ ABN AMRO provides 100% into revised mortgage advice financing for corporate clients ÅÅ Introduction of instant payments are announced to improve the sustainability between European banks ÅÅ The Dutch State reduces its stake of their properties in the ABN AMRO Group to 63% ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 8 9 Introduction / Interview with the CEO INTERVIEW WITH THE CEO “Standing out with expertise, innovation and sustainability” Kees van Dijkhuizen CEO of ABN AMRO Group N.V. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 10 11 Introduction / Interview with the CEO INTERVIEW WITH THE CEO What has the response been internally when it comes to sustainability? “Looking at the sustainability initiatives that the as as a substantial portion of our loan book is related to real estate. Our agile way of working now facilitates the quick implementation of bank’s employees themselves are launching, it’s ideas like that. Our bank’s enterprising, creative, The year 2017 was a good one. Solid financial results, rising client satisfaction clear that sustainability is on everybody’s mind. and solution-oriented quality is something to We aspire to upgrade the buildings and homes in be proud of. I live in an old house myself, about scores, appealing innovations, and appreciation for our sustainability initiatives our real estate portfolio from a D to an average a hundred years old, and I’ve made it greener in the Netherlands and beyond all reflect the bank’s success. But there is still room energy label A by 2030. That ambition started by having the floors insulated, getting doublein Commercial Real Estate, and we expanded glazing, installing new boilers, electric power for improvement, according to CEO Kees van Dijkhuizen. this to our mortgage portfolio. Our client loan from wind energy, and so forth.” portfolio is where we can make a difference, How do you look back on 2017? sustainability. Last but not least, our smart “For ABN AMRO, 2017 was a good year. innovations in 2017 are worth mentioning.” Financial performance was strong, our clients appreciate us more than they did before, costs What could have gone better in 2017? were lower, and we’re contributing to a more “Employee engagement has decreased by 3%, sustainable economy. We’re well on track which is not good for us nor for our clients. towards achieving our strategic goals for 2020. We will be doing everything in our power to And our capital position is at a solid starting point, improve engagement again. Employees feel the especially now that we have more clarity on bank’s strategy and profile are not clear enough. Basel IV. We have set a dividend pay-out target We’re also talking to the Employee Council to of 50% of sustainable profit from 2018 onwards. get a crystal clear picture of what needs to At the same time, 2017 was a year of change. be done.” On balance, our headcount decreased by as much as 8% in 2017. That’s a big deal. 2017 What sets ABN AMRO apart from other banks? also saw changes in our management structure. “When we ask for feedback and opinions, a We have a new slimmed down top commonly heard answer is that we are experts management structure with more focus on the at what we do. We want to further develop that Can you expand on the bank’s innovations? In June 2017, ABN AMRO ranked first in business, and new managers have been expertise. After all, no matter the degree of “For instance Tikkie, also a bottom-up initiative a Vlerick Business School digitalisation appointed at many levels as part of the digitalisation, the expertise of our employees by the way, is a huge success, used by survey, Transformers 200. ABN AMRO is introduction of agile working and our switch is at the forefront. We are a solid Dutch bank two million people. And our own FinTech the Netherlands’ front runner when it comes from a regional orientation to a sector-based with a focus on growth in Northwest Europe. start-ups – New10 – where clients can arrange to digital transformation. What exactly is approach.” And we are active in a number of niche markets, a business loan within fifteen minutes – and the bank doing right? such as the funding of energy, commodities, Prospery – our online wealth manager. And “The survey gives us high performance scores “FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE WAS STRONG, and transportation as well as clearing. And, another major area in which we stand out is our then there’s Franx – for SME clients who do international business. We launched Franx early in all six areas covered: from technology to culture and talent development. For example, OUR CLIENTS APPRECIATE US MORE THAN commitment to innovation and sustainability.” in 2018, but most of the work in setting it up we have made good progress in migrating our THEY DID BEFORE, COSTS WERE LOWER, was done in 2017, of course. What’s new is applications to the cloud, which is going to pay Sustainability seems to be particularly that, in creating innovative concepts, we work off in the form of lower costs and more efficient AND WE’RE CONTRIBUTING TO A MORE important to you personally, why is that? more and more closely with FinTech start-ups. innovation. And we’re ahead of the pack in SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY.” “Ever since the 2015 Paris climate agreement, In many areas, FinTechs can innovate faster and implementing agile working methods. The way everybody should be well aware that we need better than we can, but we are the party with the businesses cooperate with IT at ABN AMRO What particular highlights are you proud of? to take action regarding climate change. For me the infrastructure, the financial expertise and is light years away from what it was a few years “I’m proud of us for achieving such strong personally, that moment came a long time ago, the clients. We complement and reinforce ago. They team up to make choices and prioritise performance despite the rapid changes. Profit back in the early seventies. I was in secondary each other. Collaborations like this, also via issues. It works incredibly well, and promises totalled EUR 2.8 billion. And we are making school when I read the book The Limits to platforms, are the future. To facilitate this, to work better and better in 2018. It gives an progress on sustainability. We have recently Growth by the Club of Rome. Then in 1989 we’ve established the Digital Impact Fund, in amazing boost to product innovation, too.” entered the top 5% of the FTSE4Good Index I contributed to the creation of the first National which we invest in FinTechs that have a good and the top 5% of the Dow Jones Sustainability Environmental Policy Plan at the Dutch Ministry strategic fit with us. With Tink, for instance, Index. Early in 2018 at the World Economic of Economic Affairs. Don’t get me wrong, and with Cloud Lending Solutions. In 2018 Forum at Davos, we won the Circular Economy I wouldn’t say sustainability has been at the we’ll be starting more of these collaborations. Investor Award. We’re really carving out a core of my career, but it’s definitely a topic that This is a faster way of bringing solutions to reputation as a large bank committed to has been close to my heart for a long time.” clients than trying to invent everything in-house.” ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 12 13 Introduction / Interview with the CEO What does ABN AMRO want to achieve in the years ahead? Another way we try to bolster confidence is by demonstrating our social responsibility with all REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD “IT giants like Google, Amazon and Apple kinds of sustainable initiatives, and by investing are likely to play a bigger role in the financial in six social impact bonds, for instance. These ecosystem. It’s still unclear where things bonds have been designed to address social are heading, and what the impact will be. problems, like reintegrating cancer survivors into Are they going to try to take over our role? the workforce. Building confidence is hard work.” In this context, too, our added value in terms The composition of the Supervisory Board remained constant during 2017 under of financial and sector expertise is what can What was the most difficult dilemma ABN AMRO really give us an edge in addition to the data faced in 2017? the Chairmanship of Ms Zoutendijk. The Supervisory Board’s composition is based of the vast client base we serve. I hope we will “Digitalisation and changing client behaviour on the Board’s guiding principle that diversity of thought, expertise, background, end up complementing each other as is now are moving far faster than we reckoned, and the case with FinTechs. Banking is a highly this has a big impact on staff in our branches. competences and interpersonal styles, thus including but not limited to gender regulated line of business, and because of that More and more, the tables are turning: these diversity, is a prerequisite for effective supervision and, by extension, for long-term it’s doubtful whether large IT companies are days we’re increasingly bringing the branch really keen to jump in themselves. If over the office to the client’s home. This inevitably value creation. Gender diversity within the Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO is next five to ten years we manage to overcome means staff reductions, and we fully understand currently 43%, well above the 30% guideline. this challenge, and even to grow profitably and the uncertainty this creates. At ABN AMRO, become stronger, we’ve done well. The bank we invest in the employability of our people. is in good shape right now, so we have every Still, letting staff go, is something we Focus areas and activities of the from 1 March 2017, formally entered into effect confidence we’ll succeed.” find difficult.” Supervisory Board in November 2017 upon receipt of the relevant As of January 1, 2017 the new Dutch Corporate regulatory approvals. Until 3 November 2017, What kind of year is 2018 going to be? The Employee Council wants the bank to invest Governance Code came into effect. Compliance all required decisions were adopted by the “Our prospects for 2018 look encouraging. more in retraining and updating employees with the code is based on the ‘comply or explain’ Executive Board. The changes in the new The economy is in full swing, that is good and whose jobs are on the line. Is ABN AMRO principle. The new code places greater management structure, as initiated and that is to our clients’ benefit. They have started doing enough in this respect? emphasis on long-term value creation and proposed by the CEO and supported by the investing after a long period of ‘wait and see’. “Wherever we can, we try to retrain employees risk management. It requires early and close Supervisory Board, resulted inter alia in The bank is flourishing and client satisfaction for new roles. We’re encouraging employees to involvement of the Supervisory Board in a significant improvement in gender diversity is climbing. It also depends on the action the use training opportunities to stay as employable strategy formulation for the long-term value at senior management level (from 23% to 40% European Central Bank will take on interest as possible, inside and outside the bank. The creation and the culture of the company. in the combined top 3 newly appointed senior rates. The current low interest rates are a training budgets are already there. If we foresee The new code assigns responsibility to both the management levels, i.e. the Executive Board, problem for every bank. In 2017 we paid 0.4% that a certain role will disappear within a few Management Board and the Supervisory Board Executive Committee and the direct reports interest over tens of billions of euros that we years, we will nudge employees proactively for creating a culture that promotes the desired of the Executive Committee) and a significant deposited with the ECB.” to learn new skills, even if these skills are not behaviour to achieve value creation and that reduction of the senior management group immediately relevant to their current jobs. This is encourages employees to act with integrity. by 40% from 106 to 63 FTE. This was the first Confidence has remained low since the something we’re going to put in place in 2018.” The code also states that contact between time in almost a decade that FTE reduction financial crisis and is just starting to edge the top of the company and the employees targets did not just impact lower level back up. What is ABN AMRO doing to is essential to obtain a proper understanding employees, but also affected the senior bolster confidence? of how the culture is experienced within management ranks. This was necessary and “We’re consistently putting clients’ interests the organisation. overdue for several reasons: 1) appropriate centre stage, in a variety of ways. To give you rightsizing of the number of FTE in senior a recent example, clients are tired of earning so During the first few months of 2017, the management compared to the annually little interest on their savings due to the ECB’s Supervisory Board focused much attention shrinking size of the bank’s overall FTE, monetary policy. We understand their frustration on the development and implementation of 2) reducing bureaucracy and speeding up and proactively offer advice, for instance by a new management structure, as initiated and decision-making by increasing managerial spans suggesting they use their savings to pay off proposed by the CEO. The new management of control, thereby removing unnecessary their mortgages. structure was designed in close consultation management layers, and 3) achieving between the CEO and the Supervisory Board measurable progress towards cultural equity with the aim of providing stronger focus on in meeting the bank’s cost cutting targets. the bank’s clients and business activities at the Early in 2018, ABN AMRO’s Supervisory Board top executive level, thereby creating a stronger and Executive Board commissioned an impetus for innovative solutions for clients, evaluation of the bank’s management structure. business growth initiatives, and a more The evaluation was decided at the time of the achievement focused culture of accountability. introduction of the new management structure The new management structure, operational in early 2017. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 14 Introduction / Report of the Supervisory Board OPERATING In June/July 2017, the Supervisory Board and laws, codes and regulations, specifically the the Executive Committee spent two days preparation for the implementation of MiFID II, together off-site to discuss the bank’s strategy PSD2, and IFRS 9. Furthermore the Supervisory in light of the opportunities and threats posed Board was regularly updated on ABN AMRO’s ENVIRON by external developments in the domestic key financial and non-financial risks and the and global arena. This is a good example of design of the internal risk management and collaboration of the Supervisory Board with control systems. During these updates the the Executive Committee, focusing together Executive Board’s assessment of the adequacy on long-term subjects that matter and setting and effectiveness of the risk management and the strategic framework for executive actions. control systems was monitored and discussed. The joint discussions focused on the effects of The bank’s risk appetite and ICAAP/ILAAP were MENT digitalisation, globalisation, democratisation and also discussed and approved. The Supervisory the circular economy. Specific focus was placed Board thoroughly discussed material legal, on refining the bank’s ‘purpose’ so that it would credit, tax and compliance files. more closely align to the bank’s expertise. The bank’s potential for a greater contribution The Supervisory Board actively engaged to society was explored in terms of linking more its key stakeholders in 2017, visiting various directly to the Sustainable Development Goals parts of the organisation in the Netherlands of the United Nations, in particular ‘Sustainable and internationally to obtain client and staff Cities and Communities’ and ‘Climate Action.’ feedback regarding the bank’s duty of care, During 2017, management successfully integrity, client focus, culture and competitive expanded the scope of the bank’s ambitions differentiation. The Chairman and other for sustainability of commercial real estate, members of the Supervisory Board also met sustainably invested assets in Private Banking with the Employee Council on several formal and the issuance of Green bonds for clients in and informal occasions during the year. Corporate & Institutional Banking. This included a half-day joint meeting of the Supervisory Board, the Executive Committee Other key topics discussed by the Supervisory and the Employee Council (‘drie raden overleg’), Board with management during the year were which is convened annually. The Supervisory top line growth plans for all business lines, Board appreciates the constructive relationship improving the bank’s cost-to-income ratio, it has with the Employee Council, and highly simplifying internal processes and controls, values the input, engagement, suggestions optimizing the bank’s return on equity, updating and considerations provided by the Employee the capital plan based on Basel IV, improving Council in the interest of the bank. Active overall data quality especially given the engagement was also maintained throughout increasing frequency of detailed data requests the year with the Dutch Central Bank, the by the regulators, IT innovation as well as European Central Bank, AFM, STAK AAG and cybersecurity, and the development of talent NLFI. The Supervisory Board’s aim throughout at all levels of the bank including the need to was to ensure that the bank is well positioned This section gives an overview of build a leadership development function and to create long-term value for its shareholders implement effective management succession and for society, while focusing firmly on clients’ developments that influence our current planning. The Supervisory Board had its annual interests and balancing the interests of and future activities. It also includes meeting with the bank’s graduate trainees, to all stakeholders. obtain their feedback on the bank’s training how we engage with our stakeholders. programme and how they view career On 5 February 2018, Ms Zoutendijk announced prospects and development at ABN AMRO. her decision not to run for a second term 16 Driving forces effective 1 July 2018. For further details, please 18 Stability of our financial system The Supervisory Board’s key areas of focus refer to the Report of the Supervisory Board in 20 Connectivity also included the bank’s compliance with the Annual Report. 22 Convenience 24 Disintermediation 26 Responsible business 28 Our stakeholders 16 17 Operating environment / Driving forces DRIVING This section describes our operating environment. The financial sector faces changing client expectations and FORCES technological, competitive and regulatory developments. These driving forces are input for our strategy and activities going forward. Stability of our financial system A stable financial system is important for the sustainability of ABN AMRO’s READ MORE business model. An extensive range of legislation and regulation is imposed ON PAGE 18 Stability of our by regulators and supervisors on banks to safeguard the stability and strength of the financial system. financial system Connectivity Everyone is increasingly connected through networks, changing what we might expect and creating new possibilities. Real and virtual worlds READ MORE ON PAGE 20 will continue to combine, augmented by further connection. Responsible Convenience business Customer experience is driven by the growth in mobile and smartphone ownership. Banks must be competent to adapt quickly to ever-changing READ MORE WHAT Connectivity consumers and excel in data analytics, user-friendliness and consumer engagement. ON PAGE 22 INFLUENCES Disintermediation US Disintermediation, a reduction in the use of intermediaries between producers READ MORE and consumers, has acquired a new meaning with the virtual marketplace ON PAGE 24 and banks’ role as a central intermediary is expected to continue to erode. Responsible business Disinter­ We live in a connected world in which society is increasingly committed mediation to the values of solidarity and sustainable economic development. This includes READ MORE ON PAGE 26 Convenience protection and the responsible use of our environment and resources, as well as behaving responsibly in areas such as human rights, corruption, tax, remuneration and human resources. How does ABN AMRO operate in this environment? The driving forces that are included in this section are a description of our current operating environment. ABN AMRO's strategic choices in relation to these trends are described in the strategy and value creation section. How ABN AMRO responded to developments in the past year is described in the progress report. SEE ALSO THE STRATEGY SECTION SEE ALSO THE PROGRESS REPORT HOW WE RESPOND TO THESE DRIVING FORCES HOW WE RESPONDED IN THE PAST YEAR ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 18 19 Operating environment / Stability of our financial system STABILITY OF OUR Selected key regulatory developments relevant for ABN AMRO: MIFID II implementation affects the bank in many areas, including changed processes, client interactions, FINANCIAL SYSTEM IT systems, and improvements to or extensions of ÅÅ Basel IV – On 7 December, the Basel Committee internal process documentation. announced an agreement on the finalisation of the Basel III reforms, often referred to as Basel IV. ABN AMRO currently applies the advanced IRB approach ÅÅ CRR2/CRD5/BRRD – This broad set of legislative The importance of a stable for almost all loan portfolios. Firstly, Basel IV limits the use of internal credit risk models for some exposure classes. Secondly, a floor (72.5% of standardised proposals covers many areas, including the formal introduction of the net stable funding ratio and a minimum leverage ratio, changes to the Pillar 2 regime, financial system for society calculation outcome) is set on the outcome of capital requirements calculated by internal models. These and capital and liquidity waivers. These proposals also include a new standardised approach for counterparty Basel III reforms are subject to implementation into credit risk weighting purposes. The proposed reforms European law and regulation before they become binding. also implement TLAC-requirements in EU legislation The Basel Committee has set the implementation date and make other changes to the EU’s existing resolution at 1 January 2022. Following this date, the output floor regime (bail-in/MREL). will be phased-in gradually over a period of 5 years. ÅÅ Senior non-preferred debt – In December 2017, the ÅÅ IFRS 9 – A new reporting standard for the classification EU legislator reached agreement for a fast-tracked and measurement of assets and the determination directive on the ranking on unsecured debt in insolvency Image: Kyle Bean/Sara Morris of impairments came into force in January 2018. The (bank creditor hierarchy). This requires EU member change from an incurred loss impairment methodology states to create a new class of (bail-in-able) Senior to an expected loss impairment methodology may non-preferred debt in local insolvency laws within increase volatility in impairments moving forward. 12 months (or by 1 January 2019, whichever is earliest). Regulation Dutch macro-economy and regulation The Dutch legislative procedure is expected to last A stable financial system is important for the sustainability A variety of macro-economic factors, such as the broader the full 12 months. of ABN AMRO’s business model. An extensive range Dutch and global economy, are important drivers of ÅÅ TRIM – A targeted review of internal models by the of legislation and regulation is imposed by regulators the financial results of ABN AMRO. The low interest ECB. On-site missions took place in 2017. These will be and supervisors to banks to safeguard the stability and rate environment has an impact on the profitability continued in 2018, with a possible extension into 2019. ÅÅ GDPR – The EU General Data Protection Regulation strength of the financial system. Our policies are designed of the banking sector. Margins derived from maturity The ECB may provide guidance on updating models if (GDPR) aims to protect personal data and facilitate the to comply with all existing and new regulations affecting transformation are declining because of the very flat yield it finds unacceptable model differentiations. This may free flow of personal data in the digital single market, the bank. curve. At the same time, deposit-based refinancing is have an impact on risk-weighted assets. giving EU citizens more control over their data. becoming more difficult, mainly because it is difficult Businesses, institutions and governments will be Compliance with new regulations puts considerable pressure to pass on negative interest rates to private customers. required to describe exactly what data they keep, on banks and comes at a significant (financial) cost such ÅÅ MIFID II – MIFID II became effective on 3 January 2018. where they do so and for what purpose. Organisations as the cost of IT implementation and management time. As many banks in the developed world, ABN AMRO This European legislation is designed to offer greater will not be permitted to keep data forever, and clients ABN AMRO is subject to levies imposed to support will continue to have to deal with a longer term relatively protection to consumers and investors, and to make the will have new rights, such as the right to be forgotten the stability of the financial system: the Dutch Deposit low growth environment in Europe even though the European financial markets more transparent and efficient. and the right to data portability. GDPR will come into Guarantee Scheme, the European Single Resolution Fund Dutch economy continued to show relatively robust force on 25 May, 2018. and Dutch bank tax which impact cost levels. growth in 2017 on the back of the housing market recovery and increased world trade. Regulators aim to strike a balance between protecting the stability of the financial market while also embracing and The new Dutch coalition government has announced encouraging innovations in the financial services industry. plans that include a wide range of reforms, and plans Innovative financial products are diverse, and are often which impact the financial industry or the economy. collaborations between multiple service providers, for Risks & Opportunities example between banks and FinTechs. These new offerings are often not covered by existing financial regulation. Risks Opportunities Regulators are also increasingly focused on customer ÅÅ Large amount of regulation may impose ÅÅ Increase confidence in the banking sector protection and product suitability after the financial crisis. change risk through timely compliance and transparent ÅÅ Unclear regulation interactions and communication potential discrepancies between different ÅÅ Use regulatory expertise (privacy, risk, security, etc.) global legislations for the benefit of clients ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 20 21 Operating environment / Connectivity CONNECTIVITY The impact of an increasingly connected world on financial services tools and strategies for collecting new data. Data security will be crucial in establishing and maintaining trust with clients. Innovation and partnering Traditional financial institutions previously dominated the financial services industry. Following the global financial crisis, technology further reshaped the industry landscape. Finance has become a digital industry, which leaves startups and large tech companies in a good position to exploit the financial needs of customers through innovative and diversified products and services. Networks and platforms adapt to the digital transformation. Banks need to Data Everyone is increasingly connected through networks, redefine their core operations to support this change, Financial institutions have strong potential for digitalisation The accelerating pace of the innovation cycle in financial changing who we are and what we might expect. Power and build in the agility to allow them to cope. Although because client and transaction data is the raw material that services requires business model agility and the ability shifts when we are connected. The internet gives the digital transformation offers banks possibilities for growth every bank gathers, sorts, processes and links together. to rapidly deploy partnerships. Increased availability and opportunity to reach potentially billions, distributing power. and value creation, it also comes with challenges and Most business models, products and processes can distribution of knowledge outside large companies leads At the same time distributed actions of users make a risks. The multiplier effect of combining new trends, now be digitalised, replacing tried and trusted conventions to open innovation: combining internal and external few platforms powerful forces. New powerful entities technologies and concepts can possibly lead to real such as branch offices, ready-made product ranges, ideas to advance the development of new technologies. emerged as platforms such as Facebook, Google, Twitter disruption of the financial sector. and manuals. This means data is becoming increasingly Banks need to develop a broad set of initiatives to ensure and Apple and YouTube passed certain threshold levels important as new technology allows for better usage, a successful funnel as they search for new technologies of connectivity. With smartphones and other (mobile) For example, financial services are being re-invented creating new applications for clients. and ideas outside of the firm. devices we toggle constantly between and connect on platforms such as mobile apps and in online services with real and virtual worlds. Real and virtual worlds will performed by robo-advisors. Application programme A combination of data strategies to collect the depth and A shift towards more digitalisation and the link between continue to combine, augmented by further connection. interfaces (APIs), the digital gateways to a company’s breadth of data is needed to follow the lead of tech firms. technology and finance is supported by FinTechs. Concepts data and services, are becoming digital building blocks Banks will have to consider migrating existing data in and ideas are flowing from the financial services industry The shift to a networked economy has changed society between an organisation and platforms. Artificial legacy systems to environments where it can be more into IT companies and start-ups. Increasingly FinTechs and can erode and undermine established companies Intelligence, smart contracts, modularity and cloud effectively maintained, as well as well as implementing and the traditional financial institutions partner up. and business models. Businesses such as Airbnb and solutions determine future opportunities. Uber have liberated once unused assets, spare bedrooms and empty car seats, changing whole industries. These Financial institutions are dependent on large tech firms to disruptive forces drive existing players to rethink consumer acquire critical infrastructure and differentiating technologies. engagement, transparency and convenience. The rise of digital interfaces and data in financial institutions means that banks increasingly focus on developing large Risks & Opportunities Technology & IT Infrastructure tech capabilities, such as cloud-based infrastructure and Technology is becoming faster, cheaper and more Artificial Intelligence. Banks also look at how large techs Risks Opportunities universal, with increasing processing power being placed successfully unlock data and revenue from customer ÅÅ The shift to a networked economy may ÅÅ New technologies and new distribution methods in the hands of consumers. Empowered consumers are platforms. Large techs have focused for years on making erode and undermine established ÅÅ Innovator banks to develop new business models demanding innovative solutions for which banks need to their customers’ digital experience simple and pain-free, companies and business models ÅÅ Partner with FinTechs build technical capabilities accompanied by a tech savvy and financial institutions are now moving to match ÅÅ Concentration of powerful platforms such culture. This creates opportunities for institutions that are this standard. as Google and Facebook technically able and culturally willing to collaborate and ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 22 23 Operating environment / Convenience CONVENIENCE Doing business everywhere, anywhere, anytime Convenience Digitalisation Digital identity and trust In financial services, digital trust is already central to the Customer experience is driven by growth in mobile Clients expect financial services that surprise, are easy to The transition to a digital economy requires different identity customer relationship. According to the World Economic and smartphone ownership. We live in a world of online use, add value, are transparent and are secure. To deliver, systems as existing methods for managing security and Forum, financial institutions are well positioned to drive shopping, same-day delivery and immediately-available banks need to digitalise financial products and services. privacy are no longer adequate. As customers use the creation of digital identity systems. Banks already streaming entertainment. Consumers demand fast and Digitalisation is the continuous process of redesigning smartphones, tablets, computers, security systems and serve as intermediaries in many transactions, are easy delivery of services anywhere, any place and at processes, leveraging digital competencies such as GPS devices throughout the network, the risks associated rigorously regulated and generally trusted by consumers any time. Financial services are part of customer journeys; mobile, social, cloud, and big data. Process automation with security and privacy increase. Data breaches, identity as safe places for information and assets. Investing in a means to an end, a way to achieve a primary goal. and straight-through processing create an efficient way to theft and large-scale fraud are becoming more common. the development of digital identity solutions can create Today’s banking needs to rise above client expectations, deliver a digital value proposition that meets clients’ needs revenue opportunities and new business models. be convenient and stress-free. Banks must be competent and expectations. The starting point is no longer how to Blockchain technologies can play a major role in identity to adapt quickly to ever-changing consumers and excel in improve existing capabilities, products and services, but applications, as both an information storage and transfer data analytics, user-friendliness and consumer engagement. how to increase value for clients. A successful digital mechanism, while digital identities are key enablers of strategy needs to facilitate cross-departmental and blockchain-based applications in a variety of industries. Retail and private banking clients expect personalised, external collaboration. frictionless, simple and ‘easy to use’ digital experiences across products, services and devices. They expect banks Ecosystems to help reduce the stress associated with money matters. Digitalisation is causing a reordering of traditional industry Risks & Opportunities Corporate banking clients expect tailored expertise along boundaries. Traditional industry boundaries are shifting and with deep data-driven insights and flawless execution. business sectors are becoming increasingly interdependent. Risks Opportunities Convenience is not a long-term driver of growth, but Organisations will need to look beyond their current ÅÅ Banks will need to adapt their often ÅÅ ABN AMRO can match its extensive expertise essential to stay in the game. To deliver, banks need to supply chains and work together in ecosystems. A world complex organisational structures with the latest digital developments to make redefine inherited value chains, replacing product focus of ecosystems will be a highly client-centric model, to increase time-to-market and their daily financial activities easier with a strong customer orientation. where users can enjoy an end-to-end experience for a responsiveness ÅÅ ABN AMRO can participate in the creation wide range of products and services through a single ÅÅ Ecosystems will do away with traditional of digital identity systems access gateway, without leaving the ecosystem. industry borders, requiring companies to Ecosystems will do away with traditional industry borders, develop partnerships and innovate their requiring companies to develop partnerships and innovate value chains their value chains. There are many different roles to take on ÅÅ Banks will need to address data breaches, within an ecosystem and many new ways of value creation. identity theft and large-scale fraud ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 24 25 Operating environment / Disintermediation DISINTERMEDIATION The effect of a new competitive environment on banks’ position in the value chain Disintermediation PSD II Open Banking has the potential to transform traditional comparative views and opportunities for interaction and Disintermediation, a reduction in the use of intermediaries The revised Payment Services Directive (PSD II) requires banking as it puts pressure on the place of banks in the facilitate digital integration. This may also result in less between producers and consumers, has acquired a new banks to allow third parties to access account information value chain. Banks may become the equivalent of iOS and data becoming available for banks. meaning with the virtual marketplace and banks’ role as and initiate payments, in case the customer wants to Android, offering payment and information services but a central intermediary is expected to continue to erode. use the third parties’ services. This can be done by competing, in an open market, with third-party developers. On the opportunity side, customer value will be New competitors, nibbling at the banking value chain means of APIs, and the change is often referred to as As a result, customer loyalty will be won or lost through determined by collaboration with third-party developers since before the global financial crisis, are penetrating ‘Open Banking’ as these APIs enable applications to the quality, speed, capability and value delivered by the and other partners. Open Banking enables combining financial services and redefining value chains. These communicate with each other across organisations. services. internal and external resources including third party organisations can now deal with customers directly via developers to build applications and services. It creates the internet to meet their borrowing, investment and Open Banking Open Banking creates risks as well as business interesting and broad cross-sell opportunities as banks advisory needs. This has intensified during the crisis as Together with technology, regulation and consumer demand, opportunities. New entries, such as large tech companies, can capitalise on the safety and trust of banks combined trust in traditional banks has eroded. It is unlikely that new the introduction of PSD II is expected to be a major e-commerce players and challenger banks, can now also with the speed, innovative strength and new perspectives competitors will completely disintermediate traditional catalyst for ‘Open Banking’. Open Banking can be defined use data for their products and services. New players’ of FinTech companies. Banks have an opportunity to lead banks, but banks need to adjust to this new competitive as a collaborative model in which banking data is shared digital and mostly platform-based business models will in this space, but will need to change their mindset. environment and transform their business models. through APIs between two or more unaffiliated parties to create a transparent overview of market offerings, giving deliver enhanced capabilities to the marketplace. It is a New competitors target traditional banking roles in new end-user experience in digital financial services in business lines ranging from foreign exchange to raising which customers will be much more in the driver seat. capital for ventures. In retail, there is the growth in Risks & Opportunities crowdfunding or peer-to-peer services. Disintermediation is also happening at the level of large corporations as Risks Opportunities companies are increasingly looking for alternatives to bank ÅÅ Banks may become back-office platforms ÅÅ Technology and APIs are driving new business loans such as bonds, leasing and factoring. Technologies instead of maintaining a client-facing opportunities and business models such as Blockchain make it possible to take out ‘the position ÅÅ Partnerships and co-creation with FinTechs to trusted partner’ from processes such as clearing and ÅÅ Losing data may result in reduced client improve client service or build new products commodity trading. insight ÅÅ Privacy concerns ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 26 27 Operating environment / Responsible business RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS and negative impact their activities have on different stakeholders as they focus on the strategic issues that determine performance in the medium and longer term. A new type of client relationship Banks could also be exposed to credit risk if their clients’ assets are negatively impacted, such as a mortgage on a Since banks play an intermediary role in the economy, they home with an unsustainable energy label. The real estate From a traditional to a more can contribute extensively to this sustainable development. sector provides a good illustration of this point. In the Netherlands, homes and offices produce 40% of the sustainable business model The transition to a sustainable business model leads to both risks and opportunities. Banks are in a unique position to play a role in this transition. For example, to limit global country’s total carbon emissions. This will require a major transition if the country is to meet the Paris Climate Change Conference agreement to limit global warming to under 2 warming to two degrees, substantial investments are degrees Celsius by 2030. Because banks often finance real needed. Through their lending and investment policies, estate and use it as collateral for their loans, they are in a banks can both stimulate more sustainable activities or position to help facilitate this transition while improving the discourage activities that are harmful to the environment value and quality of their collateral in the long term. This or other stakeholders. benefits both the client and the bank. In terms of opportunities, ABN AMRO leverages expertise in the area of issuing green Helping the bank and clients or social impact bonds, helps clients make real estate Moving towards a sustainable business model also makes more sustainable, and provides new financing models to good business sense. Banks are exposed to environmental, support the transition to a circular economy. A circular social and ethical risks in the value chains of their corporate economy is one where energy and raw materials are clients, and also through the companies they invest in on utilised with greater awareness and more efficiency. behalf of their clients. As society becomes increasingly By sharing the knowledge we acquire during pilots and critical of the role of banks in this area, the potential to impact innovations, we enter into a new kind of sustainable reputational risk is very real. Increased societal awareness relationship with clients. around themes such as responsible tax, corruption, fraud, bribery and privacy should not be misjudged. Banks are A changing society Recent examples include the Sustainable Development expected to do the right thing themselves, as well as help We live in a connected world in which society is Goals (SDGs), multilateral agreements on reducing global their clients adhere to regulations and norms in these areas. increasingly committed to the values of solidarity and warming such as COP21 (the Paris Agreement), and sustainable economic development. This includes transparency guidelines such as the Taskforce on Climateprotection and the responsible use of our environment related Financial Disclosures. At the same time, the views and resources, as well as behaving responsibly in areas of investors on the sustainability front have matured Stakeholder concern: Society at large such as human rights, corruption, tax, remuneration and significantly, reflected in an increased need for non-financial human resources. In response, regulators and governments information and comparable standards across companies. have introduced a wide range of binding and non-binding Handling confidential client data in a society agreements and global strategies that increase organisations’ and governments’ responsibility in this area. A sustainable business model Companies are moving from a traditional model to a more that demands transparency sustainable business model in tune with these values. Occasionally ABN AMRO receives signals that a client may be in breach of the bank’s sustainability policies (for This means a transition to a model that produces healthy example in relation to human rights, the environment or working conditions). The bank is sometimes called upon, and robust results, ensuring continuity over the years. for example by non-governmental organisations (NGOs), to be open about the relationships we have with our It also includes paying careful attention to the positive clients. On the other hand, our clients must be able to count on the confidentiality of their relationship with us. How does ABN AMRO deal with this? Risks & Opportunities ABN AMRO will not make public any client details, nor conversations and arrangements with clients. Clients must be able to trust that their data are safe with the bank. In the event of a possible infringement of bank policy, Risks Opportunities ABN AMRO will engage with the client and conduct a broader investigation. If the indications prove to be wellÅÅ The bank may be exposed to environmental, social ÅÅ ABN AMRO’s sustainability policies for founded, but we believe there is a sufficient chance of an improvement, we will make agreements with the client and ethical risks. These could occur through the financing and investment services and by on this. This engagement procedure often lasts between three and five years. During that period, ABN AMRO direct activities of our clients and the companies favouring engagement over exclusion, and the client will remain in dialogue and we will monitor progress closely. If the agreed goals have not been we invest in on behalf of our clients both help in leveraging our position for a achieved after that period, we may potentially end the relationship with the client. ÅÅ Adaption to a changing climate may impose both positive impact physical climate risks in the value chain as well as ÅÅ ABN AMRO enters into a new kind of In such cases, ABN AMRO tries to explain to NGOs why it is not making confidential data public. At the same risks from the transition to a low-carbon economy client relationship to help clients transition time, we try to persuade clients in an engagement procedure of the benefits of greater openness. We think ÅÅ Impact on collateral may lead to credit risk for to a circular, low-carbon or sustainable this approach gives us the best chance of genuinely improving a situation whilst still respecting the confidentiality ABN AMRO economy of the client relationship. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 28 Operating environment / Our stakeholders OUR STAKEHOLDERS At ABN AMRO we are committed to creating lasting value for our stakeholders STRATEGY AND as we make a sustainable contribution to society. VALUE Clients Employees Society at large Investors OUR UNDERSTANDING OF THEIR EXPECTATIONS A bank that excels beyond An employer that empowers An engaged financial A trustworthy bank that produces its core business and delivers and offers opportunities institution that invests healthy, sustainable returns. CREATION valuable expertise, any time, to make the most of in the future sustainably any place. people’s potential. and responsibly. WHAT WE PROMISE To act in our clients’ best Together we are ABN AMRO. We are engaged in society We pursue sustainable interests, we listen carefully, We empower our employees and are committed growth and offer attractive deliver valuable expertise and to make use of their full to investing in the future. returns based on a moderate offer seamless experiences. potential and develop risk profile. themselves. Therefore, we regularly engage in dialogue with our Please see the Appendix for a detailed overview of how clients, employees, society and investors to see what and where we disclose information on our material topics. matters most to them now, and how their needs will change going forward. We then develop and optimise our activities around the topics that matter most to them. Material topics included in this report: ÅÅ Customer issue ownership, Materiality analysis clear and appropriate advice In June 2016, we conducted a materiality analysis as part of ÅÅ Ethics and integrity our strategic review process, asking our stakeholders which ÅÅ Preventing corruption, fraud and cybercrime topics they found most important for ABN AMRO. We then ÅÅ Sustainability of our business model This section gives an overview plotted these topics against what ABN AMRO management ÅÅ Stability of our digital services thought was important, resulting in a materiality matrix of ÅÅ Agile organisation of our strategy and how we 20 material topics. This approach allowed us to identify topics ÅÅ Co-creation and innovation create value for our stakeholders. that have a direct or indirect impact on our organisation’s ÅÅ Privacy, use of client data ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental ÅÅ Responsible tax policy 30 Preparing for the future and social value – not only for ourselves, but also for ÅÅ Employee engagement our stakeholders. ÅÅ Moderate risk profile 31 Our strategy ÅÅ Responsible remuneration policy 32 Creating value for our stakeholders Disclosure ÅÅ ESG criteria in our lending and financing activities 36 How we create & share value The 20 material topics identified were further formalised 38 Performance on strategic targets and implemented in our management approach in 2017. This report discloses information and progress on Looking forward 14 material topics. To achieve balance and conciseness In 2018, we aim to review the materiality analysis, here, some topics are more elaborately described in other deepen our understanding of the topics through reports better tailored to stakeholder needs. Some topics stakeholder dialogues and further embed them are also reported on more extensively than others, due in our strategy and organisation. to relevant developments in the past year. 30 31 Strategy and value creation / Preparing for the future PREPARING ABN AMRO operates in a dynamic environment. By means of our OUR STRATEGY FOR THE client-centric strategy we aim to create value for our stakeholders. As a financial institution deeply rooted in society, ABN AMRO has the FUTURE responsibility to make a positive impact on society as it contributes to a sustainable financial system. The bank can make a meaningful contribution through its products and services, operations and business relationships. Stability of our The core of our strategy is to be a relationship-driven bank Additionally, ABN AMRO has started a partnership with financial system while ranking among the best on the digital front; a bank the World Economic Forum – an international organisation with a strong position in Northwest Europe and serving for public-private cooperation – which inspires us to selected sectors worldwide. We are client-driven, deliver further develop sustainability within ABN AMRO. Responsible high-quality advice and use technology to provide clients business with the best possible service. We engage in dialogue Connectivity with our clients to help us better understand their needs “WE ARE EXPERTS AT WHAT WE DO. Driving and are committed to forging long-term relationships with WE WANT TO FURTHER DEVELOP THAT forces them. We invest in the future by developing new products, services and further redesigning the IT landscape to EXPERTISE. AFTER ALL, NO MATTER ensure that we remain an innovative bank with which THE DEGREE OF DIGITALISATION, clients can do business easily. ABN AMRO aims to grow Disinter­ its business in a sustainable manner in the coming years, THE EXPERTISE OF OUR EMPLOYEES mediation Convenience based on proven expertise and the current network. IS AT THE FOREFRONT.” By adhering to a moderate risk profile we aim to maintain diversification and focus in our activities while pursuing a Kees van Dijkhuizen prudent risk policy. As part of the moderate risk profile we CEO of ABN AMRO Group N.V. also want to maintain a solid capital and liquidity position and a clean and strong balance sheet. Over the past years, ABN AMRO CONTINUOUSLY ASSESSES AND MONITORS we built a capital buffer to accommodate for the significant ABN AMRO’s four medium-term priorities support THE KEY EXTERNAL DRIVING FORCES. WE USE THIS ASSESSMENT impact of the Basel III reforms, often referred to as Basel IV. the bank in pursuing its strategy and in achieving its ambitions towards 2020. They focus on bringing expertise, TO IMPROVE OUR STRATEGY AND BUSINESS. ABN AMRO is committed to making banking more digital convenience, innovation, and fast delivery through sustainable as a better bank contributing to a better simplification and an agile organisation. From environment to strategy on society for now and generations to come. ABN AMRO world and to making sustainability an integral part of its The financial sector faces changing client expectations and regularly conducts dialogues to help understand stakeholder business activities. ABN AMRO believes it is important In the past year, we added several sustainability technological, competitive and regulatory developments. needs, attract new types of employees, and intensify the to look at its business operations from a human rights ambitions, which we can only achieve in cooperation These forces are input for our strategy and activities going bank’s approach to creating (new) strategic partnerships. perspective in line with the UN Guiding Principles on with our clients. Firstly, we want to contribute to a forward. Some of the most impactful drivers for ABN AMRO This helps us better understand (new) business model Business and Human Rights. We see that sustainability reduction in carbon emissions in the Netherlands by are related to technology and sustainability. It is the bank’s drivers and create sustainable value for stakeholders. is becoming increasingly important to our clients. making the residential and commercial real estate that responsibility to respond to changing client needs, act on a Some of the most impactful driving forces are related We provide both financial and operational support we finance in the country more sustainable. We intend wide variety of new technologies and make a positive impact to technology and sustainability. to social entrepreneurs. to do so by improving the average energy efficiency level from D today to A in 2030. The circular economy is also a key focus area. The goal is to finance 100 circular loans by 2020. Lastly, ABN AMRO wants to make A competitive financial landscape sustainable investing the new norm. Competition has also moved beyond traditional banks. For example, large tech companies, FinTechs, payment providers and aggregators have now entered the financial sector with tailored banking solutions. This introduces both challenges and opportunities. To face (new) competition, banks need to become more innovative, faster Strategy framework and focused on customer needs. This will enable them to leverage new opportunities as they successfully balance long-term value creation goals with short-term performance pressures. Banks that do this are likely Our strategy framework (on the next page) shows our long-term strategic foundation, to be amply rewarded. medium-term strategic priorities and our sustainability focus areas for 2017. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 32 33 Strategy and value creation / Creating value for our stakeholders CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS ABN AMRO balances the interests of all stakeholders as the bank creates value FOR MORE DETAILS ABOUT HOW WE CREATED VALUE IN in relation to its long-term strategy, key risks and performance. THE PAST YEAR, PLEASE REFER TO THE PROGRESS REPORT. Sustainable business model ABN AMRO believes that a sustainable business model is by Progress on strategy After a consultation, also with the Supervisory Board and To ensure that ABN AMRO delivers lasting stakeholder definition work in progress, so it is constantly exploring ways In 2017, ABN AMRO focused on further executing its external stakeholders, we selected the most relevant value, the bank is paying careful attention to the positive to improve while keeping a firm eye on its strategic priorities. corporate strategy. We moved forward with the digital SDGs for ABN AMRO. Please see the 'Sustainable and negative impact of its activities on different stakeholder innovation of products and services to enhance customer Development Goals report 2017’ for more detailed groups. We examine the relevance of stakeholder topics Our Executive Committee is cascading to the organisation journeys and client experiences. We also continued information. Together with True Price – a social enterprise on a quarterly basis. Material topics are also integrated in the importance of creating long-term value. This year, to simplify and optimise its organisation, IT systems that helps companies quantify and improve their impact the Strategic Risk Assessments, to assess and monitor ABN AMRO started a working group – including the and cost management activities to benefit businesses on society – ABN AMRO analysed the impact of its the internal performance as well the impact of key external CEO and representatives of the Executive Committee – and stakeholders. The focus was to further embed mortgage services and investments in the cocoa chain driving forces. To ensure that the organisation is future-fit to explore possible opportunities per business line and sustainability across the organisation. and the bank as a whole. The bank also opened its circular and that it can deliver healthy and robust financial and for the bank as a whole in terms of new ways of creating pavilion Circl in Amsterdam to inspire clients and others to non-financial results, both now and in the future. A key long-term value. The results of these discussions have ABN AMRO took the first steps to align its activities explore new possibilities. And clients have approximately element of the model is a diverse workforce in an inclusive led to various initiatives in our business lines in line with and ambitions with the Sustainable Development Goals EUR 10 billion invested in sustainable assets. In the environment, to create a workforce that reflects the our sustainability ambition. Long-term value creation (SDGs) – a set of 17 high-level, interconnected and Netherlands, 48% already invest in sustainable funds. communities in which the bank operates. is a regular topic of discussion in our Executive Committee indivisible goals towards a better world in 2030. In 2017, and the Supervisory Board, and an important driver of our we started our stakeholder journey to make a first scan With a score of 91 points on the Dow Jones Sustainability strategy updating process. of those SDGs best aligned with our 20 material topics. Index, we moved up to the top 5% of global banks. We are now also in the top 5% of the FTSE4Good Index. Bring expertise ABN AMRO continuously strengthens its banking and sector LONG-TERM STRATEGIC FOUNDATION SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS knowledge to improve the financial well-being of clients, opening up the bank’s network and providing them with a holistic view of their financial situation. The Grip app gives customers a convenient breakdown of expenditure and savings. We want to develop our expertise further. The bank developed new client solutions, delivered relevant and Client-driven Invest in the future Moderate risk profile Sustainable growth personalised propositions through multi-skill advisors across Accelerate Combat its Retail branches (including a divorce desk and senior the transition to a climate change citizen coaches), and completed implementation of a more circular economy sector-oriented banking approach for business clients. MEDIUM-TERM STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Enhance the client experience ABN AMRO shapes future client experiences by connecting with clients and offering easily accessible, user-friendly and simple products. We are accelerating our efforts and digitising our products and services. And Bring Enhance Innovate Deliver Respect human Support social we introduced digital innovations for almost all our core expertise the client & grow fast rights in everything entrepreneurship products in the past year. For example, the bank optimised experience we do the online mortgage customer journey, which makes it easier, more convenient and ensures the ability to act quickly in the fast-moving housing market. We want to enable clients to perform their transactions and place their trade orders anytime, anywhere and in any way they want. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 34 35 Strategy and value creation / Creating value for our stakeholders In 2017, our Tikkie app became increasingly Deliver fast ÅÅ Interpretation/implementation of new/ Culture of change popular among consumers. Tikkie is based on ABN AMRO wants to service clients better changed regulations and evidencing of ABN AMRO’s strategy is the anchor of its the WhatsApp payment platform and can be used by fostering a self-directed, innovative culture. compliance with regulations. This regulatory culture. The future revolves around clients and by clients with a current account at any Dutch We are committed to creating an overall compliance risk is being mitigated by raising the bank’s ability to increase the relevance and bank. And, we started to roll out the Tikkie app to simplification of products and services while staff awareness through a training programme. effectiveness of services for them. This is what the business market as part of our earnings model. reducing complexity and enhancing agility Furthermore, a large number of staff and drives our everyday work, and it is reflected in through increased focus on the organisation. a large budget have been made available for the bank’s day-to-day culture. In the past year, Innovate & grow Approximately 5,000 employees have been regulatory change initiatives (such as MiFID II, ABN AMRO has continued to create stronger ABN AMRO has honed its plans to innovate its working in multidisciplinary teams in all GDPR, PSD2, IFRS9) and for strengthening client-focus dedication, improving execution core business and explore new business models business lines since mid-2017. Agile working our risk governance. speed and agility across the organisation. to anticipate client expectations and to accelerates our time-to-market, involving ÅÅ Macro-economic conditions, geopolitical A strategy focused on innovation and a much accelerate the speed of change. We also clients in our product development to improve uncertainty (such as the impact of Brexit and broader digital offering for our clients requires innovate outside of the bank to truly disrupt and products based on feedback from our clients tensions in the Middle East) and upcoming more digital talent. We started promoting the stay ahead of client needs, which will help us and giving our employees more autonomy and regulations (e.g. reform Basel III) could affect bank as a digital employer two years ago and innovate faster. Our Open Banking strategy responsibility, which leads to a more satisfying our margins and revenues. ABN AMRO will the benefits are coming through. We hired allows partners to develop offerings via a working environment. ABN AMRO continued continue to assess among other things the approximately 750 digital natives in 2016 developer portal with different commercial APIs. its efficiency programmes to rationalise its potential impact of the Basel III reforms over and 2017 and we appear consistently in the ABN AMRO was the first Dutch bank to open support and control activities and the ongoing the coming period. top 10 of favorite employers. The bank will up its developer portal. The blockchain digitalisation programmes. The bank is also ÅÅ Managing the accumulation of changes further adapt to these changes by taking experiment portfolio has grown, as has the harmonising its platforms and processes, while (regulatory requirements, ‘fixing the basics’ advantage of uniquely human capabilities. number of partnerships and consortia, such as modularising and decoupling its IT systems with as well as changes to remain competitive in This will also help to retain and attract talent. the National Blockchain coalition with R3, Digital a continuous and strong focus on security. the market). In order to enhance oversight Asset Holding, and TU Delft. The bank also and priority setting, a monitoring tools has ABN AMRO introduced a new management started new companies outside ABN AMRO. The 2017 results for these four strategic priorities been developed and used to create more structure in early 2017 and reduced the number A fully digital SME lending proposition enables are integrated throughout the progress report. in-depth insight into the change of hierarchical layers to enable more effective us to let clients know within 15 minutes whether interdependencies and related risks. and better collaboration between functions they can receive a business loan of up to The impact of key strategic risks ÅÅ ABN AMRO makes use of public cloud in the organisation. The bank aims to create a EUR 1 million. ABN AMRO further accelerated ABN AMRO has defined 20 material topics infrastructures. Due to the continued culture of open-mindedness, speed and trust. innovation with the Moneyou digital platform, which are important for our strategic proposition. increase in external cyber threats, the bank ABN AMRO also launched Challenger 40: a with the aim of transforming it into a fully digital These topics were therefore integrated in the may encounter large fraud attacks and major group of 40 colleagues representing all business retail bank. The bank launched Prospery – a yearly Strategic Risk Assessments (conducted IT disruptions. Vendor management and/or functions. This Challenger group has taken it digital wealth management tool for private within businesses, supporting functions and control are being improved. Defense upon themselves to challenge the executive banking clients in Germany that combines at country level). In these assessments the mechanisms against cyber threats are leadership on strategic themes. digital asset management with personal, main risks that affect the business objectives continuously being upgraded. Tools and expert coaching. at entity level were identified, discussed and controls related to data leak prevention are assessed; if needed, actions were defined being strengthened internally and for relevant ABN AMRO also increased its stake in the to mitigate the risks. The results of these third parties. Swedish FinTech TINK. And globally, Corporate Strategic Risk Assessments were aggregated & Institutional Banking provided increased to the level of the whole bank and discussed ABN AMRO will continue to pay close attention access to its worldwide, integrated network of at Executive Board level, which indicated that to these risks in both the short and long term. sector experts, and it is exploring opportunities the following key risks need more intense in the APAC region and the Nordics to fuel management attention: further growth. The value creation model The value creation model (on the next page) starts with ‘input’ – the four types of capital that serve as the key resources used to generate value. The ‘output’ results in the value created for stakeholders and how the bank shares it with its stakeholder group. Building on previous years, ABN AMRO has made progress, which has provided encouragement to take further steps in the coming years. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 36 37 Strategy and value creation / How we create & share value HOW WE CREATE & SHARE VALUE We use a value creation model to analyse the way in which the bank uses the resources and expertise at its disposal. This helps to create long-term value for stakeholders. INPUT DRIVING FORCES OUTPUT OUTCOMES CAPITAL UTILISED Stability of our financial system VALUE CREATED BY CAPITAL FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS Connectivity Convenience NPS Retail Banking -9 We strive to address our stakeholders’ – clients, Disintermediation NPS Commercial Banking -6 employees, society at large and investors – needs Responsible business Social and NPS Private Banking +12 and concerns by responding to the topics that matters Relationship NPS Corporate & +32 most to them. These concern our material topics. Social and Institutional Banking They are key to creating value for our stakeholders. Relationship Trust Monitor score (on a scale of 1 to 5) 3.2 The impact per topic and the outcome created is Strong relationships with our explained in the Integrated Annual Review. A brief stakeholders through continuous ERM STRATEGIC PRIO overview of the outcomes for our stakeholders: stakeholder management. M-T RIT EDIU IE S M 99.68% t Bri Digital and Availability of our digital services Social and Relationship as ng 6.2 million e rf e Technological Through fast and innovative propositions, Number of internet together with our expertise, we help clients De TRATEGIC FO e liv MS UN ertis banking contracts in their financial activities. ER D xp Digital and -T NG IO Technological LO AT Sustainable ClientN Digital and Technological Investing in digital and innovative propositions. growth driven EUR 10.1 billion Stable and safe (digital) services that safeguard Natural Sustainable client assets the privacy of our clients. EUR 84 million Moderate nce 14 circular transactions risk Invest in Natural the future e rie Provide our clients with sustainable products profile and services to create a positive impact on Inn xp Human and ov te 79% the environment. at en Employee engagement score Intellectual e & c li gr ow he Human and 2% Human and Intellectual t Talented and dedicated employees nce Intellectual Training expenses as a percentage with specialised financial skills Enha of total personnel expenses A simplified and agile organisation with engaged employees, and a responsible remuneration and in-depth sector expertise. EUR 2,590 million policy. Developing the expertise of our staff Personnel expenses to help clients and society at large to the best of our ability. 14.5% Underlying return on equity Financial Financial Financial 17.7% Our role as a stimulating factor to the economy. Sustainable revenues and focus on costs leading Fully-loaded CET1 ratio Financial capital to to a healthy return, and solid capital buffers. invest in our activities. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 38 Strategy and value creation / Performance on strategic targets PERFORMANCE ON STRATEGIC TARGETS PROGRESS Stakeholder Metrics Net Promoter Score Retail Banking Commercial Banking 2017 -9 -6 2016 -15 -23 Target for 2020 Best NPS of Dutch peers REPORT Private Banking 12 -1 Corporate & Institutional Banking 32 40 Employee engagement 79% 82% At least 80% Gender diversity at the top 25% 25% 30% women in top Gender diversity at the subtop 28% 26% 35% women in subtop Dow Jones Sustainability ­Index ranking 91 87 Within 10% best banks Leading among large Trust Monitor NvB 3.2 3.1 Dutch banks Underlying return on equity 14.5% 11.8% 10-13% This section gives an overview of Underlying cost/income ratio 60.1% 65.9% 56-58% our bank-wide and business line priorities and activities in 2017. CET1 (fully-loaded) 17.7% 17.0% 17.5-18.5% 40 Financials Dividend pay-out ratio 50% 45% 50% of sustainable profit 44 Capital and regulation 46 Technology and innovation For definitions and measurement methods please refer to the Non-financial indicators. 50 Responsible business 54 Workforce and organisation 57 Progress per business line 58 Retail Banking 60 Commercial Banking 62 Private Banking 64 Corporate & Institutional Banking 40 41 Progress report / Financials FINANCIALS Residential mortgages (in EUR billion) 170 Balance sheet Loan volumes We made good progress on the financial targets in 2017. exclude the provision for SME derivatives-related 160 Total client loans increased by 1% over 2017 as all major loan portfolios increased. The financial analysis below shows the key financial issues that was taken as a special item, consistent The residential mortgage book grew on the back of the strong housing market and 150 figures over the past year. The financial results in 2016 with the approach in the annual report. we had a 21%1 market share in new mortgage production. The largest corporate 140 loan portfolios grew: Commercial Banking on the back of the strong Dutch economy 130 and Corporate & Institutional Banking due to business growth and improving market Operating income Net interest income grew as a result of positive Operating income conditions, despite a negative effect of the depreciation of the US Dollar. (in millions) EUR 9,290 million (+3%) volume developments in the mortgage loan 2015 2016 2017 book, improved margins on deposits, growth 10,000 9,290 Loans Deposit volumes ÅÅ Net interest income 8,455 8,588 of the corporate loan book and several positive Consumer loans Even though savings rates were low given low market interest rates, deposit EUR 6,456 million (+3%) 8,000 (in EUR billion) incidentals. Fee & commission income decreased volumes increased by 3.5% over 2017. The rise was seen in Private Banking, ÅÅ Net fee & commission income 6,000 as Retail Banking reduced client rates, the sale 20 Commercial Banking and Corporate & Institutional Banking. EUR 1,747 million (-3%) of the Private Banking activities in Asia in the 4,000 ÅÅ Other operating income1 18 EUR 1,086 million (+117%) course of 2017 and lower Clearing fees due to 2,000 Margins 16 lower market volatility. Other operating income Margins on deposits improved modestly owing to the climate of low interest ÅÅ Gain on divestments EUR 377 million increased strongly, partially due to gains on 2015 2016 2017 14 rates and the reduction in the rate paid on main retail deposits. Margins on the divestments. NII F&C Other 12 mortgage book were stable as lower margins on new production were offset by higher margins on refinancing existing loans. Margins on corporate loans Operating expenses Operating expenses declined as results of the Underlying cost/income ratio 2015 2016 2017 within Commercial Banking were lower than last year, while margins within (in %) EUR 5,582 million (-1%) various cost control programmes are coming Loans Corporate and Institutional Banking showed a positive development. through and due to the divestment of PB Asia, 100 Corporate loans to clients ÅÅ Personnel expenses (in EUR billion) partly offset by some negative incidentals. 1 Calculated based on information provided by the Dutch Land Registry (Kadaster), 2017. EUR 2,590 million (-7%) 80 Personnel expenses declined due to lower FTE 65.9 50 61.8 ÅÅ Other expenses 60 60.1 levels and lower restructuring costs. The under­ EUR 2,991 million (+4%) 45 lying trend in other expenses shows a decline, 40 FOR A FULL ANALYSIS OF THE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, ÅÅ Regulatory levies2 40 EUR 300 million reflecting the various cost control programmes 20 PLEASE REFER TO THE ANNUAL REPORT. and the decrease in external FTEs, offset by 35 ÅÅ IT costs EUR 1,021 million several incidentals. We remain on track to meet 2015 2016 2017 30 our cost-income target for 2020 of 56-58%. Target 2015 2016 2017 Impairment charges The strong economic development resulted Cost of risk Commercial Banking Corporate & Institutional Banking (in bps) EUR -63 million in net releases in the mortgage portfolio, Stakeholder concern: Clients consumer and corporate loans. The cost of (EUR -177 million) 20 19 risk remained far below the through-the-cycle ÅÅ Additions EUR 737 million (-38%) average of 25-30bps. Impairments were also 15 10 Operating in a low interest rate environment positively impacted by IBNI releases, as well ÅÅ Releases as favourable provisioning model updates and 5 4 Interest rates have been at extremely low levels for more than five years; since 2015, banks have EUR -799 million (-26%) refinements. Within C&IB, market circumstances even had to pay to hold money with the European Central Bank (ECB) or when lending to each other. ÅÅ Cost of risk in the ECT sectors were still difficult (although Yet consumers continue to save more and more. Should the bank start charging its savers by applying negative -2bps (-6bps) -5 -2 improving compared with last year). 2015 2016 2017 interest rates? Or should we be willing to accept less or even to take a loss on money that the bank cannot lend directly, and wait until the ECB raises interest rates again? Underlying net profit ABN AMRO’s underlying profit over 2017 Return on equity The chief cause of all this is widely known: in its attempt to stimulate the economy and kick-start inflation, the (in %) EUR 2,791 million (+34%) increased by a combination of higher operating ECB is holding interest rates at exceptionally low levels. Banks even receive additional funds if they borrow from income, a lower cost base and impairment 25 the ECB, but conversely have to pay if they deposit money with the ECB. The ECB hopes that this policy will ÅÅ Dividends (proposed) releases. The results were partially supported encourage banks to lend more. EUR 1,363 million (+73%) 20 by several incidentals. The return on equity was ÅÅ Dividend pay-out ratio 50% 15 14.5 above the target range of 10-13%, even when 12.0 11.8 But the paradox is that consumers are actually saving more and more, even though they receive virtually no ÅÅ Retained earnings correcting for the aforementioned incidentals 10 interest on their savings. When interest rates are low, savers have to put more aside in order to achieve their EUR 1,358 million (+40%) such as the gain on divestments. The increase goals. Based on trends in the money market and capital market, banks should really be charging interest for ÅÅ Return on equity 5 14.5% (+270bps) in reported profit combined with the targeted rise money that clients are able to withdraw on demand. And the interest rates on money lent – mortgage rates, in the dividend pay-out led to a sharp increase in 2015 2016 2017 for example – are continuing to fall and are also at historically low levels. At ABN AMRO, retail clients do not the dividend proposed. Target have to pay for their savings. 1 Other operating income also includes net trading income and the share of result in equity accounted investments. 2 Regulatory levies consist of bank tax and contributions to the Deposit Quarantee Scheme and single resolution funds. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 42 43 Progress report / Financials This section shows the most important highlights of our business line performance, The following figure shows the contribution of the segments to several financial indicators of the Group: both financially and on some non-financial indicators. The financial results in 2016 Contribution by segment (in %, underlying) exclude the provision for SME derivatives-related issues that was taken in the Operating income Operating expenses second quarter as a special item, consistent with the approach in our Annual Report. Operating result Loans and receivables customers For more information, please refer to the Annual Report. Due to customers Risk-weighted assets 0 20 40 60 80 100 Retail Banking Private Banking Commercial Banking Corporate & Institutional Banking Group Functions Retail Banking The net profit of Retail Banking increased By type of income (in %) Private Banking Underlying profit increased to EUR 386 million. By type of income (in %) to EUR 1,456 million, an increase of 17%. Excluding the sale of Private Banking Asia Financials The increase was driven by net impairment 150 Financials profit increased by EUR 11 million, driven by 406 307 ÅÅ Underlying Cost/income ratio releases of EUR 100 million and was ÅÅ Underlying Cost/income ratio income growth and net impairment releases. 659 53.6% (2016: 55.9%) supported by positive income and cost 2017 Total 3,995 71.1% (2016: 79.5%) Excluding PB Asia net interest income 2017 Total 1,540 ÅÅ Underlying Cost of risk developments. Net interest income grew Net interest income ÅÅ Underlying Cost of risk increased by 8% and was largely driven by Net interest income -6bps (2016: 5bps) by 3% as mortgage volume increased 3,439 Net fee and commission income -5bps (2016: 13bps) higher deposit volumes and margins. The 573 Net fee and commission income ÅÅ Underlying net profit and margins on deposits went up. Other income ÅÅ Underlying net profit increase in net fee and commission income Other income EUR 1,456 million EUR 386 million excluding PB Asia was shown across both the (2016: EUR 1,247 million) The residential mortgage portfolio grew by By type of expense (2016: EUR 199 million) domestic and international business and was By type of expense (in %) (in %) EUR 1.4 billion. The increase is driven by a mostly driven by higher asset management combined market share in new production of fees. Excluding PB Asia personnel expenses Non-financials all ABN AMRO brands in the Dutch mortgage 486 Non-financial performance declined by 1% reflecting lower FTEs and 472 market of approximately 21% and higher 2017 other expenses increased due to a goodwill 2017 Net Promoter Score Total 2,143 Net promoter score 2017 Total 1,095 overall market volumes. Operating expenses impairment, higher regulatory levies and -9 (2016: -15) +12 (2016: -1) 624 decreased by 3% due to the impact from investments. Impairment charges decreased Employee Engagement 1,657 Personnel expenses Employee engagement 2017 Personnel expenses existing cost saving programmes and to a EUR 6 million release driven by lower 81% (2016: 85%) Other expenses 72% (2016: 78%) Other expenses FTE reductions. additions in the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Trust Monitor Sustainable client assets 3.2 (2016: 3.1) EUR 10.1 billion (2016: EUR 8.2 billion) Commercial Banking Commercial Banking’s underlying profit By type of income Financials increased by 6%, driven by favourable income (in %) Corporate & Underlying net profit increased by By type of income results. Net interest income increased due to 202 63 Institutional Banking EUR 39 million driven by net interest income (in %) ÅÅ Underlying Cost/income ratio some positive incidentals as well as higher growth and favourable other operating 317 52.7% (2016: 53.5%) asset and liability volumes, partly offset by 2017 Financials income results. Net interest income grew Total 1,687 ÅÅ Underlying Cost of risk lower margins. Margins on liabilities declined Net interest income ÅÅ Underlying Cost/income ratio due to some positive incidentals as well as 2017 975 Total 1,830 -45bps (2016: -46bps) driven by the low interest rate climate. 1,421 Net fee and commission income 69.3% (2016: 71.0%) positive volume and margin developments. 538 Net interest income ÅÅ Underlying net profit Personnel expenses increased driven by a Other income ÅÅ Underlying Cost of risk Net fee and commission income decreased Net fee and commission income EUR 733 million restructuring provision within asset-based 38bps (2016: 41bps) as Clearing fees were lower due to less Other income (2016: EUR 694 million) finance, wage inflation, higher pension costs By type of expense ÅÅ Underlying net profit volatility in the market. (in %) and an FTE transfer from Group Functions EUR 221 million By type of expense (in %) to facilitate the shift to a more agile way (2016: EUR 182 million) Personnel expenses increased due to a Non-financials of working. Other expenses decreased as 315 higher number of FTEs (+155 compared additional costs due to investments in IT, 2017 with 2016) to support the growth initiatives, Net Promoter Score Total 888 442 -6 (2016: -23) digital investments and duty of care are more Non-financial performance wage inflation and higher pension costs. 2017 Total 1,269 573 than offset by lower allocated costs from Other expenses increased due to higher 827 Employee Engagement Personnel expenses Net promoter score 2017 Group Functions as a result from the ongoing project costs for SME derivatives-related 77% (2016: 81%) Other expenses +32 (2016: +40) Personnel expenses cost saving programmes. Impairments issues and higher regulatory levies. Other expenses Percentage of loans in book Employee engagement 2017 remained stable at EUR 180 million releases by ESE indicator 50% 78% (2016: 80%) due to the strong economic environment Percentage of loans in book and supported by favourable model updates. by ESE indicator 80% ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 44 45 Progress report / Capital and regulation CAPITAL AND REGULATION Leverage ratio MREL 5 10 4.1 4.0 8.0 4 3.8 3.9 8 7.6 7.4 6.8 3 6 In line with our moderate risk profile, we maintain a solid capital buffer to ensure 2 4 long-term continuity for all our stakeholders. This also contributes to a stable 1 2 financial system. In the past year, an agreement on Basel IV was reached after years 2015 2016 2017 Ambition 2015 2016 2017 Ambition of preparations. We have made further progress towards our current capital targets 2018 2018 in 2017 and we have updated these targets going forward. Leverage ratio and MREL implies that a portion of outstanding AT1 and Tier 2 ABN AMRO also needs to comply with non-risk based instruments issued by ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (the capital ratios, of which the leverage ratio and MREL resolution entity) can no longer fully contribute to the Basel IV This leads to a new CET1 target range of 17.5-18.5% are currently the most constraining. ABN AMRO aims consolidated capital ratios of ABN AMRO Group N.V. The fully-loaded CET1 ratio showed a consistent for 2018. The target range will be reviewed at year-end for a leverage ratio of at least 4.0% at year-end 2018. MREL measures the total loss-absorbing capacity of increase over the past years, coming to 17.7% in 2017 2018 to incorporate Basel IV developments, a possible the bank by comparing the amount of MREL eligible from 15.5% in 2015. Since the initial Basel IV draft impact for TRIM as well as other regulatory The leverage ratio increased compared with year-end liabilities (solely based on own funds and other proposals, ABN AMRO has been consistent on the developments. 2016, mainly reflecting profit accumulation and the subordinated liabilities) to total assets. ABN AMRO need to prepare for a significant Basel IV outcome. issuance of an Additional Tier 1 (AT1) instrument. aims to steer its MREL towards 8.0% by year-end Basel IV also potentially impacts the leverage ratio as This increase is partly offset by an increase in the 2018. The MREL increased to 7.6% at year-end 2017, The impact of Basel IV on RWAs can now be assessed it proposes a change in the calculation of derivative exposure measure and by the revised EBA Q&A ruling primarily reflecting profit accumulation, the AT1 following the Basel agreement in December 2017. exposures and credit conversion factors for off-balance on minority interest. The revised minority interest rule issuance and a decrease in total assets. Based on a static balance sheet and without taking sheet items. This is estimated to decrease the exposure mitigating actions into account, RWAs are estimated measure by approximately EUR 55-60 billion and could to increase by approximately 35%. Uncertainties therefore improve the leverage ratio by 0.5-0.6%. Stakeholder concern: Investors remain, for example with regard to the room Basel IV gives local regulators for setting certain parameters IFRS 9 and the fact that it is not always completely clear In addition to the agreement on Basel IV, other Allocation of capital (growth versus dividend) how to interpret the rules. developments – such as IFRS 9 – also impact our capital position. As part of IFRS 9, the way in Sustainable profit generated can be deployed in three ways. We can distribute Capital use as Basel IV will take some time before it materialises which the bank classifies and measures financial to shareholders, grow the capital on our balance sheet, or acquire another percentage of sustainable and the potential impact may alter pending the instruments and the way it determines impairment business. There are several reasons to increase capital. Firstly, growing our profit from 2018 implementation within the EU. Also, part of the allowances has changed from 1 January 2018 business increases RWAs and additional capital is required to maintain capital (in %) impact can be mitigated by adapting our business. onwards. The underlying risk profile of the loan ratios. We focus on profitable business growth and estimate that our balance 50 However, to manage capital prudently through the portfolio will not be affected. The impact of the sheet will grow in the low single digits. Secondly, regulatory requirements transition, a Basel IV implementation buffer of 4-5% adoption of IFRS 9 will be taken through equity. change over time. We now need to hold significantly more capital for the of CET1 has been set. This buffer is on top of the The adoption of IFRS 9 is expected to decrease the same business than in the past. And finally, the credit cycle requires additional Sustainable current target of 13.5% which is determined CET1 ratio by approximately 0.15% and the total capital capital at certain points in the cycle. We do not save up capital for acquisitions, profit by the current capital requirements including ratio by approximately 0.17% (both fully-loaded). these should be funded from earnings. a management buffer. Capital management is tantamount to balancing these requirements. We use multi-year forecasts to get a good sense of future capital requirements so that we can react in a timely manner. For example, several years ago we Dividend pay-out 50% of sustainable profit started to build capital for a possibly significant impact of Basel IV. As it turned Buffer of (4-5%) CET1 accomodates Basel IV implementation Build up CET1 capital Estimated Basel IV full phased-in impact out, the final proposal in December 2017 showed us to be in a good position, Other capital uses (in %) Basel III CET1 ratio (in %) Basel III CET1 ratio on RWA Additions to CET1 even though capital requirements will indeed increase significantly. Although Special dividends or share buy-backs 20 Inorganic growth 4-5 17.5-18.5 Year-end 2017 25 capital planning deals with many uncertainties, we nevertheless want to give 16 fully-loaded CET1 ratio 17.7 20 shareholders a good sense of what they can expect in terms of shareholder Organic RWA developments 1.7 13.5 13.5 17.0 17.7 11.78 15.5 distributions. Therefore, we have set a dividend pay-out target of 50% Profitable business growth (moderate) 12 15 ~35% Credit quality developments of sustainable profit from 2018 onwards. We believe this is a sustainable Modelling and regulatory developments 8 10 level that we can uphold. On top of this, additional dividends and/or share 4 5 buy-backs (subject to regulatory approval) will be considered when our Buffer Target capital position is within or above the target range (17.5-18.5% for 2018). 2019 required Stressand management Former target Basel IV implementation Updated target 2015 2016 2017 Basel III Pro forma Year-end 2017 The combined distribution will be at least 50% of sustainable profit. Year-end 2017 Basel IV at 72.5% floor buffer buffer buffer ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 46 47 Progress report / Technology and innovation TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION As various services are moved from branches and call centres to mobile and online, already more than half of our retail products and We accommodate innovation within the core of our organisation at different levels. Product and business lines innovate to move forward services are distributed through digital with the digital innovation of products and ABN AMRO focuses on the digital transformation in every aspect. A successful channels. The mobile app is now a digital shop services to enhance customer journeys and where the number of products is increasing. client experiences. These are innovations that and complete digital transformation requires companies to make steady and equal We continue to integrate online and offline provide incremental changes to existing services progress in the areas of strategy, processes, talent, technology, culture and governance, channels, designing online tools that facilitate and defend and extend the current business. offline meetings to focus better on bringing Innovation Labs within business lines and according to the Vlerick Business School. Vlerick named ABN AMRO the number one clients expertise. We expect that over time functions innovate to build momentum towards company in the Netherlands in digital transformation in 2017. direct contact with the majority of clients will emerging new business, experimenting with be limited to high-value ‘moments’, such as products and services that our customers may mortgage meetings. In addition to bringing not immediately associate with our current IT Infrastructure We are also standardising the way applications us closer to our clients, the growth of digital products and services. These innovations are Empowered consumers are demanding connect with our core IT systems. By designing channels is also having a positive effect a natural extension and expansion of the work innovative solutions. Banks need to redefine software functionality as re-usable standard on our NPS. we already do. New insights are gathered their core operations to support this change. components, front-end applications can connect that guide us to potential new or modified ABN AMRO embarked on its IT Transformation with the core IT systems quickly and flexibly. Agile business models. programme in 2013. Our IT infrastructure To deliver faster client service and to respond landscape is being transformed into a clear Through a clean sweep of phased-out IT better to changing markets and technology, architecture to facilitate continuous change, systems, the number of applications and ABN AMRO has introduced ‘the agile way of ensuring speed, flexibility and lower cost. interfaces has already been reduced drastically. working’. It is a new way of working together, By reducing complexity, we improve our agility By the end of 2017, more than 1,400 a change of culture and a change of mind-set. and time-to-market. Our goal is to ensure that applications of a planned total of approximately With the ‘agile way of working’ we have our clients always have access to our online 1,630 by 2018 had been decommissioned since established a link between IT and the businesses. services. Any outage of systems immediately the programme began, with another 400 We actively involve our clients when we affects the bank’s operations and clients. applications scheduled to be decommissioned develop innovative products and services. In 2017, we achieved an internet and mobile by the end of 2019. banking availability rate of 99.68%. The agile approach is based on small teams By 2020 the IT transformation aims to deliver made up of business and IT colleagues. The In the first months of 2018, ABN AMRO an IT landscape which is both robust and secure result is less hierarchy, fewer review bodies, and other banks suffered from DDoS attacks. as well as agile and scalable where it needs to shorter lines, and multidisciplinary teams with In a DDoS attack the perpetrators send large be. To ensure that this will last over time, the members from IT and the business working volumes of data traffic to a website, which IT Transformation programme does not end closely together. Each team has its own goal overloads the server. For users, the site under with a fixed end state: we chose to continuously and has all the necessary skills and expertise attack temporarily becomes difficult to access. rationalise and modernise our IT landscape to achieve that goal. Team members interact The security of client data was never under instead of a big bang replacement. with clients and users regularly to test products threat. After a short period of time, banking and to get feedback. Between 5,000 and 6,000 services became fully available again. Digitalisation colleagues will be working agile by the end Game-changing innovations that extend beyond Digitalisation enables clients to take charge of of 2018. the current business model are structured We are combining a robust and secure IT their financial lives. Starting from client needs within Group Innovation. The primary goal is backbone with a fast and agile application and expectations, products and services Innovation to ensure long-term value creation by actively landscape. For systems which require robustness, become more personal, frictionless and relevant. Innovation is a strategy driver of ABN AMRO. seeking new opportunities from emerging process high volumes and require a slower pace At ABN AMRO this continuous redesign of As our current business models may expire paradigm shifts. These shifts will lead to of continuous development, mainframes are customer journeys and processes is led by or prove no longer financially viable in the societal, technological and industry standards well-suited and cost-efficient. Client-journey the business and enabled by ABN AMRO’s long run, we need to invest in the continuity that facilitate or even require new business oriented systems, e.g. the mobile app, need Innovation and Technology department and of our business. Innovation is the investment models which are substantiated starting points to be flexible, scalable and allow fast changes is primarily focused on most frequently used in the exploration of new business and revenue for future growth. Examples of technologies to keep up with changing client demands and processes. The strong rationalisation of models, the validation of these models, and paradigm shift that are explored are for changing technology. These systems are being processes as services move from branches partnerships, knowledge of new technologies, example tokenisation, crypto economy, digital transferred from our dedicated on premise cloud. and call centres to mobile and online also developing the capabilities of our employees identity and quantum computing. Broad focus At the end of 2017, more than 400 applications results in a strong reduction of operational FTEs. and stimulating a more explorative mind-set. on technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, had been migrated. A total of 749 applications Blockchain, Smart contracts etc. are to ensure are scheduled to be migrated to the cloud a broadly developed knowledge base for this by the end of 2019. type of innovation. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 48 49 Progress report / Technology and innovation Co-creation announced a blockchain alternative for escrow and Grip give ABN AMRO two new, rapidly Also we use data to transform our service Essential in accelerating our innovation efforts accounts for non-bank organisations entrusted growing consumer platforms through which offering. Advanced Analytics and Artificial are open innovation and partnering. In addition with client funds in partnership with Nxchange. we can interact with our clients and prospects. Intelligence support the identification of client to innovation within the organisation we This blockchain method drastically reduces needs and business model innovation. We are innovate with external parties by means of administrative costs for the organisation by At the ABN AMRO Beyond Banking Days in leveraging knowledge and data capabilities to innovator entities to truly innovate and disrupt eliminating escrow account management costs. June we opened up our API platform for the convert cost centres into profit centres, ahead of customer expectations. This includes first time to developers, testing our open for example in the credit approval process working together and investing in FinTechs. Innovator banks banking platform in preparation of PSD II and to predicting future profitability. In Artificial Partners include the Dutch Blockchain coalition, In 2017, we set up new innovator banks, in Open Banking opportunities. The Developer Intelligence we are working on ways to make R3, IBM, Accenture, two Dutch universities and addition to our digital online retail bank Moneyou. Portal was launched in November, providing simple straightforward chatbots smarter, more Digital Asset Holding. These agile organisations offer newly developed everything that developers need to be effective flexible in their answers and adaptable to client online propositions for self-directed clients. and productive in building on our Open APIs. needs. At the same time, we are integrating Partnerships with innovative start-ups with a The innovator banks have a large degree of By working together more closely with external machine learning techniques into operational focus on digitalisation of financial products and autonomy, running their own IT and operations developers, the bank will speed up innovation processes so that also more complex, but services are also established through the Digital from separate locations. These entities help us and further improve services for our clients. To repetitive, tasks can be automated. Impact Fund. By using the startups’ knowledge, accelerate innovation while allowing us to test start, the site provides a number of APIs: Tikkie, technology and innovative power we can jointly new banking concepts in a low-risk manner, corporate accounts, corporate payments and We invest in fundamental knowledge to provide our clients with better digital financial combining the bank’s knowledge and experience batch payments. More and new functionalities inspire and drive innovation to explore future products and services. with the digital skills and ideas available outside will be added to accelerate adoption, simplify opportunities to share knowledge and insights the bank. Examples are working with public learning and increase the business value of on algorithms and methodologies. We engage In 2017, the Digital Impact Fund increased its clouds, management of digital shops and the our APIs. in continuous research and experiments stake in Tink, a Swedish FinTech with whom use of digital signatures. to explore the potential of new technologies. we developed the Grip personal finance Data management app. Also we invested in Cloud In September, New10 was launched, an online People are more connected than ever before, Security Lending Solutions Inc, a leading global cloudlending startup that focuses on SMEs. In early and this interconnection leads to more and When phones, tablets, computers, security based financial services technology company 2018, the offering for corporate clients was more data sources, resulting in an amount systems and GPS devices are part of the that has built software specifically designed to expanded with the launch of Franx, offering of data that is larger than ever before and network, security and privacy are at risk. simplify and digitise the entire lending process. SME business clients a digital platform for constantly growing. This means that data The use of technology has meant an increased foreign exchange transactions and international integrity, the accuracy and consistency of threat of cyber attacks potentially giving Early in 2018 the fund invested in a US payments. New10 and Franx are a fully data stored in a database, data warehouse, malicious outsiders access to sensitive cybersecurity firm, BehavioSec, a pioneer in digital approach, responding to the needs or the like, is a key focus point. ABN AMRO is consumer data. We understand that the use continuous authentication through behavioural of a growing group of businesses that want transforming the data warehousing architecture of client data is a sensitive matter, and we are biometrics. Besides access to the latest to do everything online. in a way that it meets current and future committed to our legal and ethical obligation cybersecurity technology, this strategic business requirements and supports the datato treat client data confidentially. Our goal is investment gives direct access to the In December, Prospery was launched, a fully driven culture within ABN AMRO in an agile to continue to support a culture that promotes ecosystems of leading venture capital providers online wealth manager that offers digital asset way. The data warehouse architecture that the trusted and transparent use of client data and digital security. Cybersecurity is a core management. Moneyou, our digital online bank ABN AMRO has developed helps to deliver and to maintain the balance between the theme for ABN AMRO as clients need for retail clients in the Netherlands, Germany, value, while at the same time having control interests of our clients and those of the bank. assurance that the personal data and assets Belgium and Austria is being transformed into over data integration and distribution. that they have entrusted to the bank always a fully digital retail bank, starting in Germany. To protect the privacy of our clients and ensure receive excellent protection. Data of clients, contracts and transactions are a the stability of our digital services in 2017 we Open Banking and PSD II key asset for the bank as data is used to create focused on preparations related to GDPR. This Throughout the bank, one of the innovation PSD II will present the bank with promising new products and in all kinds of analyses about included the further implementation of privacy focus areas is blockchain applications. We are opportunities in terms of customer experience, risk, finance and marketing. To improve our protection and strengthening our privacy reassessing all parts of the business and innovation and earning models. Ahead of PSD II organisation, we use data analytics to enable and governance. Our Privacy Office oversees investigating how we can improve them using we are forging partnerships to ensure that our identify more efficient ways of doing business the monitoring of our activities in this field. blockchain. We focus both on partnerships within digital offering is relevant for current and future and advanced algorithms enabling decisions the financial sectors as well as on cross-sector clients. We are ready to offer our clients multibased on actual insights. Examples of faster initiatives as blockchain influences value chains banking, which will allow them to add accounts and better decision making include process and digital ecosystems. An example is the from other financial services providers to mining for detecting operational bottlenecks investment in an energy supply trading chain ABN AMRO Internet Banking and our mobile and personalised marketing (e.g. predicting to build a shared ‘smart’ blockchain platform. banking app. Tikkie and Grip are digital services upcoming mortgage events). The platform will help to accelerate and improve we currently offer that will enable us to secure administrative procedures for energy trading a footprint in the world of open banking. processes. Early in 2018, ABN AMRO Clearing In addition to our mobile banking app, Tikkie ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 50 51 Progress report / Responsible business RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS its experiences regarding this project with clients. We also introduced Green 20: 20 relationship managers, who are available ABN AMRO launched the Energy Savings Check, which gives homeowners an instant overview of specific measures they can take to save one day a week to dedicate their time to energy in their homes. With a broad risk policy, ABN AMRO’s products and services have an impact on society and the bank recognises the Sustainable Finance Desk and who will home owners also have the opportunity to finance be trained as circular experts. Furthermore, these measures. Until December 2017, more the responsibilities this brings. We focus on creating a positive impact, together with ABN AMRO set up a collaboration with Ecochain than 8,700 clients have performed the Energy our clients, and at the same time mitigate the negative impact of our products and to use life cycle assessment methodology Savings Check. In addition, ABN AMRO is to show business clients how they can make constantly experimenting in teams to develop services. The bank strives to do business responsibly and aims to inspire and enable their operations more sustainable. new propositions and explore ways in which we all employees to act ethically through clear norms and values. can activate clients in this area. In 2017, the Sustainable real estate Mission 2030 results average energy label in the mortgage portfolio In a bank-wide initiative, we announced the was D (year-end). Ethical conduct by employees The bank aims to send a consistent message ambition to join forces with our commercial ABN AMRO strives to do business with regarding desired values and conduct, both in and retail clients to improve the energy efficiency With regard to corporate real estate, several integrity. The goal is to create a context in which its formal (architectural) and informal (cultural) of our entire real estate portfolio to an average hundred corporate clients used the Sustainable employees not only live the bank’s values in structure. We measure, monitor and inspire of label A by 2030. This represents a reduction Investment Tool in 2017, resulting in 5,552 their work, but in which they are aware of the working of these two structures. In 2017, of two megatonnes of carbon emissions in the buildings that have received sustainable potential concerns and can feel free to speak overseen by the Compliance Department, a Netherlands. Our efforts focus on helping our investment advice. ABN AMRO has also up. ABN AMRO’s integrity approach helps variety of awareness campaigns were organised, Dutch clients by informing, facilitating and broadened its real estate risk policy, which employees apply the bank’s norms on a day-tofor instance about the Banker’s Oath, and activating them to make their real estate more makes it easier for clients to finance their day basis. In addition to the bank’s Code of bank-wide training in ethics, conduct risks and sustainable and to realise this substantial sustainability measures. Within commercial Conduct, this approach includes clear policies, dilemmas. ABN AMRO’s Ethics Committee CO2 reduction. real estate, the bank developed a series of guidelines, related learning solutions and is also an important vehicle; the Committee initiatives in recent years to boost the awareness, as well as procedures and controls provides advice about how to address certain to help us prevent, detect and respond to organisation dilemmas. The Committee, with misconduct. Despite all efforts, incidents can support from an ethics expert, discusses a and will occur. It is therefore key that variety of dilemmas. Stakeholder concern: Society at large ABN AMRO pro-actively identifies integrity risks where they occur, diligently conducts root cause analyses and embeds lessons learned Positive impact on society Sustainable impact sometimes conflicts after incidents. Our impact on sustainability is centered around four focus areas: circular economy, climate with commercial interests change, human rights and inclusion. As a result Sustainability is a fundamental principle for ABN AMRO. At the same time, we are a commercial business. of our bank-wide efforts, ABN AMRO improved Sometimes, these two goals are at odds with each other. its score in RobecoSAM’s annual sustainability index (91 points out of 100), resulting in a position ABN AMRO explicitly wants to have a sustainable impact on society. It is for this reason that we pursue in the top 5% of the banking sector in the a strict and extensive sustainability policy. Our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) criteria are Dow Jones Sustainability Index. described in several documents, such as our Climate Change Statement, our Sector Policies and our Human Rights Statement. Stimulate a circular economy For companies adopting a circular business We believe that sustainability and a healthy business performance can go hand in hand. The two can often model, ABN AMRO provides support and new reinforce each other, but sometimes there is friction. An example was the construction of the Dakota Access financing models. By 2020, it is our goal to Pipeline in the United States, which drew fierce protests from members of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe, who finance circular business assets of one billion live on the land through which the pipeline was to run. euros through at least 100 circular financing deals in all sectors. The total emission reduction ABN AMRO was not involved in funding the pipeline, but it did have a financing relationship with Energy Transfer is to be at least one million tonnes of CO2. Equity (ETE), the parent company of one of the pipeline construction companies. The bank had been engaged in To achieve ABN AMRO’s overall circular dialogue with ETE on this issue since 2016, because in its sustainability policy it endorses the FPIC (Free Prior economy goals, the bank closed 14 circular and Informed Consent) principle. This means that ABN AMRO considers it important that indigenous peoples transactions this year, culminating in a grand have a say in decisions that have an impact on their living environment. As the construction activities had total of EUR 84 million. As part of its circular resumed in February 2017 without the consent of the Sioux, ABN AMRO decided to end its relationship with ETE. economy ambitions, ABN AMRO opened Circl, This decision was not in ABN AMRO’s immediate commercial interest, but in this case sticking to our a pavilion that is entirely constructed on the sustainability policy weighed more heavily in the balance. basis of circular principles. The bank shares ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 52 53 Progress report / Responsible business sustainability of commercial real estate clients. Advise clients on responsible tax Collaboration with public and private parties is In 2017, ABN AMRO updated its bank-wide On average the buildings in ABN AMRO’s Responsible business conduct also means very important for us. ABN AMRO is chair of Exclusion List, which includes activities and commercial real estate portfolio in 2017 hold a a responsible tax approach. Aside from this the Institute for Financial Crime, an independent practices the bank does not want to be involved D label (year-end). ABN AMRO requested all ethical commitment, ABN AMRO is also aware platform with the emphasis on cooperation in. Additional exclusions related to thermal coal clients with office properties with energy label of the reputational damage that can occur. We between public and private parties on financial and tobacco manufacturing were also formulated. D to G to come up with a plan to improve the communicate on our tax approach transparently crime topics. We are a founding member of the See the Annual Report 2017 for further details. properties to at least label C. ABN AMRO will and have published our tax principles on the Electronic Crime Task Force (ECTF), which aims discuss these plans on a regular basis to ensure ABN AMRO website. Tax avoidance – which to prevent and combat electronic financial crime Impact on human rights that label C is reached before the end of 2022 is different from tax evasion – and aggressive by exchanging intelligence between the Dutch It is important for a bank to look at its business (a requirement by Dutch law by 2023). Clients tax planning are not strictly illegal, but these national police and banks. During 2017 we operations from a human rights perspective, without a sustainability plan by the end of 2018 activities are increasingly unacceptable in today’s participated in various ECTF investigations as explained in our 2017 Human Rights Update. will not be re-financed. Regarding the offices societal context. We do not use structures that which resulted in the arrest of 20 persons. In By contributing to the Dutch Banking Sector ABN AMRO owns and rents, 66% of our are designed for these activities and we aim addition, we cooperated with law enforcement Agreement on international responsible portfolio in square metres has an energy label to comply with the letter and spirit of the law. In agencies and other banks in a taskforce to probusiness conduct regarding human rights, rating of A. See the 2017 Sustainability Facts 2017, ABN AMRO held tax awareness sessions actively identify and stop terrorist financing. ABN AMRO works on sector commitments and Figures for further details. across the bank to further cascade our Also, by performing transaction analyses, to achieve a positive impact for people who approach. The Ethics Committee also addressed human rights due diligence on clients and by (potentially) face adverse human rights’ impacts Promote inclusion and social entrepreneurship two tax dilemmas. ABN AMRO ranked fourth raising awareness, ABN AMRO seeks to related to the bank’s products and services. In ABN AMRO’s efforts to promote inclusion, the in the Tax Transparency Benchmark in 2017 contribute to the abolition of human trafficking. The bank undertakes several initiatives to create bank is teaming up with a number of partners (a study of 76 Dutch listed companies). awareness on human rights amongst our and clients to provide sustainable finance to Reduce integrity risk colleagues by offering several kinds of training smallholders. Impact banking is a combination Creating awareness to prevent corruption, Despite all efforts, incidents can occur. sessions, but also for instance by organising the of offering access to loans while creating a fraud and cybercrime Therefore ABN AMRO has controls in place to yearly International Human Rights Conference positive impact on people and the environment. Protecting our clients and the bank against prevent and mitigate integrity risks. After for our clients and other stakeholders. In the ABN AMRO aims to build an impact banking loan corruption, fraud and cybercrime is essential: incidents, root cause analyses were conducted Business Line Reports, more practical examples portfolio of up to EUR 50 million in the coming clients expect to be able to make secure and a bank-wide vulnerability assessment for are provided on how we strengthen our years. In the field of social entrepreneurship, payments and society expect us to conduct risk of repetition was performed. The findings commitment to respecting human rights. ABN AMRO launched its sixth Social Impact business securely and with integrity. These helped ABN AMRO in taking mitigating actions Bond in 2017, together with funding for three issues can cause significant financial and embedding lessons learned after incidents. Increase transparency on climate change ABN AMRO’s Social Impact Fund, which losses and reputational damage to our clients As part of the Banker’s Oath, ABN AMRO has As ABN AMRO transitions to a low-carbon will invest in this bond. The bond focuses on and the bank. We have a dedicated organisation reported cases with the Foundation for Banking economy, the bank will look at the energy mix supporting employees who have or have had in place to ensure information security and Ethics Enforcement to help ensure the integrity of its lending portfolio (renewable and noncancer to help them to return to work more bolster the resilience of the bank, our clients of business conduct in the Dutch banking sector. renewable energy) and will align this with a successfully. Furthermore, ABN AMRO also and society. In 2017, we organised several scenario to limit global warming to two degrees continued its partnership with Social Enterprise events to increase awareness amongst our Reduce sustainability risk Celsius from 2020 onwards. ABN AMRO NL, a national platform supporting social employees and clients with respect to fraud and ABN AMRO has a sustainability risk policy participates in the Platform Carbon Accounting entrepreneurs. The bank also signed an cybercrime risks. Also, we reduced the risk of framework in place to manage sustainability for Financials (PCAF), an initiative that has agreement with Buy Social to stimulate social fraud by integrating our knowledge into new risks to which the bank may be exposed. developed a methodology for measuring the procurement at ABN AMRO. products, such as implementing measures in The bank uses its influence, such as through its carbon footprint of investments and loans, and Tikkie for extra user protection and developing a role as a lender, to identify abuses in terms of which published its report in December 2017. Reduce non-financial risks fraud detection tool for our challenger New10. human rights, health, safety and the environment, ABN AMRO also supports the recommendations ABN AMRO recognises that the bank may be In addition, we extended our defence against and is in constant dialogue with clients to of the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial exposed to risks through the direct activities of attacks on our ATMs, by founding the Security stimulate improvements. Within our commercial Disclosures (TCFD), which helps the bank disclose its clients and the companies in which the bank Intelligence & Operations Centre to improve lending portfolio, 65% of transactions have information about the risks and opportunities invests on behalf of its clients. Below, a brief detection of crime and shortening police been screened on social, environmental and related to climate change. ABN AMRO intends overview of how the bank manages these risks response times. ethical risks in 2017. ABN AMRO prefers to provide additional transparency regarding its is included. ABN AMRO’s Annual Report 2017 engagement with clients rather than excluding energy mix and implement the two guidelines contains a full description of the non-financial them. However, if tangible improvements are not in future reporting. risk approach. seen after the formal engagement period, the decision can be made to end the relationship. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 54 55 Progress report / Workforce and organisation WORKFORCE AND ORGANISATION Employee Engagement (in %) 2017 2016 ABN AMRO has undergone significant organisational change, resulting in Retail Banking 81% 85% fewer management layers as well as a more flexible and client-driven structure. This structure should support the realisation of our strategic priorities. 82% Commercial Banking 77% 81% Organisational change employees whose jobs have been made redundant and is 2016 79% The new structure includes an Executive Board with aware that the organisational changes can be accompanied Private Banking 72% 78% statutory responsibility and an Executive Committee in by a certain amount of uncertainty. However, these which the number of represented business lines has been changes are vital for the long-term continuity of the bank. doubled. The new management structure thus creates a Corporate & stronger client focus and explicit dedication to the Employee engagement 78% 80% Institutional Banking business activities at senior executive level. ABN AMRO can only live up to its pledge to clients if it has a highly talented and committed workforce. We believe 2017 With the restructuring of ABN AMRO’s (top) management in an open corporate culture in which employees have a structure as well as with our bank-wide initiative to say and are encouraged to help create a future-proof and transform our culture, developing our leadership capability successful bank. Our employees have an important part to has been a pivotal focus area. Reducing the number of play in this: their engagement affects our joint success. Stakeholder concern: Employees managerial layers in our organisation supports our need for a less hierarchical and a stronger coaching leadership style. We measure our staff’s engagement through an Important individual leadership selection criteria have been annual Employee Engagement Survey. In October 2017 Reorganising and at the same time client focus, change management skills, a hands-on mentality, the ability to work together and exemplary behaviour. we conducted our fifth global Employee Engagement Survey (EES). This year’s survey showed an employee recruiting specialists engagement rating of 79%. For the first time in five years, ABN AMRO is going through a digital transition. To help us achieve this, the bank is looking for new employees In addition, increasing the diversity in the compositions of our engagement index decreased, from 82% in 2016 to with specific skills and knowledge, such as app-builders and scrum masters. At the same time, other staff are teams has been an overarching guiding principle. Both in 79% in 2017. This is 1% lower than the global financial losing their jobs due to reorganisations. How do we handle this? terms of diversity in background, in gender and in ethnic services norm. The medium-term trend for our engagement culture. We can only be successful if we have a diverse is still positive. If we compare ourselves with other financial The behaviour of our clients is changing rapidly. They increasingly want to be able to manage their banking affairs workforce that reflects the communities and clients we services providers, we score higher on employment from their PCs or smartphones. As a result, we are also changing. We are becoming increasingly digital, while serve. Therefore, we are committed to a diverse and benefits, inclusive environment, job challenge, and talent & bricks-and-mortar bank branches are closing. inclusive workforce supported by promotion of equal development. Compared with last year we score lower on treatment and opportunities, the prevention of harassment, vision and direction, senior management, and sustainability. This means that there is less work in some traditional banking occupations, for example for administrative a policy of non-discrimination, and compliance with We will be paying close attention to these topics in order workers, employees who serve clients in the branch network, and also employees in a number of staff support national and local labour and employment laws. to continue to improve our organisation. departments such as HR. Some people at the bank will lose their jobs as a result of these changes. It was a conscious choice to increase the number of Remuneration This presents ABN AMRO with an emotional dilemma. Because while some are losing their jobs, the bank is women. We currently meet the gender target of 30% At ABN AMRO we want to attract, engage and recognise looking for new staff to help it achieve the necessary digital transition – such as IT specialists and Agile facilitators, for the Supervisory Board. For the Executive Committee, the right talent. By offering all employees a relevant and but also ‘quantitative’ specialists such as econometrists and analysts. How do we explain this to those who are the diversity target was not yet met, but did improve to competitive reward package we are able to do so. We losing their jobs? 22% in 2017 compared with 14% in 2016. We will continue ensure the contributions of our employees are recognised, to devote attention to ensure we meet our targets. so they can give their best for our clients. Besides focusing Where possible, ABN AMRO tries to retrain staff who lose their jobs. As part of this, the bank is investing heavily We also took steps in terms of cultural diversity, which on fair pay, we strive to create a distinctive employee in training and updating initiatives such as the IT Academy, which has already successfully retrained many improved from 2% to 7% at Executive Committee -1 level. experience based on the employment benefits we offer. employees for roles such as Solution Designers. For those who do lose their jobs, ABN AMRO organises To act in accordance with societal values and regulation, our personal coaching to help them find interesting jobs outside the bank. The cost-saving programmes that were announced in 2016 remuneration principles centre around our strategic priorities have had an impact on staff. Also, new cost-saving measures to create value, are transparant and are embedded in On the other hand, we started promoting the bank as a digital employer two years ago and the benefits are have been announced in the past year. The bank strives to our global reward policy. Our Annual Report 2017 contains coming through. We hired approximately 750 digital natives in 2016 and 2017 and we appear consistently in the minimise forced redundancies as much as possible, by a full description of our approach and activities related top 10 of favourite employers. With the arrival of Clifford Abrahams (CFO), Tanja Cuppen (CRO) and the intended helping employees find a job either within the bank or to responsible remuneration. appointment of Christian Bornfeld (Chief Innovation & Technology Officer), the Executive Board now also has a elsewhere. ABN AMRO invests in the development of high level of international banking experience. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 56 Progress report / Workforce and organisation “CHALLENGER 40: PROGRESS MARGOT VAN KEMPEN A FRESH BOOST” PER BUSINESS CHAIR OF THE EMPLOYEE COUNCIL In 2017, a new management structure was introduced at ABN AMRO. LINE What is the Employee Council’s take: a good thing? “Absolutely, our new structure matches the new challenges we’re facing. For years, ABN AMRO was all about rebuilding and quite naturally focused on managing risk and increasing profitability. It’s time to shift our focus to business, culture and innovation. And our new Executive Committee reflects that: four instead of two members representing the business and an ExCo member explicitly in charge of transformation (culture) and one heading up innovation.” 2017 also saw the Management Group discontinued. How do you feel about that? “Our bank’s been shrinking for years and we’ve had to say goodbye to over 8,000 colleagues since 2013. At the same time, however, the number of senior managers kept growing slightly. That didn’t make sense, of course, and we made a point of bringing that up – we’re happy with the decision to abolish it altogether. Of course, the establishment of Challenger 40 (C40) has given the bank a fresh boost, pulling together as it does talent from across the bank.” You’ve said it: ABN AMRO’s workforce is shrinking. The Employee Council was critical of the wave of reorganisations in 2017. Why? “We understand the importance of the bank being lean. But we should also realise that people are affected by a state of permanent reorganisation: it makes them uncertain. We regularly met to discuss the issue with the Executive Committee during the year. This section describes the progress We would like to see the bank take a much longer view of the future for its people, more like: ‘This is your job today, but we reckon there will be less of a demand going forward.’ we made per business line. Help people get their training and education sorted in time, getting them ready for a new job once theirs disappears. Granted, the bank offers a wide range of training and education 58 Retail Banking opportunities, but what people need is good advice: professional coaching and assistance underpinned by real-life trends in the labour market. After all, ABN AMRO is seeking to 60 Commercial Banking be a major contributor to the circular economy and we should really see our own people 62 Private Banking as assets we can preferably ‘re-use’ in a more circular fashion.” 64 Corporate & Institutional Banking In 2017, ABN AMRO announced it’s seeking to abolish performance management. Why is the Employee Council in favour? “Increasingly, our teams are self-directed, where we aren’t assessed by our managers but by the people we actually work with. And it’s important to be able to be honest if we want to tap into our full potential. It’s not easy to be honest to a colleague if you know it will affect them financially. The Employee Council hopes that HR will devise a new assessment system that is much more motivating and doesn’t affect salaries.” 58 59 Progress report / Progress per business line / Retail Banking RETAIL BANKING Services (ICS), a wholy owned subsidiary of ABN AMRO. ICS paid the fine imposed by the AFM and is in the process of compensating Our organisation and our people To keep pace with today’s rapidly changing environment and the rapid digitalisation of the clients concerned. society, we are transforming towards a digital As a top three player in the Netherlands, Retail Banking serves approximately 5 million service model with a simplified IT landscape. ABN AMRO has sold mortgage loans with In 2017, we continued to rationalise our branch clients. We are the principal bank for 20%1 of the population, providing a full range floating, often Euribor-based interest rates network due to changing client behaviour, of transparent banking products and high quality services with the ambition to deliver (close to 1% of the total mortgage portfolio) and going forward will continue to invest in to consumers. As ABN AMRO’s external our remote offering. However, personal financial the best client experience. funding costs (i.e. the spread above Euribor) advice and personal coaching remain an important have risen, ABN AMRO has adjusted the part of our omnichannel approach. Within Retail surcharges upwards for the whole portfolio Banking, our staff in Personal Banking are working of these Euribor mortgages on two occasions. with self-organising teams resulting in fewer These increases have been contested by management layers as well as a more flexible FRANS VAN DER HORST clients. In December the Amsterdam Court and client-driven organisation and selfCEO OF RETAIL BANKING of Appeal ruled against ABN AMRO in the empowered employees. collective procedure. Therefore, the bank “Our ambition is to be a client-driven Dutch retail bank with a digital footprint may not have increased surcharges for Euribor Sustainability in Northwest Europe. We intend to further accelerate digitalisation and mortgages. ABN AMRO decided to appeal As mentioned in this report, our aim is to innovation, in part through our digital platform Moneyou, which we aim to at the Supreme Court and has recorded improve the average energy efficiency of transform into a fully digital retail bank. We aspire to interact with clients a provision. our own and our clients’ properties to label A by means of state-of-the-art technologies.” by 2030. We launched multiple initiatives that Innovation and digitalisation contribute towards a more sustainable housing Our daily banking services and products are market. For instance, we introduced the Energy easily accessible, user-friendly and simple. Saving Check, we offer a sustainability discount Our Tikkie app had reached 2 million users (0.2%) on mortgages for newly built and Clients in the Netherlands by the end of 2017. We energy-efficient homes and increased financing Starting from client needs and expectations, On the other hand, we understand that certain are leveraging next generation tools, such as for energy saving improvements (financing up we aim to deliver innovative products and client segments have difficulty using digital speech analytics and chatrooms with chatbots to 106%). solutions, enhance the client experience and services and are continuously assessing how and cognitive agents, for fast, 24/7 availability. provide relevant and personal expertise. In order we can assist them. For instance, our senior to do so, we need to be at the forefront of coaches help our elderly clients conduct their We are exploring new partnerships with startdigitalisation and technological developments. banking affairs in an increasingly digital world. ups and FinTechs. Our Grip app, which was Our Net Promotor Score improved from These coaches help clients by phone, email, developed with Swedish FinTech Tink, offers -15 in 2016 to -9 in 2017. We believe we can webcam or during home visits. a range of financial planning features allowing make a difference in providing clear, relevant clients to get a grip on their spending. Grip offers and high-quality advice as we offer our clients Other examples of last year’s initiatives include a range of features including an overview of insight and an overview of their financial a divorce desk, and expanded virtual and video income and expenditure, budgeting support and situation – especially when it matters the most. meeting offerings. In 2017, 50% of our clients surplus income. Over 400,000 clients already We engage pro-actively with our customers to used webcam for financial advice about their use our Grip app. We are currently testing deliver relevant and personalised propositions mortgage. We are pleased the Authority for the usage of wearables to make contactless through multi-skill advisors across our branches. the Financial Markets (AFM) gave us a 4.5 payments. Other initiatives include the possibility We continued to conduct closed-loop feedback (scale 1 to 5) for our complaints management. to open a mortgage within 24 hours via our meetings with our clients. Clients provide online label Florius and the Moneyou Go App. feedback to our client-facing staff, who follow ABN AMRO takes adherence to internal rules up on the feedback by contacting clients and and procedures seriously. In 2017, the results learning from their input. Another example of the investigation into why employees copied is our Optimization Mortgage Chain programme, signatures in revised mortgage advice reports improving our position in digital services in was announced and additional measures the Dutch mortgage market and offering our to prevent this from happening in the future clients convenience and self-efficacy. In addition, were taken. In addition, the AFM announced a we realised significant rationalisation in our fine for shortcomings in lending practices from product offering. June 2012 to March 2015 by International Card 1 GfK online tracker 2017. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 60 61 Progress report / Progress per business line / Commercial Banking COMMERCIAL BANKING Innovation and digitalisation Our goal is to offer basic services such as credit loans, payment traffic and customer acceptance Sustainability In order to accelerate the transition to a circular economy, Commercial Banking provides its clients online, 24/7. We have also taken things a step with advice about sustainable business models. Commercial Banking serves companies and institutions with turnover between further by starting new companies outside We study the financing needs, opportunities of ABN AMRO: our New10 subsidiary lets and risk of circular business models. We provide EUR 1 million and EUR 250 million. We serve clients with our client-centric, clients know within 15 minutes whether they financing for circular business activities. If we relationship-driven business model and extensive sector expertise. Our clients can receive an SME business loan of up to cannot do so with our existing products and EUR 1 million. As a wholly-owned subsidiary services, we search for solutions, together with are active in all sectors of the Dutch economy. By 1 January 2018, approximately of ABN AMRO with the structure of an our clients. In July, we announced that corporate 300,000 small business clients transferred from Retail to Commercial Banking. independent company, New10 combines clients who want to improve the sustainability the bank’s expertise, data and experience of their properties can now get a loan to cover with the responsiveness of a start-up, creating 100% of their investment. We took the initiative the best of two worlds. We rolled out the highly to enable this as part of our ambition to raise popular Tikkie app to the business market. the energy efficiency label of commercial real The user-friendliness of this payment app estate to an average label A in 2030. Our new DAPHNE DE KLUIS allows organisations to contact clients Sustainable Investment Tool provides insight CEO OF COMMERCIAL BANKING: who would otherwise be difficult to reach. into sustainable improvements for premises. For example, the University of Groningen is And ABN AMRO Lease is to offer its clients “We aim to provide services and products that improve our clients’ using Tikkie to enable students to pay their 100% asset based financing for products that businesses. As we move into the future, our ambition is to continue tuition fees, replacing the debt collection reduce the use of energy, such as solar energy to innovate and create exciting new partnerships across a variety process. Transavia, the Dutch Heart Foundation systems, and LED-lighting. In September, the of sectors for the products and services our clients demand.” and YellowBrick use Tikkie as well. results of the 2017 GRESB assessment were announced. ABN AMRO has now taken the top Sometimes innovation means bridging the gap spot in the annual assessment. GRESB – short between the old and the new. Commercial for ‘global real estate sustainability benchmark’ Banking has launched the world’s first live – is a worldwide benchmark that measures the streaming cheese store – Kaan’s Streamstore – sustainability performances of financials in Clients In addition, ABN AMRO was amongst the first in which customers can order cheese live terms of commercial real estate investments Considering that our high level of sector 17 banks to offer its clients instant payments online through a video interaction with a store and financing. knowledge is appreciated by our commercial between participating European banks. employee. ABN AMRO’s participation in Econic clients, we intensified our sector approach in The Net Promoter Score for Commercial Banking in Eindhoven, where start-ups and employees 2017. And, our ‘Visie op Sectoren’ platform over 2017 was -6, compared with -23 in 2016. meet, leads to promising applications that helps our clients make decisions based on will become part of the Innovation Labs within continuous insight into the most important Our organisation and our people ABN AMRO. One example is Flash, which trends and developments in their sector or We simplified and reduced the number of layers is used by the Agricultural sector team. branch. Our extensive network enables us to in our organisation in 2017 for reasons of Flash is an online fully automated portal in bring parties together to develop new projects improving client focus, flexibility and efficiency. which our customers upload data themselves and initiatives. In 2017, Commercial Banking As part of our Reliable and Responsible Banking and get a quick and accurate credit decision. organised and participated in several sector Programme, we focus on making sure ‘the events. For instance, we were present at the basics’ are covered and that we know our Provada, Building Holland, and are long time clients well. Our internal organisation is now sponsors of the Dutch Design Week and the fully arranged along sector lines. This means ABN AMRO World Tennis Tournament. that our Relationship Managers focus on a specific sector, Risk Management works on To adapt to rapidly changing client needs, we a sector basis, and sector teams and product continuously strive to improve our speed of departments work together to share knowledge service. In cooperation with several departments and create commercial opportunities. For within ABN AMRO, namely our risk department, instance, we create extra capacity in sectors the Innovation Center and Real Estate Clients with strong growth expectations and a high we are now able to offer our clients the ability demand for financing. to obtain a real estate loan up to EUR 10 million within 48 hours. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 62 63 Progress report / Progress per business line / Private Banking PRIVATE BANKING Our organisation and our people The private banking industry is changing fast due to changing client behaviour, new earning Sustainability Demonstrating a growing interest from our clients, sustainable client assets have increased models and increasing regulatory requirements. and sustainable investing is becoming more ABN AMRO Private Banking offers financial services to high net worth individuals. In 2017, we combined head office units in the mainstream. This is also shown in the increase Netherlands and started harmonising client of sustainable client assets from EUR 8.2 billion Our international presence combined with local involvement and over 300 years segments, products, services and IT across in 2016 to EUR 10.1 billion in 2017. As from of experience forms the basis of our longstanding client relationships. It allows Europe. Implementation of a new organisational 2018, sustainable investment will become structure, harmonisation and digitalisation of key the norm for new clients in the Netherlands. us to continuously adapt to changing client needs and market trends, and to processes have an impact on the number and The objective is that by 2020 it will become thoroughly understand the past, present and future (financial) situation of our clients. the profile of our employees. Reorganisation the norm in all private banking countries. processes are ongoing. In recent years, our ABN AMRO will also be contacting existing We operate under strong local brands such as ABN AMRO MeesPierson in main focus has been to move from a dispersed clients to discuss a switchover to sustainable the Netherlands, Neuflize OBC in France and Bethmann Bank in Germany. footprint to a sustainable position in onshore investment. For 2018 we plan to give clients private banking in core countries in Northwest insight into the impact of their investments, Europe. The divestment of our private banking via impact reports, to raise clients’ awareness business in Asia and the Middle East is a logical of their sustainable impact. Another initiative step in this regard. In the Netherlands, where was our cooperation with the Dutch Heart we are a market leader, we lowered the wealth Foundation in the fight for a smokefree future. PIETER VAN MIERLO band threshold to EUR 500,000 to increase our CEO OF PRIVATE BANKING market share in this segment with the ambition to grow. “Our ambition is to be a leading Private Bank in Northwest Europe with a focus on expert advice in a sustainable manner.” Clients Innovation and digitalisation Our approach is all about offering convenience As digitalisation has a big impact, also in private and tailoring service, providing opportunities banking, we are investing in our processes and through innovation supported by specialists for product offering. Our Digital Client Proposition proactive wealth management and meanwhile advanced in 2017, addressing domestic demand having a positive impact on society. In 2017, we with a mobile daily-banking Payment app in launched a number of new services, including France and Mein Portal – a digital platform in ‘guided advice’ for self-directed clients in the Germany combining multi-channel services with Netherlands incorporating a full online selfpersonal interaction. Investment in our banking investment product, co-investment programme systems and processes facilitates an integrated, with Alpinvest in Germany and with Ardian in end-to-end client experience, with manual France. ABN AMRO MeesPierson organised its payment in Germany and account opening in yearly Generation Next Academy, a programme France now paperless and frictionless. In the to prepare the future generation of private Netherlands, video conferencing and a privatebanking clients for their inheritance. Under banking call centre offer extra opportunities supervision of a mentor, the participants are for advice and virtually 24/7 access. And in educated about relevant topics, such as investing, December, we launched Prospery – a new privacy, running a business and the influence digital wealth management tool for private of wealth on relationships. Our Net Promotor banking clients in Germany. With Prospery, we Score improved from -9 in 2016 to -4 for the are the first bank in Western Europe to combine Netherlands and from 6 to 25 internationally in digital asset management with truly personal, 2017 due to more and better customer contact expert coaching. According to a study by the as well as overall good market performance. Bundesbank in 2015, Germany held 2.3 million people with assets exceeding EUR 250,000. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 64 65 Progress report / Progress per business line / Corporate & Institutional Banking CORPORATE & In September, the AFM fined ABN AMRO Clearing Bank N.V. and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Corporate & Institutional Banking’s business activities are organised by sector, geography INSTITUTIONAL BANKING for not completely complying with transactionand product. Our key strengths are our existing related reporting requirements. market positions and strong brand name, relationship-driven business model combined Innovation and digitalisation with a dedicated sector approach and in-depth At Corporate & Institutional Banking, we aim expertise, and our clear focus on risk Corporate & Institutional Banking serves it clients based on sector and product to add value for our clients by combining management. the expertise and creativity of our people expertise. In the Netherlands, we serve clients with a turnover above EUR 250 million. with the power and speed of technology. Corporate & Institutional Banking works in close In Northwest Europe we focus on clients with a turnover of EUR >100 million partnership with Commercial Banking on product Developed in 2017, we launched Franx in development, marketing and communication. in eight selected sectors. Globally we want to further grow in the sectors in which January 2018. An initiative of ABN AMRO, we have proven sector expertise and an existing strong position, and in neighbouring Franx is a user-friendly, innovative online Sustainability platform through which organisations can With regard to sustainability, we strive for an countries of the Netherlands. make international payments and trade in foreign inclusive approach as we engage with clients currency. As a wholly-owned subsidiary of on sector-specific sustainability risks and ABN AMRO with the structure of an independent opportunities. This way, we can support clients company, Franx combines ABN AMRO’s expertise, in sustainability-related investments and data and experience with the responsiveness innovations. By financing sustainable wind RUTGER VAN NOUHUIJS of a start-up, creating the best of both worlds. energy projects in Western Europe, Corporate & CEO OF CORPORATE & INSTITUTIONAL BANKING Institutional Banking continues to play a part in In 2017, we developed an open platform the transition to carbon-neutral energy. This “We aim to add value for our clients by combining the expertise and together with our partners providing smart activity fits well with ABN AMRO’s sustainability creativity of our people with the power and speed of technology. contracts for trading, logistics and one shared mission. As a partner of the Sustainable Digitalisation will enable us to focus our attention on this while view of data and contracts to improve trading of Shipping Initiative, we are one of the leading enhancing our relevance and retaining the human element that North Sea oil products. banks to develop responsible ship recycling remains an essential part of our proposition.” standards. An example of how we contribute Our organisation and our people to the energy transition is by structuring Profitable international growth is one of our key financing for windmill projects in and outside ambitions. We see opportunities to grow our the Netherlands. In our Debt Capital Markets international market share along sectoral lines proposition we diversify our product offering Clients In 2015 ABN AMRO started a review, at the and are building on our presence in key financial with green bonds to provide our clients with We aim to provide clients with the best possible request of both the Netherlands Authority for and logistical hubs and on our sector and further funding diversification. solutions in today’s rapidly-changing environment. the Financial Markets (AFM) and the Dutch product expertise. Using our existing We use the drivers of our Net Promoter Score Ministry of Finance, to determine whether the infrastructure in both the Netherlands and Another example is our partnership with and continuously engage with our clients to bank had acted in accordance with its duty of internationally, we have a scalable platform IDH and Neumann Kaffee Gruppe to provide better understand their wishes and challenges, care obligations with respect to the sale of on which to grow our activities efficiently. access to fertilizer and cash, and improve the so that we can support them where needed. interest rate derivatives to SME clients. profitability and livelihood of Ugandan coffee In 2017, our Net Promotor Score came to +32. ABN AMRO has set up its own client We serve our clients through Client Service farmers based on a sustainable business case. reassessment process and the related checks Teams, which offer specific product or sector Last but not least, we are proud to have Providing our clients with relevant, appropriate and balances. In the first quarter of 2017, knowledge. We are currently active in 13 played a role in Singapore’s first offshore and professional advice in a uniform and ABN AMRO started reassessing around countries in the Americas, Europe, the Middle green bond as investor demand for financing documented way is the essence of our 6,800 clients with some 9,000 interest rate East and Africa, and Asia Pacific. Our five environmentally sustainable projects grow in service. To this end, we offer transparent, derivatives. Due to the complexity of the product units cover loan products (Structured Asia-Pacific. The transaction also represents understandable and consistent communication reassessment, it was not feasible to propose Finance and Trade & Commodity Finance), flow ABN AMRO’s first DCM deal in the APAC region. about the products and services we provide. a solution to our clients before the end of 2017. products (Global Markets) and specialised Our Reliable and Responsible Banking programme ABN AMRO aims to propose a solution under products (Clearing and Private Equity). helps us keep our client files complete and the Uniform Recovery Framework for the vast in order. majority of these clients before the end of 2018. However, it cannot be excluded that the review of some of the more complex files will be finalised in 2019. For more information on this topic, please refer to note 29 Provisions in our Annual Report. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 66 67 GOVERNANCE, GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP ABN AMRO is organised in a way that guarantees On that date, NLFI held 56.3% in ABN AMRO Group, of effective management and supervision. Integrity, which 49.9% is directly held via ordinary shares and 6.4% transparency and accountability are key elements is indirectly held via depositary receipts for shares in of our corporate governance and business operations. ABN AMRO Group. STAK AAG holds 50.1% of the shares in the issued capital of ABN AMRO Group. Only STAK ABN AMRO has a two-tier governance model, consisting AAG’s depositary receipts have been issued with the of a Supervisory Board and an Executive Board. Additionally, cooperation of ABN AMRO Group and are traded on AND FIGURES there is an Executive Committee at the level of ABN AMRO Euronext Amsterdam. Bank. The Executive Boards and the Supervisory Boards of ABN AMRO Group and ABN AMRO Bank are identical, as The Dutch State holds an interest in ABN AMRO Group well as their respective committees. On 5 February 2018, through NLFI. NLFI was set up as a means to avoid Ms Olga Zoutendijk announced not to opt for a second term potential conflicting responsibilities that the Dutch effective 1 July 2018, and hand over her responsibilites as Minister of Finance might otherwise face and to avoid Chairman of the Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO as per undesired political influence being exerted. NLFI acts as a 5 February 2018. The current Vice-Chairman, Steven ten Have, stand-alone shareholder, independent of the Dutch State, will temporarily assume the duties of Chairman. including the Dutch Ministry of Finance. However, important decisions taken by NLFI require prior approval by the The Executive Board is the bank’s statutory managing Dutch Minister of Finance. board and responsible for the general course of business of ABN AMRO. This includes the definition (subject to ABN AMRO has implemented a structure whereby Supervisory Board approval to the extent applicable) and STAK AAG is the holder of shares in ABN AMRO Group’s execution of the bank’s strategy, policies, risk appetite, issued share capital and has issued depositary receipts budget and targets. The Executive Board is accountable representing such shares with the cooperation of to the Supervisory Board and to the General Meeting for ABN AMRO Group. The purpose of having a structure the performance of its duties. Furthermore, the Executive in which depositary receipts are created and STAK AAG Committee develops a view on long-term value creation is the legal owner of the underlying shares is to create and takes into account the relevant stakeholder interests, a defence measure against hostile situations. STAK AAG in consultation with the Supervisory Board. is independent of ABN AMRO and the holder of shares in ABN AMRO Group’s issued share capital. The respective members of the Executive Committee are responsible for the daily management of their business More information about the shareholder structure is lines. Furthermore, the Executive Committee is specifically provided in the Annual Report of ABN AMRO Group N.V. mandated to ensure the translation of ABN AMRO’s strategy, policies, risk appetite, budget and targets in the business This section presents an overview lines. In addition, the Executive Board consults the Executive Committee on the bank’s strategy and risk profile. of ABN AMRO’s leadership, Supervisory Board non-financial figures and key financials. The Supervisory Board is a separate and independent corporate body. The Supervisory Board supervises Remuneration, the Executive Board and the general course of events Risk & Capital Selection Audit Committee & Nomination Committee at ABN AMRO and advises, challenges and supports Committee 67 Governance the Executive Board and the Executive Committee 68 Leadership in the exercise of their powers and duties. 70 Statement of financial position At 31 December 2017, all shares in the capital of Executive Board 71 Income statement ABN AMRO Group were held by two foundations: NLFI 72 Non-financial indicators (Stichting administratiekantoor beheer financiële instellingen) Central Asset & Group Group Risk Credit Liability Disclosure Regulatory and STAK AAG (Stichting Administratiekantoor Continuïteit Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee ABN AMRO Group). ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 68 69 Leadership, governance and figures / Leadership LEADERSHIP ABN AMRO’s Executive Committee ABN AMRO’s Supervisory Board Executive Committee (from left to right) Supervisory Board (from left to right) Rutger van Nouhuijs, Johan van Hall, Daphne de Kluis, Frans van der Horst, Kees van Dijkhuizen, Tanja Cuppen, Pieter van Mierlo, Arjen Dorland, Annemieke Roobeek, Steven ten Have, Olga Zoutendijk, Tjalling Tiemstra, Frederieke Leeflang, Jurgen Stegmann Gert-Jan Meppelink, Clifford Abrahams ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 70 71 Leadership, governance and figures / Statement of financial position STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION INCOME STATEMENT Consolidated statement of financial position Consolidated income statement (in millions) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 (in millions) 2017 2016 Assets Income Cash and balances at central banks 29,783 21,861 Interest income 12,502 12,651 Financial assets held for trading 1,600 1,607 Interest expense 6,045 6,383 Derivatives 9,825 14,384 Net interest income 6,456 6,267 Financial investments 40,964 45,497 Fee and commission income 3,138 3,149 Securities financing 16,645 17,589 Fee and commission expense 1,391 1,340 Loans and receivables banks 10,665 13,485 Net fee and commission income 1,747 1,810 Residential mortgages 152,691 152,069 Net trading income 287 -211 Consumer loans 12,122 12,106 Share of result in equity accounted investments 54 55 Corporate loans 101,118 96,058 Other operating income 745 306 Other loans and receivables customers 8,975 7,445 Operating income 9,290 8,227 Equity accounted investments 714 765 Expenses Property and equipment 1,458 1,418 Personnel expenses 2,590 2,777 Goodwill and other intangible assets 184 251 General and administrative expenses 2,746 2,682 Assets held for sale 3,165 3,481 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 245 198 Tax assets 431 415 Other assets 2,830 6,050 Operating expenses 5,582 5,657 Impairment charges on loans and other receivables -63 114 Total assets 393,171 394,482 Liabilities Total expenses 5,519 5,771 Financial liabilities held for trading 1,082 791 Operating profit/(loss) before taxation 3,771 2,456 Derivatives 8,367 14,526 Income tax expense 979 650 Securities financing 12,875 11,625 Profit/(loss) for the period 2,791 1,806 Due to banks 16,462 13,419 Attributable to: Demand deposits 127,675 119,848 Owners of the parent company 2,721 1,762 Saving deposits 95,751 92,740 Holders of AT1 capital securities 53 43 Time deposits 13,274 16,169 Other non-controlling interests 18 1 Issued debt 76,612 81,278 Earnings per share (in euros) Subordinated liabilities 9,720 11,171 Basic earnings per ordinary share1 2.89 1.87 Provisions 1,529 1,672 1 Earnings per share consist of profit for the period excluding coupons attributable to AT1 capital securities and results attributable to other non-controlling interests divided by the average Liabilities held for sale 4,843 5,667 outstanding and paid-up ordinary shares. Tax liabilities 110 134 Other liabilities 3,543 6,503 Total liabilities 371,841 375,544 Equity Share capital 940 940 Share premium 12,970 12,970 Other reserves (incl. retained earnings/profit for the period) 5,724 4,027 Accumulated other comprehensive income -331 -9 Equity attributable to owners of the parent company 19,303 17,928 AT1 capital securities 2,007 1,004 The consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of financial position are directly derived from the Annual Financial Equity attributable to other non-controlling interests 20 5 Statements in the Annual Report 2017 of ABN AMRO Group N.V. For a proper understanding of the financial position and Total equity 21,330 18,937 performance for the year ending 31 December 2017 and the criteria used to prepare and present this information, please read the full Total liabilities and equity 393,171 394,482 Annual Report 2017 of ABN AMRO Group N.V. The statements are included here to provide the reader with information about the Committed credit facilities 32,772 25,288 financial profile of ABN AMRO in the context of achieving its longand medium-term strategy. Guarantees and other commitments 16,165 15,873 ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 72 Leadership, governance and figures / Non-financial indicators NON-FINANCIAL INDICATORS KPIs % availability of digital services Net Promoter Score Definitions Availability of internet banking and mobile banking during peak hours. Peak hours are from early in the morning to after midnight for all services. This metric shows the extent to which customers would recommend ABN AMRO to others. The customer is regarded as a ‘promoter’ (score of 9 or 10), as ‘passively satisfied’ (score of 2017 2016 99.68% 99.87% APPENDIX 7 or 8) or as a ‘detractor’ (score of 0 to 6). The NPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of ‘detractors’ from the percentage of ‘promoters’. The score is expressed as an absolute number between -100 and +100. Retail Banking Source: Kantar TNS. Research on ABN AMRO consumer clients. NPS score is measured -9 -15 quarterly, total score is based on average of the quarters. Number of respondents: 8,636. Commercial Banking Source: Ipsos quantitative research among 906 clients through online and telephone interviews. -6 -23 The figures for 2017 and 2016 are not comparable, due to different methods and suppliers used to measure the NPS. Private Banking (NL) Source: Kantar TNS. NPS score is measured once a year. Number of respondents: 3,245. -4 -9 Private Banking (International) Source: Scorpio Partnership, Research on clients in France, Germany, Belgium and 25 6 Channel Islands. Singapore, Hong Kong and United Arab Emirates are not included in the 2017 survey due to the Private Banking Asia divestment. The 2016 figure has been adjusted accordingly. Channel Islands is included in the score as from 2017. Number of respondents: 1,181. Private Banking (consolidated) Score is a weighted average of the PBI and PBNL scores, weighted by operating income of the 12 -1 respective segments. The set-up of the NPS surveys differs among the segments. Corporate & Institutional Banking Source: Ipsos quantitative research among 241 clients through online and telephone interviews 32 40 and MWM2 quantitative online research among 242 clients (483 in total). The figures for 2017 and 2016 are not comparable, due to different methods and suppliers used to measure the NPS. Dow Jones Sustainability A family of benchmarks, performed by RobecoSAM, for investors who believe sustainable 91 87 Index ranking business practices may lead to long-term shareholder value. Source: RobecoSAM. Trust Monitor NvB Degree of confidence in own bank. Scale (1-5). Source: Trust monitor, Dutch Banking Association. 3.2 3.1 Published October 2017. Percentage of loans in book Percentage of the transaction volume of Commercial and Corporate loans checked and rated on 65% n.a. by ESE indicator Ethical, Social and Environmental (ESE) criteria as part of the central corporate and commercial lending due diligence process. Commercial Banking Percentages for 2016 are not available due to the new business line structure 50% n.a. at Commercial Banking and Corporate & Institutional Banking. Corporate & Institutional Banking 80% n.a. Sustainable client assets Sustainable client assets are assets that ABN AMRO invests for its clients in investment funds, 10.1 8.2 (in billions) products and securities that explicitly base their investment approach and decisions on sustainable criteria. These investments explicitly factor in the social and environmental effects of investments. Scope includes all countries where Private Banking is active. Employee engagement A business management concept that describes the level of enthusiasm and dedication This section gives an overview of our a worker feels toward his/her job. Source: annual survey by Willis Towers Watson. Group Total number of respondents: 20,134 79% 82% reporting approach, how we preformed Retail Banking Total number of respondents: 5,827 81% 85% our materiality analysis and how Commercial Banking Total number of respondents: 2,642 77% 81% material topics link to our strategy. Private Banking Total number of respondents: 2,803 72% 78% Corporate & Institutional Banking Total number of respondents: 2,288 78% 80% 74 Reporting approach Gender diversity at the top Diversity at the top is measured as the percentage of female employees 25% 25% 76 Our material topics in Hay salary scale 14+. 78 Material topics and connectivity Gender diversity at the subtop Diversity at the subtop is measured as the percentage of female employees 28% 26% in Hay salary scale 12 and 13. 80 Assurance report of the independent auditor Gender diversity total Gender diversity total is measured as the percentage of female employees 46% 47% in the Netherlands. 74 75 Appendix / Reporting approach REPORTING APPROACH This is the Integrated Annual Review 2017 for ABN AMRO Group N.V. and its consolidated entities. In it, we disclose and explain our material financial and non-financial results, strategy, governance, external developments and the risks and opportunities ABN AMRO faces. Although a part of the information in this report builds further on information from other reports published by ABN AMRO, as stated in the ‘Our reports’ section, the Integrated Annual Review is not meant as a substitute for reading these other reports. Material topics Integrated Reporting Framework The currency in this report is presented in euros (EUR), Assurance This report presents the most relevant material topics ABN AMRO has used the Integrated Reporting rounded to the nearest million. This is ABN AMRO’s Our independent auditor, EY, has performed a to all four stakeholder groups for 2017 using the Framework as the basis for its Integrated Annual Review. presentation currency, and sets out the results for the limited assurance engagement on this Integrated International Integrated Reporting Framework (IIRC). Management believes this report is presented in entire ABN AMRO organisation worldwide (unless Annual Review. Please see the Assurance report Disclosures on the material topics have been prepared in accordance with the Framework. We do not apply the otherwise stated). All financial year-end averages in this in the independent auditor section. accordance with the guiding principles of the Framework IIRC principle of reporting explicitly on short-term goals report are based on month-end figures. Management of the International Integrated Reporting Council. The and value creation as we report on the progress towards does not believe that these month-end averages present Capital metrics and some risk exposures for 2017 and 2016 materiality analyses were conducted in accordance our medium-term priorities. The risks that affect the trends that are materially different from those that would comparative figures for 2016 are reported under the with the Global Reporting Initiative. Based on the organisation’s ability to create value for the short, be presented by daily averages. Certain figures in this Basel III (CRD IV/ CRR) framework. Financial information IIRC Framework, ABN AMRO believes there will be no medium and long-term are assessed in accordance report may not tally exactly due to rounding. In addition, is derived from the Annual Financial Statements, which significant difference relative to the outcome of the with our general risk management approach, which is certain percentages in this document have been are based on EU IFRS. For more information about the materiality assessment for 2016, as the purpose was described in the Risk, funding & capital section in the calculated using rounded figures. basis of preparation, please refer to the Annual Report to identify topics that have a direct or indirect impact annual report of ABN AMRO Group N.V. In the ‘Driving ABN AMRO Group N.V. Accounting Policies. on our organisation’s ability to create, preserve or erode Forces’ section of this report ABN AMRO describes Forward-looking statements economic, environmental and social value – not only the environment it operates in. This section is based on This Integrated Annual Review contains certain material for ourselves, but also for our stakeholders and society ABN AMRO’s own research of its external environment that may be construed as “forward-looking statements”. at large. Please see the Our Material Topics section and its assessment thereof. In this research, we have These statements are not historical facts, and represent for a summary of the materiality determination process. made use of various external sources and reports to ABN AMRO’s beliefs regarding future events, many of ABN AMRO has chosen to disclose progress on the validate our assessment where possible. which are inherently uncertain and beyond the bank’s most relevant material topics for 2017, which are not control. These statements only apply at the document’s necessarily all 20 material topics. ABN AMRO reports Financial information publication date. ABN AMRO does not intend to publicly performance on some material topics based on The consolidated income statement and consolidated update or revise these forward-looking statements to quantitative metrics. Other material topics cannot be statement of financial position are directly derived reflect events or circumstances after the date of this measured quantitatively and are covered by our policies from the Annual Financial Statements in the report, and does not assume any responsibility to do so. and governance framework. The description of material Annual Report 2017 of ABN AMRO Group N.V. For The reader should, however, take into account any topics and the definitions of metrics are provided in the a proper understanding of the financial position and further disclosures of a forward-looking nature that Connectivity Table on page 78 and page 79. performance for the year ending 31 December 2017 ABN AMRO may make in its interim reports. and the criteria used to prepare and present this Some of the metrics presented in the Integrated information, please read the full Annual Report 2017 Annual Review have inherent limitations, e.g. estimated of ABN AMRO Group N.V. The statements are included data versus measured data, limitations in reporting here to provide the reader with information about scope, etc. Where applicable this is mentioned in the the financial profile of ABN AMRO in the context of text or in a footnote. achieving its longand medium-term strategy. For more information and definitions of financial concepts, please refer to the Annual Report of ABN AMRO Group N.V. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 76 77 Appendix / Our material topics OUR MATERIAL TOPICS Our materiality approach These discussions about the relevance, Deepened understanding to drive future strategy from our Executive Board) to deepen our understanding. In 2016, we performed a materiality analysis. completeness and definitions of the topics In 2018 we will critically review these material topics Most of the metrics for progress have already been This analysis resulted in 20 material topics, resulted in the validated material topics listed and the materiality assessment, using multi-stakeholder determined; in other cases we aim to determine which we formalised and implemented in in the matrix on page 75. dialogues (internal and external, and with participation metrics and use them for reporting in the future. our management approach in 2017. Disclosure on 14 important topics Part of our bank-wide strategy This Integrated Annual Review discloses Our material topics The purpose of the analysis was to identify information and progress on 14 material topics. topics with a direct or indirect impact on our To achieve balance and conciseness here, organisation’s ability to create, preserve or some topics are more elaborately detailed Stakeholder impact erode economic, environmental and social value in other reports better tailored to stakeholder – not only for ourselves, but also for our needs. Some topics are also reported on 3 stakeholders and society at large. It revealed more elaborately than others, based on what our internal and external stakeholders relevant developments in the past year. 10 4 2 1 consider to be the most material, relevant topics. 12 6 5 The six material topics not covered in this 15 13 Material topics based on a variety of issues Integrated Annual Review are covered by other 16 14 11 9 7 17 We drew up a shortlist from this extensive disclosures. Our impact on Non-discrimination 18 8 range of topics by analysing the extent to which and human dignity (13) is addressed in our last year’s topics were covered by the most separate Human Rights Report published in dominant reporting frameworks (such as GRI, December 2016, and in the Human Rights 19 SASB, GRESB, DJSI) and peer reports. We then Update published in December 2017. The topics 20 clustered and defined these topics with a deemed to have less social or business impact bankwide working group of representatives according to this materiality matrix (15-20) are from different departments and fields of not discussed in this Integrated Annual Review, expertise. with the exception of number 16 as this is part of our core risk approach (see page 52). Carefully prioritised topics The connectivity table on page 76 provides a Organisational impact First we sent a survey to our four main description of each material topic, how the topic stakeholder groups through online media and relates to our strategy and to which stakeholder Topics disclosed in the Integrated Annual Review Topics disclosed through other sources a direct, targeted approach. We asked them groups the topic matters most. The description Please see the following pages for the description of each topic. to rank each material topic on a scale of 1 to 4 of material topics and the definitions of metrics (1 = least relevant; 4 = most relevant). They were are provided in the Connectivity Table and in also invited to add material topics of their own, the Appendix. but no additional topics were proposed. We 1 Customer issue ownership 8 Co-creation and innovation 15 Role model in terms of legislation and regulations received a total of 183 responses. We weighted Embedding the materiality analyses 2 Ethics and integrity 9 Privacy, use of client data by the bank or third parties 16 A positive impact on ESG criteria through the input we received, giving each stakeholder We have already taken steps to further embed 3 Preventing corruption, fraud and cybercrime 10 Responsible tax policy our financing and investment services group a 25% influence on the results. Second, these topics throughout our organisation. 4 Stability of our digital services 11 Employee engagement and empowerment 17 Safe and healthy workplace we asked a bank-wide selection of our The next step is to heighten our focus on the 5 Sustainability of our business model 12 Moderate risk profile 18 Our environmental impact management to prioritise the material topics assessment of – and our approach to – these 6 Clear, appropriate advice 13 Non-discrimination and human dignity 19 Adding value by promoting the welfare of society in preparation for an internal workshop. topics. This can be done in various ways, such They ranked the topics on the same 1 to 4 as assessing the risks associated with each 7 Agile organisation 14 Responsible remuneration policy 20 Adding value by leading the public debate scale, and together we discussed and validated topic and the governance in place to make sure the outcome of the survey during the workshop. we achieve our goals. In 2017, we made a first step to align our strategic risk assessment with the material topics. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 78 79 Appendix / Material topics and connectivity MATERIAL TOPICS AND CONNECTIVITY MediumThe connectivity table below provides a description of each material topic, Topic Description Stakeholders term priorities Long-term foundation Type of risk Reference1 how the topic relates to our strategy, to the risks identified by the bank, Moderate risk A moderate risk profile means we pursue ÅÅ Enterprise Risk Page 31 12 and to which stakeholder group the topic matters most. profile a prudent risk policy. This helps us deliver a stable financial performance. MediumNonWe strive to create an environment for all our ÅÅ Sustainability Human Rights Report 2016 + Staketerm Long-term 13 discrimination stakeholders that is free from discrimination and Risk Human Rights Update 2017 Topic Description holders priorities foundation Type of risk Reference1 and human that respects human dignity and equal Human Rights Report 2016 dignity opportunities. Sustainable Banking Customer We listen to, and take ownership of, clients’ ÅÅ Reputational Page 58, 60, 62, 64 1 issue needs and problems. Clients should feel that their Risk Newsletter 2017 ownership needs and issues are ddressed by the bank. ÅÅ Operational Risk/ Responsible We pursue a responsible remuneration policy for ÅÅ Remuneration Page 54 Compliance Risk 14 remuneration Board members, senior management and other Risk ÅÅ Business Risk employees. We are transparent about this policy ÅÅ Legal Risk policy and about performance standards and measurements used in awarding variable Ethics and We base our actions on society’s moral ÅÅ Compliance & Page 50 2 integrity standards. Conduct Risk remuneration. ÅÅ Legal Risk Role model In addition to complying with national and ÅÅ Compliance risk Annual Report 15 in terms of international legislation and regulations, we ÅÅ Legal risk ABN AMRO Group N.V. 2017, Preventing We protect our clients’ funds and data against ÅÅ Compliance Risk Page 52-53 legis­lation proactively identify and anticipate developments Governance section 3 corruption, security breaches. We actively prevent activities ÅÅ Operational Risk and regu­lations in this area. fraud and designed to illegally acquire commercial or personal gain from our digital or physical A positive In offering our finance and investment services, ÅÅ Sustainability Page 50-53 cybercrime environment to the detriment of any party 16 impact on ESG we work to ensure that our clients and the Risk involved in or affected by the bank’s activities. criteria entities they invest in put their impact on human through our rights, health and safety and the environment first Sustainability A sustainable business model is a model that ÅÅ Business Risk Page 32 financing and in their conduct. We leverage our position to 4 of our business produces healthy and robust results, ensuring expose abuses to human rights, health and safety investment model continuity over the years. and the environment and are in constant dialogue services with our clients with a view to improving the situation. If we do not see tangible improvements, Stability of our We ensure the accessibility and stability of our ÅÅ Operational Risk Page 46 5 digital digital services. ÅÅ Compliance & we end our relationship. services Conduct Risk Safe and We offer our employees a safe and healthy ÅÅ Operational Risk Online 17 healthy working environment by providing the necessary Clear, We give clients clear, comprehensive information ÅÅ Business Risk Page 58, 60, 62, 64 workplace facilities and by actively promoting their wellWorking at ABN AMRO 6 appropriate and help them select the financial product or ÅÅ Compliance Risk being and encouraging vitality. In doing so, we advice service that best fits their personal situation. ÅÅ Reputational enable employees to carry out their work to the Our sector expertise and product knowledge Risk best of their ability. help us understand our clients’ needs. Our The environmental footprint of our organisation, ÅÅ Sustainability Online + Sustainable Banking Agile We respond and adapt to changes and ÅÅ Change Risk Page 46-49 18 environmental created by our business operations and Risk newsletter 7 organisation developments outside the bank in order to add ÅÅ Business Risk procurement activities. impact Sustainable operations make value to society now and in the future. ÅÅ Sustainability Risk us a better bank Sustainable Banking Co-creation Teaming up with partners inside and outside the ÅÅ Change Risk Page 47-48 Newsletter October 2017 8 and innovation bank (co-creation) and creating an environment ÅÅ Business Risk in which innovation is stimulated and nurtured. Adding value We promote the welfare of society by offering ÅÅ Sustainability Online 19 by promoting products and services that empower people and Risk Employees go for social impact the welfare businesses. We give back to society by Privacy, use of The use of client data by the bank in order to ÅÅ Compliance & Page 49 9 client data by improve our services and offer customised Conduct Risk of society facilitating social entrepreneurship and by Social Impact Fund finances a organising volunteer programmes in which our better world the bank or products or providing data to third parties outside ÅÅ Legal Risk employees participate. third parties the bank for commercial purposes. Adding value We respond to society’s needs by offering our ÅÅ Reputational Stakeholder dialogues Responsible We pursue a transparent tax policy that prohibits ÅÅ Tax Risk Page 52 20 by leading the 10 tax policy tax evasion and prescribes fair tax payments and financial expertise, including sharing sectorRisk Sustainable improvements public debate specific knowledge and promoting social structures. We advise our clients in line with thanks to stakeholder entrepreneurship. this policy. engagement Employee We strive to create an open corporate culture in ÅÅ Reputational Page 54 11 engagement which employees are empowered and Risk Stakeholders Clients Employees Society at large Investors and encouraged to be engaged and help build the ÅÅ Sustainability empowerment organisation. We have a fair remuneration policy Risk Medium-term priorities Bring expertise Enhance the client experience Innovate & grow Deliver fast and offer training and development programmes designed to develop talent and create highly skilled employees and a committed workforce. Long-term foundation Client-driven Invest in the future Moderate risk profile Sustainable growth 1 Page number refers to the Integrated Annual Review of ABN AMRO Group N.V. 2017 ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 80 81 Appendix / Assurance report of the independent auditor ASSURANCE REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR Assurance report of the independent auditor Responsibilities of management and the supervisory board for the Integrated Annual Review Management is responsible for the preparation of the Integrated Annual Review in accordance with the To: the executive board and supervisory board of ABN AMRO Group N.V. International <IR> Framework of IIRC and the applied supplemental reporting criteria as disclosed in the appendix Reporting Approach of the Integrated Annual Review, including the identification of Our conclusion stakeholders and the definition of material matters. The choices made by management regarding the We have reviewed the Integrated Annual Review for the year 2017 of ABN AMRO Group N.V. at scope of the information and the reporting policy are summarized in the appendix Reporting Approach Amsterdam (hereafter: the Integrated Annual Review). The Integrated Annual Review 2017 describes of the Integrated Annual Review. the themes that are central to achieving ABN AMRO Group N.V.’s longand medium-term strategy and includes information that has been derived from other reports published by ABN AMRO Group N.V. Management is also responsible for such internal control as management determines is necessary as described on page 1 of the Integrated Annual Review. to enable the preparation of the Integrated Annual Review that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or errors. A review engagement is aimed at obtaining limited assurance. An overview of our main procedures performed is included in the section Our responsibilities for the review of the Integrated Annual Review. The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the reporting process on the Integrated Annual Review. Based on our procedures performed nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Integrated Annual Review is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Our responsibilities for the review of the Integrated Annual Review International Integrated Reporting Framework (hereafter: the International <IR> Framework) of the Our responsibility is to plan and perform the assurance engagement with a limited level of assurance International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and applied supplemental reporting criteria as in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusion. disclosed in the appendix Reporting Approach of the Integrated Annual Review. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed to determine the plausibility of Basis for our conclusion information and vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent, than for a reasonable assurance We have performed our review engagement on the Integrated Annual Review in accordance with engagement. The level of assurance obtained in review engagements is therefore substantially less than Dutch law, including Dutch Standard 3810N ‘’Assurance engagements relating to sustainability reports’’, the assurance obtained in audit engagements. which is a specified Dutch Standard that is based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the Financial Information”. Our responsibilities under this standard are further described in the section aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users taken on the basis “Our responsibilities for the review of the Integrated Annual Review of our report”. of the Integrated Annual Review. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our review procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusion. We are independent of ABN AMRO Group N.V. in accordance with the Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional We apply the Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen (Regulations for Quality management systems) Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other relevant independence regulations and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and in the Netherlands. This includes that we do not perform any activities that could result in a conflict of procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and other applicable interest with our independent assurance engagement. Furthermore, we have complied with the legal and regulatory requirements. Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional skepticism We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis throughout the review engagement performed by a multi-disciplinary team, in accordance with for our conclusion. the Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Limitations to the scope of our review engagement The procedures of our review engagement consisted amongst others of: The Integrated Annual Review includes prospective information such as ambitions, strategy, plans, • Performing an external environment analysis and obtaining insight into relevant social themes and expectations and estimates and risk assessments. Inherently, the actual future results are uncertain. issues in the sector, the characteristics of the organization and the themes that are most relevant We do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and achievability of prospective information in to achieving the organization’s longand medium term strategy. the Integrated Annual Review. • Obtaining an understanding of the value creation model of ABN AMRO Group N.V. • Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their consistent application and The references to external sources or websites in the Integrated Annual Review are not part of the related disclosures in the Integrated Annual Review, including the evaluation of the results of Integrated Annual Review as reviewed by us. We therefore do not provide assurance on this information. the stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of estimates made by management. • Obtaining an understanding of the reporting processes for the Integrated Annual Review, including obtaining a general understanding of internal control relevant to our review engagement. ABN AMRO Integrated Annual Review 2017 82 Appendix / Assurance report of the independent auditor • Identifying areas of the Integrated Annual Review where material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error, are likely to arise, and performing further procedures aimed at determining the plausibility of the Integrated Annual Review responsive to this risk analysis. These procedures consisted amongst others of: • Interviewing management and relevant staff responsible for the strategy, policy and results. • Interviewing relevant staff responsible for: • Providing the information for, • Carrying out internal control procedures on, and • Consolidating the data in the Integrated Annual Review. • Reviewing relevant internal and external documentation, on a limited test basis, in order to determine the reliability of the Integrated Annual Review. • An analytical review of the data and trends submitted for consolidation at corporate level. • Evaluating the presentation, structure and content of the Integrated Annual Review as a whole, including the disclosures, in relation to the reporting criteria used. For the financial information included in the Integrated Annual Review, the procedures consisted of: • Reconciling the consolidated statement of financial position and consolidated income statement on pages 68 and 69 of the Integrated Annual Review with the full set of audited consolidated financial statements of ABN AMRO Group N.V. for the year ended 31 December 2017 as included in the separately published Annual Report 2017 of ABN AMRO Group N.V. (hereafter: the financial statements). • Reconciling the financial information included in other sections of the Integrated Annual Review with the financial statements, or with information underlying the financial statements in case the reconciliation cannot be made directly. We communicate with the supervisory board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the review engagement and significant findings that we identify during our review engagement. Amsterdam, 13 March 2018 Ernst & Young Accountants LLP signed by J. Niewold Acknowledgements General coordination Finance and Communications & Sustainability departments Editing and translation Willemien Kneppelhout Photography Peter Boer, Erik Borst, Kyle Bean/Sara Morris, Gregor Servais Concepting and lay-out DartGroup, Amsterdam Production and lithography Sumis Enquiries Mailing address P.O. Box 283 1000 EA Amsterdam The Netherlands Internet abnamro.com abnamro.nl abnamro.com/annualreport Information on our websites does not form part of this Integrated Annual Review, unless expressly stated otherwise. SEE ALSO ABNAMRO.COM/ANNUALREPORT
