HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Goldfin investment management goal is to influence that all our employees and all our business partners respect the universal declaration of human rights and environmental protection. We have taken below measures to prevent human rights violation in its location as below. a) A suggestion box to be installed for employees to submit their complaints and issues with regards to unfair treatment unhealthy competition. These issues are raised by top management and discussed immediately b) Training session are conducted for all employees to raise awareness of human right issues. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Our organization ensures that all our employees are under the global compact principles of labour and we adhere to them as follows. a)No employment for underage/minors b)Awareness raising and training of employees on labour rights and polices. c)We avoid discrimination in terms of hiring, promotions,salary remunerations in in regards to ethenicity or political affiliation. d)We also consult our major shareholders i.e. safaricom on how to train our employees and give them the general view of working standards. e)We provide our employees with bonuses at end year parties, overtime payment, weekend benefits. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Being a mostly office based the nature of operation make our organization direct environmental impact relatively small. Though we have ensured to educate our employees on recycling of waste management when we hold our annual CSR forums in conjunctions with safaricom who is our major stakeholder a)We encourage not to print when its not necessary, you can send emails, letter, parcels electronically. b)We always emphasis to switch of lights in the offices when not using switch of computers laptops when not in use to save on energy. c)Minimize energy consumption by opening windows instead of relying on fans for cooling when temperature is hot. ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Internally we have maintained a zero tolerance corruption practices between our employees, customers, suppliers , stake holders etc. We have over and over again educated our employees on not practicing corruption practices as below: a)Taking bribes, giving out bribes to get sales, tender or any work related issues. b)We have ensured on employees not to be involved in corrupt practices which will make our organization lose its reputation in the business world . c)Employee who deals with corrupt practices will be held personally responsible for his/her action and rule of law will eventually follow up. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES When our organization practices all the practices, we shall have a reputable name to get good business, make our products loyal, have trustworthy employees, happy customers who uphold all values of doing genuine business. In additions to measures taken, we shall continue to uphold all these values and principles through regular training workshops, CRS, We shall ensure all our employees get medical covers for each of them and their families like insurance accident and medical covers. We have several activities to be held in the New Year and will subsequently share with you like: a) Encourage our employees to join trade unions which are good for the social well being. b) Encourage our staff we have a CSR on a quarterly basis instead of yearly.
