INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US Transforming our business for a sustainable future CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 2 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US Sustainability Our world is changing, and Chalhoub Group is Contents for our changing world changing too. The key factor that will ensure we 02) 03) 09) Introduction CEOs’ welcome People succeed, now and in the 16) Partners future, is sustainability. 20) Planet 24) IMPACT What does this mean? It means making 29) About us sure we can continue as a thriving 31) Thank you business, and making sure our people are happy and healthy. It means working with partners who share our Reading this report responsible way of doing business, and who will help us achieve positive outcomes through our products. And it means everyone playing their part to protect our planet’s precious natural resources. So how can Chalhoub employees get involved? It’s easy to get involved in sustainability at the Group, through our many environmental, educational and humanitarian initiatives. Join us in our mission to provide our customers with the highest quality, luxury experience they desire, while having a positive IMPACT on society and the world. We have prepared the report in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core option. It covers our UAE operations: Chalhoub Group Retail, Allied Retail, Havas, M.C.T FZE, Real FZE, Real Emirates, as well as regional and local distribution companies. CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 3 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US CEOs’ welcome 2017 was a challenging yet successful year We restructured our organisation, refocused We started a dialogue with our partners, sharing on our customers and embarked on a new with them our engagement and commitment transformational journey to prepare the to the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Group to be ‘future-proof’. Everyone really Compact (of which we have been a member got on board, embracing change and since 2014), and exchanging best practices. optimising our processes. Most importantly, We partnered with the ‘Pearl Initiative’, a Gulf we began changing our culture and mindset business-led organisation, to benchmark our by entrusting and empowering our teams to integrity and transparency processes and lead the transformation. practices, taking actions when needed to enhance our internal systems and policies. All changes are being made with Group sustainability in mind. We have encouraged our Finally, the number of volunteers participating team members to make appropriate decisions, in our educational, environmental and take initiative, be entrepreneurial, creative, humanitarian community giving activities innovative, quick and agile. increased by 11%. This means that while we increase the awareness of our people on the These changes have increased our progress on importance of protecting Planet Earth, we the four pillars of our Sustainability Strategy. were able to increase our support for primary Looking after our people, we accelerated our and higher education, entrepreneurship, “All changes are being made with commitment to diversity and inclusion, working towards a more balanced workforce, from board to operations. We maintained our focus people in need – positively impacting more than 21,000 people. Group sustainabili ty in mind. We have on education, training and diversity. We are tremendously proud and thankful for the work done by everyone across the Group. The results are visible every day at all levels of the encouraged our team members to make Taking care of our planet, we reduced our impact on the environment by upgrading our head offices in the UAE and Saudi Arabia. company. The continued support, engagement and commitment to our sustainability vision appropriate decisions, take initiative, Through the STEP (Stores Towards Earth’s Protection) certificate, which is a continuous is deeply valued. We can make a difference – and we will make it happen. Now and in the future. process to enhance our stores’ sustainability, we be entrepreneurial, creative, innovative, assessed 132 of our stores this year. We made sure they were built and operate in a healthier, quick and agile.” highly efficient and cost-saving manner. In parallel – and to leverage the impact of making our buildings green – we continue to coach our 12,000+ team members to use resources wisely across our operations. Anthony Chalhoub Patrick Chalhoub Co-CEO Co-CEO CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 4 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US Our world is changing Climate change and The Middle East Supply chains Digitisation has resources scarcity is changing are complex transformed the way we live our lives According to the UN, as global Sustainability has crept up the With increasing globalisation, Luxury consumers can now find temperatures rise they will rise even agenda across the Middle supply chains are often complex almost any item they want on the faster in the Middle East, causing East. With the UAE’s Vision 2021 in nature, making it hard to trace internet, and many young consumers more frequent and severe droughts. National Agenda, 2021 Dubai the origin of products. Despite this, have never known any other way Priorities include addressing water plan, Environment Vision 2030, and businesses must source sustainably to shop. It is more important than security and low-carbon energy. State of the Green Economy report wherever possible if they want ever to transform our mindset to As people become more aware of 2018, businesses must play their part to meet consumer demand for stay relevant to the modern and these issues, they increasingly want in minimising environmental impacts. sustainable products. connected consumer. to buy products that don’t harm the planet, and we must respond. CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 5 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US Chalhoub Group As a dynamic company, Chalhoub Group is Making the Group sustainable and is changing too responding by changing the way we work future-proof… In this report, you will read about our many initiatives to make our business even more Innovation has always been crucial for us – we sustainable for the future. Most importantly, were the first to support luxury brands in the businesses are formed by people, and to region by blending our Middle East expertise make these changes we need to prioritise and deep understanding of the local consumer communication and training, to ensure our and market. For us, innovation means bringing team members are prepared to manage something different to meet consumer demand and lead change whenever required. That is and add value… why, in 2017, all our managers participated in a Change Management training programme. At consumers’ fingertips, We have already set up our transformation wherever they may be team, SHIFT, that will accompany the company In 2017, Chalhoub Group embarked on a during this phase. It is led by Rania Masri, our transformation journey. Through social media Chief Transformation Officer, who sits on our engagement, services and e-commerce, we Strategy Committee. The journey is not going are focusing on creating relationships and to be quick, but we will have regular wins along experiences with our customers, all over the the way. We have already seen some, such as world. This is more than just changing systems our new Innovation Lab, IBTIKAR, to foster new and structures, it is about making a deeper ideas. We will accelerate this programme in the change in our entire work culture. coming year to further develop innovations. ‘Convenience is the new loyalty’ and that is Doing nothing is not something we need to be set up for. We know an option “Our aim is to move fast from being digital will keep evolving and that we will need to re-invent ourselves again soon. So we will create a sustainable, agile, omni-channel We are already a leaner, stronger, more digitally focused, sustainable organisation. And we are a traditional distributor and retailer organisation, able to continually challenge the status quo and quickly switch gears to keep up excited about the changes and challenges that lie ahead. We expect failure – if we don’t for luxury goods in the Middle East with the changing consumer. fail, it means we won’t have tried. But we know, ultimately, we will succeed and will share our successes, transforming our organisation into to a hybrid retailer bringing luxury a forward-looking, sustainable enterprise that is fit for the future. experiences to the fingertips of customers everywhere.” Marie-Helene Straus, Chief Officer Consumer & Innovation Strategies CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 6 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US Responsibility across our value chain Our partners produce We purchase luxury We distribute We sell in our stores We support consumers We are not directly involved We strengthen our We store and distribute Our frontliners follow We make it easier for in the design or production relationship with partners our partners’ products sustainable practices, and we consumers to be more of the items we sell in our and suppliers through our all over the Middle East. evaluate all our stores using sustainable. For example, stores, yet we always extend Supply Chain Policy. And we We constantly look for the STEP (Stores Towards we are pioneering an a hand to our partners use our Supplier Scorecard innovative ways to increase Earth’s Protection)certificate. electronic receipt system to inspire sustainable to help them understand efficiency and reduce waste This is our own programme in the Middle East, to reduce behaviour across our our commitments and carbon emissions. to ensure our stores are paper waste at the point supply chain. to sustainability. built in line with green of sale. building standards. CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 7 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US Our Sustainability Our plan is to ensure we are Supporting SDGs & Dubai a sustainable company that Plan 21 Strategy delivers on our sustainability Our strategy supports the UN Sustainable commitments. We focus on Development Goals (SDGs), launched in 2015. These consist of 17 goals to end poverty, four main areas: protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all by 2030. Our areas of focus also support the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and People Ensuring our people are happy and healthy, the Dubai Plan 21. The Dubai Plan 21 aims to transform Dubai into a smart city by 2021, by developing six key areas: economy, society, people, experience, government and place. and continuing to be recognised as an employer of choice in the Middle East. Discover more on page 8 Discover more on page 09 Spreading the word We know that a sustainability strategy is only Partners Achieving a positive impact across our value as good as its implementation. That’s why it’s crucial that we get our people on board and inspired to take action. We also spread the word among our suppliers, partners and other chain by working with partners and suppliers stakeholders, like government agencies. to influence sustainable practices. Discover more on page 16 We do this in lots of different ways – through our Group website, sustainability report, conferences, meetings and press kits. Our new joiners’ Values Planet Improving the efficiency of our operations, booklet, intranet, Code of Ethics, and internal communications help motivate our employees to support our sustainability efforts. In 2017, for the first time, 560 of our employees in the including our buildings, stores and logistics, UAE took part in a Sustainability Quiz to raise and using energy and water wisely to reduce awareness about sustainability across the Group. our environmental footprint. Discover more on page 20 IMPACT Giving back to the community by empowering youth, taking care of our planet and providing support to those in need. Discover more on page 24 Chalhoub Group is a member of the UNGC since 2014. The UN Global Compact is a United Nations initiative to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementation. CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 8 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US We are supporting the Sustainable Development Goals Our sustainability efforts are part of a much bigger global movement towards sustainability… 8 13 15 4 Decent work and economic growth Climate action We fix air conditioning at 24ºC at our offices and warehouses, Life on land Every year, we run beach clean‑up and tree planting Quality education We employ more than 12,000 people across reducing energy consumption events with employees and During 2017, we provided funding the region. Supporting continual learning and CO2 emissions. We also set their families in the UAE, Kuwait, to educate 1,062 Syrian refugee and development, in 2017 we were proud to our printing machines to print Lebanon, India and Bahrain. In children, and supported 3,317 celebrate the 10th anniversary of the Chalhoub double-sided by default (this has 2017, 300 people volunteered additional students and young Group Retail Academy – the Middle East’s first led to a 30% reduction in paper to help, and raised awareness entrepreneurs across the region. accredited retail academy. consumption). about environmental protection. 3 5 12 17 Good health and Gender equality Responsible consumption Partnerships for wellbeing In 2017, we introduced a new diversity and production the goals and inclusion vision, mission, and our top STEP (Stores Towards Earth’s Protection) is In just one year, 192 of our suppliers Chalhoub employees can join management signed a Diversity & Inclusion helping us make our stores more sustainable. completed the new Supplier any of our 20 sports teams. Board Charter. We also signed up to the In 2017, we rolled out the programme across Sustainability Scorecard. That’s These compete in corporate UN Women’s Empowerment Principles, the 132 targeted stores in the UAE, Saudi Arabia 32.4% of the 592 suppliers we competitions all year round, and and continued to make good progress and Kuwait. 65% of these stores have already shared it with. We now want to are supported by professional on gender equality. achieved certification (five points or above, engage 200 more suppliers, and coaches through weekly training. out of a possible 10). will work on helping low-scorers improve their sustainability performance. CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 9 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 01 Sustainability by, and for, our people “The most important thing about our company is our people. We want to make sure that Chalhoub Group is not only a safe, diverse and inclusive place to work, but really brings out the best in people.” Wassim Eid, Chief Human Resources Officer CHALHOUB CHALHOUB GROUP GROUP SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT 2017 2017 10 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 01 Our People Our ambition Our performance in 2017 Our perspectives Our ambition is to ensure our people are Our 2020 commitments: happy and healthy, to provide motivating and meaningful experiences to our employees “Training is very important to the Diversity & Inclusion • 40% – 60% women in middle throughout their journey within the Group, and to continue to be recognised as an success of a business and its people. management positions by 2020 employer of choice in the Middle East. T he fact that so many people benefited (2016: 43%, 2017: 43%). from training this year will only add • 25% women in our senior management Our approach managers attended to our success going forward.” team by 2020 (2016: 20%, 2017: 22%). More than 12,000 people work at Chalhoub the ‘Leading Teams Through • Hire at least 30 women in Group across the region. And we want every Change’ training programme Zaur Shiraliyev, our warehouses. single one of our employees to live and breathe Group Learning and Development the company’s core values, and work with the Manager • 3% GCC nationals in our workforce highest integrity. by 2020 (2016: 1%, 2017: 2%). We encourage collaborative teamwork, as well • Continue being an equal as developing individuals. To support this, we “People Experience is on top of opportunities employer. provide continuous learning and development Chalhoub Group’s priorities. It ’s about • 20 days increase in our maternity leave opportunities, and strengthen our culture of regular feedback and ongoing improvements. strengthening our culture of ongoing up to a total of 90 days (2016: 45 days, 2017: 70 days). We aim to help everyone fulfil their potential. feedback and continuous improvements, • 2 days increase in our paternity leave Striving for a safe and diverse work environment, to provide top-notch experience to our up to a total of 5 days (2016: 1 day, we are mindful of the wellbeing of our employees. We also support local employment as part employees throughout their journey 2017: 3 days). of middle management of our Gulfanisation efforts, as well as people positions held by women within the Group.” Health & Safety with disabilities. • Zero accident and injury rate Florencio Padilla, (2016: 4 recordable incidents, Head of People Experience 2017: 2 recordable incidents). All commitments against 2017 baseline. people participated in wellbeing programmes CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 11 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 01 Employee learning and development – from Total hours of training ‘Ibtikar’ – Chalhoub Group Innovation Lab Our People the bottom to the top We believe in the creative skills of our team members. To help us through these times of hours There have been several organisational change, in 2017 we launched ‘Ibtikar’, a unique hours changes in 2017. This means that learning space designed to foster ideas and creativity, and development are even more important reward everyday innovation and promote to support people in their new roles, whether entrepreneurship across the Group. they are junior starters or senior managers. We want all our team members to feel motivated The Lab will be the space where Chalhoub and supported, which is important for their intrapreneurs can share ideas, whether small or own job satisfaction as well as the success big. So far, 140 submissions have been received of our company. and three business ideas are in the process of mentorship and funding. Personalised training – through workshops, seminars, games, Learning Labs and other forums – is at the heart of our development plans and performance reviews. Last year, for example, we introduced the Chalhoub Mentoring Programme to prepare our future leaders for their next role. During 2017, 14 mentors and 12 mentees participated in the programme. And in 2018, we will be introducing reverse mentorship to make our leaders even stronger. In 2017, we designed our ‘Leading teams through change’ interactive workshop. This has been rolled out across the Group, helping to shift the mindset of 350 managers and their teams towards greater sustainability, agility, digitisation and accountability. We also developed internal consulting services to help business units address challenges related to performance, collaboration, communication total hours and engagement. Managing innovation workshops are helping to foster and develop further innovative ideas. employees took part in Learning & Development programmes (2,040 back office; 3,025 front line) CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 12 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 01 Health and safety first Accident and injury rate in Logistics – UAE: Our People Safety is our number one priority across the Group. In 2017, we extended CCTV monitoring across our stores and offices, and enhanced Recordable Incident (count of incidents) our safety induction training programme. Country 2016 2017 We carried out H&S training for all levels of the UAE (logistics) 4 2 business, and ran Safety Toolbox Talks at our retail operations. Recordable Incident Tolerance: Our Logistic operations continued to reinforce 2.60 @ 100,000 hrs health and safety across our warehouses as Country 2016 2017 well as distribution network. In 2017, colleagues spent 2,905 hours on safety training to ensure UAE (logistics) 0.24 0.16 a safety-first culture. We will continue our efforts to avoid safety incidents in the warehouses DART Target: 0 (no. of days lost due to accident) and distribution network, maintaining our zero Country 2016 2017 fatalities record year after year. UAE (logistics) 82 1 Unprecedented achievement at logistics We are proud of our Logistic operations’ incredible dedication to safety. For an entire If you have a safety year, the whole team – comprising 430 people – showed up every single day, worked hard, concern…. and had no accidents. Only one person from At Chalhoub Group, we care about the entire team took one day’s sick leave – and people’s safety and wellbeing. Despite our that was due to a serious bee sting. The team’s excellent safety record, we must continue improvement and record in safety is an to be vigilant, and learn from any small inspiration to us all. incidents that may take place. If an employee does have a concern about any aspect of safety, they are encouraged to report it by contacting our Centralised Security Control Room, our Centralised Crisis Management Room or directly contact the Group Security Operations Manager, Dirk Bruwer. CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 13 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 01 Watching out for wellbeing Group-wide wellbeing Our People As well as being healthy, we want our employees to be happy in their jobs for the sake In 2018, we will be launching a Groupof their own wellbeing and the good of our wide initiative to improve the employee business. This means employees having the time experience. Regular ‘pulse checks’ will to take care of themselves and their families. be taken throughout the year across all We have a flexible working hours policy, we positions, giving everyone the opportunity provide recreational areas, and we run many to make suggestions on how to make out-of-office social and sporting events and Chalhoub Group an even better place activities. Our competitive benefits package to work. includes health care, medical and life insurance and discounts with third-party partners like travel and car hire companies, to help our people Supporting wellness for enjoy well-earned getaways. our employees Supporting mums-to-be In 2017, Chalhoub teams participated in…. Expecting mothers receive our new maternity kit to help them understand what help they will • The Dubai and Mumbai marathons. receive from the Group. We provide support • The Dubai Corporate Games (and won through our HR team, offer insurance, maternity ‘Best Overall Performing Company’ out leave, reduced and flexible working hours, of 56 companies). nursing support, and even a birthday party for the child and support with schooling. • Global Wellness Day (with yoga sessions). Dressing for comfort! • Dubai Fitness Challenge, with daily workout sessions provided by employees In 2017, we reduced our dress code, to ensure in UAE offices. people feel comfortable in the workplace, and to give them more flexibility in how • Team Iftars at the end of Ramadan in UAE, they dress. Bahrain and Saudi Arabia. • Children’s Christmas party in the UAE (for around 800 children and their parents). • UAE, India and Saudi Arabia National Days celebrations. • Bring Your Children to Work Day (in India and the UAE). • We are proud that our Human Resources (HR) team received the Innovation in Employee Engagement Award at the GCC GOV HR Awards. CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 14 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 01 Making diversity and inclusion our way of life Did you know? Going further with Gulfanisation Our People We believe that having a more diverse and inclusive (D&I) business is essential – not only is it the right thing to do, it also helps us understand Supporting Emiratis Marwan Ali Ahmed joined Chalhoub Group in 2011 as a Senior Public Relations As well as being a global Group with people from over 100 countries, we understand the importance of our national workforce. all our customers and ensure we attract and Officer, and in January 2017 was promoted Our dedicated Gulfanisation team creates retain the best talent. to Government Relations Officer. He has specific programmes to attract, develop and successfully developed our relationships retain the best regional young talent. In 2017, our Board committed to a new D&I vision, mission and Charter. And to further develop with government authorities, prioritising In 2017, we participated in 11 career fairs and our D&I Strategy, we have created a COSI the reputation of the Group in supporting seven career sessions targeting Emirati nationals, (Community of Shared Interests) working group. nationalisation. as well as a training session and open day In fact, our 7 Emirates Race for Happiness with INJAZ. We partnered with Dubai Tourism We are part of Emirates NBD and Manzil’s Authority to nationalise the retail sector, and Careers Network to promote inclusion of people Campaign would not have happened without Marwan’s support. This homewith Jafza’s Tumoohi programme to hire five with disabilities into the workplace, and have graduate trainees – we are honoured to have run four information sessions to raise awareness grown initiative brought together over 50 employees from different divisions. been recognised in their Golden category. across the business. And following the success of our Emirati, Kuwaiti Their goal was to run and cycle through In 2018, we will launch an internal campaign, the seven Emirates of the UAE, conducting and Saudi Arabia graduate programmes, we supported by videos and talks on D&I, to raise training sessions for UAE national students, opened one in Qatar. awareness among colleagues. and promoting working at Chalhoub Group. Our D&I mission Our mission is to empower every person “The 7 Emirates Race for at Chalhoub Group to use their unique experiences, approaches and background Happiness Campaign was to ignite innovative solutions and give both a great way to encourage our employees and customers the most compelling experience possible. Emiratis to join the workforce. “I am proud to work for I felt really proud to be able to a company that is leading contribute to this important the way in the Middle East initiative.” when it comes to empowering Marwan Ali Ahmed, women to take senior roles in Government Relations Officer, Chalhoub Group business. It ’s a real motivator for me in my career.” nationalities among our employees Houda Tohme, General Manager, Havas Media CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 15 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 01 Signing the UN Women’s Empowerment Pioneering integrity Our People Principles (WEPs) Chalhoub Group is working hard to ensure equal opportunities for women within our company. across the region As members of the UN Global Compact, we support the 10th principle: ‘Businesses In 2017, we signed the Women Empowerment should work against corruption in all its Principles (WEP), showing our support for gender forms, including extortion and bribery’. equality. By doing this, we have committed This clear-cut commitment is stated publicly to making the WEPs a reality across our in our Code of Ethics, which is shared with organisation. We have increased maternity new joiners, distributed to all employees leave from the legally-required 45 calendar and available on our intranet. days to 70, and paternity leave from one day Chalhoub Group has zero tolerance to three. For the first time, we have hired five for any form of fraud, violation, bribery women to work in our warehouse. or corruption. We promote transparent relationships with our business partners and working with integrity. Our three values (Respect, Excellence and Entrepreneurial Spirit) make up at least 5% of every employee’s KPIs assessment, which determines promotions and bonuses. This is pioneering for the region and we think that introducing values into the KPIs of employees is key for a sustainable business. Reporting corruption “Gender equality is imperative If employees have any concerns about for economic growth. Chalhoub ethical business practices, we encourage them to tell us through their Country Group pledges to cultivate Manager, HR Manager, or by email to Ethics-Committee@mailmac.net a gender-balanced work environment that supports, empowers and recognises men and women at all levels.” Patrick Chalhoub Co-CEO CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 16 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 02 We open dialogue with our partners to enhance sustainability “Our guests want to buy high quali ty products that are produced sustainably. I work closely with our partners to make sure everything that goes into the making of the products that we sell meets guests’ expectations and equally, our designers are as focused on the craftsmanship of their footwear.” Thierry Pichon, General Manager, Level Shoes and Level Kids CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 17 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 02 Our Partners Our ambition Our performance in 2017 Our perspectives Our ambition is to achieve a positive Our 2020 commitments: impact across our value chain by working • 200 more suppliers to complete the with partners, suppliers and consumers “Not only are we running our Supplier Sustainability Scorecard to influence sustainable practices. business responsibly, the Supplier (2017: 192) Our approach Sustainability Scorecard means • At least 100,000 of our total annual We value the special relationships we have we are encouraging others to treat receipts will be electronic receipts (2017: 83,839) built with our partners over the 60 years suppliers and partners have completed our Supplier people fairly and play their part of running our business. Many of them have been with us from the start. Sustainability Scorecard... in protecting the environment.” All commitments against 2017 baseline. Sustainability has always played a central Dany Bachir, role in these relationships, and it continues Operations Manager to increase. We want to work with partners with... who share our vision, and who continually take action to improve their positive impact. We do this via our Sustainable Supply Chain “We have been working hard Policy, our new Supplier Sustainability Scorecard, to raise awareness of our new and initiatives like our electronic receipts system, which allows our customers to be e-receipt system, which is helping more sustainable. meeting or exceeding us lower our environmental impact minimum requirements and save money – it ’s a win-win!” between 5 and 10 points Noura Almarzooqi, Retail Area Sales Supervisor, Michael Kors e-receipts issued across 63 stores in the UAE CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 18 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 02 Driving sustainability among our partners and suppliers Pioneering electronic Our Partners Our aim is to drive sustainability in the Middle East. To achieve this, all our employees need to work together with our partners and suppliers to receipts In the UAE, we were spending 100,000 USD on paper for receipts every single year, engage them on our sustainability journey. not to mention the cost of toner, printers, Last year, we began by introducing our new transport and energy. In light of the Sustainable Supply Chain Policy. This sets out our number of countries in which we operate, expectation for suppliers to run their businesses we saw a huge opportunity to save money ethically, always acting with respect, honesty, and lower our environmental impacts. integrity and fairness. It states our commitment So in 2017, our retail employees started to only work with suppliers who fully comply with giving customers the choice to receive the law and regulations, and who operate in a receipts by email instead of paper. socially and environmentally responsible way. In 2017, we began a series of close to 30 briefing and training sessions, Communicating with implementing the new system across our suppliers about 150+ stores in the UAE. We also began an awareness-raising campaign to sustainability encourage our customers to switch to e-receipts. To communicate our commitment, we have shared our new Supplier Sustainability Scorecard with 592 suppliers. This is helping us better understand their commitment to sustainability. The Scorecard includes questions about UNGC Principles, including governance and transparency, anti-corruption practices, and community engagement. Our 2017 goal was for 30% of our suppliers, partners and service providers, with whom we initially shared the scorecard, to complete it. We are delighted to have exceeded this target, with 192 Scorecards completed (32.4%). pliers, with whom of our partners and sup ed our Supplier we shared it, complet rd Sustainability Scoreca “We believe in, and sustain, the Chalhoub Group ethical business policy.” Roberta Legori, Showroom & Export Manager, Follie’s Group, Milan CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 19 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 02 In 2017, we began an exciting new partnership with the “In 2018, we will definitely take into account many of the overarching themes in how we Our Partners develop and execute our digital strategies, as influential, Paris-based well as how they affect the offline community”, said Patricia Khoury. “The students were so Sciences Po University. switched on and connected to social media.” Focus: New partnership Feedback has been very positive. Participants The university’s alumni have said they learnt about a new category of include many notable products and its market in the GCC, and they’ve with Sciences Po learnt a lot about the Middle East. The project public figures, including gave them real-life examples of how business seven of the last eight challenges are tackled. The collaboration was mutually beneficial as Chalhoub Group French presidents, 12 foreign University implemented some of the students’ ideas. heads of state or government, “We’ve now just launched the project again for 2018 with another 15 students,” said Celine and heads of international Goldberg, Chalhoub Group’s Commercial organisations, including the Division Manager. “This time, it’s on the theme of expanding Wow by Wojooh into new United Nations. markets. We’ve also incorporated more time Our partnership with Sciences Po encourages for research, including focus groups and online students to research and develop business surveys, before beginning the workshops. opportunities relevant to Chalhoub Group. The partnership has been insightful for our business as well as an opportunity to give “The aim of our joint partnership is to expose learning opportunities to others.” a real business case to the students,” said Eva Bellinghausen, Directrice de programme Master Marketing et Etudes, Science Po University. “They work on research that is relevant to their “From the origins of the brand studies, the outcome of which may be used to its actual offer, this project by the Chalhoub business. Depending on the subject, the students are also asked to consider became so much more than a sustainability aspects.” challenging contest with excellent 15 students participated in the project in 2017, which was on the theme of creating a Digital students. T hanks to Ghawali and Strategy for our brand Ghawali. They came up its specific identity, I felt like with many innovative ideas. I was diving into a culture To choose a winning idea, we had a panel of judges from the beauty sector. These included I didn’ t know, into an art that Patricia Khoury, Head of Business Development at Chalhoub Group, professionals from the I had previously ignored: the beauty industry, a Sciences Po professor and Florence Bulte, Chalhoub Group’s Head art of perfuming.” of Sustainability. Lisa-Kim Durand Master, Marketing et Études, Sciences Po Paris CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 20 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 03 We protect our planet while growing our business “We work hard to make sure we protect precious natural resources. We need the help of every single employee in our stores, offices and warehouses to do this. Together, we can make a huge difference.” Marc Ruiviejo Cirera, Senior Sustainable Engagement Executive CHALHOUB CHALHOUB GROUP GROUP SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT 2017 2017 21 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 03 Our Planet Our ambition Our performance in 2017 Our perspectives Our ambition is to improve the efficiency of our Our 2020 commitments: operations, including our buildings, stores and “Recycling is really easy. Resources consumption logistics, and use energy and water wisely to • Reduce electrical energy consumption reduce our environmental footprint. Everyone has really pulled by 15%. Our approach together to recycle even • Install solar panels in our sites so 30% Doing our bit for the planet requires us to look more this year.” of our energy consumption comes from renewal sources. at every part of our business, from the way we design and work in our stores and offices, to Rami Riman, • Reduce carbon emissions by 15%. the efficiency of our logistics and distribution. increase in recycling Department Manager – Administration • Reduce water consumption by 15%. By taking steps towards greater sustainability, we are helping to secure the future of our business. • Reduce office paper consumption by 25%. We are implementing our new Environmental “Water security is a serious Policy and using our sustainability software to monitor progress. We’re also partnering challenge in Dubai. It ’s important Recycling with other companies so we can learn from that we all reduce the amount of • Increase total amount of waste their successes. recycled by 15%. water we use wherever we can.” Small steps for us as a company – and as • Reduce our waste to landfill by 30%. individuals – add up to a big difference, Claudette Terzian, STEP helping Dubai achieve The Dubai Plan 2021, Office Manager and the UAE reach the goals set out in its • Increase percentage of stores assessed reduction in CO2 emissions Green Growth Strategy. to 90% (2017: 78%). • Increase percentage of stores who obtained STEP certification to 80% (2017: 65%). All commitments against 2017 baseline. increase in electricity consumption CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 22 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 03 Implementing our new Our sustainability software Our Planet Environmental Policy Our Environmental Policy is the starting point for how we run our business. In 2017, we implemented our revised Environmental Policy. This aims to reduce our environmental footprint helps us drive improvements We monitor our CO2 emissions, recycling rates, health & safety incidents, and other measures to find areas of improvement. Our sustainability software helps us automate our data collection 48 reduction in paper use by being efficient in our operations and with process. It ensures that timely, at-a-glance resources. The new Policy includes a set of sustainability performance information is specific, actionable measures relating to energy, readily available. water and waste – a first for Chalhoub Group. By implementing both our new Environmental Policy and sustainability software system, we will continue to drive performance and encourage progress against shortand long-term Did you know? sustainability targets. Equally important, in 2018 we will conduct awareness-raising campaigns Our water consumption increased in 2017 at our offices, warehouse and stores to further because of two underground water line reduce water and electricity consumption leakages. Thanks to our sustainability and waste. software system, which monitors our resource use, we were able to identify potential savings STEPS to protect our planet and resolve the issues. by fixing our air Our sustainability software also helped STEP (Stores Towards Earth’s Protection) conditioning at 24°C us identify a 48% decrease in paper certification is our new programme that is helping us make our stores more sustainable. use in Q4 compared to Q3. This came We created a set of criteria based on the U.S. about as a result of implementing Green Building Council recommendations our new Environmental Policy, which (LEED certification framework) and our new encourages responsible printing, and Environmental Policy. collaborating with IT to set all printers to double‑sided printing. In 2017, we rolled the programme out across the 132 targeted stores in the UAE, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. Currently, 65% of these stores have achieved STEP certification (receiving between 5 and 10 points). In 2018, we will complete assessment for all new stores and set up an action plan to improve results. We will also run a campaign to let our guests know about STEP and our performance. of our stores in UAE, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, that opened between 2015 and 2017, have been assessed against STEP criteria CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 23 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 03 Managing precious resources Managing resources 2016 2017 Increase/decrease Our Planet Water use 38,011,727 litres 47,009,586 litres 23.6% increase Chalhoub Group is taking measures to Electricity consumption 18,071,974 kWh 18,407,901 kWh 1.8% increase operate more efficiently and reduce its CO2 emissions 11,766 kg 11,836 kg 0.6% increase impact on the environment, and we are making good progress... Total waste recycled 275,950 kg 280,517 kg 1.7% increase Solar panels project What does the figure 1.66 million represent? Embedding recycling Designing sustainable That’s the amount of USD we spent in 2017 on electricity alone. To reduce our energy use, across the region buildings we have decided to install solar panels in 2018. In 2017, we expanded our recycling programme A major component of our business is storage to all the countries where we operate. and distribution, so we take Integrated We will be integrating a full solar energy system Management Systems and sustainable design at our head office and main warehouse sites Despite being a big company that is pioneering very seriously. All our warehouses in the UAE, in Jafza, Dubai. The head office will have a sustainability in the Middle East, we know there KSA, Qatar, Kuwait and Bahrain are ISO 14001, 308 kWp system, which will generate 508 MWh in is always more to learn from sustainability ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 certified. And our the first year from 947 solar panels. Over 20 years, leaders around the world. In 2017, we joined regional warehouse is LEED Silver certified. this will lower CO2 by 4,842 tonnes – equivalent a working group with Unilever and Mars who to the same number of cars in weight. have already achieved ‘zero waste to landfill’. This initiative will help us improve our recycling The main warehouse system will be even rates over the coming years, and in 2018 we will bigger, housing 5,601 solar panels as part of a run awareness-raising campaigns across the 1,820 kWp system. This will generate 3,013 MWh region to increase recycling further. in the first year, lowering CO2 by 28,737 tonnes (or the weight of 28,737 cars) over the next two decades! tonnes of CO2 will be saved by solar panels in our main warehouse system (the weight of 28,737 cars) CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 24 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 04 We positively IMPACT communities “I am proud to help Chalhoub Group give back to the community. 2017 was the ‘Year of Giving’ and our initiatives continue to empower young people, protect the planet, and provide meaningful support to those in need.” Musa Ali Chalhoub IMPACT Ambassador CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 25 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 04 IMPACT Our approach Our developments in 2017 Our perspectives Our ambition is to give back to the community Our 2020 commitments: by empowering youth, taking care of our planet “I’ve always been environmentally • To continue engaging our employees and providing support to those in need. conscious, and I love working for a and making a positive impact to communities and the environment. Our approach company that ‘w alks the walk’ as • Increase the number of students and We want to leave a positive impact on the students and young well as ‘ talks the talk’. It feels good people in need who are supported. communities where we work. So, we organise entrepreneurs supported to help clean up and support the local initiatives in the areas where we feel we can make the biggest difference – in education, community.” protecting the environment, and supplying humanitarian aid. Nancy Avila, Logistics QHSE Officer But we don’t just provide financial support. We believe in the power of volunteering. This also helps to develop our people and is a powerful motivating force to succeed. “When I learn about the awful Our aim is for every single employee who works at Chalhoub Group to know about, and take situations facing others in the world, part in at least one of our IMPACT initiatives. I see more and more how lucky we are here, with our supportive jobs, Our achievements in 2017 reliable income and promising future.” total IMPACT initiatives 110 IMPACT activities, involving 3,687 employees, 30 partners, 7,775 volunteering hours and 156 Muhammad Sarmad, IMPACT Ambassadors, and impacting 21,564 Purchase Administration Coordinator people – breaking all previous records! volunteer hours CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 26 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 04 Our Leaders of tomorrow Education 8 We want to inspire young people to become the leaders of tomorrow. This includes our own employees, who we encourage to take on leadership roles to inspire their communities. IMPACT In 2017, we sponsored eight employees Not just a pen and one student to attend the One Young In 2017, we produced and sold World (OYW) global summit in Colombia. awareness pens in all our stores. employees at the They returned with incredible ideas for new The money raised through sales IMPACT initiatives. In 2017, our employees participated in 58 inspiring was donated to a programme One Young World education initiatives, helping 4,379 students educating young girls in Egypt. summit in Colombia and entrepreneurs. young girls educated Our retail employees were in Egypt heavily involved in promoting sales and awareness of the programme. As a result of their tireless efforts, 110,000 USD was raised to educate 2,182 young girls. 14,510 Gift of giving Every year, we run a campaign to donate recyclable school bags for students from lowincome families. In 2017, 211 school bags for employees volunteered to 300 under-privileged pack and distribute a record students 14,510 bags in nine countries! Next generation We match the cost of the fashion recycled bags and also pay for stationery to fill them. In the Chalhoub Group partners with future, we will adapt our focus the American University of Sharjah to help students keep up young people (AUS) to inspire young fashion students. with digitisation. In 2017, 300 young people attended attended our the annual AUS Symposium, in which fashion symposium Chalhoub professionals and other prominent leaders in the world of fashion spoke about their experiences in the industry. The event raised sustainability awareness, covering topics such as ethical and eco-design. CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 27 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 04 Our Environmental IMPACT In 2017, our employees volunteered in a total 160 stores went dark for Earth Hour Lights out! If you were in one of our stores on the evening of 25 March, you may initially have thought there had been a power cut...In fact, we switched off the lights in 160 stores across nine countries to celebrate Earth Hour and increase environmental awareness. of 12 initiatives to protect our planet… 221 Helping save the Ghaf tree from extinction Ghaf trees grow in the harsh desert and are in danger. On Earth Day, we held our annual tree planting event in the UAE, ghaf trees planted planting actual trees in the desert rather Family 30 than seeds in pots. Together we planted 100 trees, and a further 100 were planted Recycling Day in Lebanon, and 21 in India. Our lack of responsible choices is slowly destroying the only home we have. But simple, daily steps can help reverse Cleaning up our this process – like recycling. Every year, colleagues and of recyclables waters... collected in one their families are invited to According to WWF, some marine collect household waste species populations have halved in afternoon for a few weeks, which they recent decades. We want to protect then bring to our Family 60 the other half, so every year employees Recycling Day. who can dive partner with the Emirates Diving Association to clean up the sea. …and our beaches 60 colleagues and their families also participated in a beach clean-up to raise awareness of environmental protection, colleagues’ families in partnership with the Emirates cleaned up the beach Marine Environmental Group. CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 28 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 04 Our funding goes towards hiring teachers in maths and English. Every winter, we also provide warm clothes, including hats, Our boots, coats, gloves, socks and scarves. And in 2018, we will fund a kitchen to make wholesome meals, and start a pen-pal matching scheme with our employees. Humanitarian 1,062 Giving hope to Syrian refugee children 1million IMPACT We pledge an additional You may have heard of the Chalhoub Literacy Center in Bekaa, Lebanon. There, Syrian refugee children given together with the non-profit, apolitical 1 million USD for children education and support and secular education charity Jusoor, Too many children in the Middle East are we provide education and basic social lacking the basic necessities. Our business and In 2017, our employees volunteered in employees are privileged to be in a position to support for 1,062 children (up from 700 28 eye-opening humanitarian projects. help… So in 2017, we committed to an additional in 2016). In December 2017, we gave out We are proud to have contributed partnership supporting children – with UNICEF. 1,596 winter packages, helping to keep 260,000 USD to charities… students and teachers warm. H4CP Hope For Have you heard of H4CP? H4CP stands for Hope for Cancer Patients – and that is exactly what this project Cancer Patients 100k does. We run an annual campaign from December to March in our stores to raise Showing kids awareness about cancer and raise funds for cancer treatment. A team of our we care… employees also participated in the Sharjah We believe everyone deserves Marathon, walking for 24 hours to support this USD donated to Dubai a basic education, so we worthwhile cause. Cares each year have partnered with children’s philanthropic organisation, Dubai Cares, for the past four years, donating 100,000 USD each year to support kids in developing countries. In 2018, Color My World we will continue partnering 390 To make women going through the with this important cause. trials of cancer treatment feel better, as well as give cancer survivors a Wear Pink to Work boost, we organise beauty sessions, In October, to support Breast Cancer offering free make-up lessons, facials Awareness Month, we raised awareness and beauty products. In 2017, we on the importance of going for check-ups. supported 25 women in this way, and 390 employees in six countries wore pink to in 2018 will introduce care packages work and joined in various activities, like our for cancer patients undergoing employees dressed up cancer awareness quiz, ‘walkathon’, and – treatment in hospitals. for cancer awareness most importantly – medical checks. CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 29 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 05 About us “Sustainability is the only way forward. By supporting our people, working with sustainable partners, protecting our planet, and having a positive impact on society, we’re not only doing the right thing, we’re also ensuring the future of our business.” Mansour Hajjar Chief Operating Officer, Fashion CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 30 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US 05 With more than 60 years’ expertise in the luxury Our vision: Running an ethical business About us After 63 years, Chalhoub Group is still a familyindustry, Chalhoub Group To be the leading partner for luxury across the Middle East. owned and run business. We consider all our people to be members of our extended family. is the leading partner for luxury across the Our mission: Good corporate governance is essential to make sure we continue treating everyone Our passionate teams build brands in the fairly and running our business ethically. Not only Middle East. Middle East. By blending our Middle East does it build trust in our Group, it also ensures we expertise, deep understanding of the follow sustainable business practices and the Based in Dubai, we are proud to have built local consumer and intimate knowledge interests of all our stakeholders. successful brands across the Middle East, of luxury, we offer service excellence to all with a network of over 650 retail stores. We have four governance bodies: The Family our partners and a unique experience to all our customers. Board, Group Board, Executive Committee and Strategy Committee. Our values: Respect, Excellence and Sustainability from the top Entrepreneurial Spirit. Our Co-CEOs, Anthony and Patrick Chalhoub, are actively involved in shaping our CSR and Sustainability Strategy, regularly participating in activities and decision-making. Our own concept brands In June 2016, we created the Sustainability We have created six multi-brand concepts, Committee, chaired by Patrick Chalhoub and unique in their own way, designed to fill a gap led by Florence Bulte, Head of Sustainable in the market with choice, width and depth: Engagement. The Committee meets every • Tanagra is the leader in retail for luxury six months and aims to embed sustainability home accessories. at all levels of the business. It reviews, drives and monitors implementation of our major • Level Shoes is the world’s finest shoe sustainability strategies, activities and policies, metropolis and a Global fashion destination. and makes recommendations to the Board. • Level Kids is an international reference for Sustainability is managed by a dedicated team children’s luxury retailing. within our Consumer & Innovation Strategies division. This team sets the sustainability agenda • Wojooh is the leading beauty retailer in the for the Group, organises community giving Middle East, offering the best in fragrance, initiatives, measures our environmental impact make-up and skin care from an array of and promotes sustainable business practices. international brands. • For the fifth year running, in 2017 we received • Tryano is a concept department store offering the Dubai CSR Label from the Dubai Chamber exceptional experiences through a carefully of Commerce. Our score of 88.8%, is up from curated edit of international and regional last year’s 79%, and well above the average luxury, fashion, and beauty brands. score of 66.9%. • Ghawali is our oriental fragrance line and • As a member of the UN Global Compact concept store. since 2014, we are active in the UNGC Local Network’s steering committee, are co-head of the Academic Committee, and pioneered a Youth Ambassador Programme. CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 31 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US Thank you for being 2017 was a year of transformation Thank you As a family business built on the values of part of our journey Respect, Excellence and Entrepreneurial Throughout so much change, it’s been Spirit, during this exciting period of change it encouraging to see all team members is more vital than ever for all of us to lead the committed to reaching our sustainability transformation and adapt to remain at the targets, and passionate to create an even forefront of the market evolution. I would like bigger positive impact on our society. to thank the Chalhoub family and our Co-CEOs Anthony and Patrick Chalhoub for their vision, As you have seen within the pages of this report, continuous support, and for providing each we have made good progress towards our and every one of us with the means to make commitments to our People, Planet, Partners a difference. and Chalhoub IMPACT strategy. Despite these great achievements, there’s plenty more to do We will continue all projects started in 2017, and work towards the clear targets we have set for the coming five years for our four strategic pillars. We will also continue to make sure we “I would like to thank every single have perfect alignment in all our operations across our 14 countries. Chalhoub employee for their passion To succeed, we need to work together with our partners in the private and public sector. and determination, and our partners By joining forces, we can work towards the 17 ambitious Sustainable Development Goals, and accelerate momentum towards a cleaner, for their collaboration and engagement. fairer world. None of this year’s achievements would have been possible without you!” Florence Bulte, Head of Sustainability CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 32 INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PARTNERS PLANET IMPACT ABOUT US Transforming our business for a sustainable future CHALHOUB GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
