UN Global Compact, October 2018 Communication on Progress This report summarizes our actions in accordance with the requirements as a participant to the United Nations Global Compact. It is further our statement of continued commitment to the Ten Principles of responsible business and our support of broader UN goals, including the Sustainable Development Goals Table of Contents Statement of continued support in 2019 3 Sustainable Development Goals 4 WindowMaster at a glance 6 WindowMaster policies for corporate responsibility 8 and alignment with the UN Global Compact principles Human rights 10 Labour 12 Environment 14 Anti-Corruption 27 2 Statement of continued support in 2019 Our long-standing commitment to both corporate solution we deliver, we also deliver an environmentally citizenship and the measurable difference we make friendly and healthy building, and as such, our influence for people and the climate on a global scale remains reaches far beyond the actions taken internally in central to how we conduct business in WindowMaster. WindowMaster. Our business growth strategy is inevitably tied to our ability to contribute to the evolvement of social wellbeing Sincerely, and sustainable development around the world, and our corporate citizenship agenda is firmly rooted in achieving Erik Boyter this sustainable growth. Chief Executive Officer Being in the vanguard of green technology endures as a cornerstone of our business and is anchored in both our core values and ethical guidelines. Through the UN Global Compact, we continue to encourage that green technology and indoor climate control solutions are given priority so that we can meet the goal to ‘promote greater environmental responsibility’ and ‘encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies’. WE SUPPORT In this third Communication on Progress, we discuss our headway with regards to our corporate citizenship goals over the past two years. Central to the initiatives we introduced in 2016, and which we reported on in 2017, was to address the activities emitting the most CO2. Focus groups were created to provide viable means to achieve this and tangible actions were described. In 2018/19, we supplement these actions by taking on a broader perspective to further identify and increase our sphere of influence within sustainable development. By looking at the outcome of our core business, we are able to analyse not only our own footprint, but also the footprint of our clients, as this is in part directly influenced by us. Our key contribution is to develop innovative natural ventilation solutions and make them accessible to the building industry worldwide. For each building project 3 Sustainable Development Goals The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the United Nations Development Program are a collection of 17 global goals each containing a separate list of targets to realize within social, environmental, and economic development. Business action in relation to the SDGs is underpinned with the UN Global Compact Ten Principles. By implementing the Principles, WindowMaster thereby commits to the achievement of the SDGs through direct or indirect contributions. In this report, the 17 SDG icons have been applied to the relevant content to show how our business activities are related to the SDGs. 4 5 WindowMaster at a glance Reducing energy consumption in buildings solutions for indoor climate management, smoke makes a difference ventilation, and facade and roof automation help meet Buildings account for approximately 40% of the world’s people’s need for fresh air as well as boosting quality of energy consumption. Smart building automation, including life indoors. We make technical, intelligent, and discrete natural ventilation, is one way we can help to change this solutions with one single purpose: To ensure fresh air for scenario. When we consume less energy, we conserve everyone to breathe. We create the perfect indoor climate our planet’s vulnerable resources and help to improve with help from Mother Nature. the environment. At WindowMaster, we continuously work towards improving our intelligent solutions for indoor A dedicated team climate control to offer even better products to the built WindowMaster employs around 135 highly experienced environment that are aligned with our aim to reduce cleantech specialists in Denmark, Norway, Germany, carbon emissions. the United Kingdom, Switzerland, and the United States. In addition, we work with a vast network of certified We make buildings breathe naturally partners. With our extensive expertise built up since 1990, In many developed countries, 90% of our time is spent WindowMaster is ready to help the construction industry indoors. Whether it be in the office, at the grocery store, meet its green obligations and achieve their architectural at home, at the gym or in school, the indoor air quality has and technical ambitions. a significant impact on our wellbeing. WindowMaster’s 6 Local engagement: Danish and Nordic networks To better align our activities with the Ten Principles and SDGs, we became part of the local network in Denmark when it was established in 2017. We acknowledge that looking through a local lens to drive global change helps us understand what responsible business means within a national context. We signed up for the Nordic, and later Danish network, to make local connections with other companies and stakeholders from NGOs, government, and academia to share and spur new ideas, discuss common concerns, and conceptualize how we can put our sustainability commitments into action. We participate in local network activities including corporate sustainability seminars, issue-specific workshops, and collective action projects. 7 WindowMaster policies for corporate responsibility and alignment with the UN Global Compact principles 8 Human Rights Principle 1: B usinesses should support and respect Policy: W e consider this a natural part of our operations. the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Policy: We consider this a natural part of our operations. human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Policy: We permit workers’ councils, and acknowledge association and the effective recognition of and respect the freedom of association. the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Policy: We examine and monitor our suppliers closely. compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Policy: We examine and monitor our suppliers closely. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of Policy: We do not discriminate in respect of employment employment and occupation. and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Policy: We continuously evaluate how we can reduce our approach to environmental challenges; total carbon footprint. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Policy: We continuously evaluate how we can reduce our environmental responsibility; and total carbon footprint. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Policy: We invest up to 10% of our revenue in R&D to environmentally friendly technologies. develop environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Policy: We do not tolerate corruption, and neither do our in all its forms, including extortion and suppliers, customers, or other stakeholders. bribery. 9 Human rights Our commitment WindowMaster’s commitment to protecting human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and encompasses our own employees as well as expectations respect the protection of internationally of our suppliers. We respect the Universal Declaration of proclaimed human rights; and Human Rights and environmental protection. Accordingly, our Code of Conduct is shared with all employees and Principle 2: make sure that they are not external business partners. complicit in human rights abuses. As we source components from suppliers in the East, where business standards may differ, we do a thorough assessment to identify potential and actual adverse human rights impacts that our collaboration can potentially We maintain cause, contribute to, or be directly linked to, and establish processes to prevent or mitigate these. a zero-abuse We strive to maintain a zero-abuse level and ask policy and ask employees as well as supply chain partners to support employees as and join the UN Global Compact. well as supply Data Privacy and Information Security Protecting the privacy and security of personal and chain partners to support business data is a key concern for WindowMaster and we and join the UN Global acknowledge that personal data protection is a right to which all employees as well as customers are entitled. Compact To uphold our promise relating to personal data protection and to abide by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), we instigated a concrete strategy to improve our current procedures last year. In a bifold program, we streamlined procedures across Human Resources and IT respectively. The program is based on documented data derived from work processes in WindowMaster. Self-evaluation on compliance with GDPR is carried out on a continuous basis and a general info-meeting is planned for the organization in Q4 2018 to ensure that all employees are aware of the regulations and abide by these. We use Orkidé (GDPR compliant HR management system) in all markets, which is the only place where personal data is stored. Orkidé is an external HR and payroll system and it is hosted and protected by Bluegarden. 10 11 Labour Our commitment WindowMaster’s ongoing commitment to uphold labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the standards including workers’ councils, freedom of freedom of association and the effective association, elimination of forced, compulsory and child recognition of the right to collective bargaining; labour, and elimination of discrimination, is embedded in how we build relationships both with our internal Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced workforce and external suppliers. Non-discrimination and and compulsory labour; equal opportunities are the foundation for our approach to promoting diversity both in terms of gender, nationality, Principle 5: the effective abolition of child and cultural background. labour; and Workers’ council Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in WindowMaster has a worker’s council in Germany respect of employment and occupation. representing the employees. In Denmark, a representation of employees meets quarterly to discuss safety at the workplace, both in the office and on building sites. The council reports back to the management when issues are identified or if safety needs to be improved. Training and Development We continue our commitment to helping our employees develop the necessary skills and capabilities to advance in their careers and deliver high quality work to our clients. In 2017, we invested DKK 487,101 on employee training and professional development spread across our different markets and functions. Market/function 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (per 13.09.18) Nordic Market 68.839 21.569 206.857 111.794 47.223 DE & AT Market 1.652 5.925 618 8.160 – UK & IE Market 8.012 53.478 10.172 2.816 1.431 CH Market 70.862 9.460 44.942 17.422 7.956 US Market – – – 45.026 1.485 International – 33.583 – – – Market Support 112.414 123.959 417.406 295.495 62.120 Departments Production 10.317 7.569 – 6.389 15.112 Intercompany – – 0 0 – Transactions Grand Total 272.097 255.543 679.994 487.101 135.327 12 Educational programs in India · We will ensure scholarships to two of the students from At WindowMaster, we strive to create a better future for Khetwadi School so that they can continue their studies the world, both in terms of health and climate, but also in with a higher degree in 2018. terms of access to knowledge, education, and jobs. We · We will fund a computer training centre with IT programs work towards creating equal opportunities for entering the in Madanpur Khadar; a resettlement colony located in labour market through valuable education and eliminating the outskirts of Delhi city, India. discrimination in the workplace. The computer training centre in Delhi will cater to the We believe that education is an essential building block needs of the youth and students in Mandapur Khadar by for cultivating the human understanding of society and providing them with better opportunities, linking them with the environment. This is a goal that must be considered the outside world through the Internet, and by teaching global, and thus access to education must accordingly them basic and advanced IT skills. be a global attribute. However, we also acknowledge that large parts of the Western world are privileged in terms of The donation to the new computer centre will help access to work opportunities compared to conditions in make the community digitally literate, provide computer less developed countries. Forced labour, child labour, and education, facilitate job preparation for the youth, and discrimination are often the result of a lack of education enable them to become self-reliant. and opportunity. Hence, WindowMaster decided in 2016 to sponsor an IT education program under the auspices It is estimated that a minimum of 100 young people will of the Terre des Hommes Khetwadi School project in directly benefit from the donation every year. Mumbai, India. This program has a direct impact on the school’s mission, and not at least on the children who attend the school every day. The WindowMaster Khetwadi IT Education Program pays for the school’s first IT equipment and two full-time teachers to run the program for three years (2016-2018). The aim is to give the children enough basic IT skills to enable them to find a job after a mandatory exam. In February 2018, it was decided to further engage in the wellbeing and education of students in India with two more initiatives together with Terre des Hommes: 13 Environment Our commitment In WindowMaster, we believe that energy consumption can be minimized while improving the indoor climate Principle 7: Businesses should support a through access to fresh and clean air all while developing precautionary approach to environmental ventilation technologies to improve it. This is at the heart challenges; of our environmental strategy which comprises several key areas: Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and · Make a global difference on product quality and innovation in the building industry Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. · Inspire the building industry worldwide to explore sustainable alternatives to energy inefficient ventilation systems · Running efficient operations · Enabling client sustainability · Sharing insights to advance sustainability Enabling client sustainability With each project WindowMaster delivers, we strive to make a positive impact on the client’s carbon footprint. By offering the building industry energy-efficient technologies to control the indoor climate, we ensure that renovated and new buildings are able to reduce their CO2 emissions. By empowering the clients to do so, our work to foster a greener environment thus goes far beyond the actions we can do internally at our own premises. 14 Example projects in 2018 where WindowMaster has directly influenced or is projected to influence the total energy usage in clients’ buildings: >> HouseZero, Harvard Center for Green Buildings and Cities, USA This 1940s-residential building situated on Harvard University’s campus has been renovated to inspire others through how existing and conservative buildings can be altered to create an ultra-efficient facility with ambitious performance targets. All glazing systems in the house have been replaced with triple-glazed, low-E windows and skylights, which are fully operable through WindowMaster’s automated system. The control system allows the building to fully monitor the temperature, humidity, and air quality through internal and external sensors while automated solar shading minimizes the risk of over-heating and concomitant need for A/C. Moreover, night purging cools the building at night. The zero-energy natural ventilation strategy is attuned to seasonal and climatic variables through adaptive installations; some passive and some with algorithmbased control technologies. Ventilation is controlled via actuated windows on all floors and automated skylights, while a passive solar chimney contributes to critical ventilation of the vault and the event space in the basement. >> Gullhaug Torg 2A, Norway Gullhaug Torg 2A in Nydalenen is Norway's first naturally ventilated office and residential complex with a revolutionary low-energy solution for heating and cooling. The building is a 10,000 square meter combination building consisting of 5,000 square meters of residential space, 4,500 square meters of offices, and 500 square meters of shops. With a Triple-Zero ambition, the aim is to demonstrate that natural indoor climate control can be achieved with 0 kWh purchased energy for ventilation, heating, and cooling when the building is completed in 2020. 15 Green Certifications Buildings inevitably have comprehensive direct and indirect impacts on the environment. During their construction, occupancy, renovation, repurposing, and demolition, buildings use energy, water, and raw materials as well as generate waste. To mitigate the impact of buildings on the natural climate, organizations world-wide have created green building standards, certifications, and rating systems promoting sustainable building design. Numerous different bodies push towards sustainable design with various rating systems, but common for More specifically, WindowMaster's natural ventilation them all is their aim at improving the environmental solutions can contribute to: performance of buildings. Given the relevance of their · Reducing the energy consumption and the total resulting objective, most of the organizations continue to grow CO2 emissions in prominence, and WindowMaster actively promotes · Having a good thermal comfort during summer and the certifications and helps clients achieve these by winter consulting on sustainable building design. · Using free, energy-neutral cooling by introducing night cooling/night purging Our solutions with natural ventilation are furthermore · Reducing the amount of material used compared to a major contributor to achieving a green profile and mechanical ventilation, which is beneficial for the LCA certification of the building. Through our building (Life Cycle Assessment) technology, clients can obtain points towards getting · Reducing the capital cost compared to mechanical certified by BREEAM (Building Research Establishment ventilation, which is beneficial for LCC (Life Cycle Environmental Assessment Method), DGNB (Deutsche Costing) Gesellschaft für Nachhaltiges Bauen), and LEED · Giving a precise and accurate control of the actuators by (Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design). using >> MotorLink® technology 16 Using online tools to deliver energy efficient building technology It is our commitment to the building industry that we can provide the most innovative solutions that can help reduce CO2 emission from buildings. In 2018, WindowMaster launched its first ever system that uses IoT (Internet of Things), an app, and a cloud solution to intelligently control the indoor climate and the building energy consumption. The system, labelled NV Embedded®, is designed based on many years of experience as well as research and development resulting in improved building performance and higher quality indoor climates. The system has been made available in all our markets and is not restricted to a certain building type. In 2018, the first beta projects have been installed, and WindowMaster will track and report on the results in the years to come to assert its validity and usability. Sustainable renovation From May 1 to October 1, 2018, WindowMasters’ headquarters in Denmark were comprehensively renovated. The renovation was undertaken with great care to the principles of UN Global Compact and with environmental protection in focus throughout all stages. The renovation and following building occupant guidelines entail: · Use of sustainable building materials · Plastic bottles have been replaced with personal, reusable bottles · Installation of LED lamps in the entire building · Automatic light control with motion sensors so that the light is turned off in rooms with no activity and lux levels are controlled based on the natural light in the rooms · New flooring for noise reduction · Increased ceiling height with Troldtekt for improved acoustics · Improved access to natural daylight with more internal glass walls · Bins have been replaced with waste disposal stations with waste sorting. This also minimizes the use of garbage bags. · Installation of NV Embedded® for intelligent and energyefficient control of natural ventilation, heating, and solar shading (the latter will be installed in 2019). 17 Common guidelines for social, environmental, and economic practices We actively work to promote industry initiatives in the form of common guidelines for social, environmental, and economic practices on an EU level. The goal with streamlining processes for designing buildings with natural ventilation is to make it easier for building owners, Contractors, Architects, Engineers, and other stakeholders to understand and choose natural ventilation as a green alternative to mechanical solutions and to make sure that the quality of natural ventilation solutions meets minimum standards that enhance building performance, lowers energy consumption, and fosters healthy indoor environments. Standardization (CEN) and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) with scopes of making descriptive Our current involvement, which started in Q4 2017, documents focusing on design aspects of ventilation and has a development track of 2 to 4 years, includes systems and design process of natural ventilation. standardization of documents relevant to natural ventilation: Four have been approved, with the following titles and technical committees: Work items relevant to natural ventilation have recently · Ventilative cooling systems (CEN/TC 156) been proposed in the European Committee for 18 · Natural and Hybrid ventilation systems in non-residential can use when writing their Master’s thesis. As such, we buildings (CEN/TC 156) commit to making our expertise within the field of clean· Design process of natural ventilation for reducing technology available to students, acting as a mentor cooling demand in energy-efficient non-residential who can provide guidance and supply components when buildings (ISO/TC 205) relevant. · Expansion of Natural and Hybrid ventilation for residential buildings in upcoming revision of EN In our partnership with DTU, we strive to increase the 15665:2009 and CEN/TR 14788:2006 (CEN/TC 156) time and resources spent in school on learning about sustainable building technologies. It is essential to The approved documents under CEN/TC 156 (Ventilation generate awareness about the issues and possibilities for buildings) are planned as Technical Specifications, related to the building industry and inform about the whereas under ISO/TC 205 (Building environment design) industry’s impact on the environment early on, to promote they are planned as an ISO Standard. The documents greater environmental responsibility, and encourage the are a good opportunity to define design aspects of development and diffusion of green technologies. natural/hybrid ventilation systems on the European and International scene. Knowledge sharing at universities At WindowMaster, we encourage education about environmentally-friendly technologies through different initiatives. In 2018, we have signed an agreement with the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) stating that WindowMaster will provide three thesis statements about energy-efficient indoor climate control that students 19 20 Reduced plastic packaging In 2016, we set out to reduce our plastic usage. This decision was based on a thorough analysis which concluded that using cardboard for the packaging of our chain actuators would present a viable and more sustainable alternative to plastic. In 2017 and 2018 we have continuously worked on implementing measures that will allow us to use only cardboard boxes, and as of September 2018, we have been able to successfully reduce our plastic consumption by over 50%. On average, we consumed 72,92 kilograms Goal 2018 of plastic in 2017. However, in 2018, our average came to a mere 21,55 kilograms. This represents a 69% decrease. Reduce our annual In a year over year comparison, in August 2017, our plastic consumption totaled 61 kilograms, while in consumption of August 2018 our consumption came to 28 kilograms. The shift towards a recyclable packaging material has current plastic been instrumental in exceeding our goal to reduce plastic consumption by 30%. packaging by 30% For packaging our actuators, we discontinued separate packaging for every item as well as plastic film and Result: 69% packing peanuts. We also send more than one actuator in a box, and whenever possible, are reusing packaging sent from our suppliers. Consumption of plastic packaging at WindowMaster 120 111 113 110 100 90 80 82 82 80 73 72 70 64 62 61 Kilogram 62 63 59 57 60 57 58 54 50 46 40 30 28 22 24 24 25 20 18 19 13 10 To reduce the overall impact of our shipping and 0 Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug packaging operations, we improved our pallet loading 2016 2017 2018 methods and packaging sourcing. This includes stacking product on pallets in a way to eliminate unused space and sourcing 80% of our packaging from local suppliers. Besides focusing on the packaging of chain actuators, in Old inlay: New inlay: Q2 2018, we were able to change the inlay to cardboard rather than foam for the packaging of the WSC 204 compact smoke panel. As the production of these panels exceeds 5000 pieces a year, it is estimated that this change has a significant impact on the reduction of our plastic consumption. 21 Driving supplier sustainability In WindowMaster, we aim at having sustainable business operations throughout the entire supply chain. Therefore, we instigated the certification initiative to ensure alignment with our external suppliers. For this initiative, we have been focusing on three topics: · Communicate our Code of Conduct with our suppliers · Assess compliance of our top 15 suppliers with the data efficiently. The data must also be more · Ensure compliance with EU regulations regarding accessible in order to view the most current input from the REACH and RoHS. suppliers or the material assessments. In the last 12 months, we had a high focus on the material We have integrated the process to manage material compliance with EU regulations regarding REACH and compliance data into the supply and demand module of RoHS. We have reviewed the way it has been organized our ERP system. The data can be maintained for every and decided to approach our data in a new way. We single raw material. Based on the bills of material, we can concluded that due to increasing complexity and the need then conclude the compliance of our finished goods. for optimizing the productivity of our internal resources, we need to rework this process. We are currently working to migrate the data into the new solution. During this process, we will also review whether The main challenges have been to organize the data in the data is current and then update as necessary together a transparent way, making sure that other stakeholders with our suppliers. outside the supply chain department can also work Reduced total energy consumption at our premises WindowMaster has sales offices in Denmark, UK, USA, Norway, Germany, and Switzerland. Furthermore, we have a factory located in Germany. During the past year, we have been monitoring our energy consumption in each location to evaluate our progress. Since 2017, WindowMaster has managed to significantly reduce our energy consumption. By Q4 2018, we Goal 2018 exceeded our energy reduction goal by reducing energy consumption by 54.4% since 2015. Reduce our total German factory energy consumption · By August 31, 2018, the electricity consumption was by 20% 89,291 kWh compared to 91,806 kWh in the same period in 2017 (-5%). · Throughout Q4 of 2017 and the first 8 months of 2018, Result: 54.4% defective lightbulbs were replaced with LED lights. The initiative to phase out old lightbulbs will continue until all bulbs in use are LED. 22 German office Energy Consumption at WindowMaster · By the end of 2016, our German sales office moved into a new office in Hamburg. As such, the offices were 500.000 able to measure their electrical consumption in 2017 at 458.000 7,322kWh. · 66% of 2017’s consumption came from renewable 400.000 energy sources that did not originate from nuclear, coal, or petroleum-based power. 300.000 · During the first eight months of 2018, electrical kWh 209.019 consumption was reported at 4,881 kWh and the office 200.000 is predicting to consume close to the same amount of energy in 2018 as 2017. 100.000 Norwegian office · The total energy consumption in our office in Larvik 0 2015 Q4-2018 amounted in the eight first months of 2018 to 16,877 kWh (+3.7%) compared to 16,275 kWh in the same period in 2017. US office · We moved into a coworking space, WeWork, in San Francisco in 2017 and are unable to gather specific energy consumption data for the two employees using the space. · This building is LEED Gold certified and therefore in line with our environmental goals. Danish office (Head Office) · Beginning in April of 2018, WindowMaster relocated to temporary offices while their main office underwent renovations. · Energy consumption for the first four months of 2018 was 42,370 kWh, compared to 45,312 kWh used in the same period of 2017. UK office · In the first eight months of 2018, total energy consumption was 12,970 kWh (+3.1%) compared to 12,576 kWh in the same period in 2017. Swiss office · In Switzerland, we are not able to directly influence the amount of energy used and from which sources it comes. · As we plan to relocate our Swiss office to a new building in 2019, we will have more control over the energy consumption moving forward. The new office will be chosen with respect to the SDGs and Ten initiatives. 23 Reduced fossil fuel consumption In relation to reducing the overall energy consumption at our premises, WindowMaster continues to inaugurate procedures and activities to minimize the total amount of fossil fuel we consume. Working groups have scrutinized potential energy sources to establish the best matches according to country-specific opportunities and obstacles. Since 2016, we have been able to meet the goal on reducing fossil fuel consumption to no more than 25%. Danish office Seen below, the majority of our energy sources continue · According to our energy supplier, Ørsted, 100% of our to be renewable: energy is projected to come from wind in 2018. German factory UK office · In both 2018 and 2017, 100% of our electricity came · In the UK office, 96% of our electricity continues to come from renewable sources compared with 0% in 2016. from renewable sources. We are restricted in terms of further improvements as we are subject to the decisions German office of the landlord. · 100% renewable energy sources were used in 2018 for electricity. Swiss office · In this office we have no influence over which types of Norwegian office energy are sourced. For this reason, we are actively · We get 98% of our energy from renewable energy searching for new offices for 2019. (hydropower) and 2% from fossil fuels. US office · We are unable to obtain data on the energy sources for our US office. 2015 Goal 2018 20152018 2018 Reduce the fossil fuel consumption 25% 31% to 25% 31% no more than 25% 69% 69% 75% 75% Renewable energy sources FossilRenewable fuels Renewable energy sources Fossil fuels energy sources Fossil Renewable fuels energy sources Fossil fuels 24 Reduced total CO2 emissions from vehicles WindowMaster’s environmental policies cover the entire value chain from production to delivery and everything in between. Part of our business operations consists of visiting stakeholders and clients for service and follow-up activities. Consequently, a significant portion of our total energy consumption comes from vehicle CO2 emissions. However, due to changes in lease agreements in 2018 for all markets, benchmarking progress towards our goal to reduce vehicle CO2 emissions by 20% has not been possible. Despite this, 4 of the 5 markets saw a reduction either in kilograms of CO2 emitted or in kilometers driven. German factory Goal 2018 · In both 2018 and 2017, 100% of our electricity came Reduce the total CO2 from renewable sources compared with 0% in 2016. emissions from vehicles German office · In the first eight months of 2018, the total amount of CO2 with 20% emission for vehicles amounted to 36,113,360 kilograms compared to 36,235,912 kilograms in the same period in 2017. 25 Norwegian office Vehicle CO2 emissions · As there is no lease plan in place in Norway, it is not possible to accurately calculate the CO2 emission from vehicles. Notwithstanding, the total kilometers driven 477 500 from January – August 2018 amounted to 26,183 compared to 49,293 in the same period in 2017 (-47%). 380 · As of September 2018, another employee switched to a 400 hybrid vehicle. This means that 2 of the 3 employees in Norway are now driving hybrid vehicles. · Technicians limit their use of airand road travel. CO2, ton 300 Instead they use the train whenever possible and use our remote support systems for communication via the 200 internet. Danish office (Head Office) 100 · In Q1, 2018, the total amount of CO2 emission for vehicles was 19,586 kilograms compared to 26,925 kilograms in the same period in 2017 (-27.3%). 0 2015 2018 · Whenever possible, employees use the train instead of a company car to visit customers. · All new company cars have BlueMotion technology for less energy consumption, and all cars replaced in the future will have similar technology installed. UK office · Projected CO2 emissions for 2018 are 35,285,072 kilograms compared to 47,322,951 kilograms for the year 2017. · The UK office successfully reduced their CO2 emissions by 27.7% from 2016 to 2017 and are again projected to reduce their emissions by 25.4%. Swiss office · Due to a shift in contracts, we have no comparable data for the Swiss office in this period. 26 Anti-Corruption Our commitment Principle 10: Businesses should work against WindowMaster is strictly adherent to all relevant laws, corruption in all its forms, including extortion including anti-corruption laws. We support international and bribery. and regional legal frameworks and have a zero-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery, and extortion. Our Business Ethics policy describes WindowMaster’s commitment to act with integrity in our pursuit to deliver competitive results and to comply with relevant anticorruption laws. It applies to all employees and business partners who act on behalf of WindowMaster. We have a whistleblower program in place and follow-up mechanisms for reporting concerns or seeking advice. Internationally, we have maintained a solid check and balance system over transactions. Records and transactions are checked and controlled by finance and administration. 27 WindowMaster aspires to protect people and the environment by creating a healthy and safe indoor climate, automatically ventilating spaces with fresh air through facade and roof windows in buildings. We offer the construction industry foresighted, flexible and intelligent window actuators and control systems for natural ventilation, mixed-mode ventilation, and smoke ventilation – of the highest quality. WindowMaster employs around 135 highly experienced cleantech specialists in Denmark, Norway, Germany, United Kingdom, Ireland, Switzerland, and the United States of America. In addition, we work with a vast network of certified partners. With our extensive expertise built up since 1990, WindowMaster is ready to help the construction industry meet its green obligations and achieve their architectural and technical ambitions. ©WindowMaster 2018 ®WindowMaster is a registered trademark used under license by WindowMaster International windowmaster.com
