UNITED GLOBAL NATIONS COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (CoP) 2018 1 CONTENT STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT P. 03 E.R. SCHIFFAHRT OVERVIEW P. 04 01 HUMAN RIGHTS P. 05 02 LABOUR P. 07 03 ENVIRONMENT P. 11 04 ANTI CORRUPTION P. 16 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT E.R. Schiffahrt and its management board confirm describes aims in this regard for the upcoming and renew their commitment to continuously reporting period. The report will be made support the United Nations Global Compact and accessible to all stakeholders of the company. its Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environmental Protection and E.R. Schiffahrt and its management board Anti-Corruption. are committed to further incorporate the Ten Principles into its business strategy and to Within the entire international commodity trade continuously develop and enhance respective the biggest proportion of transportation is objectives and measures. seaborne. Therefore, shipping is an important participant in globalization processes and also a beneficiary of the same. As a consequence E.R. Schiffahrt recognizes and appreciates its economic, ecological and social responsibility at both national and international level. This sixth annual Communication on Progress Nils Aden documents the measures and results of E.R. Chief Executive Officer Schiffahrt in the aforementioned four areas of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. It also 3 E.R. SCHIFFAHRT – OVERVIEW E.R. Schiffahrt is a ship management company Environmental Passport (Containerships), Ballast with more than 80 container and bulk vessels in Water Management (Bulkers), advanced internal service as of today. The diversified fleet makes training schemes for employees, good PSC E.R. Schiffahrt a strategic partner of the world’s records (external inspections of vessels by local leading liner companies and bulk operators. authorities during port calls).and as participant of the UN Global Compact. The company’s founder, Erck Rickmers, established E.R. Schiffahrt in 1998. The Rickmers Another important issue during the reporting family has been active in the shipping business period was the review and revision of the Code for five generations. of Conduct for Suppliers which is obligatory for subcontractors. As part of the company´s About 3.300 employees on shore and at sea are compliance programme it ensures a continuous committed to provide safe, environmental friendly improvement of the company’s social, economic and reliable ship management operations to its and environmental performance and enforces the clients. efforts against corruption. In addition to mandatory certification according The company’s entire Code of Conduct clearly to the International Safety Management Code refers to the ten principles of the UN Global (ISM-Code), the Maritime Labour Convention Compact. It is available to all stakeholders of the (MLC) and to the International Shipboard and Port company. Facility Security Code (ISPS-Code) E.R. Schiffahrt developed an integrated management system The implementation and further development certified to the following standards: of the Code of Conduct has been supported by regular meetings of the board, as well as by • ISO 9001:2015 (quality management), workshops and trainings for the responsible staff. • ISO 14001:2015 (environmental management), Questions and open topics are embraced by a • BS OHSAS 18001:2007 (occupational health and Frequently Asked Question form. safety management), • ISO 50001:2011 (energy management) The separate compliance e-mail address and compliance phone number is available to all This management system is established and employees to either address further questions, maintained both on board of the operated fleet proposals of improvement or to report any and ashore (except the energy management violations or non-conformities. system which is only applicable on board). It will be audited by an external independent third party on an annual basis. Within the reporting period E.R. Schiffahrt ,as one of the first shipping companies worldwide, completed the transformation to the latest ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015 standard and successfully passed the renewal audits for the applicable ISOand BS OHSAS certifications. Maintaining the ISO certification is an essential part of the “DNV GL Excellence 5 Star” award which is held by the company. The award was renewed successfully in 2017. It confirms that E.R. Schiffahrt complies with the highest state-of-the-art standards for the operation of container and bulk vessels in terms of Emergency Response Service, 4 01 HUMAN RIGHTS 01 HUMAN RIGHTS in E.R. Schiffahrt’s managed fleet are providing PRINCIPLE 1 all crew members with internet access. In order Businesses should support and respect the to improve the communication the company has protection of internationally proclaimed human reviewed the latest state of the art communication rights; and equipment available on the market. A decision was taken to upgrade the communication PRINCIPLE 2 equipment on board of most vessels to increase make sure they are not complicit in human the bandwidth and speed for a better internet rights abuses. access. The upgrade project started within 2017 and shall be finished in 2018. E.R. Schiffahrt and its management board are committed to support and to protect the As a gesture of solidarity with its home city of International Bill of Human Rights within their Hamburg, every year the E.R. Group supports a sphere of influence and throughout their business different local social institution with a donation activities. of 5,000 Euros. The employees of the company send in their suggestions and can subsequently It is further the declared company’s policy neither vote for their preferred institution via intranet. to permit nor to tolerate but to prevent any The donation goes to the project with the kind of discrimination and/or harassment of its highest number of votes. In 2017 “Hands for employees on board or ashore on the grounds of Children” benefited from the employees vote. race or the ethnic origin, gender, religion or belief, The organization offers a short-term home for disability, age or sexual orientation. multiple handicapped children and their families. Since 2013 the Kupferhaus provides 12 rooms Within its management system E.R. Schiffahrt has for children in need of help, 14 rooms for their established a reporting procedure that enables families as well as therapyand community and encourages all employees to report any areas, a conservatory and a great outside area. non-conformity or complaint with regard to the Children and parents from all over Germany can Maritime Labour Convention and other applicable find relaxation and recreation for a few days, to national, international or internal rules and gather new energy for everyday life or just to regulations. The latter also includes the declared spend time with the children’s healthy siblings, company’s policy statements available on the while a team of therapists, teachers and nurses website of E.R. Schiffahrt. At the beginning of each take care of the handicapped children and young year the Management Board of E.R. Schiffahrt is people around the clock. carrying out a thorough review of the company’s policy statement. The evaluation is based on Social commitment also led to physical action the yearly Management Review. Necessary amongst the staff of E.R. Schiffahrt: As in the adjustments of the policy will be instructed as previous years, in summer 2017 numerous deemed necessary. employees participated in “HSH-Nordbank Run”, a charity run in the City of Hamburg. By their Beside the Company Policy E.R. Schiffahrt provides participation all runners supported the charity further guidance regarding Human Rights to all organization “children help children”. stakeholders through its Code of Conduct. It has to be seen as supplement to the Code of Conduct for Suppliers which was introduced in 2015 and is an essential part of the company’s procurement process. E.R. Schiffahrt recognizes and appreciates its social responsibility and is or was engaged in the following activities within the reporting period of 2017 in this regard: The seafarers on board of our vessels are away from their homes for several months. As it is crucial for them to be able to communicate with their families and friends while at sea, all vessels 6 02 LABOUR 02 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 The aforementioned MLC 2006 governs the Businesses should uphold the freedom of minimum requirements for seafarers to work on association and the effective recognition of the a ship and the conditions of employment, the right to collective bargaining; accommodation and recreational facilities as well as food and catering on board, the health PRINCIPLE 4 protection, medical care, welfare and social the elimination of all forms of forced and security protection of seafarers. The effectiveness compulsory labour; of the system is continuously monitored through annual internal audits on board of each vessel PRINCIPLE 5 since then. Furthermore, the company fully the effective abolition of child labour; and complies with the requirements of the Maritime Labour Convention amendments 2014 which are PRINCIPLE 6 providing additional financial security for the the elimination of discrimination in respect of seagoing personnel in case of repatriation or employment and occupation. abandoning of a ship. It is the declared policy of E.R. Schiffahrt that all External crewing agencies are also audited by E.R. employees both on board and ashore shall be Schiffahrt on a yearly basis. These audits include treated in a fair, just and correct manner based the verification of their compliance with the MLC on relevant international and national rules and 2006 as well. regulations and applicable working terms and conditions. E.R. Schiffahrt’s internal and external recruiting process ensures that underaged seafarers The company has established a grievance are not employed on board of E.R. Schiffahrt procedure which clearly defines the right of any managed vessels. Personnel documents are being seafarer to file a complaint arising from an alleged reviewed during various steps of the initiation violation of his contractual or any other rights. of employment and also by the Master as a The company has recorded two complaints in the representative of the company on board. year of 2016. With regard to a safe working environment E.R. The employment conditions of seafarers Schiffahrt is committed that all identified risks to employment agreements of the crew members its personnel are being assessed and appropriate on board of E.R. Schiffahrt managed vessels are safeguards are established in order to ensure that based on collective bargain agreements and are in no unacceptable or avoidable risks are taken. accordance with the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006 (MLC 2006), its amendments from 2014 and other applicable rules and regulations. 8 02 LABOUR To fulfill this commitment, procedures to identify Manila, Philippines, and one in Odessa, Ukraine. critical shipboard operations and to control The modified content targeted on leadership, substances hazardous to the health of employees social skills and communication during one day are established within the management system and technical management, reporting and safety of the company. All procedures are being awareness during the second day. A lecture was reviewed and revised on a regular basis. Part of held during the FOM in the Philippines about the the review is not only the proper implementation most common medical findings and nutrition and of these procedures but also a verification of a Yoga session was carried out during the FOM in implementation by conducting internal and Odessa in order to set an impulse how important external audits on board and in the office. All sport activity is to balance mental wellbeing. audits are related to the company’s Occupational Health Conscious Behavior has become one part Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) of the FOM and it will be also part of the ERS certification. Safety Campaign in the third quarter of 2018. The verification in the office was carried out A review of the Performance Support Programme successfully during the reporting period of this (PSP) took place in December 2016 and the PSP Communication on Progress. In addition, further Team Members were invited to the premises of positive feedback and impact on the safety E.R. Schiffahrt to discuss and agree on the scope system was given by clients who carried out their of the 2017 PSP. own office and shipboard audits according to their ownor to industry standards. The target of the PSP remains to train and develop the crew on board the vessels in various In 2017 a thorough review of the safety procedures areas of company related subjects, like safety, for the office staff, especially for their attendance occupational health and company procedures. on board during routine visits, inspections or In total, the crew of 90% of the managed fleet audits took place. As a result, the company has have been trained during the course of the year, revised the safety procedures for office staff and a total number of 1.465 seafarers benefitted from defined the scope of the personal protective the PSP. equipment (PPE) that must be used in relation to the designated tasks. The PPE is easily available An on shore PSP was set up in 2017 to properly for all office staff. train groups of newly employed seafarers. Three such sessions took place, two in Haiphong, Within the reporting period the company Vietnam, and one in Constanta, Romania, where continued its approach to support and promote a total number of 49 seafarers received trainings risk based assessments of relevant procedural on the company´s management system and most changes on board and ashore, thus to strengthen important procedures. its own Risk Assessmentand Management of Change procedure. To reach the goals it As a founding member of the Container Ship Safety was decided to continue with regular trainings Forum (CSSF), a global business-to-business and workshops. The campaign to promote the network that improves safety performance identification of unsafe conditions and unsafe and management practices in the container acts is also ongoing as the. goal of the campaign shipping industry, the company has been reis still valid: to promote a near miss reporting in elected as a member of the Steering Committee. order to proactively identify hazards before they During the reporting period the CCSF managed will lead to incidents and accidents. to attract further members. Now it consists of 17 members, all of them are major container In 2017, the company continued to arrange shipping liner companies and ship owning and / training sessions for its employees during Fleet or ship managing companies. These 17 companies Officer Meetings (FOM) and briefing sessions like represent about 40 percent of the worldwide TEU Group Briefings or Single Briefings. In total 152 (Twenty Foot Equivalent Unit) container capacity. employees participated in these three training Their common objective is to create a container occasions. Two FOM´s took place in 2017, one in shipping industry with high safety standards, 9 02 LABOUR ensuring no harm is caused to people, ships, As a part of the occupational health management cargo, and the environment. To achieve this, CSSF ashore the company conducted a “Health members collaborate to advance the continuous Conscious Behavior Day” for all employees improvement of safety culture and performance in Hamburg in 2017. Throughout the day the in the container shipping industry through employees were invited to attend workshops, measurement, reporting and benchmarking, lectures and sports activities in order to learn sharing best practices, and engaging with key more about how to maintain and improve their stakeholders to develop durable solutions. personnel well-being. 10 03 ENVIRONMENT 03 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 protection. Businesses should support a precautionary This approach is reflected in all company approach to environmental challenges; instructions and procedures which ensure the safe operation of all vessels in regard to environmental PRINCIPLE 8 protection, in compliance with all relevant laws undertake initiatives to promote greater and regulations and in line with the requirement environmental responsibility; and of the ISO 14001:2015 standard. Further internal and external verification audits were carried out PRINCIPLE 9 on board of several vessels of the fleet. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Also, during the reporting period covered by this CoP the ISO standard 50001 “Energy Management E.R. Schiffahrt is clearly committed to protect the Systems” has been confirmed as well functioning. environment. This is a broader view compared The energy management system of E.R. Schiffahrt with the previous approach to prevent any kind of aims at locating fuel saving potentials and pollution. Therefore E.R. Schiffahrt is permanently managing energy efficiency effectively on board reviewing its company policy, its relevant the vessels of the company. procedures and KPIs. Consequently, the company was one of the first ship managers worldwide In order to support the seagoing and office staff who revised its management system to cope with in charge, the company has revised its handbook the latest ISO 14001:2015 standard. A proof for the on energy efficient vessel operation. It shall give successful revision was given during the renewal guidance for shipboard operations with regard audit in May 2017. to propulsion, energy efficiency and fuel balance management. E.R. Schiffahrt is convinced that this is a major step and a significant commitment to protect Within the recent reporting period E.R. Schiffahrt the environment, prevent pollution, mitigate and has continued the successful co-operation adapt the climate change and protect biodiversity between the office and ship staff on the one hand and ecosystems. and with classification societies, naval architects, shipyards, research institutes, engine makers and All E.R. Schiffahrt employees are informed about charterers on the other hand in order to reduce this policy. They are regular trained to enhance fuel consumption and CO2 emissions of all their skills and abilities to environmental vessels under management. 12 03 ENVIRONMENT Important measures are: manually by crew. Programmed VFD control units ensure a demand related provision of cooling Operational: water and airflow provision and consequently the Slow and super slow steaming E.R. Schiffahrt’s vessel receives significant basic load / fuel oil vessels were continuing to reduce their normal consumption reductions. voyage speeds wherever and whenever trading pattern allowed this measure. Since January 2015, all vessels operating in Emission Control Areas (ECAs) also referred to Training: as Sulphur Emission Control Areas (SECA), have In 2017, 7 Masters and 5 Chief Engineers were to ensure that their emissions are reduced. invited to the E.R. Schiffahrt office to get trained E.R. Schiffahrt started already in early 2014 with regard to fuel efficiency awareness and to implement measures and modifications in fuel consumption reduction. As an additional order to meet these regulations well before the measurement we continued to make use of due date. Currently all E.R. Schiffahrt managed our company’s own e-learning tool “Energy vessels calling SECAs / ECAs are fully compliant Efficiency on Board”. By using this in-house tool with the relevant MARPOL Annex VI regulations. we reduced the number of worldwide travels Most other vessels managed by E.R. Schiffahrt, and thus contributed to an improved individual which are not sailing in those areas, are being carbon footprint. In 2017, 28 Masters and 8 Chief modified proactively. Engineers were using this tool. In 2017 the cylinder oil consumption has been For 2018, the company will replace the e-learning further reduced by 3.9% at 2.4% higher running tool “Energy Efficiency on Board” by “ISO 50001 hours and higher load of the main engine. This Energy Management Training Course” a computer result has been achieved by close observation based training provided to the crews on board the of the vessels’ daily operation and particularly vessels. This course will be mandatory for Senior the correct adjusted specific cylinder oil feed Management Officers (Master, Chief Officer, Chief rate. The correct adjustments will be checked by Engineer and 2nd Engineers). The circle of officers implementation of onboard scrap down analysis for this training was enlarged by the Chief Officer for big bore main engines. On two additional in order to rise the overall energy efficiency vessels (following three vessels in 2016 and awareness. seven in 2015) the company has carried out a modification of propeller shaft sealing. Previously Redesign: there was a potential risk of a direct oil and Within 2017 one additional Post-Panamax vessel seawater contact. During the dry docking of these of the managed fleet was modified by installing vessels the sealing has been converted into an air a new propeller – designed for slower speed. sealed shaft sealing. Even in case the function of Supplementary, a device called Boss-Cap-Fin the sealing fails there will be no more hazards to (ESCAP) was installed. It improved the flow contaminate seawater by oil. around the propeller boss. Associated with that the main engine of this vessel was de-rated from At locations on board where it was not possible the nominal power output of more than 68,000kW to conduct such modification the mineral oil at 102 rpm to less than 48,165 kW at 93.2 rpm. filling of the sealing has been exchanged by On one more vessel an ESCAP has been installed environmental friendly oil. during the vessels 2nd class renewal. Two further vessels have been equipped with variable frequency drives (VFD) for the main seawater pumps and engine room fans in 2017. Day and night time operation, manned and unmanned engine room operation, ambient and seawater temperature changes and port or at sea operation have an direct influence on the cooling and air flow requirements and are normally controlled 13 03 ENVIRONMENT Monitoring and Reporting: the public reputation of a company. During the reporting period, E.R. Schiffahrt continued to use FuelSafe, an integrated tool Company Policy: of the company´s own Vessel Performance The Management Board of E.R. Schiffahrt reviews Monitoring Center (VPMC) installed on selective the environmental company’s policy in regular vessels representing all vessel classes under intervals and confirms its validity. As mentioned management. It enables optimal efficiency with earlier this was done in 2017 with a more broader regard to fuel consumption and asset protection. view of the company’s environmental approach The system retrieves up to 300 measured values. It not only delivers analytical data but is also As an important part the Code of Conduct for all indispensable for successful monitoring: It checks employees is covering the environmental aspects the ship’s operation continuously, gathering data of E.R. Schiffahrt’s business. It confirms that the on energy output, fuel consumption and sailing protection of the environment as well as the conditions on a day-by-day basis. Its reporting conservation of natural resources do have a high features reveal where steps may be taken to priority. increase efficiency, giving the crew specific recommendations for performance improvement. A greater environmental responsibility is also expected from all suppliers and subcontractors On top of that, E.R. Schiffahrt implemented a new all over the world. We see good trends especially KPI based vessel performance evaluation software in the Asian area that suppliers change their improving the VPMC’s guidance and support for behavior towards greater responsibility. The the vessels to improve their operational efficiency. supplier code of conduct already implemented in 2015 has been reviewed and amended end of The effectiveness of E.R. Schiffahrt’s energy 2017. efficiency system is backed by benchmark systems of its customers. These systems collect and To monitor the supplier’s performance a software monitor data with regard to vessel performance based supplier rating system is in use and allows as well. The fuel efficiency benchmark system of both, the office and the ship’s side, to rate the the market leader showed that vessels managed quality of a product and its packaging. In 2017 by E.R. Schiffahrt saved fuel in line with the TOP the criteria for supplier evaluation have been 3 competitors. extended to environmental aspects. Since 2015 the use of the tool has increased by 114% until E.R. Schiffahrt supports and uses the Shipping end of 2017. We currently have a strong base of Efficiency initiative, which was launched by the approx. 1,050 active suppliers. For each of these Carbon War Room programme. Within Shipping suppliers and subcontractors we have gathered Efficiency E.R. Schiffahrt maintains an up-to-date on average five evaluations in the last three years. record of its ships in order to get an external The average supplier rating (from 1=poor to 5=very energy efficiency rating of its measures and to good) within 2017 was 4.10. After an average result share such rating of its fleet in a transparent way of 4.13 the year before this figure reflects the high with the public. and stable standard of the supplier performance. In addition, for more than two years E.R. Schiffahrt Starting from 01.01.2018, all European ports are provides an environmental Whistle Blower Hotline subject to the EU Monitoring Reporting Verification to its employees and stakeholders. The Hotline (MRV) regulation, which covers CO2 emissions. provides a possibility to report any incompliance As early as 31.08.2017, all shipping companies with environmental rules and regulations in an are required to submit a plan for monitoring, anonymous way. Regular tests ensure a reporting reporting and verifying the resulting CO2. This via e-mail or telephone. EU regulation requires the monitoring, reporting and verification of the amount of CO2 generated In addition to the Whistle Blower Hotline the per ton and mile, which is published annually on company provides a dedicated e-mail address the internet. In this context, the importance of and a phone number. Both means shall serve as energy efficiency measures and of performance communication tools to contact the company and monitoring systems becomes clear again. A regarding compliance matters. weak performance in connection with the future tightened regulations also has a lasting impact on 14 03 ENVIRONMENT Office: related risks and opportunities. In 2017 E.R. Schiffahrt has reviewed its environmental management system for the office. The evaluation for 2017 on how far the objectives As a result, the management has revised the and targets have been met is pending at the time environmental objectives and targets. of finalization of this report. In order to enhance the understanding and Furthermore, the company continues to offer support of all employees ashore the objectives subsidized monthly passes for public transport and targets are divided into three environmental within the metropolitan area of Hamburg, in order aims: to encourage employees to use environmental friendly transportation for commuting between 1.) Reduction of waste home and work. 2.) Saving of resources 3.) Avoiding of pollution All three aims are subdivided into single measures or projects. Each measure or project is clearly described and defines the responsible team / department, the status and in particular the 15 04 ANTI CORRUPTION 04 ANTI CORRUPTION secondary employment or additional business of PRINCIPLE 10 employees of E.R. Schiffahrt must be reported to Businesses should work against corruption in all the company and is subject to approval in order to its forms, including extortion and bribery. reduce possibilities of contradictions of interest. Salaries paid by E.R. Schiffahrt are ensuring E.R. Schiffahrt confirmed its committment to that employees are able to support themselves counteract fraud, extortion and bribery or any without the need of an additional income. other form of corruption within its sphere of influence and to act in line with all relevant rules These measures will be supported by E.R. and regulations. Schiffahrt’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Subcontractors which has been revised in 2017 In order to give a detailed guidance to all employees onboard and ashore the company has At the same time, E.R. Schiffahrt exchanges best addressed the following topics within the Code practice experience with its business partners of Conduct: and encourages them to issue their own Code of Conduct as well as to implement worldwide anti• Attitude towards business partners and third corruption campaigns and strategies. parties • Antitrust and fair competition Furthermore, E.R. Schiffahrt supports anti• Anti-Corruption and improper advantages corruption initiatives which are run by business • Anti-Money Laundering partners. • Trade Control Regulations In addition, the company maintains an internal Further contractual rules and regulations are control system to ensure that business activities governing the acceptance and granting of presents, are checked on a regular base. corporate hospitality and other invitations and stipulating in which cases employees have The Management Board held regular meetings to to report to the company if such benefits are discuss topics related to anti-corruption, review offered to them by third parties that uphold or the company´s policy and revise its guidance are about to enter into business relations with to the employees, stakeholders and interested E.R. Schiffahrt or its related companies. Any parties. 17
