Communication on engagement 2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that the Norwegian Seafood Council(NSC) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication on Engagement, we describe the actions the NSC has taken to support the Global Compact and its Principles. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Renate Larsen, CEO Norwegian Seafood Council Stortorget 1 Postboks 6176 mail@seafood.no +47 77 60 33 33 Norges sjømatråd 9008 TROMSØ 9291 TROMSØ www.seafood.no Org.nr: 988 597 627 Page 1 of 4 Human Rights • The NSC supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • The principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are an integrated part of the NSCs ethical policy and also actively communicated in the company's internal policy guidelines. • NSC has implemented a whistleblower solution that makes it possible for all employees of NSC, business partners and other stakeholders to report possible illegal, or suspected illegal, actions and violations of NSC’s Code of Conduct and human rights laws. • All reports of concerns can be addressed directly to NSC’s CEO and Chairman or through the independent Whistleblower Channel, managed by KPMG. The Whistleblower Channel offers the whistleblower the possibility of reporting anonymously. Measurements of outcomes There has been no incident reported on any violations of Human Rights in the NSC during the reporting period. However, should such an event arise, any contravention of human rights would be documented and the responsible party would be put responsible to resolve the issue. Labour • The NSC is following Norwegian standards and local laws related to employee rights and responsibilities, compensations and benefits. • The NSC cooperates with labour unions, representing all employees, in implementing the company's labour policy. The NSC also actively works with the Norwegian Labour and Welfare Service (NAV) according to issues related to health. • The NSC follows up all employees on a regular basis through appraisal interviews and semiannual surveys on the working environment. • NSC has implemented a whistleblower solution that makes it possible for all employees of NSC, business partners and other stakeholders to report possible illegal, or suspected illegal, actions and violations of NSC’s Code of Conduct and working conditions. Norwegian Seafood Council Stortorget 1 Postboks 6176 mail@seafood.no +47 77 60 33 33 Norges sjømatråd 9008 TROMSØ 9291 TROMSØ www.seafood.no Org.nr: 988 597 627 Page 2 of 4 Measurements of outcomes There has been no incident reported on any violations in the area of Labour during the past reporting period. In case of accident we conduct an investigation and create a report to prevent recurrence in the future. Environment • The NSC is certified according to the environmental standard Eco-Lighthouse, which is Norway's most widely used certification for the documentation of environmental efforts and demonstration of social responsibility. • The NSC is annually audited by the Eco-Lighthouse. • There has been no incident reported in the area of Environment. Measurements of outcomes NSC has never been involved in any legal cases or events related to the environment. The office space is designed to have as low environmental footprint as possible. Anti-Corruption • The NSC has stated a zero-tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion in the ethical guidelines, which is actively promoted in the company. • All employees have signed a document stating that they have read and understood the company's rules and regulations related to inside information. • NSC has implemented a whistleblower solution that makes it possible for all employees of NSC, business partners and other stakeholders to report possible illegal, or suspected illegal, actions and violations of NSC’s Code of Conduct and anti-corruption. Measurements of outcomes There has been no incident reported on any violations related to bribery and corruption. In case of accident we immediately conduct an investigation and create a report to prevent recurrence in the future. Norwegian Seafood Council Stortorget 1 Postboks 6176 mail@seafood.no +47 77 60 33 33 Norges sjømatråd 9008 TROMSØ 9291 TROMSØ www.seafood.no Org.nr: 988 597 627 Page 3 of 4 Proactive on-going work The NSC continue to perform risk analysis within the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption, in order to detect and minimize the probability of any negative or unwanted incidents to take place. Norwegian Seafood Council Stortorget 1 Postboks 6176 mail@seafood.no +47 77 60 33 33 Norges sjømatråd 9008 TROMSØ 9291 TROMSØ www.seafood.no Org.nr: 988 597 627 Page 4 of 4
