SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PROTECTING AND SAVING LIVES. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. internationalsos.com About our front cover image This image was developed with real International SOS people. It symbolises that we are at our clients, employees and partners’ fingertips. It also represents how we have touched the lives of many people. International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 We help organisations to develop, grow and protect human capital at work and in life, for now and the future. Our products and services help our clients achieve their own sustainability goals and meet their reporting requirements. — Arnaud Vaissié Co-founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CONTENTS THIS REPORT COVERS THE FISCAL YEAR 2017/18 (JULY 2017 JUNE 2018) 02 Statement from Arnaud Vaissié 32 Fuelling our clients’ growth through our people Co-founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and partners 34 Access to a skilled workforce 04 The world of International SOS 37 Employee health, safety and wellbeing 04 Our mission, vision and values 39 Modern leadership and engaging work 05 International SOS at a glance 41 Engagement with regulators and stakeholders 44 Community impact and engagement 06 The forces shaping our future 47 Relationship with assistance partners and suppliers 07 The health and wellness agenda is transforming rapidly The impact of natural disasters on business and 48 Living by our principles and practices employees is increasing 50 Business continuity 08 Globalisation is increasing international mobility 51 Data privacy & protection and cyber security Security threats can affect anyone 53 Business integrity, transparency and ethics 09 Geopolitical changes increase instability 54 Environmental impacts of our operations Digitalisation is revolutionising services 58 Duty of Care: International SOS Foundation 10 Sustainability and us Our philosophy 60 About this report 11 Sustainability governance 12 Our material topics 61 GRI Standards Index 14 Our goals and progress 65 UNGC Principles Index 18 Protecting and saving lives 20 Patient care, client satisfaction and quality of assistance 23 Security and safety 24 Epidemics and public health 26 Mobility and evolving traveller behaviour Non-communicable diseases and mental health 30 Digitalisation of healthcare and assistance 31 Extreme weather conditions WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 1 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 We have made a huge step forward this year with a stronger commitment to sustainability than ever before. We are now busy embedding our new standards and behaviours within the organisation worldwide. — Arnaud Vaissié Co-founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer STATEMENT FROM ARNAUD VAISSIÉ Co-founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer We are pleased to share our first International SOS Sustainability Report; a publication we hope will be widely read and well received. CEOs and their companies need to support sustainability We help organisations to develop, grow and protect and actively contribute to finding the solutions that have a human capital at work and in life, for now and the future. positive impact on society. We need to show the impact we Our products and services help our clients achieve have on the workplace, communities and environments we their own sustainability goals and meet their reporting and our clients operate in. And we need to do this with a requirements. long-term view in mind. In 2017 we put our money where our mouth is and International SOS can do this best by leveraging its core embarked on understanding our material sustainability expertise and services in the medical and security arena. topics, by speaking to our key stakeholders and using the Whatever the mission of any organisation, employers have Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as guidance. a Duty of Care to safeguard their global workforce. Now We identified 17 material topics relating to our people, more than ever, top-level commitment towards policies, services, environment and governance (see page 13, under procedures, communication, and reporting to ensure ‘Our materiality matrix’). In this report, we are providing the health, security, safety and wellbeing of the global an update and laying out our plans for the future on each. workforce, in all locations, at all times, are equally important Overall, we have created three reporting themes: to be a sustainable business. The physical and mental welfare of their global workforce will remain a focus • Protecting and saving lives for tomorrow’s business leaders. • Fuelling our clients’ growth through our people and partners • Living by our principles and practices 2 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 We are proud to be following the Global Reporting Initiative We have made a huge step forward this year with a (GRI) standards the global best practice for sustainability stronger commitment to sustainability than ever before. reporting. This report also demonstrates our commitment We are now busy embedding our new standards and to upholding the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact behaviours within the organisation worldwide. in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Yours sincerely, One of my primary commitments as CEO has been to strengthen our engagement with internal and external stakeholders on issues of importance to them. This report is an important part of this process. On behalf of the Group Executive Committee, I extend my thanks to our employees for sharing their stories, Arnaud Vaissié photography and insights for this report. The people Co-founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of International SOS, and our Foundation, deliver on our purpose in the services we provide our clients and stakeholders every day. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 3 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 THE WORLD OF INTERNATIONAL SOS About International SOS Our Mission The International SOS Group of Companies is in the To pioneer the international medical and security risk business of saving lives, protecting our clients’ global services sector. workforces from health and security threats. Wherever our clients are, we deliver customised health, security risk Our Vision management and wellbeing solutions to fuel their growth and productivity. In the event of extreme weather, an To be the world’s leading medical and security risk epidemic or a security incident, we provide an immediate services company. response that brings peace of mind. Our innovative technology, medical and security expertise focus on Our Values prevention, offering real-time, actionable insights and Passion on-the-ground quality delivery. We help our clients meet We work with passion, entrepreneurial spirit and teamwork compliance reporting needs for good governance. By to serve our clients and people. partnering with us, organisations can fulfil their Duty of Care responsibilities, while empowering business resilience, Expertise continuity and sustainability. We are committed to apply our professional expertise to deliver great quality services to our clients. Founded in 1985, the International SOS Group is privatelyowned and trusted by 11,000 client organisations, including Respect nearly two-thirds of the Fortune Global 500, multinational We treat all our global, diverse stakeholders with respect corporate clients and mid-size enterprises, governments, and deliver on our commitments with the highest integrity educational institutions and NGOs. 11,000 employees stand to earn trust. with our clients to provide support and assistance from Care over 1,000 locations in 90 countries, 24/7, 365 days. Our We care about the interest of our clients, members and headquarters are dually-located in London and Singapore. employees and aim to make a real difference to their lives. 4 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 INTERNATIONAL SOS AT A GLANCE We care for clients across the globe, from more than 1 ,000 locations in 90 countries. EMPLOYEES CLIENTS 26 900 remote Assistance Centres site projects with OBAL REACH GL 11,000 300 offshore installations 11,000 employees corporate clients 1,400 doctors of the Access to 62 1,000 82% Fortune 2,300 clinics LO E vessels supported Global 100 security C A L E X P E R TIS specialists of Fortune 99 69% Global 500 languages companies and dialects 12,000 81,000 spoken medical evacuations accredited providers and repatriations in our Global Assistance Network Hospitals, physicians, security specialists, ambulances, travel assistance and more. QUALITY KEY SERVICE INTELLIGENCE MEDICAL DISTINCTION STATISTICS & TRACKING SERVICES ISO 4.8 million Intelligence and analysis on 5,000 9001:2015 assistance calls 227 countries offshore medical cases for superior quality management & 440 cities process 2,500 1 million medical evacuation ISO/IEC medical services 10 million response plans 27001:2013 people protected for protecting by TravelTracker customer data 20,000 500,000 800 health checks ISO/TS 13131 travel services medical and first organisation in the world security reports produced 300,000 medical kits certified for delivery per month delivered through of TeleHealth 34,000 MedSupply services security services WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 5 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 THE FORCES SHAPING OUR FUTURE In a complex and ever-changing world, we build our business to reflect our values and strengthen our core capabilities, not only for today’s world, but for tomorrow’s. The forces that shape the world we live and work in bring significant economic, social and environmental impacts and challenges for businesses and societies. We are determined to meet these challenges in our day-today operations and in the services we provide to our clients. Organisations and their employees In an increasingly interconnected and globalised world, face an ever-increasing variety of risks. that is striving for sustainable development, recognising and addressing the key trends affecting our business is Now more than ever, policies and imperative. This is how we help our clients secure their employees’ wellbeing wherever they are in the world, and procedures that ensure the health, shape our own future as a successful business in a more security, safety and wellbeing of all sustainable world. employees, in all locations, at all times are critical to a sustainable business. Sustainability in action needs to be a focus for business leaders. We are ideally placed to help our own organisation, as well as those of our clients’, with the sustainability challenges posed by our changing world. We pride ourselves on being a learning organisation and on continuously transforming our business along with the changing needs of our clients and the environments we operate in. — Kai Boschmann Chair of the International SOS CSR Committee & Executive Director of the International SOS Foundation 6 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 We are determined to meet these challenges in our day-to-day operations and in the services we provide to our clients. 1. The health and wellness agenda is 2. The impact of natural disasters on transforming rapidly business and employees is increasing The issue The issue The expectations on businesses to preserve, promote and Natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods and fires enhance employee wellness have never been as great as they are inevitable – but many are increasing in frequency and are today. The benefits are clear: improved employee health severity. Unprecedented destruction has resulted from can increase productivity, reduce injuries, improve safety and such incidents, affecting lives and businesses around the reduce healthcare costs. Increasing numbers of studies show world. The 2017 hurricane season in North America and the impact on healthcare spending and macro-economic the Caribbean brought three of the deadliest and costliest productivity. But today, non-communicable diseases (NCDs) storms on record. Within just a few weeks, Hurricanes such as diabetes, heart disease and mental illness kill almost Harvey, Irma and Maria together caused damage in 40 million people globally every year. excess of US$250 billion. The decline in the stigma surrounding mental health is a huge Furthermore, natural disasters account for 43% of opportunity to improve wellness and transform organisations’ changed travel plans. Erratic weather results in a high capability to support employees throughout their lives. More demand for International SOS services, such as disaster than 450 million people suffer from mental illness; they come planning, evacuation and emergency medical services. from all countries, industry sectors and walks of life. By 2030, The effects of climate change are likely to continue this depression will be the second largest contributor to disease trend well into the future. burden in middle-income countries, and the third largest As businesses consider the consequences of natural in low-income countries. However, society is becoming disasters, they are reviewing their own climate policies ever more open. Initiatives like World Mental Health Day and investments in technology. Their investors are also are getting organisations and employees alike talking more rethinking their approach to climate-related risk. This about the factors that drive mental wellbeing, both inside means businesses must strengthen their preparedness and outside the workplace. for such events. Within the workplace, employee wellness programmes Our response are becoming increasingly popular. Good health positively Our global network of Assistance Centres enables us benefits an individual’s career, wellbeing and morale. It to continuously monitor situations around the world, increases longevity and ignites productivity. Health and ready to mobilise resources wherever our clients need wellness programmes are clearly becoming an essential them. We work to develop the most advanced and effective part of company culture. solutions available to help our clients assess risks and Our response prepare for them. We also offer assistance in emergency At International SOS, our entire business is aimed at situations and disasters. motivating and inspiring our clients’ workers around the Our clients avoid lost time and increase productivity by world to take charge of their health. We help our clients preparing their employees for travel, and supporting them support and care for their workers, whether they face in remote and unfamiliar locations. We help by assessing traditional workplace risks of accident and injury, nonand understanding the risks at the destination, educating communicable diseases or other factors. We look after travellers before they depart, and providing round-the-clock people not only while they are on business premises, but access to local advice for travellers. in their travels and as members of the local community. https://www.ipsos.com/ipsos-mori/en-uk/perceptions-travel-risk International SOS provides solutions to manage work-related https://www.internationalsos.com/topics/natural-disasters stress; injury and illness reporting; health policies, standards https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/news/UpdatedCostliest.pdf and procedures; health screening; drug testing; return-towork programmes and more. We constantly monitor trends in medical and scientific literature. We work with our clients to understand the realities of the modern workplace and how we can provide an increasingly better service that makes a real difference to people’s lives. https://www.who.int/whr/2001/media_centre/press_release/en/ https://www.who.int/gho/ncd/mortality_morbidity/en/ https://www.internationalsos.com/medical-and-security-services/occupational-health WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 7 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 3. Globalisation is increasing 4. Security threats can affect anyone international mobility The issue The last 20 years have seen heightened societal tensions The issue in various regions. Incidents of terrorism in western The pace and demands of global businesses are countries doubled in 2017 compared to the previous year, encouraging more and more workers to travel. The nature and governments’ formal assessment of terrorism-related of remote work is also changing, becoming more flexible threat levels has remained elevated. and adaptable, and occurring in higher-risk developing economies as frequently as traditional business centres. The threat of an attack in public spaces, including airports, railway stations, tourist destinations and other heavilyAt the same time, mobile workers’ habits and preferences travelled locations, can have a chilling effect on employee are changing – less preparation time goes into travel confidence. This challenges the viability and effectiveness of plans, and they want flexible and adaptable services to international business travel. Businesses perceive these risks accommodate their needs. New models such as peer-toto be increasing. Security threats are the most commonly peer lodging in private homes and sharing taxi services are reported reason for modified travel itineraries, presenting rapidly displacing their traditional counterparts in many direct impacts in terms of time, complexity and cost. markets around the world. These bring new risks for mobile workers, on top of long-standing ones like road safety; Our response although road accidents remain one of the most common These risks affect our own employees, as well as our dangers to mobile workers. clients who travel the world. We work with our clients to ensure they can prepare for these challenges, even those Many companies are insufficiently prepared to help their unforeseen. Our Travel Risk Map, Pre-trip Advisories, expertworkers face these challenges. Most companies do not led medical and security intelligence on 227 countries and implement safety and security checks, have not integrated 440 cities are invaluable resources for travel planning. This their travel risk programme into their overall business is backed by unparalleled experience and expertise on the sustainability programme, and have not grasped the ground, which helps our clients decide whether to travel impact of wellbeing issues, such as traveller health and how to prepare. Our TravelTracker tool lets clients and fatigue, on their mobile workforce. monitor where their employees are and their safety. We Our response can provide our clients with the right response protocols We tailor our services to fit the needs of individual travellers for when threats occur, including evacuation plans. in the real-world context of their work-related travel. We https://www.ipsos.com/ipsos-mori/en-uk/perceptions-travel-risk know that mitigating these risks – while keeping mobile workers happy, healthy and productive – requires specialist skills and local knowledge, and is essential to their safety. We help our clients identify the issues associated with mobility, and manage them in the context of their overall health and wellness policies, risk management tools and communications strategies. Emphasis is put on educating and empowering their mobile workers about travel risks, and making access to assistance easy and clear. https://www.ipsos.com/ipsos-mori/en-uk/perceptions-travel-risk https://www.relocatemagazine.com/news/international-assigments-mapping-the-risk-ofglobal-mobility 8 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 5. Geopolitical changes 6. Digitalisation is revolutionising services increase instability The issue The rapid growth and application of digital technology The issue is driving businesses, and disrupting the status quo in Many of the established norms of international relations the process. Technologies such as cloud computing, are facing challenges, as economic, political and cultural robotics, machine learning and artificial intelligence are tensions increase. Long-standing trade relationships are driving change across businesses and broader societies, facing renegotiation, while governments are increasingly transforming customer expectations, product development prepared to take a combative stance with respect to and ultimately, how individuals relate to one another and migration, health, safety and security. to technology. Impacts from geopolitical instability can affect our clients’ It is estimated that digital transformation could deliver employees, operations, revenues and supply chains, and can around US$100 trillion in value to business and society reduce employees’ willingness to travel. The shifting sands over the next decade. It is already influencing the way brought about by increased geopolitical tensions often lead International SOS and our clients work, and offers up to a lack of trust in government and political stability, and exciting new ways for us to collaborate. confusion in the face of changing policies. Businesses with global workforces and increasingly complicated compliance Our response obligations need to understand what is changing, where, Digitalisation creates the opportunity to develop new when and how it will affect them and their employees. services and systems that are more flexible and more sophisticated, with increased capacity to monitor subtle Our response change. We are investing in new tools and technologies Our security team constantly monitors national and to ensure we remain the world leaders, as our clients and geopolitical situations, to enable our clients to make their employees come to expect more real-time, online informed decisions about travel. As situations change, we and personalised user experiences. update our tools to ensure mobile workers are confident they comply with local laws and regulations. We can provide The growth of TeleMedicine brings new opportunities remote support, advice and access to travel assistance or to deliver advice and services to support and promote consular services in the event of a change in situation. employee wellbeing anytime, anywhere. We are working to develop future solutions that are medically and scientifically https://www.internationalsos.com/client-magazines/in-this-issue-3/geopolitics---changingthe-stakes-for-business-travellers robust, regulatory-compliant, easy and attractive to use. We aim to create positive experiences for the people who will benefit from them while ensuring maximum compliance with data privacy rules. http://reports.weforum.org/digital-transformation/wp-content/blogs.dir/94/mp/files/pages/ files/dti-executive-summary-20180510.pdf WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 9 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 SUSTAINABILITY AND US Our sustainability priorities are set by our Corporate Social Our philosophy Responsibility (CSR) Committee and Board, aligned with At International SOS we do everything we can to provide international initiatives and frameworks, including the invaluable local knowledge and expertise on a global scale Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the United while offering our clients a truly personal service, with the Nations Global Compact (UNGC). overarching principle of The 17 SDGs were adopted by all UN Member States in 2015 WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. as a plan of action for people, the planet and prosperity. For the first time, International SOS has mapped our activities Our job is to look after our clients and workers, to protect against the SDGs, helping us focus our contribution people and save lives. We achieve this through our highly to sustainable development through protecting and trained network of staff, including medical professionals, saving lives. security and logistics specialists, and key partnerships in 90 countries around the world. We pioneer a range of preventive programmes strengthened by our in-country expertise, delivering emergency assistance during critical illness, accident or unrest. Our work is ultimately driven by our passion to help clients mitigate risks to their people working remotely or overseas. We also support International SOS has been a signatory of the UNGC since and contribute to the International SOS Foundation, 2013 and we continue to firmly support the Ten Principles an independent, not-for-profit organisation that drives with respect to human rights, labour, environment and antiresearch, surveys and the development of best practice corruption. Our own policies, operations and culture are guidelines in health, safety and wellbeing for a global closely aligned with the UNGC and form a core part of workforce. our company strategy. Everything we do is ultimately driven by our values. We are proud to support the Global Reporting Initiative We believe our unrivalled expertise, professionalism and (GRI) and this is our first year reporting fully to their commitment to excellence enables us to contribute to standards – widely recognised as global best practice sustainable development, while assisting our clients in for sustainability reporting. International SOS is a strong upholding their promises to their employees. Our newlysupporter of advancing a central role for health and launched sustainability commitments (see page 14, wellbeing as part of the corporate responsibility and under ‘Our goals and progress’) set out our ambition and sustainability agenda. We believe sustainability reporting demonstrate how we are holding ourselves accountable can make a real difference. for our impact and performance. 10 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 International SOS has been a signatory of the UNGC since 2013 and we continue to firmly support the Ten Principles with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Sustainability governance Corporate Social Responsibility Board and Committee Policies Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities As part of our on-going management approach, we develop demonstrate a commitment to maintaining globally relevant policies, guidance and practice tools that help us sustainable operations. bring our values and commitments to life. Our philosophy for corporate citizenship focuses on healthcare and education to look after the wellbeing of our employees and the communities where we operate. It also extends to ethical conduct in our dealings with suppliers, clients and other stakeholders. Our CSR Committee meets regularly to advise on and set our CSR and sustainability priorities. Its work includes a broad range of activities affecting our workplace, marketplace, communities, human rights and environmental initiatives. The Committee reports to our CSR Board, who updates our Group Executive Committee. Our CSR Board Our Comittee Members Arnaud Vaissié Kai Boschmann Rebecca Malzacher Co-founder, Chairman and Committee Chair & Chief Marketing Committee Member & Director, Chief Executive Officer and Communications Officer, London Marketing, Australasia, Melbourne Dr Pascal Rey-Herme Mi Ki Chan Dr Philippe Guibert Co-founder and Group Committee Secretary & Group Committee Member & Regional Medical Director Communications Manager, London Medical Director, Asia, Singapore Laurent Sabourin Hien Thanh Dang Karel Van De Pijpekamp Group Managing Director Committee Member & Group Employer Committee Member & Chief Executive Branding Specialist, Singapore Officer, Assistance Services, Americas Dr Myles Neri Group Medical Director, Thierry Dardare Samuel Chauffaille Medical Services Committee Member & Chief Finance Committee Member & General Officer, Europe, London Manager, India, Mumbai Greg Tanner Group General Counsel Martin Bustarret Michael Whitlow Committee Member & Regional Committee Member & Director, Jennifer Gibb General Manager, Human Resources, Europe, London Group Director, Human Resources Southern Europe, Paris WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 11 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 We developed a list of relevant sustainability issues through a review of internal documentation. Our material topics International SOS has carried out a materiality risks assessment to prioritise the economic, environmental and social topics that have a material impact on our business and that matter most to our key industry stakeholders. The process involved identification of relevant issues, prioritisation by our key stakeholders and validation by senior management. 1. Identification 2. Prioritisation 3. Validation of results In this first materiality assessment, To prioritise the identified issues, we The outcomes were reviewed and we developed a list of relevant assessed their relative importance in approved by the CSR Committee sustainability issues through a relation to the business and our key and Board to understand how review of internal documentation, stakeholders. Each issue was given they align with our organisation’s including risk registers, policies and two scores: impact on the business strategy. statements, our industry peers, and and external impact. key influencers in our field, such The impact on our business was as multilateral organisations, trade determined by the views of our and industry associations and nonGroup Executive Committee, top governmental organisations. This management and employees. The process identified a long list external impact was assessed with of 22 issues. reference to the expectations and concerns of our clients, and refined by the view of our management, and influencers in our field. We refined the list down to 17 topics shown in our materiality matrix – with our 12 material issues in the upper right quadrant. 12 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 Our materiality matrix CRITICAL Access to a skilled workforce Epidemics and public health Business continuity Data privacy & protection and cyber security HIGHEST Patient care, client Engagement Modern leadership satisfaction and with regulators and engaging work quality of assistance and stakeholders Business integrity, Mobility and evolving traveller behaviour transparency Extreme weather and ethics conditions Employee Community impact EXTERNAL IMPACT and engagement health, safety NCDs and and wellbeing mental Security and HIGHER health safety Relationship with assistance partners and suppliers Digitalisation of healthcare and assistance Environmental impacts of our operations HIGH HIGH HIGHER HIGHEST CRITICAL INTERNAL IMPACT Medical and Security People Governance Environment Services WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 13 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 Not Started In Progress Completed OUR GOALS AND PROGRESS Following the work we have done in identifying our 17 material topics, we have laid out our plans for the future based on the three reporting themes. Pillar Goal Progress Activities SDGs* PROTECTING This year, we aim to Our TeleConsultation AND SAVING progressively expand our service is currently LIVES TeleConsultation service to available in 11 countries. include more locations. We aim to increase the Through the results global percentage of obtained, we will Promoters (Net Promoter continuously improve Score rated) by three the service we provide percentage points in the to our clients. In FY1819, next three years. This we will roll out an applies to all case types: internal recognition medical, security, and programme that rewards general assistance. our employees who consistently receive Our current member high scores from their satisfaction level is 88%. customers via our Voice We will maintain this level of our Members surveys. for the coming year. By FY2021, we will support An inaugural meeting the introduction of a new between International ISO certification standard Organization for on travel risk management. Standardization (ISO), British Standards Institution (BSI) and International SOS took place in July 2018, in Kazakhstan. A second meeting took place in November 2018, in London, to discuss the structure and content of the standards. A follow up meeting is scheduled for May 2019. *Our efforts support several SDGs 14 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 Not Started In Progress Completed Pillar Goal Progress Activities SDGs* PROTECTING We aim to attain our A working committee has AND SAVING MedSupply Corporate been set up. LIVES Quality Management System (CQMS) by FY2021 – a set of standard quality management system procedures based on the World Health Organization’s (WHO) Model Quality Assurance Systems (MQAS) for procurement agencies, and other applicable WHO guidelines. By FY1920, we will expand Our medical and product our mental health service teams will work closely offerings to our clients with WPO. through our collaboration with Workplace Options (WPO). We will maintain our We will continue our commitment to improve collaboration with Global Health Security Chatham House and other throughout this year. organisations as part of our commitment to improve Global Health Security worldwide, and at all our medical sites. We will maintain our We will actively support commitment to improve the organisation of two Community Health, in international events partnership with other tackling Health Impact actors throughout this year. Assessment. This is recognised as a practical and collaborative approach to improving the health of all people, by incorporating health considerations into decision-making across all sectors and policy areas. *Our efforts support several SDGs WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 15 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 Not Started In Progress Completed Pillar Goal Progress Activities SDGs* FUELLING We will maintain our We will continue our OUR CLIENTS’ commitment to raising collaboration with Relate GROWTH awareness on Malaria as part of our Malaria THROUGH OUR throughout this year. Awareness campaign in PEOPLE AND Africa through monetary PARTNERS donations and volunteer time annually. In FY1819, we will maintain Contribution was made in our commitment to August 2018. contribute US$100,000 to the International SOS Foundation in support of its research efforts on Duty of Care: Health, Safety and Wellbeing. We will commit 50 Annual roster of volunteers to support volunteers can be the International SOS found at https://www. Foundation and its internationalsosfoundation. research efforts in Duty of org/about-us Care: Health, Safety and Wellbeing annually. By the end of FY1819, We have set up a process we will provide annual for nomination and a set funding/scholarships for of review criteria for the five to ten talented females scholarship. to attend a leadership programme. By the end of FY1819, We have set up a team to we will have a global design the programme. mentoring programme, exclusively for female managers. We are committed to We will continue our developing young talent, partnership with AIESEC. through our continued partnership with AIESEC, for our Global Talent Programme. From FY1920, all our We will set up a project employees globally will be team and work closely required to complete the with the Global Learning & OH&S eLearning course Development department. as an annual mandatory requirement. This is part of our continuing efforts in developing a culture of the highest level of safety and compliance across all our offices worldwide. *Our efforts support several SDGs 16 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 Not Started In Progress Completed Pillar Goal Progress Activities SDGs* FUELLING We aim to attain a We have set up a project OUR CLIENTS’ certification of ISO team to embark on this GROWTH 45001:2018 Occupational certification. THROUGH OUR health and safety PEOPLE AND management systems PARTNERS in Europe, Africa and Australasia by FY1920. We will make our Employee Our employees in Australia, Assistance Programme Dubai, Europe, Papua New (EAP) and mental health Guinea, New Zealand and support available to our the United States are part employees globally in the of our initial roll-out. next five years. LIVING We will maintain and We will continue to BY OUR expand, where practical, maintain our versatile PRINCIPLES on our versatile trainings training. AND PRACTICES globally. The versatile training enables our non-Assistance Centre employees to be effective in supporting our operations in a crisis or/ and when there is a huge surge in cases. We will embark on The first phase of this independent certification process involves auditing of our compliance with eight of our Assistance GDPR through Bureau Centres. Veritas. We aim to attain certification by end of the year. In FY1819, we will run Our team will work on the a cyber-attack breach content for the cybersimulation at our next attack breach simulation Annual General Meeting exercise. for our top general Our Group Deputy Director, management population. Operations will work with We will also run Crisis our Regional Operations Management and Data Directors to complete the Breach training in each crisis trainings. of our Regional Crisis Management Control Centres, as well as basic crisis training in each Assistance Centre location. *Our efforts support several SDGs WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 17 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 18 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 PROTECTING AND SAVING LIVES We are in the business of saving lives, protecting our clients’ global workforces from health and security threats. Wherever our clients might be, we deliver customised health, security risk management and wellbeing solutions to fuel their growth and productivity. In the event of extreme weather, an epidemic, or a security incident, we provide an immediate response and, with it, peace of mind. Our innovative technology, medical and security expertise focus on prevention, offering real-time, actionable insights and on-the-ground quality delivery. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 19 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 PATIENT CARE, CLIENT SATISFACTION AND QUALITY OF ASSISTANCE We help organisations to develop, grow and protect human capital at work and in life, for now and in the future. Ensuring our members receive quality care and assistance is our utmost priority. Our Global Quality Charter ensures that we deliver excellent healthcare, concierge and security assistance services to our clients. The Charter is led by our Group Chairman and Standardised Governance CEO and our Group Medical Director demonstrating the work practices leadership highest level of commitment from International SOS. This quality plan integrates our quality management system into the routine work of each Assistance Centre. It focuses on eight principles: governance leadership, client focus, Information Client partnerships, continuous improvement, staff engagement, management focus professional knowledge, information management and standardised work practices. Quality control measurements Client & include: internal and external audits, clinical governance, Quality First business process reviews, customer and staff feedback and incident management. Professional Partnerships International SOS standards are developed internally by knowledge subject matter experts who combine their knowledge of the business with relevant industry and international best practice. The standards are approved by the Operational and Quality Leadership teams and set the expected level Staff Continuous engagement improvement of performance for our organisation. Compliance with the standards is routinely measured by internal and external audits. The results are reviewed and analysed, then reported to Group Executive Committee. In addition to our internal quality standard, we are recognised with external accreditations: ISO 9001:2015 certification across all our business lines and for all International SOS registered companies ISO/IEC 27001:2013 certification for Information Security Management ISO/TS 13131 certification for TeleHealth services 20 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 In FY1819, we will embark on the certification of ISO 45001:2018 Occupational health and safety management systems in Europe, Africa and Australasia. The certification ensures we are providing safe and healthy workplaces for our employees through preventing work-related injury and ill health, as well as by proactively improving our Occupational Health & Safety (OH&S) performance. We aim to achieve certification by FY1920. Medical Creating a positive change: The true risk of so many differing environments around Voice of our Members (VooM) the world can only be assessed by our local knowledge and experience gained from our in-country presence. A Attaining customer feedback is an integral part of our dedicated and specialised team of doctors, nurses, public operations and we encourage transparency with our clients health specialists and multimedia communications coin this area. We commissioned an independent, third-party ordinators make it possible to provide real-time advice customer experience company (NICE Satmetrix) to conduct and support. an on-going client satisfaction survey. The results are collated annually. The survey analyses the satisfaction Our insights are gathered and supported by machine level of both the end-users and the procuring manager. aggregation tools. Thousands of inputs, including media The results enable us to continuously improve the service aggregation websites, news reports, blogs, official we provide to our clients. government information, internet discussion sites and social media channels are continuously filtered. Other inputs Any person calling an Assistance Centre for general, include our network of global health professionals (both medical or security assistance will automatically receive a in-house experts and specialist consultants), clients and satisfaction survey when their case is closed. This process members, and informal relationships with other international has been in place since 2014 and to date we have received non-traditional health threat surveillance groups. in excess of 15,000 responses. The overall rating of our services has been consistently high. 88% or above say Relevant inputs are validated by actively researching they are satisfied or very satisfied with the service they publicly available, official national information sources, have received. and/or direct communication with relevant authorities, and/or internal sources. This is then assessed against recent We also run an escalation process in the very unlikely event epidemiological information. that the end-user is dissatisfied. Independent quality assurance managers are alerted to any end-user dissatisfied with the Security service received. Those individuals are contacted as a matter of Our Security Services team consists of professionals from urgency so we can understand the issue. We will then conduct a wide variety of backgrounds, including government and a full root cause analysis and remediation. All complaints and the armed forces, law enforcement, policy and think-tank compliments are added to our Customer Feedback System staff, corporate security and risk management professionals, and enable our continuous quality improvement. journalists and NGO workers. VooM improved response times and changed We work with multiple sources including but not limited to: our global operations We have achieved the following improvements to our • Our exclusive networks of people on the ground, service provision: a 4% increase in satisfaction with including our security provider network and extensive our medical service efficiency (87%), a 6% increase in professional relationships in relevant countries confidence with our medical expertise (91%), and a 5% • Thousands of public sources, including local language increase in confidence in our security expertise (96%). news, social media, semi-official and government In FY1718, we piloted an internal recognition programme information sources that rewarded our employees who consistently receive • Subscriber-only news, information and analytical sources high scores from customers via our surveys. This pilot resulted in a significant and sustained improvement in Our people speak 99 different languages. This gives us customer satisfaction in one of our regions. We will be unequalled access to local open source material – without rolling this out globally. having to rely on automated translations. Around 60% of our alerts come from non-English language sources. Quality information and intelligence We have numerous checks and balances to evaluate the credibility of these sources, corroborate the intelligence Our clients rely on vetted and quality information to and ensure our output is consistent and reliable. When make insight-led decisions for the management of their compiling reports, our analysts assess the sources based on employees’ health, safety and security risks. We have a a range of factors, including the historical reliability of the stringent and proven process to ensure the quality of our sources in question, the potential for bias or just inaccuracy, medical and security intelligence and advice. the timeliness of the information, as well as its relevance and practical use to our clients. We are particularly careful to 87% 91% 96% avoid circular reporting when working with public sources. We do not issue reports based on a single source, except in those very rare instances where a human source is of proven reliability. For example, information coming directly from one of our own security teams, or specialist staff at International SOS or our joint venture partner, Control Risks. 4 6% 5 Even then, we typically caveat this in the text of the report. + % + + % All information is double-checked by our 24/7 editorial team prior to publication in order to ensure maximum factual accuracy. increase in increase in increase in satisfaction with confidence with confidence with Our joint venture with Control Risks: our medical our medical our security https://www.internationalsos.com/medical-and-security-services/security service efficiency expertise expertise WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 21 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 Medical and security transport: • Maintain close relationships with scheduled airlines, and their medical departments, enabling rapid medical quality and diligence clearance of patients to travel on scheduled flights, together with our medical staff and equipment when A key component of Duty of Care is preparing for the rare appropriate, saving time and cost instance when prevention is not possible; a safe and rapid evacuation is essential to save life or limb. International SOS supports the continuous improvement of We provide our clients with access to an unsurpassed industry standards by developing quality of aviation service. Protecting their people is the aeromedical assessments for our priority – no matter where they are. We apply utmost Basic Aviation Risk Standard diligence both before and during evacuation missions (BARS) accreditation. to ensure the safety of our clients. Our specialist expertise, combined with a global operations Benchmark to international standards infrastructure, ensures the most cost effective evacuation solutions can be achieved (frequently on scheduled airlines Currently the quality systems of each MedSupply rather than charter or air ambulance aircraft) without International (part of the International SOS Group) compromising quality. Our team manages the safety Fulfilment Centre are standalone with no central oversight and quality of the mission using external and internal and evaluation of adequacy. Each fulfilment centre operates assessment standards and processes. International SOS its own Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) even though has established ISO certified medical transportation the business model and IT systems are similar. It is therefore evaluation standards for both scheduled airline and air important that all fulfilment centres comply with a minimum ambulance transports. Our cases are compliant with set of global quality standards. these and are audited regularly. We aim to achieve this by establishing a MedSupply Integral to our transport services are the ISO certified Corporate Quality Management System. This is a set of regional flight desks. They: standard quality management systems procedures based on WHO’s Model Quality Assurance Systems for procurement • Manage and coordinate all logistics involved in missions, agencies, and other applicable WHO guidelines, which each supported by specialist aviation managers and operations fulfilment centre needs to adhere to and stay compliant coordinators, security experts and doctors specifically with. We aim to achieve this in FY2021. trained in aeromedicine • Enable a rapid response in evacuating our members with life-threatening conditions, often from austere medical environments where speed can be life-saving 22 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 SECURITY AND SAFETY Security threats can affect anyone, and geopolitical changes increase instability, affecting employees’ willingness to travel. In FY1718 we focussed our work on three areas: and information security threats. It provides advice and Geopolitics guidance on how business travellers can reduce their We continue to see the rise of movements, which attract exposure to the risk of data theft. relatively large-scale and well-attended rallies in numerous We have also produced a cyber security pocket guide. cities. These movements tend to cause road closures, The pocket guide provides tips on data security before congestion, and, in some places, occasional outbreaks and while travelling, as well as advice on what to do in a of serious violence. We provide our clients and their high threat location. employees with pre-travel alerts and advisories to minimise these business travel disruptions. In 2017, we sent five Behaviour million medical and security Pre-Trip Advisories to travellers to prepare them for their trips. This provided our clients According to the Ipsos MORI ‘Business Resilience Trends with vetted, actionable intelligence, enabling them to Watch 2019’, many organisations are not keeping up with make insight-led decisions. modern workforce needs. While employees’ demands and expectations are constantly evolving, the survey finds that Another continuing trend is the targeting of hotels travel policies are not taking account of these: associated with international travellers, tourists and expatriates by militant groups. The selection of an • Only a third (33%) of organisations cover cyber security in appropriate hotel has become an integral part of travel their travel policy risk control, and should be taken into consideration when • Just over a quarter (26%) cover considerations for female forming any mature travel risk management programme. travellers We have introduced a Hotel Risk Review service to help our clients find the right hotel at the right place, at the right • 18% cover ‘bleisure1’ travel and 14% cover shared economy time for their trips. services2 We help our clients identify these gaps and manage their Technology employees’ overall health, safety and security policies As reports of corporate information theft continue to through a series of consultation, assistance, eLearning rise, one area of particular concern is information security courses (e.g. Women Security and Cyber & Security while travelling on business. To support our clients facing Information), bite-size advice via pocket guides and this challenge, Control Risks and International SOS have new services such as the Hotel Risk Review. introduced an eLearning course, ‘Cyber and Information 1. Bleisure travel is the act of adding a leisure portion of travel to a business trip. Security for Travellers’. The eLearning course aims to 2. Shared economy services is a peer-to-peer (P2P) based activity of acquiring, providing or sharing access to goods and services that are facilitated by a community create greater awareness and understanding of cyber based on-line platform. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 23 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 EPIDEMICS AND PUBLIC HEALTH Despite advances in modern medicine, epidemics of infectious diseases continue to be a problem in the 21st century. With international travel, pathogens can spread across the world very quickly. There are numerous examples of major outbreaks in recent years – Serious Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), H1N1 influenza pandemic, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV), Ebola and Zika. There is also the real possibility that a previously unrecognised disease could emerge. It is not a matter of ‘if’ there will be a new disease outbreak that threatens millions of lives – but ‘when’ it will occur. Acts of bioterrorism are a further threat to health, safety and security. Even without pandemics, outbreaks of infectious diseases and public health challenges can pose serious problems for our members and their communities, and our own The experience of Ebola, employees. As well as affecting health, such events can threaten business continuity, which is increasingly a priority and many other events, for both private and public actors. has enabled us to further Helping members monitor and plan for these events is a major part of our activity. Our initiatives span from strengthen our system of identifying and mapping potential risks to offering on the ground support. We also play an important role by preparedness, for ourselves facilitating partnerships among different actors such as national health authorities, private companies and civil and our clients. society organisations (See page 46, under ‘Supporting our clients: making a positive impact on the community’). We have a number of specialists dedicated to alerting clients to such risks and helping them prepare. Our Learning from experience dedicated team monitors emerging events 24/7 and In 2013, an outbreak of Ebola was identified in Guinea, maintains close links with many external experts. which then spread to Liberia, Sierra Leone and Nigeria. We are considered to be an authority and thought leader The speed and extent of its spread showed how unprepared in pandemic preparedness. During the SARS epidemic in the world was to deal with such events. Many of our mining 2003, we developed a new generation of Portable Medical company clients have operations in these countries and Isolation Units to transport patients with highly infectious we were rapidly involved in developing a response. We diseases. In 2014, we supported the fight against Ebola in worked closely with several organisations, including national West Africa. This included the launch of a publicly available ministries of health and international organisations such as website, providing the latest information on developments, the UN, WHO, Red Cross and Médecins Sans Frontières. travel advice and how individuals and organisations could We launched our Ebola website and developed educational respond. We have produced a white paper on ‘Infectious tools to help reduce the spread of Ebola among local Disease Incidents and the Workplace’ and contributed our communities. At client locations we implemented rapid thinking to academic journals. The latter includes sharing disease awareness training for staff, and adapted clinic the lessons learned from the Ebola outbreak and the role of layouts specifically to handle Ebola cases. The experience the private sector in responding. of Ebola, and many other events, has enabled us to further In all these activities, we continue to collaborate closely with strengthen our system of preparedness, for ourselves and national and local governments to develop best practice our clients. and ensure client programmes meet all relevant regulations. Our dedicated website for our members explains the This leads to improved outcomes and helps clients deliver background to pandemics and focuses on emerging their SDGs. respiratory viruses like bird flu and MERS-CoV, as well https://www.internationalsos.com/about-us/30th_landing as Ebola. We work with clients to develop detailed response plans for their individual locations. This includes conducting drills, checking that all required personal protective equipment is available and medical protocols are in place. 24 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 Emerging infectious diseases in the DRC We are part of a multi-stakeholder initiative to help IDRAM initiative which these organisations have previously manage the risk of emerging infectious diseases (EIDs) in been collaborating on. The partnership aims to develop the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The Infectious a community-based surveillance system to speed up the Disease Risk Assessment Management (IDRAM) initiative is response time and reduce the human and economic costs an EID project led by the Centre for Global Health Security of disease outbreaks. at Chatham House in London, with funding from the United The partnership’s first activity took place in February 2018. States Agency for International Development (USAID). This was a workshop, held in Dar es Salaam, funded and Our work supports the extractive industry in the Katanga hosted by Ending Pandemics (formerly the Skoll Global Province of DRC with the aim to combat EIDs of animal Threats Fund). International SOS was co-convenor of the origin, such as rabies, cholera and haemorrhagic fevers. workshop and our DRC health team supported the DRC As mining companies push deeper into wildlife habitats delegation. At the workshop, local health authorities, in the developing world, they are increasingly encountering state health agencies, universities, and international such diseases. organisations gathered from around the world. They aimed to identify how community-based disease detection We are coordinating the pilot fieldwork and providing the and mitigation initiatives, already trialled in Thailand and interface between key stakeholders. These include the Tanzania by Ending Pandemics, might be successfully mining companies, the provincial health and veterinary applied in the DRC. authorities, the University of Lubumbashi and various research teams. As part of this commitment, we have been actively involved in four international events on facilitating the collaboration We are also looking at what mining companies can do to between private and public actors in case of disease monitor and prevent transmission and enforce behaviour outbreaks, thereby advancing the GHSA. Our leading change among their workforce. One example is avoiding experts are providing inputs to these global discussions bush meat, which is often a source of disease transmission. and sharing the lessons learned in publicly available articles In January 2018, we signed a partnership agreement with and publications. In this way we constantly revise and Chatham House the Royal Institute of International Affairs improve GHSA services for our clients. to take this work forward. This is to further advance the https://www.ghsagenda.org/ Global Health Security Agenda (GHSA) as part of the https://www.chathamhouse.org/about/structure/global-health-security/extraction-industryinfectious-disease-risk-assessment-and-management-idram-project WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 25 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 MOBILITY AND EVOLVING TRAVELLER BEHAVIOUR Changes in technology, shifting demographics and the increasing influence of emerging economies are just some of the factors that have revolutionised global businesses in recent years. Mobile workers can visit high risk locations and often face unfamiliar environments. The number of people travelling continues to increase too. We are committed to helping clients keep pace with these evolving medical, safety and security demands. We provide mobile workers with world-class medical and It is increasingly important for organisations to consider security services via our Assistance Centres and network the mental health of their mobile workforce. Exposure to on the ground. Our tracking solution identifies and locates new environments, minor medical conditions, or simply mobile workers who are at particular risk while travelling, being far from loved ones can trigger stress and anxiety. following any significant incidents or threats. We keep them The number of days lost to work-related stress, depression and their organisation fully informed on what is happening or anxiety has significantly increased in recent years. With and what action to take. our partner providers, we have developed a rapid response psychological support programme. This counselling method As well as responding to mobile workers’ immediate needs is specifically tailored for mobile workforces and is available for assistance, we provide a wide range of information and in 60 languages. advice, both before and during travel. This is available from our Assistance Centres, our Membership Portal, Assistance We also support the International SOS Foundation, App, and many other resources. For example, our eLearning an independent, not-for-profit organisation with the courses provide an overview of key medical and security development of research, surveys and best practice risks, plus specific courses on malaria, the Zika virus, road guidelines. This work includes an academic overview of safety, and other current topics. mental illness in mobile workforces and a co-publication with the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health Mobile workers can also access advice specific to them. on ‘Managing the Safety, Health and Security of Mobile We recognise the particular challenges faced today by Workers’. female travellers, LGBT travellers, older workers and people with disabilities. We further tailor our advice to We help people prepare for travel, advise them of emerging meet the contemporary needs of students on placement risks and provide professional medical and security and millennials in the workplace. expertise when and where it is needed. Together this provides protection and peace of mind, for the benefit of In response to increasing requests for advice, we have our clients, our own employees and the global workforce. produced a pocket guide on Hotel Security and introduced a new service, Hotel Risk Review. These services help mobile workers choose a safe hotel and give suggestions on hotel room selection and safety tips for the duration of the stay. NON-COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AND MENTAL HEALTH International SOS supports its clients in several NCDs Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) initiatives across the globe, including: According to WHO, NCDs, including heart disease, stroke, • Auditing and refining global wellness programmes cancer, diabetes and chronic lung disease, are together the number one cause of death and responsible for close to • Conducting ‘Know your numbers’ biometric testing 70% of all deaths worldwide. • Developing nutrition programmes The four major risk factors • Developing seafarer-targeted wellness programmes Tobacco use, physical inactivity, the harmful use of alcohol and unhealthy diets are the key drivers of increasing NCDs. • Designing company-wide health policies It is found that to a large extent, NCDs are preventable and • Running tobacco cessation programmes this can be achieved by reducing key risk factors. • Running physical activity programmes, including Step https://www.who.int/gho/ncd/mortality_morbidity/en/ challenges 26 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 Case study: Freeport, Indonesia In the most eastern region of Papua, International SOS Indonesia supports one of the world’s largest scale NCDs programmes. It is on a mining site that looks after circa 28,000 employees. With NCDs overtaking infectious diseases as the country’s the mortality rate nationwide, population-wide sodium number one killer, the mining site had decided to allocate reduction has been named a WHO ‘Best Buy’ for NCDs resources to help prevent NCDs before they occur, by prevention. In 2015, Freeport and International SOS focussing on the risk factors that lead to them happening embarked on the country’s first comprehensive healthy in the first place. The success of the NCDs programme was heart/sodium reduction strategy. Results of the study founded on the cooperation among our client (Freeport), were published in the World Heart Federation’s peer academia, government and International SOS. The client review journal Global Heart in 2016. financed the programme and provided access to its The five-year impacts of the NCDs programme on employees, while International SOS designed and employees’ health and NCDs burden is visible. Tobacco operationally delivered the NCDs prevention and care control efforts have seen a positive impact, with smoking programme through its seven clinical access sites; this rates decreased from 48.4% of the workforce to 44.9% includes one primary level facility, one secondary level and raised blood pressure levels moving from 24.9% to facility and four satellite clinics. Academia, which 13.4%. There were also visible reductions in overweight, included a number of universities, assisted in planning obesity and raised glucose levels. and evaluating interventions. From a business and financial perspective, lower The Indonesian Ministry of Health designed its NCDs risk factors have translated into lower spending national NCD policy with inputs and evidence from on NCDs medication (27% per year), despite a historical this programme. Additionally, Freeport has begun 20% year-on-year increase in spending before the the country’s first massive scale ‘Sodium study’. With programme started. cardiovascular diseases accounting for the majority of WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 27 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 MedFit programme Mental health Many employees go on an international assignment unaware A research paper titled, ‘Keeping International Business of their personal health, occupational health and destination Travellers Happy, Healthy & Engaged at Home and Away’ risks. We help manage the health risks of our clients and (produced by the International SOS Foundation, together their global workforce through MedFit, a health screening with Kingston Business School and Affinity Health at programme. The MedFit programme can also be applied to Work) found that nearly one-third (31%) of international the employees’ dependants. In 2017, we conducted 20,000 business travellers experienced emotional exhaustion a health checks and questionnaires resulting in targeted core feature of burnout on a weekly basis. Organisations medical feedback to our clients’ employees. Through the need to have greater awareness of the actions and mental programme, we provide our clients with the reassurance wellbeing of employees, and implement measures to that medical issues have been addressed before work protect and support them. Supporting materials from the assignments and business travel begin. research include, an action planning tool, checklists and guidance documents. These are to help organisations, employers, managers, international business travellers, Organisations need to and their support networks, identify and manage potential behavioural and psychological issues. have greater awareness International SOS has partnered with Workplace Options (WPO) to offer clients and their people emotional of the actions and mental support along with integrated medical and security risk management solutions. wellbeing of employees. http://learn.internationalsosfoundation.org/Psychology_Study Case study: mental health support to a client International SOS worked with one of our United Kingdom-based clients to offer emotional and mental support and guidance following a traumatic accident. A group of individuals from the United Kingdom travelled to Geneva for a work conference. Prior to the conference, they decided to take a road trip to explore the countryside. Their vehicle collided with an oncoming truck 100km outside of Geneva. Tragically, three individuals within the group were killed, two of the travellers were uninjured and one woman was left in critical condition. The critically injured woman was airlifted from the scene by emergency services to a local hospital. She needed immediate surgery to resolve her life-threatening injuries. Her children and family travelled to Geneva and remained by her side throughout her hospital stay. The challenge The solution deployed an English-speaking local This tragic accident left all survivors None of the survivors requested nurse to provide the hospitalised and their families in a very vulnerable emotional support. However, our patient with medical and non-medical state. Their employer faced a challenge medical team knew that the employer translation services. This gave the which needed to be delicately handled. needed to proactively provide support patient and her family the reassurance The immediate concern, besides the for their psychological wellbeing. that she was receiving the best care physical trauma, was safeguarding the Once we were notified of the incident, for her needs. We also deployed emotional wellbeing of the individuals we made contact with our partner, a local coordinator to assist with involved; helping them cope with the WPO, who sent a local counsellor to on-the-ground support including shock and trauma associated with the help. A session was arranged with liaising with the funeral home, local incident. The employer was unsure the counsellor, the survivors and their authorities, and the UK embassy. Both how to offer psychological support to families. They ruled out any critical local representatives were in constant the survivors. Their assumption, like immediate psychological issues that communication with the employer so most, was that the survivors would would prevent the survivors from they remained up-to-date. request support if they felt it was travelling home. They were, however, These solutions reassured the necessary. A second challenge was going through a phase of denial and employer they had taken the right that the incident occurred outside their were susceptible to Post-Traumatic approach to protect the emotional home country. Although Switzerland Stress Disorder (PTSD). WPO was wellbeing of their employees. The has high quality emergency services able to advise the employer and survivors continued to receive and medical care, the differences from their colleagues on the physical and treatment and support to ensure a UK local medical treatments, language psychological signs to look out for, smooth recovery and were able to and procedures were evident. and what to do in the case of any return to work. future incidents. Meanwhile, we 28 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 Case study: bringing quality health and wellness on-site In the last few years we have seen an increasing need for on-site health and wellness provision at large corporate campuses. One of our clients, a large IT company from the United We helped the client implement an on-site Health & Wellness States, wanted to review their on-site health and wellness Centre solution that improved the ability to manage primary provision for their corporate office and identify how they care cases and addressed the risk factors for NCDs. This could better care for its staff. Our medical consultant visited approach is expected to lead in the short-term to a reduction the site and assessed the local on-site clinic. The assessment of hospital costs and to an improvement in workforce found that a substantial amount of primary care cases productivity. In the long-term, through the proactive were referred for initial assessment to the local hospital. provision of preventative care, it should lead to decreased This was due to the inexperience of the on-site staff and a disease burden and potentially decreased insurance lack of second opinion support. This led to high costs and premiums. Although there was a difference in the initial cost unnecessary tests, which in turn led to high absenteeism as compared to a local provider, the rate of hospital referral and a reduction in workforce productivity. and productivity time loss were cut down significantly, leading to a great reduction in overall running costs. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 29 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 DIGITALISATION OF HEALTHCARE AND ASSISTANCE Providing healthcare and assistance to clients has been at the heart of our business since its inception. Much of this service is provided remotely, utilising developments in technology and digitalisation, including enhanced connectivity, data sharing and storage. This has enabled us to significantly extend the range of TeleHealth services we offer. This is a cost effective, invaluable tool that is widely used by our clients and our own employees, both before and during travel. On-going developments We will continue to invest in this area and broaden the services we offer. Currently TeleConsultation is available in 11 countries: Australia, Canada, China, Italy, Malaysia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Singapore, Thailand, United Kingdom and United States of America. This is progressively expanding to include more locations in FY1819. Likewise, we will make specialist tele-diagnostic equipment available in more remote locations. We will continue to develop the integration of our services, enabling more proactive and personalised assistance, data We can now provide: analysis and reporting. These developments will, of course, • TeleAssistance: offering basic medical advice and comply with our stringent security and data privacy and information, by phone, to our members via our protection requirements (See page 51, under ‘Data privacy Assistance Centres & protection and cyber security’). • TeleConsultation: members can have a direct video or Greater personalisation of services will also be delivered by phone consultation with a locally licensed doctor to our Assistance App, allowing individual members to access receive a prompt clinical consultation and prescribed assistance directly. Live Chat has been launched and tested medication, if needed in the USA and China; other locations will follow. • TeleMedicine: paramedics at remote sites such as an Improved automation will offer further opportunities, oil rig can seek expert advice on a video call with one including the provision of information leveraging Artificial of our doctors Intelligence tools – where appropriate – and more user• Specialist TeleMedical Consultation: a remote paramedic friendly authentication processes. and patient can together consult a specialist Environmental benefits • TeleDiagnostics: increasingly, on-site clinicians have facilities to conduct tests and transmit the results for We are committed to protecting the environment and analysis. For example, if a worker on an oil rig has had our TeleHealth services are a prime example of how we an accident, an X-ray can be taken on-site and sent for integrate UNGC Principle 9, ‘Encourage the development analysis by a radiologist. The report can be back at the and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies’ into remote site in less than an hour our business plan and day-to-day operations. TeleHealth brings major benefits to clients and their The advice and assistance we offer remotely results workers. For mobile workers and those on assignment in reduced unnecessary travel, travel disruption, and a in remote locations, being able to quickly access expert reduction in the environmental impacts associated with this. medical support is vital. It can lead to a better outcome for For example, it can take three days to divert a vessel to a the patient. In turn, this helps our clients fulfil their Duty of remote oil rig to pick up a patient; delivering care remotely Care to their workers. Accessing care remotely saves travel can mitigate this. Then there are the thousands of shorter costs, time off work and reduces business interruption. In journeys saved every day due to mitigation of medical remote areas this can lead to substantial savings, especially events across the world through TeleHealth delivery. These where regular follow-up care is required. vast reductions in travel bring real environmental benefits. Other digitalised services, namely our Membership Portal Furthermore, as we increasingly move from paper to and Assistance App, offer further benefits. Users can rapidly electronic systems, we save resources, and time in receive up-to-date medical and security risk analyses, manual collation. personal to them and their proposed destination. 30 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 EXTREME WEATHER CONDITIONS We see an increased impact of extreme weather on international travel, particularly hurricanes and tropical storms. There was a very significant level of damage in the hurricane This highlights the need for individuals to build flexibility into season of 2017 in the Caribbean, which fortunately was not travel plans, and for institutions to be adaptable, with clear, repeated in 2018. However, what was significant about the well-rehearsed decision-making and response plans. Our 26 2018 season was that hurricanes appeared to affect locations Assistance Centres, staffed by full-time professional medical, not usually associated with such events: Hawaii, the west security and logistics specialists, work 24/7, 365 days a year coast of Mexico and the north-eastern coastal states of the to continuously monitor conditions and situations around the USA, with evacuation orders in place for a number of these. world, ready to mobilise resources wherever our clients need The 2018 Pacific typhoon season also reinforced the impact them. Besides our Pre-trip Advisories, our digital platform of tropical storms, with a number of disruptive severe tropical and solutions such as our Membership Portal, Assistance App storms, such as Malikisi, and typhoons including Mangkhut, and TravelTracker also help our clients and their employees which caused at least 134 fatalities across the Philippines, to manage the associated travel risks. China and Taiwan. Case study: destruction in the Americas — an intense hurricane season When Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria struck in the fall of 2017, they brought widespread damage, disruption and fatalities to parts of Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and numerous islands in the Caribbean. With the storms severely impacting our clients’ people and their operations throughout the region, International SOS and Control Risks stepped in to help. The situation How we supported our clients On the ground response and Many of our clients found themselves Actionable insight and advice: from support: we deployed multiple Incident stranded in locations with limited the early onset, our Regional Security Management Teams, comprised of shelter, food and water. Many required Centre in Philadelphia closely tracked medical and security specialists, to evacuation, but were faced with the weather systems, sending out Florida, the Dominican Republic and narrow windows of opportunity to an alert as soon as the first storm, Puerto Rico to support our clients on move, given the back-to-back timing Hurricane Harvey, started to form. the ground. Our teams delivered vital of the storms and their unpredictable Over the next four weeks, we supplies including food, water and trajectories. Both in the lead up to, published approximately 100 alerts, medicine. and the aftermath of each of these including Special Advisories, on Evacuation support: we facilitated the storms, the situation was stressful Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria. evacuation of 365 individuals, as well for our clients. They were concerned Crisis management and 24/7 as ten pets, from hurricane impacted about the deteriorating security assistance: as soon as Hurricane zones, assisting them with onward environment, widespread flooding and Harvey made landfall, International SOS transport, hotels and other immediate heavily damaged infrastructure. Power, activated a Crisis Management Team, logistics. potable water and telecommunication which managed the communications network outages, along with the and casework that supported clients shortage of medication and other impacted by all three hurricanes. Our essential supplies, made the situation Assistance Centres supported more even more difficult to manage. Our than 10,000 related calls globally. clients needed our help. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 31 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 32 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 FUELLING OUR CLIENTS’ GROWTH THROUGH OUR PEOPLE AND PARTNERS Our people and our long-standing partnerships with regulators, governments and vendors enable us to protect our clients and their people, 24/7, 365 days a year. We pride ourselves in creating a healthy and positive environment where employees can put their talents to best possible use. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 33 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 OUR PEOPLE Our people are the core of International SOS. Our ability to help our clients manage their medical and security risks is dependent on our access to a skilled workforce globally. As the world’s leading medical and security risk services company, we are committed to developing highly competent talent in a healthy, positive and inclusive environment. ACCESS TO A SKILLED WORKFORCE Our innovative and high-performance culture encourages up of diverse ethnicities and nationalities can speak over and enables all employees to gain new critical skills, fulfil 90 languages. 60% of our global workforce is female. Our their career aspirations and stay ahead in the competitive diverse workforce strengthens our services, enabling us to global workforce landscape. This strengthens our capability provide our clients with a truly global medical and security to change and provide the latest solutions to our clients, risk management solution with local expertise. while maintaining the highest level of customer service excellence. Continuous education and training In FY1718, International SOS welcomed 1,495 new hires To be sustainable, an organisation needs to invest in the to join our offices across 90 countries. To have the right sustainability of its people. In FY1718, we have delivered people in the right roles, we take an inclusive approach 27,089 learning experiences globally. This accumulated to to recruitment, presenting equal opportunities and 52,746 hours of learning (excluding on-the-job learning, implementing fair hiring practices to all potential employees. performance coaching from direct managers and All vacancies are promoted openly on multiple platforms, collaboration with external learning partners). including an in-house career page, and social media networks. With a comprehensive ‘Behavioural Interview Our approach to training is pragmatic and developmental. Skills’ training module in place, our hiring managers and From a comprehensive induction programme (both virtual recruiters are equipped to conduct effective interviews and in person) to continuous on-the-job refresher training, and offer objective opinions on every assessment. we ensure every employee has the necessary skills to meet not only the expectations for their current roles but also Diverse workforce anticipated needs of the business. Fluid and progressive career development for employees is also a focal point in With the rapid growth in mobile workers, many our training agenda. We actively promote career ownership organisations are finding it challenging to manage their across all job levels through tailor-made learning offers safety, health and security. The increase also changes the for every developmental need, as detailed in the following diverse composition of a global workforce and the risks global programmes. associated. More women are travelling for business than We also offer highly specialised programmes such as ever before. It is essential to consider the varying cultural, ‘Train the Trainers’ and ‘Business Process Optimisation’ to legal, health and social challenges they could face and support employees who wish to pursue specialist career how to mitigate any risks effectively. Our people, made 34 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 My roles as a Business Analyst & Operations Trainee under the AIESEC programme in Philadelphia and my current position in our London headquarters have helped me grow both professionally and personally. I have progressed and experienced so much globally in my two years with International SOS. The company culture encourages and supports my appetite to widen my learning scope. It is a fantastic journey, having the opportunity to get involved in diverse projects and working with colleagues around the world. — Jeremy Greant Programme Manager, Group Strategic Alliances and Partnerships, International SOS Previously an AIESEC trainee paths within the organisation. In conjunction with our global users’ convenience. Globally, there are also ten workshops learning offers are complementary programmes/courses offered virtually, and peer to peer/webinar learning through run by local Learning & Development teams. This is to our Learning & Development portal. meet specific needs of respective offices and locations Our latest digital transformation in learning and we operate in. development is MyCareer – a cloud-based platform with bite-sized learning. Designed to promote and accelerate Programme Development Needs career progression and ownership within the organisation, Lead Your Career Individual contributors looking for a MyCareer is available 24/7 across all multiple devices (PC, career path within International SOS laptop, mobile app) and continuously updated with new content by industry experts. Piloted in Europe and the Discovery First-time managers transitioning Americas, the platform has seen over 20,000 learning from being a successful individual activities on a monthly basis. The platform will be available contributor to learning how to achieve globally to all employees, including remotely located staff in great results through others January 2019. Level Up Existing managers looking to fast forward their leadership skills to the AIESEC: attracting young talent next level We offer young graduates the opportunity to gain international experience and develop their leadership Leveraging on technology: potential. For more than five years, we have been working digital learning in partnership with AIESEC, an independent, not-for-profit organisation managed by students and recent university eLearning provides us with an efficient mean of employee graduates. It acts as a global platform for young people education. It minimises time away from home and the to explore and develop their potential. We work together workplace, while still being effective. Currently, we have to identify and select those members who want to spend 448 eLearning lessons, designed to be fully interactive, a 12-month period at International SOS as compensated containing videos, animations and activities that deliver an interns. We currently have 37 AIESEC interns in the effective and meaningful learning experience. In addition business. to eLearning, our digital learning portfolio for our Sales In total, we have provided internship opportunities for more Enablement team also coordinates a series of webinars than 100 AIESEC interns, and more than 60% have stayed throughout the year on a variety of different topics. These on in permanent positions. AIESEC interns have taken on 30-45 minute webinars are run twice to accommodate many different roles across the business: in HR, Operations, different schedules. The sessions are recorded and IT, Finance, and Sales & Marketing. Each year we employ a uploaded to our 360Learning platform for review at the WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 35 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 member of AIESEC as a Global Coordinator to manage the Elite Club: skilled workforce retention and partnership between the two organisations and help in the selection process. recognition The partnership with AIESEC is mutually beneficial. The The Elite Club at International SOS was launched in 2013 with interns gain deep experience working at an international the goal to recognise excellence and reward outstanding company. Their roles are designed to ensure they contributions from our Sales and Marketing teams across encounter different challenges and provide them with the organisation. The key objectives of the programme are clear responsibilities and learning opportunities. We gain to celebrate outstanding performance, provide recognition the benefit of building our long-term talent pipeline and across the group, network with top performers and build increasing diversity within the company. lasting relationships. The incentive programme is announced at the beginning of each fiscal year, highlighting the performance objectives (quantitative and qualitative) to achieve throughout the year in order to be nominated and eventually selected, to participate in the programme. Employer of choice Our achievements as an Employer of Choice are recognised all over the world: SINGAPORE Oct. 2018 Best Company To Work For In Asia 2018, by HR Asia Magazine ASPIRE LIFESTYLES CHINA Oct. 2018 Best Company To Work For In Asia 2018, by HR Asia Magazine MALAYSIA Oct. 2018 Best Company To Work For In Asia 2018, by HR Asia Magazine SOUTH AFRICA Oct. 2018 Top Employer Award 2019, by Top Employer Institute VIETNAM Sept. 2018 Best Company To Work For In Asia 2018, by HR Asia Magazine TAIWAN June 2018 Best Company To Work For In Asia 2018, by HR Asia Magazine UK May 2018 Silver Award For Investors In People, by Investors In People INDIA May 2018 Diversity Impact Award 2018, Global HR Excellence, by World HRD Congress HONG KONG 2017—2018 Family-Friendly Employers, Awards for Breastfeeding Support, by Hong Kong Family Council MALAYSIA Nov. 2017 Silver Award For Employer Of Choice, by Malaysia Institute Of HR Management CHINA Oct. 2017 Best Company To Work For In Asia 2017, by HR Asia Magazine SINGAPORE 2017 Employer Of Choice: Career Progression, by HRD Asia IAS GLOBAL MS AWARD 2017 Outstanding Contribution To The IHS Integration, Outstanding Contribution to Project Fusion 36 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 EMPLOYEE HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING We want to ensure that International SOS is a healthy and positive environment where employees can put their talents to best possible use. We aim to exceed our Duty of Care responsibilities to our workforce, both in the home office and when they work on an assignment. We have industry-leading systems and practices to prevent illness, injury and security incidents from affecting our employees. Occupational health and safety policy Occupational health and safety at (OH&S) medical facilities We continue to improve our practices for OH&S through At the frontline of our business are employees working formal management review and evaluation of our OH&S tirelessly across our medical facilities, sites and clinics to activities. This includes creating and implementing an maintain and enhance the wellbeing of our clients’ global emergency preparedness and response programme to workforces. As part of our Duty of Care responsibilities ensure the adequate control of an emergency situation, to our employees at said locations, we have implemented and appointing qualified people to train and set standards. a dedicated OH&S Management System that ensures all necessary procedures, tools and training are in place to One key emphasis of our approach to Occupational Health protect and prevent our employees from any health and and Safety Management is early identification and prevention safety hazards. Regular workplace safety inspections are also of potential hazards and risks that would impact our enforced to minimise risks and give our employees peace of personnel. We have established a Hazard Identification and mind while working at International SOS medical facilities. Risk Management Standard, part of an organisation-wide Risk Management Framework, based on ISO 31000:2009 Risk Management – Principles and Guidelines. The Cross-border travel policies and framework specifies a comprehensive hierarchy, against procedures which accountability for identifying, treating, monitoring, communicating and managing risks across the organisation We set policies and procedures to meet our Duty of Care is identified and managed. The extension of this framework responsibilities to our employees when they travel and work is a set of group-wide prevention standards, including abroad. We have robust cross-border travel policies and topics such as personnel security and road safety. eLearning procedures to protect our workforce aboard. We assess modules on pandemic influenza prevention and security security and medical risk for hundreds of countries and cities framework are part of our annual compliance that all worldwide and assign risk ratings. All employees travelling employees are required to complete. abroad are required to obtain approvals. We track employee travel in our TravelTracker system. Employees are encouraged We also report and audit all OH&S accidents and incidents in to use our Assistance App and check in on arrival. Employees order to create and implement corrective and preventative are covered by our assistance services when they travel actions. From FY1920, all our employees globally will be on business or live abroad. All international travellers within required to complete the OH&S eLearning course as an International SOS must complete Travel Risk Awareness annual mandatory requirement. This is part of our efforts to and Travel Risk – Road Safety eLearning courses prior continue developing a culture of highest level of safety and to departure. compliance across all our offices worldwide. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 37 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 Our internal approach to wellbeing • Launched an Employee Assistance Programme for all employees in Europe As part of our Duty of Care responsibilities, a global cross• Kicked off a Step Challenge in Paris and London functional team was set up in 2016 to accelerate our internal Health & Wellbeing efforts focusing on our most important Our Mental Health & Wellbeing programme is currently asset, our employees. In a short span of two years, the running in all continents around the globe for our staff and global team have: clients. We are continually looking for ways to improve the Health & Wellbeing of employees, both travelling and in • Encouraged our organisation’s top leaders to be the first their home country. participants in its initial Mental Health & Wellbeing Health Risk Appraisal Survey Employee assistance programme • Developed a Health & Wellbeing toolkit built on the initial work done in the UK, US and Netherlands through a Many sites have Employee Assistance Programmes (EAP) combination of biometric assessment, focus group and as part of the benefits offered. These programmes support employee interest surveys staff with personal issues, including major life events, financial and legal concerns, substance abuse, emotional • Kicked off a Base Line Review in Switzerland distress, healthcare concerns, work, family and other • Conducted a Health Policy Review in 19 countries concerns. In 2016, we formed a partnership with Workplace Options, a leading EAP Provider, to deliver these services • Encouraged regular sharing of Health & Wellbeing to our staff. Our employees in Australia, Dubai, Europe, campaigns, collateral and best practice Papua New Guinea, New Zealand and the United States are • Conducted an assessment of existing Health & part of our initial roll-out. We plan to make the programme Wellbeing programmes available to all our employees globally in the next five years. Case study: SHINE workplace wellbeing programme London, United Kingdom In FY1617, we launched our London workplace wellbeing programme ‘SHINE’. The programme was designed by a core team made purchases. For example, sugar sweetened beverages were up of representatives from each department within the moved to the bottom shelf in the employee canteen, and organisation. We started by leveraging our nursing staff to water to the top. run ‘Know your numbers’ sessions and then tapped into Additionally, our Global Health Experts launched a our consulting team to design an online employee interest Step Challenge designed according to WHO protocols. survey for all employees. These two elements made up our Participants were placed into teams from different workplace wellbeing baseline starting point. This was then departments and tracked over a four-week period. WHO used to: absenteeism and presenteeism indicators were monitored 1. Identify what the priorities were in our organisation as well. 2. Have a starting point we could use to measure progress One year into the SHINE workplace wellbeing programme we have seen great improvements in employee morale We then reached out to the various department heads and (seen in a survey), engagement and departmental other functions to drive the programme and increase local integration. The programme framework has been adapted engagement. The Medical and Nursing team provided a by our Dubai office with several additional modules suite of educational materials, including posters and handincluding: consultations on nutrition intake, no-smoking outs, for use in our monthly wellbeing events. We have also awareness sessions and talks on sleeping disorder. made changes in the office to encourage more healthy food 38 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 MODERN LEADERSHIP AND ENGAGING WORK In the ever-changing world, modern leadership is key to ensuring our business’ sustainability in the long-term. We need to look beyond financial objectives and review how we can make a positive impact in the workplace, communities and environments that we and our clients operate in. Our people are the core of International SOS. It is our responsibility to develop, grow and protect our human capital at work and in life, for now, and the future. provide information and support sponsored by three members of the Employee engagement that empowers our clients and their Group Executive Committee (ExCo), At International SOS, we are convinced workforces to better understand their who play an active role in defining that having an engaged workforce is changing risk profile (based on their our policies and programmes. The the key to business productivity and environment) and feel supported, at Committee’s mission is to create effectiveness. With our ‘Open Door’ all times. an environment which is free from policy in place, all employees are discrimination and bias and where We are proud of our cultural, ethnic, encouraged to proactively provide people can fulfil their potential. The racial and gender diversity. It is one their thoughts and ideas on workplace initial focus will be to ensure that of our main strengths as a company improvement throughout their time there is balanced gender diversity in that reflects the wide and diverse with the company. Our comprehensive management and leadership roles population we serve. That is why yearly talent management cycle also across the company. This approach we remain committed to creating offers additional space for constructive is supported by regional and local an environment which is free from feedback between managers and their committees. discrimination and bias wherein direct reports. people can fulfil their potential. Gender Inclusive and diverse In 2016, we established a Global 60% of our global workforce is female; Diversity & Inclusion Committee. Our workplace Committee includes representatives 55% of managers are female. Like with specialism in workplace issues many organisations, International SOS International SOS strives to create finds that these percentages begin to pertaining to gender, age, race, a working environment free from decrease at more senior levels. Female ethnicity, sexual orientation, and discrimination and bias, where people empowerment continued to be one physical ability. The Committee is can fulfil their potential. We also of our key priorities in the financial year with several regional initiatives including a Female Leadership course 100% in Europe, a Women’s Mentoring 5% 22% 29% 55% 60% programme and Women in Innovation workshops in Asia, and Women in Leadership sessions in MENA (Middle 80% East and North Africa). In FY1718, International SOS ran a programme to celebrate women 60% in the workplace, profiling women both externally and internally. Our goal is to use the method of celebration to create awareness 40% and prompt conversations that may inspire future leaders. In FY1819 we have instituted sub-committees to 20% represent age, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation and physical ability, and define programmes to support those 95% 78% 71% 45% 40% communities. One of these activities 0% is Unconscious Bias training. Group ExCo Regional ExCo Director Manager Employee We have made the Unconscious Bias Female Male training course mandatory for all people managers globally. In FY1718, Manual data collection from each region and business line every quarter. we delivered 124 hours of training. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 39 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 This training has been identified as a successful project for creating awareness and changing how people think about diversity and inclusion in the workplace. It bridges all the strands of inclusion and diversity, not just limited to one subject. Globally, we launched a ‘Return to Work from Parental Leave’ toolkit to help expectant employees have a smooth transition to parenthood. To celebrate International Women’s Day, a company-wide campaign was launched to promote female talent across all locations and levels of seniority with 30 profiles featured on our Intranet Employee communications portal. In October 2017, International SOS published a Diversity and Inclusion Statement, which outlines the company’s commitment to further support our diverse workforce and clientele. As part of demonstrating our approach to modern leadership we are committed to providing more flexible working arrangements. We recognise that: • Many of our people are looking for more flexibility in where, when and how they do their work • This can have a positive impact on the work life balance of our people, their health and wellbeing and their performance in their role By the end of FY1819, we will have a global mentoring programme, exclusively for female managers. In February 2018, International SOS won the Diversity Impact Award, at the World HRD Congress. What we have achieved so far: • Improved diversity statistics across most regions at director level and above Case study: alternative • Matured our International Women’s Day celebration – e.g. lunch talks in Singapore working initiative in Europe and the US • Won our first Diversity & Inclusion award We proactively support our employees, in India whether they are working parents, • First year celebrating stories of carers or simply seeking an alternative International SOS employees on LinkedIn as part of International Women’s Day working pattern. • Third year in a row profiling successful We will continue our work to: International SOS women on our Intranet • Establish a European Project Team Employee communications portal to celebrate • Communicate our ‘Work Different’ Principles and share International Women’s Day testimonials from our employees • We plan to provide funding/scholarships for • Develop ‘Work Different’ policies for each country five to ten identified female talents to attend leadership programme annually by this year Where the role and situation provides, we will also: • Introduce flexible ‘core’ hours where people can choose (within limits) when to begin and end their working day • Provide the opportunity for people to work from home for up to two days per month • Increase our additional annual leave purchase from one week to two • Introduce job sharing as an option in all locations • Increase our career break leave from three months to six • Review technology options to support flexible working • Communicate flexible working as part of our job adverts 40 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 OUR PARTNERS Our in-country expertise and capability to provide quality healthcare and security support to our clients globally are made possible through our continuous engagement with regulators, stakeholders and our partners. We are enabled to deliver emergency assistance during critical illness, accident or civil unrest. Our clients receive the appropriate medical and security advice according to each country’s regulations and compliance. ENGAGEMENT WITH REGULATORS AND STAKEHOLDERS Compliance with applicable legislation and regulations is second nature to our business. One of our priorities is to ensure that our network of Building such relationships takes time as different credentialed providers (e.g. medical professionals, departments and organisations can be involved. To cite just consultants and other specialists) is licensed to practice one example, in China we regularly have contact with arms in all locations where they operate, including remotely. of government that are industry focussed such as the China This involves detailed assessment of complex requirements, Directors Association and Employer’s Federation, the State country by country. In the case of our MedAire business Administration of Work Safety, the Ministry of Commerce this requires detailed knowledge of the regulations on and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The legislative International Airspace. arms of government that we deal with are the National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Health Confidentiality and data protection are other important and State Emergency Response Bureau. areas. Our compliance levels are set at the highest levels, conforming to the Health Insurance Portability and These efforts can deliver significant results and lead to a Accountability Act (HIPPA) in US and European Union (EU) positive impact on the health and safety of the Chinese General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) requirements. nationals. We have contributed to developing the China Tourism Bureau’s standards for emergency response, Compliance is closely linked to quality. As well as meeting the Civil Aviation Authority’s standards for aeromedical all required regulatory standards, we aim to set ever higher transportations and the Ministry of Health’s standards for standards. We were the first to adopt ISO 13131 relating pre-hospital emergency and aeromedical interventions. to TeleHealth provision. In addition, we have instituted detailed due diligence checks governing the selection The case studies on the Gurkha Welfare Trust (GWT) and of our providers. Setting such standards both enhances TRICARE are further examples of recent activities showing our reputation and delivers important health benefits how our engagement with local authorities, and developing to our clients. partnerships with local service providers, has a positive impact on healthcare outcomes. We have achieved this by working closely with national and local regulators. For example, when building service provision in a new location, a first task is to identify the government bodies which approve and issue the business licences to operate there. It is important to understand the process of applying for the operating licences, the documents needed and all other steps required. We have found that developing a constructive dialogue with relevant departments and officials can be key to making the process run smoothly. Developing mutual respect and understanding further helps as the business moves forward and can help to overcome different challenges and operational issues. It can also be beneficial to engage with local industry associations, institutes and academia. Engaging with local law enforcement agencies can help improve the safety and security of personnel based in those locations. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 41 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 Case study: working with TRICARE in the Philippines The TRICARE Overseas Program (TOP) is the US Department of Defense’s healthcare programme for active duty service members, their families and other eligible beneficiaries, in locations outside the US. We provide a variety of healthcare services for the TOP in more than 200 countries and territories. Our project in the Philippines is an example of how working together with authorities, beneficiary groups and local service providers can lead to positive results. Many US military retirees and their families live in the Dedicated PDP staff was deployed on the ground in the Philippines. TOP offers them healthcare support when Philippines to each Approved Demonstration area to assist needed 24/7. Over the years, beneficiaries became with the implementation and on-going support of the PDP. increasingly frustrated with the claims process, lack of With boots on the ground support we were able to provide healthcare guidance, and diluted provider choices which strong education and communication as well as claims left the beneficiary seeking a more supportive approach. liaison assistance services to our selected providers. There were also reported challenges with the quality of This support ensured both the beneficiaries and medical service being delivered from several of the institutional providers understood the requirements of TRICARE policy; facilities throughout the Philippines. Rather than waiting for including eligibility criteria, claims processing and billing TRICARE to pay for the services, providers often demanded practices and therefore lowered the direct out of pocket full payment up front from the beneficiaries. The amounts costs to the beneficiaries whilst ensuring quality and cost being charged by the providers was an additional concern, effective care was rendered. with suspected aberrant claims activity for certain services in certain locations. The Defense Health Agency (DHA) Each phase of the programme was agreed in detail with asked us to find a solution. the Defense Health Agency. At different stages in-depth analyses were carried out to measure success. These were In January 2013, we developed and implemented a published as White Papers and submitted to the DHA for detailed and phased programme to address these issues. further analysis and evaluation; they were then used to The TRICARE Philippines Demonstration Project (PDP) establish programme objectives, detailed results including involved improving the selection and management of the costs analyses, lessons learned and recommendations. local providers and established contractually required Feedback and satisfaction surveys of both the beneficiaries guidelines to govern the healthcare delivery and claims and providers in Philippine Demonstration areas were reimbursement process. also carried out. As a result of this progress, in 2017, the In the early phases of the programme, working in PDP was converted to a permanent programme, written consultation with key stakeholders on-the-ground and into legislation, requiring International SOS to establish a historical claim data, we identified what specialists Philippine Preferred Network (PPN) for TRICARE retirees were needed and in which geographical areas. Our and their family members in certain areas of the Philippines. stakeholder engagement included direct outreach As well as providing measurable savings, the programme with staff at the US Embassy in Manila and key retiree has ensured beneficiaries are now better able to access and veteran organisations. quality, safe healthcare, delivering improved health We then selected a set of Approved Demonstration outcomes, accurate claims adjudication and payment Providers, first prioritising the JCI Accredited facilities processes, and a more positive experience overall. This in the Philippines who were credentialed, properly improved service is now setting an example for other trained and monitored to ensure compliance with TRICARE Overseas locations, which may also benefit TRICARE billing requirements. from a Preferred Provider Network in the future. 42 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 Case study: Gurkha Welfare Trust Since early 2017 we have been working closely with the Gurkha Welfare Trust (GWT) charity. GWT provides financial, medical and development aid to Gurkha veterans, their families and communities. The UK Ministry of Defence and the Department for International Development (DFID) are among those who financially support the work of GWT, although the overwhelming source of income is charitable donations from the British public. Our work focuses on Nepal where many Gurkhas choose quality improvement. We have improved medical recordto retire, often in remote areas. There the GWT provides keeping and raised the standards of diagnosis and referrals. primary and secondary healthcare to around 30,000 We have improved oversight and assurance arrangements Gurkha pensioners, their families and dependents. and helped streamline the claims process. The latter includes developing communications to explain these new As part of this service we provide an advisory team to arrangements to Gurkha pensioners. support the work of the GWT and deliver significant improvements in the standard of healthcare. This work GWT also gives medical support to the wider Nepalese included the upgrading and re-equipping of the 21 Area community, arranging medical camps in remote areas. Welfare Centres run by GWT in Nepal and instituting a We advise on how to improve these services too. Continuous Medical Education (CME) programme. The outcome has been a clear improvement in the level We have helped build a network of secondary healthcare of medical and welfare support being provided. We are providers to support the pensioners, especially those continuing to support the recruitment and training of who live remotely. We have helped source appropriate local staff to ensure the long-term sustainability of equipment, such as walking frames and pressure mattresses. the programme. Working with GWT, we have established a robust system of governance, upgraded the clinical protocols and practice guidelines and instituted a programme of continuous WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 43 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 COMMUNITY IMPACT AND ENGAGEMENT Championing healthcare and education Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities • Employing best practices in travel risk management for demonstrate a commitment to maintaining globally our employees. This includes preventive education and sustainable operations. Our philosophy for corporate training, health screening, vaccination, travel tracking citizenship focuses on healthcare and education to look and assistance to employees headed to higher risk after the wellbeing of our employees and the communities destinations around where we operate. It also extends to ethical • Partnering with clients on community health initiatives to conduct in our dealings with suppliers, clients and other reduce malaria, Yaws, HIV, tuberculosis and filariasis. We stakeholders. also promote clean water, wellness and healthy practices Our activities include: to prevent strokes, diabetes, infectious disease and cancer • Committing to UN Sustainable Development Goals in many communities worldwide (SDGs) to lay out a roadmap over the next 15 years to end • Raising funds and donating time to support many extreme poverty, fight inequality and injustice and protect healthcare and education causes worldwide the planet Case study: continuing support to London’s Air Ambulance London’s Air Ambulance is the charity that delivers an Currently, the helicopter flight hours operated by London’s advanced trauma team to critically injured people in Air Ambulance are restricted due to limited funding. London. The organisation provides pre-hospital medical International SOS UK formed a strategic partnership with care at the scene of an incident and serves the ten million the charity to share resources, medical expertise and people who live, work and commute around London. fundraising efforts. Together, our employees and London’s Air Ambulance have raised £50,713.89 over the last four As the world’s leading medical and security assistance years. This fuelled 30 missions and is equivalent to six organisation, we know speed is critical in determining not service days. only survival but the quality of life following recovery, in particular during ‘the golden hour’ – the hour immediately Some fundraising activities include charity bike rides, raffles, following a severe injury, when help is needed most. bake-offs and other employee initiatives. These actions support our aim to make a positive impact on health and wellbeing in the local communities where we operate. 44 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 Case study: combatting malaria in Africa Progress is being made in the fight against malaria, a We also purchased 24,700 bracelets over a six-year period preventable disease. But it is still a significant challenge. from the Relate charity. Contributions from these purchases The WHO states that 3.2 billion people remain at risk. In were used to sponsor mosquito nets, protecting over 2016, there were 216 million cases of malaria with 445,000 23,400 children in Africa for the six-year period. malaria deaths. The majority of cases occur in Africa. During Malaria week, similar activities took place in Malaria is a major health concern for our employees, other countries: South Africa, Ghana, Mozambique, Gabon, clients and their global workforce, as well as their local Angola, Chad, Nigeria and Democratic Republic of Congo communities. Every year our Africa region uses a multi(DRC). faceted approach to combat this disease. For the sixth year in a row, the International SOS teams in Africa took time out to raise awareness about malaria among employees, clients, and their communities for Malaria week. Case study: the Teddy Bear Hospital – educating the children of Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan on healthcare Besides actively engaging with the local communities in We have been running these events for several years across the regions where we operate, we also invest time and schools, orphanages and at community events. Today, resources to build good health habits among children several schools in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan are equipped through educational events. Teddy Bear Hospital is one such with Child Health Posters, and over 1,000 children attended initiative run by International SOS. It aims to help address these events across the two countries. The children also children’s misperceptions of doctors and allay fears. receive colouring books with health tips. These events are organised by our doctors, medical The feedback from these events is always positive. We and administrative staff. The children learn about good have seen an increase in demand for such activities from health habits and the value of vaccination. They have the local communities, schools and charities year-on-year. Most opportunity to explore the interior of an ambulance and importantly, we see how children appreciate these events better understand its capabilities. They also get to visit the and are keen for them to happen again. operating theatre and learn how the X-ray machine works. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 45 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 Industrial operations such as mining can alter the Our on-going work with biophysical and human ecosystem, which in turn increases the emergence of infectious diseases. For example, our clients and their local expansion into natural habitats can increase the spread of infections from animals to humans (See page 25, under communities continues to ‘Emerging infectious diseases in the DRC’). Similarly, an influx of workers from different geographical locations bring positive results for can increase the incidence of tuberculosis (TB). Industrial operations can generate positive as well as negative effects the benefit of many. on communities’ health and wellbeing. Environmental and socio economic factors, as well as standards of governance, can all have an impact. International SOS therefore takes a very broad approach to community health, and addresses all the health determinants articulated in the 17 SDGs. Raising public awareness of risks to a We have been working for many years with clients on global workforce mining sites in different countries. We have developed With international and national business travel increasing, detailed programmes to deal with a variety of health issues, we produce extensive information and advice on the risks both in the workplace and the local community. The positive faced by global workforces. This is used by organisations to results achieved benefits health and helps clients meet the help them meet their Duty of Care responsibilities to their expectations of the SDGs. staff, and by individual workers. Our integrated community health programmes frequently Examples include: focus on clean water and sanitation, malaria, TB, HIV/AIDS • In 2017, we published our Travel Risk Map 2018 which rates and the capacity-building of local health facilities. This variable levels of medical and security risks across the involves working closely with all stakeholders: our clients world. It is the world’s first to cover both types of risk and other business partners, the local community, local and central government, NGOs and more. • We often hold advisory webinars in response to major events, including tensions in the Korean Peninsula and Whilst each programme is tailored to meet the needs the hurricane season of each location, they have many common features, reflecting best practice. Here are some common • We frequently share advice via social media programme elements: We assisted in the preparation of communications by Malaria the International SOS Foundation. The International SOS • Case detection and diagnosis: regular surveillance by Foundation launched its first ever guide on business community volunteers, clinics and private practitioners; sustainability reporting, titled ‘Maximising the value of surveys in schools to assess prevalence Occupational Health & Safety and workplace wellness reporting for a global workforce: A practical guide for • Control of mosquito larvae using biological insecticides: internationally operating employers’. The practical guide this can include manual removal of algae from lagoons is authored by Sancroft, an international sustainability where mosquito larvae are often found consultancy and commissioned by the International SOS • Indoor/outdoor spraying or fogging with appropriate Foundation. The guide illustrates the value of the emerging insecticides, according to need global OH&S agenda linked to business sustainability. • Community awareness: distribution of brochures, banners We also provided communication support to the and posters, especially on World Malaria Day International SOS Foundation with a new paper, titled ‘Occupational Health: The Global Evidence and Value’. The • Treatment: timely provision of effective medication report provides insight into the multi-dimensional value of Tuberculosis (TB) occupational health from a global perspective. The paper is These programmes also cover screening and case detection, authored by the Society of Occupational Medicine (SOM), a diagnosis and treatment for mineworkers and the local national leader in the provision of professional development community. We often help clinics increase their capacity to and education in OH, and KU Leuven University, in detect TB cases and encourage contact tracing to prevent partnership with the International SOS Foundation. the further spread of TB. In certain cases, for those with TB, we use peer assistance to increase adherence to treatment. Supporting our clients: making a positive TB prevention and awareness education consists of a impact on the community variety of activities, both on-site and off-site. World TB Day offers a further opportunity for raising awareness. Community health is both a prerequisite for, and a result of, sustainable development. A healthy workforce is achievable HIV/AIDS only with a healthy community and a sustainable project or Similarly, with HIV/AIDS, our programmes encompass investment needs a healthy population. For these reasons, awareness, prevention, detection and treatment. The we have been working for over a decade with clients in programme covers both employees and the local the energy, mining and infrastructure sectors to minimise community, with particular attention paid to high-risk disruption in the communities and maximise positive groups. Common elements of these programmes include: impacts. • Voluntary counselling, HIV testing and provision of An infectious disease outbreak involving the workplace can condoms significantly disrupt business activities, leading to financial • Sex workers specifically targeted through the provision of and reputational losses. Workers who become infected in condoms, lubricants and educational materials the workplace may go on to spread disease to other co-workers, their families and their communities. 46 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 • Eligible adults and children receive antiretroviral therapy detailed health advice and outreach in many different areas. at both workplace and community clinics In Lihir, to meet the specific needs of that location, we • Awareness campaigns cover leaflet distribution, talks, have developed mass treatment for Lymphatic Filariasis quizzes and other activities, both on-site and off-site; (LF) and Yaws. In the DRC, our many activities include World AIDS Day offers a central focus a Mother and Child Outreach Programme, providing immunisation and antenatal care in outlying villages. We In addition to these programmes to control malaria, TB and are also strengthening the local health system by working HIV, we help clients meet a range of other health needs with district health teams to implement their country health in the workplace and local communities. For example, in plans, and training nurses, community volunteers and other Papua, Indonesia, we support a client on an extensive health health professionals. promotion programme that includes a Disease Surveillance & Response Programme, Community Health Assessments, Our on-going work with our clients and their local a Balanced Life Programme and a Health Promotion & communities continues to bring positive results for Behaviour Change Programme. Together these deliver the benefit of many. RELATIONSHIP WITH ASSISTANCE PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS In developing the network, International SOS goes beyond Auditing and accrediting third-party the credentialing process and emphasises the quality of providers in our global assistance care the provider renders. International SOS staff physicians regularly review the care provided by the network network physicians. This case review is an integral part of the Continual evaluation and surveys are necessary to continuing evaluation of network providers. As part of our ensure the integrity of our service providers. We efforts to conserve energy and be environmentally friendly, maintain details on 81,000 independent third party we have moved from paper evaluation to electronic providers: hospitals, physicians, air ambulances, dentists auditing forms. and security practitioners in our Global Assistance Network Having a digital platform to house all these important to service the needs of our clients. resources is vital to our business operations. In April Routine data and credentialing maintenance are completed 2018, we held a ‘SPIN Future’ workshop, in Singapore, to stringent guidelines and in compliance with KPIs for to share our business vision, discuss business needs and our key providers. Central reports facilitate the monitoring highlight areas of improvement on all network matters of compliance. Our objective is to ensure that third-party and SPIN system. Ten high-level business needs addressing provider data shared with members and clients is up to topics such as global content management, provider date, accurate and reliable, and that these providers operate end-to-end payment processes, provider relationship within the legal requirements of the given country. management, credentialing and data maintenance were identified. These business needs are key drivers of our International SOS has developed an extensive proprietary digital transformation agenda. International Service Provider Information Network (SPIN) of 81,000 medical and technical professionals. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 47 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 LIVING BY OUR PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES International SOS has been in business for 33 years. During this time, we have taken a long-term view of creating sustainable operations so that we are competitive and provide good livelihoods for our employees. We are guided by the business practices which contribute to our sustainability in the global marketplace. 48 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 49 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 BUSINESS CONTINUITY The Board and Group Executive Committee of International SOS have developed and maintained a business continuity plan and disaster recovery plan designed to protect the safety and health of employees, ensure uninterrupted service to our clients and provide for the security of confidential information. At International SOS we are uniquely structured in our also runs in all major centres a process of real-time back ability to provide uninterrupted service operations for up to parallel servers in local Disaster Recovery (DR) sites. assistance callers. In the event of a business interruption The International SOS data backup process ensures at any of our Assistance Centres, International SOS has the that previously stored and backed up data will be capability to seamlessly divert all calls for daily business available in the event of an inadvertent delete or operations to another of its 26 Assistance Centres with overwrite, or the need to relocate to an alternative office no down time, and no compromise in language capability. environment from the immediate DR site. All systems All Assistance Centres utilise the same global proprietary have built in redundancy. International SOS has multiple software system for case management (NewCase), which uninterruptible power systems in all locations. These ties into the Customer Relationship Management System are backed up by diesel fuel generators, where building (SFDC) and the Service Provider Information Network regulations allow, with a fuel supply equal to a minimum database (SPIN), as well as accounting processes and of three days’ usage. The generators are tested each week systems. Additionally, all Assistance Centres communicate and are covered under maintenance contracts. through the same Information Technology (IT) network, follow a similar staffing structure and undergo standardised Based on internal audit processes, International SOS training, and have multilingual capabilities and operational conducts crisis and disaster recovery testing at least procedures. This ensures complete business continuity and twice a year in each location. This is then audited both continued customer service for our clients. internally and as part of our ISO 9001:2015 external accreditation process. Our software systems are integrated to ensure we are able to provide uninterrupted service operations for assistance • Pandemic Preparedness – The Group Executive callers. There follows a brief description of how our software Committee considers pandemic preparedness planning to systems interact: be of utmost importance to the company and its clients. International SOS has recognised that influenza pandemic • Case Management – International SOS utilises the could infect 30% of the workforce globally over a period NewCase proprietary case management software tool for of 12-15 months. The possible prolonged reduction of automated tracking and monitoring patient status. The the company’s labour force, together with a possible NewCase application allows the customisation of client, increased demand for its services in some areas, could programme, case and incident level scripts to assist the significantly impact its operations. We have recognised Operations team in capturing the information required for these threats and established documentation designed a particular case. to reduce the risk to our workforce and the company. A case can be actioned by any Assistance Centre within To support business continuity, we run a comprehensive NewCase depending on the location of the member, corporate, regional and country level crisis management the relationship with the client and the needs of the structure. This enables the coordination and management of particular case. This results in significant time savings. client medical, security or internal employee or asset crisis Communications at the Assistance Centres is centralised; response. This structure is owned by each General Manager this enables full audit ability and traceability on the of a location or function and a system is in place to train progress of a case at any time. and support capabilities in this area. • SPIN — has a service provider database of 81,000 medical The business continuity & crisis management plan and technical professionals. comprises an executive summary, an introduction to the • Customer Relationship Management System – plan, an overview of its structure, various scenarios, a review International SOS utilises the SFDC centralised sales of the crisis team makeup, how to activate the plan and all database to track all client programmes including any required testing, training, maintenance and auditing. specialised operations procedures and all Authorised The crisis and business continuity planning covers seven Persons. Authorised Persons are our first point of client primary risk areas. Each is supported by action sheets for contact during an emergency or overseas event that all functions, guiding activity and supporting tools impacts their employees. This database provides an as follows: identification methodology of clients at the time of the first call. This database captures all client pertinent • Infrastructure failure information for identification or verification purposes, • Single facility disaster however, the ethos within International SOS is to assist first and verify later. • City wide disaster • Information Backup – IT backups are completed daily. • Surge in demand Backup tapes are stored offsite by a vendor in a secure • Threat to reputation location. All backup tapes are moved from the facility to the off-site vendor in locked boxes with tamper proof • Individual employees in danger seals, to prevent unauthorised entry. Only authorised IT • Influenza pandemic personnel can access the backup tapes. International SOS 50 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 DATA PRIVACY & PROTECTION AND CYBER SECURITY In recent years the global movement towards the adoption of comprehensive and increasingly sophisticated legislation for privacy protection has gathered pace. The implementation of the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in May 2018 represents the most significant shake-up of data privacy law to date. Its detailed requirements and severe sanctions for breaches have impelled corporations to change the way they gather, store and process personal data. At International SOS, we are committed to safeguarding the that is applied on an annual basis. Job-specific training is confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information provided to individuals working in roles that handle personal we collect from our clients, members and employees. data. Periodic communiques are shared with all staff to maintain their awareness of cyber security risks, privacy Our Group comprises companies in 90 countries. We ensure developments and lessons learnt. they each meet or exceed legislative and industry standards for Data Protection. This ensures that individuals’ personal Contractual commitments to our clients include: information is protected across borders while we provide • Authority and accountability for data protection support to clients around the globe. We are committed to • Reasons for collecting personal data protecting our clients’ privacy and to being transparent in what information we collect, why we collect it, how we use • Consent of data subjects and safeguard that information, and the choices they have • Collection limitations and accuracy regarding their data when using our services. • Limiting use, disclosure, retention and destruction Data protection • Security The nature of the services we provide has meant that • Openness protection of personal and sensitive information has always been a high priority for us. We respect the right to privacy • Individual access and correction of all individuals who entrust us with their data and devote • Challenging compliance significant resources to ensure the security, confidentiality, integrity and availability of the data we process. • Transfers to a third-party and cross-border personal data flow Our clients entrust us with sensitive personal data such as medical data. We recognise our reputation and ability to serve Security policy our customers is dependent on how we protect that data. International SOS has implemented an Information Security Our Data Protection and information security governance Management System in conformance with widely accepted structure comprises our AEA Board of Directors, the and recognised standards. Our Information Security Policy, Data Protection Committee and the Information Security Standards and Procedures are aligned with ISO/IEC 27002 Management Sub-Committee. This structure includes our Information technology – Security techniques – Code of Chairman and CEO, Group General Counsel and Chief Data Practice for information security management. Protection Officer, Group Chief Information Officer and Chief Security Officer. Our Information Security Policy states our intent to maintain a secure information-processing environment and to In addition, employees in each region are tasked with the protect information assets. It describes our approach to responsibilities of Data Protection Administrators, Data the security of information stored digitally, at any point Protection Officers or Data Protection Experts. Their on the network or within the organisation’s boundaries responsibilities span a specific country or group of of authority. The policy is approved by the AEA Board of locations and entail ensuring organisational compliance Directors and is communicated to all International SOS with the International SOS Data Protection Policy and all employees. Compliance with our Information Security applicable national and state data protection regulations. Policy is mandatory for all employees. It is reviewed and Our Data Protection Policy guides our approach to updated annually, and whenever there is any change in the privacy and the protection of personal information. information-processing environment which may have an As the foundation for our approach to data protection impact on the information risk profile. around the globe it complies with: We recognise the importance of maintaining robust • Laws in the countries where we do business technical security measures to support the administrative controls we have developed. Our Group IT Security team • The relevant provisions of the United States continuously evaluates and improves our technical security HIPAA regulations controls in anticipation of evolving cyber security threats. • Binding corporate rules sanctioned by the European Technical controls include, but are not limited to the community’s data protection authorities following: • The General Data Protection Regulation • Defense-in-depth All employees receive initial training in the Data Protection • Physical security & surveillance Policy within 30 days of joining International SOS. This • Web application firewall eLearning includes a comprehensive test of objectives WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 51 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 • Network firewalls & intrusion detection systems Assurance • Logical segregation of networks International SOS has in place both internal and external • VPN and two-factor authentication audit programmes. Internal audits are performed annually • Vulnerability assessment & penetration testing by the Data Protection Team and findings are shared with each location’s General Manager and specific asset owners • End point security – antivirus and encryption and custodians. Locally nominated Privacy Experts then • Host based intrusion prevention systems support and implement action plans to address any nonconformances identified, reporting back to the auditors • Web content filter and keeping the local General Manager informed. Auditors • Spam protection & Transport Layer Security (TLS) report compliance status to the Group General Counsel, a member of the Executive Committee. • Digital certificates and Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) We engage qualified third-party auditors to perform • Identification and authentication controls examinations of our systems and services in accordance with the best practice recommendations of ISO/IEC 27002, Cyber Security for the purpose of auditing compliance with ISO/IEC 27001:2013 and the best practice recommendations of AT Cyber security is the protection of internet-connected 101 Trust Services Principles, for the purpose of auditing systems, including hardware, software and data, from cybercompliance with SOC 2 Type II. attacks. In a computing context, security comprises cyber security and physical security, including network security, International SOS has recognised the implementation of the application security, data security, identity management, GDPR as an opportunity to evaluate and further enhance and cloud security. the effectiveness and resilience of our global information security framework, with a particular focus on the rights We have implemented physical, technical and administrative of data subjects. controls to protect client information against cyber threats and require third-party certification of these controls. This The British Standards Institute (BSI), an independent requires that internal resources and service providers are standards body, had conducted an assessment of our certified against ISO/IEC 27001, SOC2 Type ll and ISAE business processes against the standards set by GDPR 3402 Assessments for the data centres we use. and affirmed that we operate our processes, systems and data gathering activities in alignment with the existing EU We have also implemented technical security controls to Data Protection Directive and are well positioned to fully ensure that our systems can withstand attacks and to allow comply with the General Data Protection Regulations. our Security Operation Centre to detect and respond to threats in a timely fashion. We have contracted a thirdTo ensure sustainability in our business, we have made data party cyber-intelligence firm to monitor the dark web for privacy and protection a fundamental part of our product/ any conversations that may involve our Group entities and service and process design framework. We have established clients. We have implemented web application firewalls, Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) and other processes to network firewalls, anti-virus systems and other monitoring ensure the safe transfer of personal data internationally and alerting tools to support awareness. We have instituted within our corporate group. With this, our operations administrative security controls to ensure that our systems can support our clients 24/7, no matter where they are. are protected against unauthorised physical access. In FY1819, we have embarked on independent certification of our compliance with GDPR through Bureau Veritas. The first phase of this process involves auditing eight of our Assistance Centres. 52 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 BUSINESS INTEGRITY, TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICS As a global organisation, employing people from over The management conducts regular training (e.g. annual 90 countries, we respect and incorporate human rights refreshers) and orientation for new hires and experienced into every aspect of our people agenda. All our offices employees. This aligns the tone at the top of the seek to comply with local legislation and international organisation to the behaviour and actions in the middle standards, such as the UNGC principles, to offer a fair, safe and on the front line. It engages, educates, and raises and productive work environment and compensation for awareness among employees about our culture of integrity. all employees. With an extensive Individual Rights Policy Network, Medical Supplies and IT providers are pre-qualified in place and in-depth awareness training, we constantly to ensure that they operate with the highest integrity and reinforce our stand against modern slavery, child labour, are free of the use of forced, bonded or child labour. forced labour and any similar exploitative practices. We The General Affairs Policies and Procedures (the “GAPP”) also work with business partners, suppliers, vendors and governs how International SOS Senior Management is contractors to ensure they are aware of our employment accountable for the management of business operations. standards, including our prohibition on forced labour and The GAPP ensures that all expenditure, whether operating child labour. We recognise the right of our employees to or capital in nature, is spent justifiably, within budgets and group in accordance with local laws and are supportive with appropriate levels of approval and authorisation. of the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. We are committed to eliminating fraud and corruption in relation to our activities through the development, Our employees follow the International SOS Code of implementation and regular review of fraud and corruption Conduct and Ethics (the “Code”), a set of principles by prevention, detection and control strategies. Our Fraud which we seek to operate a safe, honest, and responsible and Corruption Control Policy is designed to allocate business. Our commitment to the Code is an important group responsibilities for oversight and implementation part of our brand and the reassurance we aim to give – of the Fraud and Corruption Control Plan. Additionally, we demonstrating how we put the interests of our clients and communicate our policies on the prevention, detection members first to make a real difference in people’s lives. and response to acts of fraud or corruption to our network Our ethics and values give us pride in our work and our of third party providers. We also require all employees to organisation and help us sustain our standing as a socially undertake yearly Global Compliance eLearning courses responsible organisation and a good corporate citizen. and refreshers. As at FY1718, we do not have any reported Our policy also provides rules on handling personal gifts incidents of corruption relating to our business. or hospitality that creates a conflict of interest. The Whistleblower Policy is one of many policies that International SOS attaches great importance to the honest promote a culture of integrity, honesty and ethical and ethical conduct of our employees, our customers and behaviour within International SOS. All employees are our providers. Where permitted under local regulations, we expected to promptly and fully report and breaches of the conduct background checks on prospective employees, Code via the compliance hotline, safe in the knowledge that including criminal records and credit reference checks for they will be protected against retaliatory action. Employees those roles with exposure to finance. are encouraged to ask questions concerning ethical issues and report ethical violations or breaches of company policy All International SOS employees are required to complete without fear of retribution. annual training on the Code. This reinforces the value the company places on ethical business, and reminds them of the risks they and the business face if they do not live up to the Code. The annual training covers practical examples of situations that an employee might encounter and provides guidance to help clarify how the Code should be applied in such situations. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 53 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF OUR OPERATIONS We are committed to meeting international environmental best practices for employees, customers and providers that are consistent with, and appropriate to, our business activities and operations worldwide. We have set in place an environmental policy to govern our environmental standards at all facilities. We also have environmental practices to reduce paper usage, encourage recycling and minimise electricity consumption. Our environmental practices vary by facility, but we strive to reduce waste, paper and electricity consumption and recycle where possible. Medical waste Guidelines followed by our MedSupply Chemicals and pharmaceuticals are being detected in International fulfilment centres/ the environment. There is genuine concern that these warehouses compounds, even in the small concentrations at which they are found, could impact human health or aquatic organisms. MedSupply International has fulfilment centres across the world and each centre has its own unique procedure with To address this, we have always promoted and provided respect to the destruction/disposal of medications in line our clients with, safe options for medication disposal, using with local regulations. appropriate licensed disposal methods and contractors. Medical waste is disposed of with trusted third party A disposal service is also offered to our clients for out of providers via incineration. Similarly, for medical needles, date products returned for destruction. The client must they are discarded in labelled containers and sent for have prior authorisation before returning any items. On destruction by way of incineration. In countries where our receipt, expired pharmaceuticals and consumables are standards are more stringent than the local regulations, segregated and placed in separate colour coded bags we strive to adhere to our standards. to ensure they are disposed of appropriately. 54 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 We have set in place an environmental policy to govern our environmental standards at all facilities. Guidelines followed by medical services Qualification of waste contractors sites and clinics Each fulfilment centre has a different process but in general, as a part of ISO 14001, we have a Service Level Our Group Pharmacy Procedure outlines the Agreement with our waste contractor which is reviewed pharmaceutical practices within the pharmacy services annually. We are expected to keep records and ensure that of our medical services sites and International SOS clinics the contractor is licensed to perform the duties as required. globally. The procedure guides the storage, handling, The licenses are reviewed annually. For example, one of dispensing and destruction of medication. It combines our the centres in the United Kingdom has a ten-page supplier corporate minimum standards for pharmacy management, questionnaire that needs to be completed by the waste with those local laws and regulations designed to prevent contractor and documented during every renewal. and reduce risks and errors. No additional audit is conducted. Medications that have expired should be removed from the shelves during the end-of-month stock take. The medication Annual quality and safety plan should be destroyed as medical waste, according to the The Quality and Safety Plan defines the annual objectives local regulations, with the support of an authorised and for the establishment, sustainability and/or improvement licensed pharmaceutical waste contractor. There are strict of quality, compliance and workplace safety within all regulations regarding destruction of expired or damaged MedSupply International fulfilment centres, and is subject controlled medications in different jurisdictions; the to continuous review and updating. regulations must be known and followed at all times. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 55 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 Having raised awareness, we can see that change is happening and the enthusiasm and commitment among our employees is growing. Go Green — Project Kijani In line with our global commitment to continually embed sustainability practices into our business, we have formed Project Kijani to promote a cleaner, greener environment. ‘Kijani’ is Swahili for green. We began in October 2017 by establishing our objectives The next phase, continuing throughout 2018, is to collate and the project’s phases. Our first step was to raise information on green initiatives in all our offices. Measuring awareness among employees. The initiative was launched what we are currently doing is an important starting point. on Earth Day on 28 April 2018, with a short video and poster campaign encouraging people to ‘Consume less’ and ‘Recycle more’. Case study: our Dubai office Disposable kitchen items (per year) Item Pieces Over the last 12 months: Phase 3, planned for 2019, will focus even further on the individual by Big plates 11,400 • As an office, we have generated asking the question: What are more than three tonnes of you doing? Cups 58,800 non-recyclable waste • Our paper use consumed more We are drawing attention to the Bowls 7,200 than 50 trees everyday opportunities to reduce water, gas and electricity consumption, Spoons 15,600 • Our total spend on consumables save paper, and find alternatives to and paper was approximately Forks 13,800 plastic water bottles. Those who bring US$18,200. in their own lunch are asked to supply Knifes 6,000 Our action points: their own utensils rather than singleuse plastics. Instead of having waste Tea spoon 18,600 • We aim to consume less by: bins at every desk, recycle bins are • Removal of consumable items located at key points in the office. Small plates 8,400 and introduce ‘Bring your own We are encouraging employees to Total 139,800 utensils’ walk or cycle to work. Providing • Introducing central bins and facilities, such as showers and lockers Waste bins bin-less desks to support this, is part of our thinking when upgrading or moving offices. Item Number of bins • We encourage our employees to recycle more through: Kijani team members have monthly Desk bins 194 calls to swap ideas and update each • Increasing the number of recycle other. We are sharing progress and General waste bins 10 bins in the office encouraging action through newsletter Recycling bins 1 • More effective use of current articles, infographics and other recycle bins communications. Big bins 56 • Printing less Having raised awareness, we can see Total 261 that change is happening and the • Increased awareness enthusiasm and commitment among Paper usage our employees is growing. Item kg per year Shredded 2,460kg General waste bins 4,100kg Total 6,560kg 56 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 Case study: greener London headquarters We selected Chiswick Park as the location of our London headquarters, in part because of the facility’s strong green credentials. The building features: • Recycling 90% of waste • Roof-mounted solar water heating • Capture of grey water, washroom taps • Bike to work schemes to reduce water consumption and • Chemical reduction in cleaning, waterless urinals gardening and engineering activities • Automatic light shutoff and monitoring light/heat usage to identify waste Case study: the KUDOS! Award The KUDOS! Award is a London initiative where our people recognise a colleague ‘on the spot’ for doing something remarkable, particularly where it involves working collaboratively with other teams or functions. Beginning in April 2018, we have honoured our KUDOS! awarded colleagues with a donation to Trees for Cities, the only charity working on an international scale to create greener cities. Since 1993, they have engaged over 70,000 people to plant over 770,000 urban trees in parks, streets, schools and housing estates across the UK, as well as internationally, revitalising these areas and improving the lives of the people who live in them. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 57 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 58 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 DUTY OF CARE: INTERNATIONAL SOS FOUNDATION The International SOS Foundation is a registered charity and was started with a grant from International SOS. It is a fully independent, not-for-profit organisation. Launched in March 2012, the Foundation has the goal of improving the safety, security, health and welfare of people working abroad or on remote assignments through the study, understanding and mitigation of potential risks. Driving commitment to Duty of Care Key industry contributions With more and more people working and travelling Since its inception in 2012, the Foundation has partnered internationally in an increasingly challenging world, the with several associations and organisations to bring to the prevention of work-related travel, health and security public a wealth of health and safety information. Below are incidents is more critical than ever. On 3 September 2017, some of our key contributions: the International SOS Foundation, supported by the Ministry of Manpower Singapore, launched a declaration Sharing global best practices on Duty of Care during a Summit Meeting on the opening of the XXI World Development of international guidance on the prevention Congress on Safety and Health at Work. To date, close and mitigation of risks associated with working and to 400 individuals from organisations and institutions travelling abroad. One of the many key research papers worldwide have signed the declaration to support was published with Prevent, an independent organisation principles of risk prevention with regard to focussed on academic work to improve occupational work-related travel safety, health and security. safety & health practices. Recognising organisations’ efforts in Duty of Care Helping organisations better their sustainability agenda worldwide In 2017, the Foundation launched a joint practical guide The Global Duty of Care Summit & Awards, founded with Sancroft titled, ‘Maximising the value of Occupational by the International SOS Foundation in 2016, is a Health & Safety and workplace wellness reporting for a platform designed to share best practices and celebrate global workforce: A practical guide for internationally organisations’ efforts in Duty of Care worldwide. The operating employers’. The guide illustrates the value of Summit, a world-class forum on protecting mobile the emerging global OH&S agenda linked to business workers and mitigating risks, brings together industrysustainability and aims to provide OH&S, sustainability and leading experts for discussion and debate, practical case corporate reporting professionals with practical guidance studies and invaluable networking. The Awards recognise on how to improve OH&S reporting and practice. outstanding achievements in meeting high standards Continuous education and training of health, safety and security at work. It provides entrants Launched in June 2017, the Duty of Care training, ‘Safety, with a chance to attain external recognition for their Health and Security for the Mobile Worker’ aims to provide success in protecting their people. The Global Duty of Care occupational safety and health practitioners with the Summit & Awards 2019 is set to take place in Shanghai, knowledge and skills necessary to actively participate in China on 17 October 2019. the management of safe, healthy and secure travel for their mobile workforce. The training programme is certified by Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH). Learn more about the International SOS Foundation at: www.internationalsosfoundation.org WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 59 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 ABOUT THIS REPORT This sustainability report details the progress we have made against each of our three reporting themes: protecting and saving lives, fuelling our clients’ growth through our people and partners, and living by our principles and practices. The report explores our sustainability goals and our material issues across our global operations during fiscal year 2017/18, and illustrative case studies and business activities from 2018. Previous CSR reports are available on our website. The preparation of this report has been guided by the This report serves as our Communication on Progress for Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) principles for defining the United Nations Global Compact, documenting our report content and report quality. progress against the Ten Principles with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We have referenced in the GRI Standards Index where we have used specific GRI Standards with focus on GRI 102: Progress towards each principle is outlined throughout General disclosures 2016, GRI 103: Management approach the report and referenced in the UNGC Principles Index. 2016 and a selection of relevant topic-specific standards. In accordance with the precautionary principle, we take This referencing can be found in the following pages. sustainability into account in our risk management and business planning processes. Read more about our UNGC participation at https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/ participants/21601-International-SOS 60 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 GRI STANDARDS INDEX GRI standard and disclosure Location 101 Foundation About this report 102-1 Name of the organization The world of International SOS 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services The world of International SOS 102-3 Location of headquarters The world of International SOS 102-4 Location of operations The world of International SOS 102-5 Ownership and legal form The world of International SOS 102-6 Markets served The world of International SOS 102-7 Scale of the organization The world of International SOS 102-8 Information on employees and other workers The world of International SOS 102-9 Supply chain The world of International SOS 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach About this report 102-12 External initiatives Statement from Arnaud Vaissié Sustainability and us Protecting and saving lives About this report 102-13 Membership of associations Statement from Arnaud Vaissié Sustainability and us Protecting and saving lives About this report 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Statement from Arnaud Vaissié 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Statement from Arnaud Vaissié Forces shaping our future The world of International SOS Sustainability and us Protecting and saving lives 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior The world of International SOS Business integrity, transparency and ethics 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Business integrity, transparency and ethics WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 61 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 GRI standard and disclosure Location 102-18 Governance structure Sustainability and us 102-19 Delegating authority Sustainability and us 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Sustainability and us environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Sustainability and us environmental, and social topics 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, Sustainability and us values, and strategy 102-40 List of stakeholder groups The world of International SOS Sustainability and us 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders The world of International SOS Sustainability and us 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Statement from Arnaud Vaissié Sustainability and us Engagement with regulators and stakeholders Modern leadership and engaging work 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Sustainability and us Engagement with regulators and stakeholders Community impact and engagement 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial About this report statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About this report 102-47 Lists of material topics Sustainability and us 102-50 Reporting period About this report 102-51 Date of most recent report About this report 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI About this report Standards 62 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 GRI standard and disclosure Location 203 Indirect Economic Impacts Management approach* Protecting and saving lives 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Protecting and saving lives 205 Anti-corruption Management approach Business integrity, transparency and ethics 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Business integrity, transparency and ethics policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Business integrity, transparency and ethics 206 Anti-competitive Behavior Management approach Business integrity, transparency and ethics 302 Energy Management approach Environmental impacts of our operations 305 Emissions Management approach Environmental impacts of our operations 306 Effluents and Waste Management approach Environmental impacts of our operations 401 Employment Management approach Access to a skilled workforce 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Access to a skilled workforce 403 Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety management Employee health, safety and wellbeing system Our goals and progress 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident Employee health, safety and wellbeing investigation 403-3 Occupational health services Employee health, safety and wellbeing 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Employee health, safety and wellbeing 403-6 Promotion of worker health Employee health, safety and wellbeing *Management approach indicates that disclosures 103-1, 2 and 3 were used as guidance WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 63 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 GRI standard and disclosure Location 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health Protecting and saving lives and safety impacts directly linked by business Employee health, safety and wellbeing relationships 404 Training and Education Management approach Access to a skilled workforce 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Access to a skilled workforce transition assistance programs 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Management approach Modern leadership and engaging work 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Modern leadership and engaging work 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to UK Gender Pay Gap Report men https://www.internationalsos.com/-/media/ corporate/files/documents/policies/gender_ pay_reporting.pdf 406 Non-discrimination Management approach Modern leadership and engaging work 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Management approach Business integrity, transparency and ethics 413 Local Communities Management approach Community impact and engagement 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Community impact and engagement impact assessments, and development programs 416 Customer Health and Safety Management approach Protecting people and saving lives 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of Protecting people and saving lives product and service categories 418 Customer Privacy Management approach Data privacy & protection and cyber security 64 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 UNGC PRINCIPLES INDEX Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Location Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support Business integrity, transparency and respect the protection of and ethics internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that Business integrity, transparency they are not complicit in human rights and ethics abuses Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the Business integrity, transparency freedom of association and the and ethics effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the Business integrity, transparency elimination of all forms of forced and and ethics compulsory labour Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the Business integrity, transparency effective abolition of child labour and ethics Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the Modern leadership and engaging elimination of discrimination work in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a About this report precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Businesses should undertake Environmental impacts initiatives to promote greater of our operations environmental responsibility Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the Digitalisation of healthcare development and diffusion of and assistance environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against Business integrity, transparency corruption in all its forms, including and ethics extortion and bribery WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 65 International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 For comments and feedback, please write to: International SOS CSR Committee c/o Group Marketing Building 4 Chiswick Park, 566 Chiswick High Road W4 5YE, London e: group.marketing@internationalsos.com w: internationalsos.com Printed on recycled paper. 66 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Report 2019 WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 67 internationalsos.com
