2017 CSR REPORT STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 ABOUT THIS 2 A WORD FROM 3 GROUP 6 OUR ETHICAL 7 SOCIAL 8 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT THE PRESIDENT PROFILE POLICY INFORMATION INFORMATION Page 4 5 Page 8 9 Page 10 11 Page 32 33 Page 42 43 Page 68 69 4 2021 OBJECTIVES 5 OUR CSR 9 SOCIETAL 10 CORRESPONDENCE 11 EXTERNAL AND 2017 RESULTS POLICY INFORMATION TABLE WITH VERIFICATION CSR REPORTING Page 20 21 Page 24 Page 96 97 GUIDELINES Page 124 125 Page 114 115 2 3 1. ABOUT THIS REPORT The 2017 CSR Report provides a detailed review of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) priorities and actions undertaken by the MANE Group, as well as any progress made towards achieving its 2021 objectives. 4 5 REPORTING REPORTING PERIOD METHODOLOGY The extra-financial information included in this report covers the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017. The aim of this report is to communicate clearly the evolution of Group CSR activities and the progress achieved in implementing its commitments. In order to reinforce the relevance of our CSR report, it has been prepared in accordance with ISO 26000 and the G4 guidelines of the GRI*. SCOPE OF This report is also our way of complying with the French requirement to declare extra-financial performance as set out in Decree no. 2017-1265 of 9 August 2017, and the requirement for a yearly C O N S O L I DAT I O N Communication on Progress (COP) as part of the United Nations Global Compact. To make our report easier to read, a correlation table has been supplied at the end of this The scope of consolidation for social, environmental and societal information referred to in this report concerns document that links the information contained within to the information required by the following all of the Group's sites in France including its headquarters and in Switzerland, America, Indonesia, India, South benchmarks: GRI G4, ISO 26000, decree no. 2017-1265 of 09/08/2017 and the 10 principles of the Africa, Mexico, China, Brazil, Spain, Thailand, Colombia and Japan. These sites contributed 97% of the Group's Global Compact. The table lists the topics covered and their location in the 2017 CSR report. consolidated turnover in 2017. Entities that are not included in the reporting are tertiary buildings. FRANCE SWITZERLAND CHINA C O N TAC T Contact person for any 620, route de Grasse questions relating to the report F-06620 Le Bar-sur-Loup and its contents: Tel. +33 4 93 09 70 00 Fax + 33 4 93 42 54 25 www.mane.com Luc Carrière Coordinator for Sustainable Development luc.carriere@mane.com JAPAN Carine Hazebroucq USA C SR Project Manager carine.hazebroucq@mane.com INDIA SPAIN MEXICO INDONESIA THAILAND BRAZIL * The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an independent, international, non-profit organisation that supports companies, NGOs and other stakeholders. GRI was created SOUTH AFRICA in 1997 in partnership with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). It COLOMBIA has developed sustainable development reporting guidelines that are widely used around the world. These provide companies with an international benchmark to help them present an account of their economic, environmental and social performance. 6 7 2. A WORD FROM THE PRESIDENT Our CSR strategy focuses on the following priorities: >> Ensuring product quality and safety It was in 1871 that my great-grandfather, Victor, founded the company MANE in Bar-sur-Loup, where it still has >> Reducing our environmental impact its head office today. Five generations have succeeded each other to lead the eponymous MANE Group. As a >> Guaranteeing the health, safety and well-being of our family business, we are committed to maintaining our collaborators in the workplace independence, financial stability, and responsibility >> Developing our collaborators' skills throughout their careers to our customers and collaborators. This governance allows us to maintain long-term relationships with all >> Integrating CSR into our purchasing policy our partners. The MANE Group is dedicated not only to the global distribution of a range of products from across the flavour and fragrance sector, but also to developing an international presence, allowing us to be closer to our customers. This is how we see sustainable development at MANE. For many years, we have been reinvesting a considerable In addition to our corporate social responsibility, we also aim to proportion of our profits in research and development, contribute to society, particularly within the communities in which we enabling us to provide our customers with countless do business, in order to promote their development. innovative solutions. MANE is committed to sustainable and profitable The aim of this report is to communicate clearly the CSR challenges we development, driven by a long-term vision. With this in have faced, the practices and actions put in place to deal with them, mind, we have been developing our Corporate Social and the progress made by the Group in meeting its CSR objectives. Responsibility (CSR) strategy for several years now to find a balance between economic growth, respect for people, and environmental protection, all of which are I hope you find it interesting, essential for the long-term prosperity of our company. 8 9 3. GR O U P P R OF I LE 10 11 K E Y 1MILLION 156 € CONSOLIDATED TURNOVER FOR FIGURES 2017 2017 turnover by product category GROUP FOUNDED 1871 +5 500 COLLABORATORS IN 3 6% FRAG RANC E S 5 6% FLAVO U RS 47 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D) 38 COUNTRIES CENTRES 8% I NG R E D I E NTS 25 MANUFACTURING SITES 79 500 OF SHIPPED PRODUCT TONNES 8,3% OF ANNUAL REVENUE INVESTED IN R&D 12 13 O U R S TO R Y From family adventure to international Group In 1871, Victor Mane started producing fragrances from flowers and plants from the Pays de Grasse. Since then, the small distillery has grown successfully to become one of the leading Flavours and Fragrances companies in the world and has been continually run by the Mane family for almost 150 years. Victor Mane Victor’s sons Eugene and Gabriel modernised and developed the business internationally. Maurice Mane took over from his father, Eugene, in 1959. Under his leadership, the company increased its production capacity, set up research and analysis laboratories, diversified into flavours for the food industry and developed its network of international subsidiaries. In 1995, Maurice Mane retired to become Chairman of the Supervisory Board, while his eldest son Jean was appointed Group President, and his other son Michel, President of the Americas Region. His daughter Françoise is secretary of the board of Directors. The three siblings are the sole members of the board of Directors. In 2016, Samantha Mane, from the fifth generation of the family, took over as Director of the EMEA region for the flavours, fragrances and ingredients divisions. The uncontested legitimacy of MANE is based on experience and the transfer of fundamental values through the years. 14 15 O U R BUSINESS MANE's activities consist of extracting natural raw materials, manufacturing synthetic products and manufacturing flavour and fragrance compositions. NATURAL RAW MATERIALS Several processes are used to extract natural raw >> Volatile solvent extraction, used for fresh materials: flowers that cannot be distilled using steam; >> Hydrodistillation, a process for preparing volatile essences using steam. After the >> Extraction using non-polluting solvents, such steam has cooled and condensed, the volatile as supercritical fluids. These make it possible to obtain extracts that are closer to natural essences settle and can thus be separated products and do not contain solvent residues; from the aqueous phase, called 'floral water'; >> Aqueous enzymatic extraction, which makes it easier to obtain animal or plant extracts used in human food. SYNTHETIC PRODUCTS Synthetic products, or products that come from >> Chemical synthesis, a sequence of chemical chemically altered substances, are obtained by reactions used to convert a petroleum the following techniques: industry product into a flavour product; >> Hemisynthesis, chemical synthesis of a >> Biotechnology and enzyme extraction, molecule made from natural compounds that enabling natural raw materials to be converted already possess part of the target molecule; into natural flavour substances and extracts. 16 17 OUR EXTERNAL PROFESSIONAL ACTIONS COMMITMENTS MANE is involved in several professional trade federations and associations through collaborators who hold positions in their governing bodies, or who participate in projects and committees. Due to the number of collaborators involved, we have listed the associations with which MANE is strategically involved: >> International Fragrance Association (IFRA) >> Flavor & Extract Manufacturers Association (FEMA) >> National Union of Flavour Manufacturers (PRODAROM) >> International Organization of the Flavor Industry (IOFI) >> European Flavour Association (EFFA) >> European Federation of Essential oils (EFEO) >> Professional organisation for food flavouring manufacturers (SNIAA) The Group is involved in various local and international associations and organisations >> Parfums Arômes Senteurs Saveurs competitive cluster (Pôle PASS) that develop its economic framework to encourage sustainable development >> European Research Institute on Natural Ingredients (ERINI) in partnerships with various company stakeholders. Examples of international >> National Research and Technology Association (ANIA) commitments: GLOBAL COMPACT CARING FOR CLIMATE FRENCH DIVERSITY PARIS PLEDGE BUSINESS AND CHARTER FOR ACTION BIODIVERSITY PLEDGE Since 2003, MANE has been a In 2007, MANE signed the Caring for In 2008, MANE signed the French Climate (C4C) declaration. Launched Diversity Charter. Launched at the In 2015, MANE signed the Paris Pledge In 2016, MANE signed the Business signatory to the United Nations in 2007, Caring for Climate was jointly end of 2004 by Claude Bébéar and for Action on climate change. Launched and Biodiversity Pledge, an agreement Global Compact. Launched in 1999 convened by the United Nations Yazid Sabeg, the Diversity Charter by the French presidency of the COP21, from the Convention on Biological by the then Secretary General to Global Compact, the United Nations is an undertaking that can be signed the pledge invites organisations, Diversity (CBD) that allows economic the United Nations, Kofi Annan, Environment Programme (UNEP) and by any company that condemns companies, regions, towns and leaders to give value to the importance the Global Compact calls on the Secretariat of the United Nations discrimination in the workplace and investors, to commit to ensuring the of biodiversity and ecosystem services organisations around the world to Framework Convention on Climate decides to work towards supporting implementation of the Paris Agreement in their activities and to express their voluntarily align their operations and Change (UNFCCC) with the aim of diversity. on climate change approved on 12 commitment to supporting biodiversity. policies to 10 universally accepted promoting the role of companies in December 2015. principles relating to human rights, labour standards, the environment fight against climate change. and anti-corruption. 18 19 4. 2 0 2 1 O B J EC T I V E S A N D 2 01 7 R E S U LT S In order to provide a summarised overview of the Group's progress in each of its sustainable development undertakings, we set ourselves quantified objectives for 2021, when the Group will celebrate its 150th anniversary. Target achievement is measured using specific performance indicators compared to a 2009 baseline. The table below displays the target achievement rates at the end of 2017. ENVIRONMENT 2021 Increase to more than 80% the Increase to 90% the Reduce energy Reduce CO2 emissions Increase the proportion of Reduce water consumption Reduce hazardous waste Increase the proportion quantities of natural extracts percentage of product consumption per tonne of (Scopes 1 and 2) per total energy consumption per tonne of product by 15% produced per tonne of of recovered* waste and synthetic molecules (in tonnes) shipped by product by 20% compared tonne of product by 15% from renewable sources compared to 2009 product by 33% compared (hazardous and nonOBJECTIVES produced with a GREEN ISO 14001 certified sites to 2009 compared to 2009 to more than 10% to 2009 hazardous) to 80% MOTION™ score ≥50/100 by 2021 70% of natural extracts 47% of our shipped product 22% decrease in energy 0.4% decrease in CO2 15% of our energy 9% decrease in water 28% decrease in hazardous 83% of waste recycled at the 2017 and synthetic molecules tonnage was from ISO consumption since 2009 emissions since 2009 consumption is from consumption since 2009 waste produced since 2009 end of 2017 produced with a score of 14001 certified sites at the renewable sources at the RESULTS ≥50/100 at the end of 2017 end of 2017 end of 2017 OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVE NOT OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVE PARTIALLY PARTIALLY ACHIEVED AND ACHIEVED ACHIEVED AND PARTIALLY PARTIALLY ACHIEVED AND ACHIEVED ACHIEVED EXCEEDED EXCEEDED ACHIEVED ACHIEVED EXCEEDED * Recovered: recycling and energy recovery 20 21 SOCIAL Maintain absenteeism at Reduce the frequency Increase the proportion of Increase the proportion of 2021 less than 4% rate for accidents at collaborators benefiting from collaborators benefiting from work with leave by 33%, training over the course of the an interview or assessment OBJECTIVES compared to 2009 year to 80% over the course of the year to 80% (indicator being reset in 49% decrease in frequency 87% of collaborators 80% of collaborators were order to harmonize the rate for accidents since received training in 2017 interviewed or assessed in 2017 method of calculation 2009 2017 within the Group) RESULTS OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVE ACHIEVED AND ACHIEVED AND ACHIEVED EXCEEDED EXCEEDED RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING Ensure 50% of significant 2021 Increase our purchasing suppliers undergo a CSR volume from suppliers evaluation (CSR audit committed to a CSR policy OBJECTIVES performed on-site by MANE, to more than 90% EcoVadis evaluation or SMETA audit) 93% of our purchasing 27% of significant suppliers volume was from suppliers 2017 committed to a CSR policy underwent a CSR evaluation at the end of RESULTS at the end of 2017 2017 OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVE ACHIEVED AND PARTIALLY EXCEEDED ACHIEVED 22 23 5. O U R C SR CSR G OV E R N A N C E P O L I CY In order to incorporate Corporate Social Responsibility into its strategy, the MANE Group has implemented an internal CSR management system allowing it to define its commitments in line with its own interests and those of its stakeholders, and to integrate them operationally across all its activities. The Group's CSR strategy is under the direct Through its decisions and activities, every company has an impact responsibility of the Chairman of the Board of on its collaborators, customers and suppliers, as well as on the Directors. It is managed by the Group's Sustainable environment and society as a whole. Corporate Social Responsibility Development Coordinator, who is responsible for (CSR) is at the heart of MANE’s strategy and is based on willingness drawing up, coordinating and promoting the CSR to take responsibility for this impact and to improve it by taking into policy within the Group’s various departments and account the expectations of all stakeholders. subsidiaries. To achieve this target, the Coordinator relies on a dedicated CSR Committee (comprising representatives from the Purchasing, Environment, Human Resources, Quality, Product Safety and Internal Audit departments) and a network of around twenty CSR correspondents from the main manufacturing sites abroad. A CSR management review is performed once a year with the participation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members of the CSR Committee. During the review, the Group’s CSR performance and target achievement rates are analysed in detail in order to assess the effectiveness of the internal CSR management system and, if necessary, to identify opportunities for improvement. The Sustainable Development Coordinator also performs internal communication, awareness-raising and employee training activities focusing on CSR challenges and promotes good practices within the Group. 24 25 S TA K E H O L D E R S Our CSR strategy is based on identifying and taking into account the expectations of Group stakeholders. Our aim is to listen to their concerns and their expectations in order to provide an appropriate response, within a context of dialogue and partnership. GROUP STAKEHOLDER MAP LOCAL STAKEHOLDERS CLIENTS COLLABORATORS SUPPLIERS COMMUNITIES, PUBLIC NEIGHBOURING COMPETITORS AND NGOS AND AUTHORITIES RESIDENTS PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS ASSOCIATIONS >> Protecting consumer health >> Respecting human rights >> Long-term partnerships >> Job creation >> Compliance with >> Preventing significant >> Knowledge sharing and safety and international working >> Fair practices >> Social investments regulations industrial hazards >> Fair competition >> Duty of care standards >> Preventing significant >> Communication and >> Odour and noise nuisance >> Respecting intellectual >> Sharing CSR practices MAIN >> Sustainable and equitable use >> Working conditions and health industrial hazards transparency >> Preventing pollution property EXPECTATIONS of biodiversity and safety conditions in the >> Preventing pollution AND >> Fair practices workplace (OHS) >> Sustainable use of natural PREOCCUPATIONS >> Innovation >> Wages and motivation resources >> Communication and >> Developing employability >> Protecting consumer health transparency >> Equal treatment and safety >> Satisfaction surveys >> Quality of life at work surveys >> Raising awareness and >> Discussions about >> Information and discussion >> Information leaflet on >> Information exchange >> Information exchange >> Occupational health providing information about solicitation meetings to explain Group industrial hazards for meetings INFORMATION meetings >> Employee representatives CSR to suppliers (information >> Publishing the CSR report activities neighbouring residents >> Client audits exchange meetings, support >> Flavours Days AND DIALOGUE >> Sharing our CSR >> Consultations with the OHSC to evaluate practices, on-site (yearly) METHODS information (e.g. and the EC audits, etc.) ECOVADIS, SEDEX, CDP, >> Group Intranet etc.) >> Yearly appraisals >> Publishing the CSR report (yearly) >> Evaluating product safety >> HR and OHS policies >> Buyers Code of Ethics >> Partnership or sponsorship >> Regulatory compliance >> Environment and >> Competitive clusters (toxicology) >> The Group’s Code of Ethics >> Responsible purchasing activities sustainable development >> MANE is a member of >> Quality and health safety >> Collective agreements >> Anti-corruption training for >> Visiting manufacturing sites policies several professional policies signed buyers >> Participating in >> Major accident prevention associations and RESPONSES >> Certifying management >> Strategic planning for employment forums and policies federations PROVIDED BY THE systems (ISO 9001, IFS & employment and skills exhibitions >> Participating in sector and GROUP BRC, FSSC 22000, etc.) >> 2% of payroll dedicated to >> School-company collaborative projects >> Monitoring customer training partnerships satisfaction >> Disability policy >> Internships >> Collaborative partnerships >> Corporate diversity charter >> Responsible purchasing >> Green Motion™ by MANE 26 27 KEY O U R CHALLENGES COMMITMENTS In order to reinforce the relevance of our strategy and our CSR reporting, we have This exercise was used to define key CSR commitments performed a materiality analysis to identify our key challenges. Initially performed for MANE and to formalise them in the Group in 2008 (using the AFNOR diagnostic tool SD 21000), we updated our methods in Sustainable Development Policy. 2012 to incorporate the G4 guidelines from GRI and to develop some of the more significant challenges to our stakeholders and in our strategies. Our materiality matrix represents a subject's level of relevance in relation to their impact for MANE (horizontal axis) and their importance to our stakeholders (vertical axis). OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT POLICY MATERIALITY MATRIX >> Answer for the impact our company >> Preserve and ensure the sustainable has on society and the environment in a and equitable use of biodiversity. transparent manner. >> Reduce greenhouse gas emissions HIGH >> Always behave in an ethical manner and improve the energy efficiency of in areas concerning good business processes. >> Preventing chemical practices, particularly in the fight against hazards corruption. >> Continue to improve product quality and >> Protecting consumer safety. health and safety >> Take into consideration the interests of stakeholders and work to respect them. >> Ensure the health, safety and well-being of collaborators in the workplace. >> External communication >> Dialogue with >> Social dialogue >> Human rights >> Comply with all local laws and regulations in effect as well as >> Promote and respect diversity in the stakeholders >> Anti-corruption >> Occupational health >> Development of human and safety international behavioural standards by workplace and fight against all forms of >> Odour pollution >> Sustainable capital >> Working conditions respecting the principle of legality. discrimination. IMPORTANCE TO consumption >> Eco-design >> Energy and CO2 >> Develop human capital by favouring the >> Sustainable and fair use emissions >> Promote and respect the protection of rights set out in the Universal employability of collaborators though of biodiversity >> Responsible training and strategic workforce planning. purchasing Declaration of Human Rights within the STAKEHOLDERS company's sphere of influence. >> Apply a responsible purchasing policy that >> Sponsorship >> Community involvement >> Water consumption and local development >> Effluent >> Integrate CSR in our management aims to make suppliers aware of CSR and >> Internal communications >> VOC emissions system. to evaluate their environmental and social >> Waste performance. >> Develop products and processes that are more respectful of the environment and humankind. CURRENT OR POTENTIAL LOW IMPACT ON MANE HIGH 28 29 ASSESSMENTS AND EXTERNAL RECOGNITION SMETA AUDITS Evaluations and recognition from experts in sustainable development improve the credibility and transparency of the Group’s CSR strategy for its stakeholders. Our SMETA is an independent ethical audit process which the MANE Group applies commitment and success in this field have been recognised by independent organisations. to its key sites. The audit programme using the 4 pillars of the SMETA benchmark, developed by SEDEX, includes the following areas: health and safety, working Here are some examples. standards, environment and business ethics. All our manufacturing sites have been subject to at least one SMETA audit, and each site has shared its audit report and any correctives measures with customers who express an interest, through the E C OVA D I S E VA L U AT I O N SEDEX platform. ECOVADIS provides a platform for companies to evaluate the CSR practices of their suppliers. MANE completes their questionnaire every year at the behest of TROPHÉES DÉFIS RSE 2017 several key customers. The evaluation score is calculated using 21 indicators across 4 areas: environment, social, business ethics and responsible purchasing. In 2017, Created in 2012, the Trophées Défis RSE (CSR Challenge Awards) aim to add value MANE achieved an overall score of 76/100, an increase on the previous year, placing to the commitments, results and sustainability of a company's CSR approach. The the Group once again in the Advanced CSR performance category, with a Gold awards are sponsored by BNP Paribas, Ethifinance, Harmonie Mutuelle and Suez, commitment level. This score places us in the top 1% of suppliers evaluated by all recognized for their CSR policies, and the judging panel includes professional ECOVADIS in our sector. network experts in their fields. In 2017, 52 companies were nominated for the 5th edition of the ceremony. MANE was awarded the Trophée Défis RSE 2017 for the Environment category. CDP EVALUATION 2016 GLOBAL COMPACT BEST COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS AWARD MANE completes the CDP (known as the Carbon Disclosure Project until 2012) questionnaire that evaluates and ranks companies according to their environmental The French network of the United Nations Global Compact presents an award each performances. The Group achieved a B grade for the CDP Supply Chain, Climate year for the Best communication on progress. This competition rewards businesses Change and Water questionnaires (scale from A to E, with A being the best). This and non-profit organisations that produced an exemplary Communication on score places us in the top 11% of suppliers evaluated by CDP in our sector. Progress (COP) the previous year. In 2016, the MANE Group won the Best Communication on Progress Award in the ETI category for the relevance and quality of its reporting. CAP 26000 ASSESSMENT BY BUREAU VERITAS 2017 HR INNOVATION AWARD In 2014 we voluntarily had our CSR policy assessed by BUREAU VERITAS Two years after being honoured with the Generation Contract trophy, MANE was awarded at the 2017 HR CERTIFICATION. The CAP 26000 assessment evaluates the 4 fundamental Innovation award by the RHM Group. dimensions of CSR: societal responsibility integration, stakeholder involvement, The management guide developed at MANE, which is the cornerstone of this approach, has been recognized as a communication and transparency, results and progress. MANE was awarded an major social innovation: because it allows every manager to know exactly what the company expects of them and, overall score of 71/100 as a result of a complete and structured CSR policy with beyond set targets, provides a path to achieving them, and because it focuses on cooperation between managers a solid foundation built over several years of efforts, strategic aims and an action and collaborators to foster ongoing progress and positive reinforcement. plan . As part of its process of continuous improvement, MANE has integrated the As such, this approach, rewarded by the ‘HR Innovation 2017’ trophy, differs from generally existing company results of this external assessment. guidelines. 30 31 6. OUR ETHICAL POLICY For MANE, being a responsible company is about ethical conduct and practices. In all countries where MANE has a presence, our aim is to carry out our activities with honesty, fairness and integrity. 32 33 THE GROUP’S CODE OF ETHICS The MANE Code of Ethics Published for the first to collaborators involved is the Group's benchmark time in 2013, the Code of in purchasing (Purchasing, document setting out the Ethics was reviewed in 2017, Technical, IT, Design Office, values and principles that following a consultation and Travel Assistants, etc.) as well govern the Group's activities validation by the MANE as for subsidiary directors and and those of its partners. FRANCE employee council Group financial directors who The Code of Ethics helps and occupational health and are particularly exposed to the MANE collaborators adopt, safety committee. This latest risk of corruption. These codes support and apply while version introduces the idea of ethics have been signed by carrying out their duties, a set of conflicts of interest and the relevant collaborators. of fundamental values in the an ethical warning process Internal training and a quiz fields of human rights, work allowing any employee faced have been made available and environmental standards with a difficult situation to these collaborators to and the fight against or infraction to notify the raise awareness and train corruption. It is available in Group's Ethics Committee and them in preventing and 18 languages. In France, each receive advice and support managing corruption risks. employee personally receives on how best to proceed. risques de corruption. a copy of the code when they There are also variations of the are hired. Group Code of Ethics specific E T H I C S COMMITTEE The Group's ethical direction hotline. Group collaborators harassment or discrimination is managed by the Ethics can contact the Committee in the workplace as a result of Committee. Set up in 2017 directly using the following reporting a violation. by the Group's Executive email address: ethics@mane. Committee, its members report com to notify them of any directly to the Chairman of the known or suspected violation Board of Directors. The aim of the Code of Ethics. The of the Ethics Committee is to Group undertakes to guarantee examine any issue relating to the anonymity of the whistleethics: preventative analysis of blower* and shall ensure that ethical risks, recommendations, anyone who reports, in good investigations and disciplinary faith, a known or suspected measures linked to warnings violation of the code of ethics received through the ethics does not suffer reprisals, 34 35 ANTI-CORRUPTION SCHEME With the Sapin II law relating to transparency, antiIn order to comply with this legal requirement, MANE corruption and economic modernisation of 9 December strengthened its ethical systems in 2017. Thus, the 2016, France introduced into its anti-corruption Group implemented an anti-corruption process that legislation the requirement to implement measures to uses policies and procedures to formalise MANE's prevent and detect corruption in companies with more commitment to fighting corruption. It focuses on the than 500 collaborators and a turnover of more than 100 following measures: million euros. >> The Group's Code of Ethics and its variations that define and illustrate the different types of behaviour to be banned as likely to characterise corruption. The Group's Code of Ethics is integrated into existing regulation; >> An internal ethics warning system designed to allow the collection of alerts from collaborators relating to conduct or situations that violate the Group's Code of Ethics; >> A cartography of corruption risks designed to identify and prioritise the Group's risk of exposure to corruption, particularly in relation to the geographical areas in which the Group operates (taking into account the corruption perception index from Transparency International); >> Procedures to evaluate the situation of business partners in relation to the risk map (e.g. suppliers); >> Accounting control procedures; >> An internal training programme and quiz for executives and collaborators most exposed to the risks of corruption; >> A disciplinary system allowing Group collaborators to be sanctioned if they violate the Group's Code of Ethics; >> An internal monitoring and evaluation system for the measures implemented. By the end of 2017, most of the Group's collaborators involved in its subsidiaries, foreign finance and purchasing departments had signed their specific Codes of Ethics. 36 37 R E S P E C T I N G H U M A N R I G H T S A N D WO R K I N G S TA N DA R D S MANE is committed to supporting For many years, this commitment has been and respecting the protection of taken as far as possible by the Group's internationally proclaimed human rights Senior Management, through MANE's and the fundamental conventions of the commitment to the United Nations International Labour Organisation (ILO) Global Compact (in 2003), signature to both internally and in its sphere of influence. the French Diversity Charter (in 2008), This means that the Group respects and the development of a Sustainable freedom of association, recognises the right Development Policy (2008), Purchasing to collective negotiation, will contribute to and Sustainable Development Charter for eliminating all forced or compulsory work suppliers (2009) and the Group’s Code of and child labour, and will fight against Ethics (2013). any type of employment or professional discrimination. For an international group like MANE, this requires constant vigilance over both partner and supplier relationships. The Group uses Human Resources policies and procedures as well as internal audits and internal monitoring to ensure that these rights are respected internally, and in all its subsidiaries. In terms of purchasing, these issues are monitored as part of our responsible purchasing policy (asking suppliers to sign up to MANE’s Purchasing and Sustainable Development Charter, a CSR self-evaluation questionnaire, on-site audits). 38 39 COMMITMENT TO THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT In 2003, MANE was the first company in the flavours and fragrances industry to sign up to the United Nations Global Compact. By subscribing, MANE voluntarily committed to integrating the following 10 principles into its policy: 10 PRINCIPLES HUMANS RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, with the scope of their influence; 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses; LABOUR STANDARDS 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. Businesses should uphold the abolition of child labour; 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation; ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; For the 15th consecutive year, MANE is supporting In order to demonstrate our commitment clearly, we 8. Businesses shloud undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental the Global Compact and renewing its commitment publish a yearly Communication of Progress (COP). responsibility; to implementing and promoting the 10 universally All our COP reports are available on the Global 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of recognised principles into its strategy, organisational Compact website through the following link: environmentally friendly technologies; culture and operations, within a framework of https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/ continuous improvement. ANTICORRUPTION participants/6328-Mane Jean M. Mane 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including This year, our CSR report is also our COP for 2018. extortion and bribery. 40 41 7. SOCIAL INFORMATION We are convinced that the success of the MANE Group is built above all on the expertise of its collaborators. Collaborators are the Group's main source of wealth and enable it to be a major participant in the flavour and fragrance industry. Our aim is to encourage them to thrive in the workplace whilst offering them a safe and healthy working environment. 42 43 HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY The MANE human resources policy is based on the four following directions that are applied from recruitment and for the duration of each employee's stay within the company. GUARANTEE AND ENCOURAGE ASSERTING OUR ROLE AS A COMPANY DEVELOPING OUR COLLABORATORS’ PROVIDING LIVING CONDITIONS THAT A CULTURE OF PROFESSIONAL THAT CARES ABOUT ITS ENVIRONMENT PROFESSIONAL SKILLS SUPPORT WORK QUALITY EXCELLENCE AND ITS PEOPLE The expertise of its collaborators is As a diverse and outward looking Due to the initial and continuous training It is in the field, by continuously imagining the main source of wealth in a creative company, MANE ensures that close policy we have for our collaborators new solutions to improve working and manufacturing company such as local ties are a key part of its Human and our customers, we can predict and conditions for our collaborators, that we ours. MANE aims to recognise their Resources policy. As part of this support the evolution of our professions demonstrate our excellence. In creating commitment and worth by helping them important commitment, we respect and the specific needs of our community. a good working environment for our grow through their work. We support diversity, support our more fragile The MANE Academy Campus will soon collaborators, by preventing accidents internal professional and geographical collaborators and encourage social offer motivating professional training at work and occupational diseases, mobility, individualised development dialogue. The dissemination of social courses. From the moment they are hired, empowering our collaborators and plans and a fair salary policy in order to standards supports equality of our collaborators are provided with a their managers in occupational health provide the motivation for personal and opportunity for all our collaborators, personalised integration strategy, adapted and safety and balancing private and professional development. wherever the company is located, by to their profile, the diversity of their roles professional life, we ensure they are ensuring they have access to adequate and organisations as well as the specific able to commit efficiently to serving our living and working conditions and an nature of the tasks they need to perform. industrial customers as well as the millions access to basic knowledge. This strategy can take several forms. of consumers we serve indirectly each day across the world. 44 45 E M P LOY M E N T TOTAL WORKFORCE As of 31 December 2017, the Group's total workforce (permanent and contract) consisted of 5,992 collaborators, compared to 5,105 on 31 December 2016, an increase of 17% between 2016 and 2017. This increase is due in large part to the acquisition of the DELI SPICES plant SCOPE in South Africa as well as an increase in employee numbers in France and the United States. The scope of consolidation for the social data set out below relates to collaborators as of 31 December 2017 across all MANE sites in the following countries. This sample represents 90% of the Group's total workforce. 31 december 2016 31 december 2017 5 105 +17% 5 992 COLLABORATORS COLLABORATORS DISTRIBUTION OF GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS NORTH AMERICA ASIA United States China ( MANE Inc. and MANE USA ) India EMEA Indonesia South Africa Japan Spain Thailand SOUTH AMERICA France Brazil Switzerland Colombia Mexico Geographically, the three countries with the largest number of collaborators are France with 1,614 collaborators, the United States with 875 collaborators and India with 580 collaborators. Together, these three countries account for more than half the Group's total workforce. MANE continues to increase its presence in the rest of the world and specifically in Indonesia, South Africa, Mexico and China, representing over 30% of the total workforce at the end of 2017. FRANCE USA INDIA 1614 COLLABORATORS 875 COLLABORATORS 580 COLLABORATORS 46 47 DISTRIBUTION BY GENDER AND GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION DISTRIBUTION BY TYPE OF CONTRACT AND GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION EMEA ASIA SOUTH AMERICA NORTH AMERICA WORLD EMEA ASIA SOUTH AMERICA NORTH AMERICA WORLD Permanent 59 % 65 % 59 % 58 % 60 % contracts 89 % 78 % 99 % 100 % 89 % 41 % 35 % 41 % 42 % 40 % Fixed-term contracts 11 % 22 % 1% 0% 11 % DISTRIBUTION BY AGE AND GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION 89% of the Group's collaborators have permanent contracts. The high level 22% of fixed-term contracts in the Asia region reflects the practices of the Chinese market EMEA ASIA SOUTH AMERICA NORTH AMERICA WORLD where contracts cannot exceed 3 years. <30 28 % 35 % 24 % 22 % 28 % 30-50 52 % 60 % 64 % 52 % 56 % However, it should be noted that in China, collaborators who have been with the company for more than 10 years will be able to benefit from a permanent contract, as will collaborators who have completed more than two >50 20 % 5% 12 % 26 % 16 % temporary contracts. 48 49 RECRUITMENT AND DEPARTURES SALARIES MANE believes that the Group's future depends on its ability to attract and retain talent. A fair, motivating and equitable salary system is one way of achieving this. NORTH SOUTH EMEA ASIA WORLD Our salary policy has two aims: AMERICA AMERICA TOTAL NUMBER OF HIRINGS 214 66 472 245 997 TOTAL NUMBER OF DEPARTURES 139 55 232 142 568 -MEN 60 26 159 94 339 >> Offer appealing, stimulating and competitive wage system and working conditions that are in line with market practices; -WOMEN 79 29 73 44 225 >> Ensure internal fairness to motivate and involve collaborators. TURNOVER 17 % 7 % 11 % 10 % 11 % -MEN 12 % 6 % 13 % 10 % 11 % -WOMEN 23 % 9 % 8 % 8 % 11 % We do not discuss salary amounts or increases as we believe this information should remain confidential. However, in all the countries in which the Group is * Departures: dismissals, resignations, retirements, present, we respect the minimum wage set by local deaths. Departures due to the end of a fixed-term contract or the end of a probationary period initiated legislation. For example, in 2016 in France, the Group's by the employer are not included. management signed a collective agreement with ** Number of departures during the year compared to the total number of collaborators at the end of the employee representative organisations to ensure a year and multiplied by 100 minimum general increase in salary that is significantly higher than inflation, in order to strengthen purchasing power and provide a rewarding salary policy for all collaborators. Methodological note: We are committed to publishing next year the number of layoffs among the total number of departures. The MANE Group hired 997 The EMEA and Asia regions are On a Group scale, staff turnover In France, MANE also links its collaborators to the collaborators in 2017 (an increase the biggest recruiters in the Group, is 11%. Despite the average company's results through a salary savings scheme of 45% compared to 2016), with 47% of recruitment occurring rate, there are large differences (participation, incentives). The company then returns primarily due to the constant in the EMEA region and 25% in between countries, with a 4.7% a share of any profit to its collaborators as a yearly growth of activities in France Asia. Next are North America rate in France (76 departures) and bonus. The amount of the bonus and its distribution are and the United States as well (21%) and South America (7%). a 20% rate in China. Employee decided by an internal agreement between managers as the acquisition of DELI retention and constant wage and employee representatives. A Company Savings SPICES in South Africa in 2017. There were 568 departures in 2017. inflation are problems that our Scheme (CSS) has also been set up in France. This recruitment teams in China is a collective savings scheme, allowing collaborators must now deal with. It should be to build a securities portfolio within the company. noted that in France, of the 76 Voluntary employee contributions are topped up by departures counted, only 26 were company contributions (subscriptions). dismissals. 50 51 O R G A N I S AT I O N O F WO R K QUALITY OF LIFE AT WORK Ensuring quality of life at work is a challenge that not only involves preventing psychosocial risks and decreasing Our goal is to keep employee absenteeism at less than 4% by 2021. This year, a review of the definition of absenteeism but also developing the appeal of the company and improving creativity, commitment, motivation and absenteeism and the method of calculating absenteeism is in progress to harmonize reporting practices within employee loyalty. The Group undertakes many activities to improve the working environment and conditions. MANE's the Group and provide a reliable indicator. We are committed to publishing the Group absenteeism rate in our quality of life at work policy aims to help every employee balance their professional and private life and is built on the next CSR Report. following principles: >> Develop support for employee organisations by implementing remote working and reinforcing the right to disconnect; >> Start a new phase of occupational risk prevention; >> Increase managerial capacity so that managers can be even more involved in managing their teams (ensuring appropriate training and support methods and tools are available); >> Support collaborators in managing illness: extending the transfer of leave days for child illness provided by the company, implementing a family carer policy and creating part-time jobs for family carers; >> Make daily life easier for collaborators by implementing ma.conciergerie.MANE (overall management by a partner/provider offering high added value services to improve daily life) as well as optimising meeting times and improving social spaces. 52 53 SOCIAL R E L AT I O N S ORGANISING SOCIAL DIALOGUE SUMMARY OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS The Group is committed to encouraging social dialogue in all countries All MANE collaborators in France are covered by the National Collective where it does business. Freedom of assembly and the right to collective Agreement for Chemical and related Industries dated 30 December bargaining are key principles in our Group Code of Ethics. 1952. In 2017, six collective agreements were signed: We believe that social dialogue can play a productive part in negotiations, consultations or simply information exchange between the company and employee representatives to encourage cooperation to increase the >> Agreement relating to human resources planning positive social impact of the company. (GPEC) and generation contract dated 27 February 2017 >> Agreement relating to the required yearly negotiation of salary, working time and value sharing dated 4 Across the Group's sites in France, social dialogue occurs April 2017 with the following employee representative organisations: >> Agreement on remote working methods dated 21 September 2017 >> Agreement relating to the management of paid leave, >> Employee representatives (DP) authorised to public holidays and overtime to implement GAMA represent collaborators to the employer to manage dated 11 October 2017 and its addendum dated 23 individual requests; November 2017 >> Union representatives who represent collaborators >> Agreement relating to professional equality and workduring collective agreement negotiations with life balance dated 7 November 2017 Management; >> Agreement to extend DP, CE and, consequently, >> Employee Council (CE) authorised to consult OHSC mandates dated 17 November 2017 collaborators on the organisation and operation of the company as well projects suggested by the employer; >> Occupational Health and Safety Committee (OHSC) No occupational health and safety agreements were authorised to deal with issues relating to health, signed in 2017. safety, hygiene and working conditions. 54 55 O C C U PAT I O N A L H E A LT H AND SAFETY PREVENTION POLICY In order to prevent occupational hazards in the workplace, including those linked to stress, MANE is prepared to work with all relevant stakeholders. Managers and supervisors drive the policy and any resulting actions. Employee representatives, the OHSC and occupational health department are also stakeholders in the process, along with all our collaborators, whose role is to identify any risks and develop and implement the preventative action plans. MANE's management of health and safety is based on risk analysis using the following principles: >> Occupational risk assessment to identify, assess and classify risks in order to implement relevant preventative measures. The results of this occupational risk assessment are recorded in a ‘single document’ made available to members of the OHSC, employee representatives and the occupational physician; >> Analysis and processing of accidents and near-accidents to identify the various contributing elements and implementation of appropriate corrective and preventative measures; >> Safety behaviour visits. MANAGING INDUSTRIAL HAZARDS Noise, manual handling of loads and alternating shifts have been identified as being the main causes of stress in The work carried out in our manufacturing units accountability as well as incorporating industrial safety our company. MANE therefore takes all appropriate measures to prevent stress, such as, for example, adapting generates industrial hazards that can have an impact as early as possible into site design, planning regular or developing affected workstations or attenuating noise levels for certain machines. on collaborators, the external environment and exercises to understand emergency situations and neighbouring communities. Our French sites located in regular internal audits. Finally, and most importantly, Our manufacturing sites in Mexico, China and India (KANCOR) are OHSAS 18001 certified (occupational health Bar-sur-Loup (Notre-Dame and La Sarrée) are registered we strive to communicate as transparently as possible and safety management standard) which represents 17% of the Group's total shipped product tonnage and 20% environmental facilities (ICPE Classified Installation in the area about industrial safety, both internally and of the Group's collaborators. for Environmental Protection) and are subject to the externally, in order to maintain trust with collaborators, European Seveso directive. We developed our Major local residents and local authorities. Accident Prevention Policy, defining our industrial risk management pathway, as part of this context. We make particular use of training, awareness and employee 56 57 PSYCHOSOCIAL RISKS Frequency rate for accidents (number of accidents per million Psychosocial risks are also incorporated into the In 2011, in partnership with occupational health, MANE hours worked) prevention process in the same way as other consulted an independent consultant to get help in occupational hazards. These are risks that may be measuring employee stress levels in order to rank the 15,2 caused by the activities themselves, or caused by main causes of stress and draw up a plan of corrective the organisation and working relationships (excessive and preventative measures. In order to continue this workloads, confrontational relationships, management process, MANE continues to raise awareness and styles, intensity and complexity of work, etc.) As provide training on stress prevention for our managers 10,3 exposure to these work situations can affect the health and executives. We also provide training for medical staff of our collaborators (depression, anxiety, occupational on how to support people who may be experiencing 7,8 exhaustion), psychosocial risks must be taken into difficulties. 6,6 account. It is therefore necessary to assess them, plan suitable preventive measures and prioritise collective measures to avoid these risks as early as possible. 2009 2015 2016 2017 >> 2021 OBJECTIVES OUR RESULTS 2009 2015 2016 2017 Reduce by 33% the frequency rate of lost time accidents compared to 2009 NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS IN THE WORKPLACE 69 80 54 76 2021 objective achieved and exceeded in 2017 NUMBER OF OCCUPATIONAL 0 0 0 0 ILLNESSES 49 % NUMBER OF DAYS LOST / 1 030 1 205 1 370 NUMBER OF HOURS WORKED DE 4 536 499 7 743 848 8 216 045 9 729 703 FREQUENCY RATE * 15,2 10,3 6,6 7,8 76 accidents with leave were recorded in 2017 across the various MANE sites. The main causes were linked to risks involved in carrying and manual handling of loads, particularly SEVERITY RATE / 0,13 0,15 0,14 dorsal and lumbar injuries. Due to a collaborative effort, the Group has recorded a continuous drop in the incidence of workplace accidents with leave since 2009. In 2017, the frequency rate across the Group decreased from 15.2 accidents per million hours worked TREND 2009 2017 : 49 % in 2009 to 7.8 in 2017. For the second year in a row, we have achieved and exceeded our target to reduce incidence rates. In France, the frequency rate was 9.1 in 2017, significantly below the national French average of 16.6 in the chemical, rubber and plastic industries (source: national statistical data on * number of accidents at work leading to more than one day of lost time, occurring during a 12-month period, accident rates in 2016 from CNAMTS/DRP). compared to a million hours worked. 58 59 TRAINING AND E D U C AT I O N OUR RESULTS Proportion of collaborators benefiting TRAINING POLICY from training Given the highly competitive environment in which it 82 % 82 % 87 % finds itself, MANE believes that developing its workforce 2016 2017 is essential to strengthen the employability of its 61 % collaborators as well as its competitiveness and appeal TOTAL TRAINING HOURS 68 603 87 784 as a company. A successful company is one that knows how to maintain and enrich its knowledge and expertise. PER COLLABORATOR 15,1 16,9 In order to identify the continuous needs of each of TREND 2016 2017 : +12 % 2013 2015 2016 2017 our collaborators and the expectations of the Group, Methodological note: The training courses counted cover external and internal training. procedures have been defined to: >> Identify the knowledge our collaborators already have and the gaps between this and the knowledge required by their role; >> 2021 OBJECTIVES >> Establish specifications for future training; Increase to 80% the proportion of collaborators benefiting from training over the course of the year >> Develop the professional skills of our collaborators. 2021 objective achieved and exceeded in 2017 In-house training is also encouraged to support teaching term human resource needs. The aim is to better and activities that use information specific to the anticipate the effects on employment of economic, 87 % company to address relevant issues. technological, social and demographic changes. The GPEC will offer collaborators the opportunity to acquire In France, we systematically offer all our new recruits new skills and adapt to changes in job requirements and Across the Group, 4,513 collaborators participated in The Group spends 2% of its payroll on training. regardless of their employment contract (intern, expectations, often due to changes and developments at least one training session in 2017 (87% of the total In 2017, the training plan focused on the following apprentice, temporary, permanent or fixed-term) on the job market and strategic corporate decisions. workforce), an increase of 6% from 2016. We have areas: improving management of supervising teams, induction training for at least one day to introduce any therefore achieved and exceeded our 2021 target five preventing and managing corruption risks, training for key regulations that need to be followed for safety years earlier than expected. In addition, the average return to work interviews, yearly appraisal practice, or quality, environmental, energy and occupational number of training hours per employee also increased preventing psychosocial risks, social management and chemical risk management. by 13% from 2016 to 2017, when the average training relationships, supplier CSR audit, the environment, The Human Resources Department at MANE France has hours per employee was 17. time management, stress management, project also implemented a strategic plan for employment and management, etc. skills (GPEC) in order to anticipate short and medium 60 61 E Q UA L T R E AT M E N T YEARLY APPRAISALS Proportion of collaborators benefiting EQUALITY BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN from an appraisal A yearly review of progress and targets allows 77 % 77 % 76 % 80 % The Group is careful to ensure men and women are treated equally. In 2017, the Board of Directors signed an agreement relating to professional equality and work-life balance with the following aims: collaborators to review the year and discuss their training needs with their line managers. This interview is a valuable discussion between managers and their collaborators, an exchange which aims to see lasting >> Take action to encourage gender equality in >> Take action to encourage gender equality in improvement in professional practices, results and recruitment and to address any workplace bias by recruitment and to address any workplace bias by behaviour. encouraging both gender and disability diversity; encouraging both gender and disability diversity; >> Encourage better work-life balance; >> Encourage better work-life balance; 2013 2015 2016 2017 >> Ensure both women and men can access >> Ensure both women and men can access professional training; professional training; >> 2021 OBJECTIVES Increase to 80% the proportion of collaborators benefiting from an interview or assessment over the courses of the year. OUR RESULTS INDONESIA SOUTH AFRICA THAILAND FRANCE MEXICO WORLD Average gender pay gap 2021 objective achieved in 2017 USA INDIA CHINA BRAZIL IN % OF DISADVANTAGE TO WOMEN 14 % 5% 3% -3 % 5% -1 % 24 % 3% -1 % 7% WAGE EQUALITY INDEX* 24 % 28 % 32 % 32 % 30 % 24 % 32 % 31 % 30 % 32 % * Source: Global Gender Gap Report World Economic Forum In 2017, 80% of the Group's collaborators participated in an interview or evaluation during the year, an increase of Across the Group, women were, on average, paid We are proud of our performance based over 4% in relation to the previous year. We have therefore achieved our 2021 target five years earlier than expected. around 7% less than men. However, in all the countries several years, which for example has resulted in a 5% in which the Group is present, it performs better decrease in the gender pay gap in France between than the gender gap indices calculated by the World 2010 and 2017 (from 19% to 14%). In comparison, Economic Forum. women in France earn on average 24% less than their male counterparts. 62 63 POLICY SUPPORTING PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES The Board of Directors of MANE France has committed to a policy to support people with disabilities through employment. One of the major aspects of this commitment is to implement actions necessary for integration by, where necessary, adapting workstations in the company in order to create conditions that enable people with disabilities to remain in employment. In 2012, a collective agreement was signed with employee representative organisations for the implementation of a workstation adaptation process. This agreement was renewed in 2015 for 3 further years and will be renegotiated during 2018. Since the agreement was signed in France in 2012, 83 individual workstations have been significantly adapted while 10 flexible working time arrangements have been approved and 20 reserved parking spaces have been created near the workstations. Our company is also committed, as far as possible, to commissioning services from ESATs (French organisations that help disabled people into work), examples of which include: maintenance of green spaces, bottling of perfume, removal, dismantling, processing and recycling of Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE), packing boxes, etc. In 2017, for the 7th consecutive year, MANE Barsur-Loup participated in National Disability Week and organised a disability quiz. The site’s 1,600 collaborators were able to test MANE's disability culture , individually or in teams, over 13 questions. The winners received food hampers selected by the European Institute of Blind Tasting and Testing as well as a gourmet experience at the Dans le Noir (dark dining) restaurant. 64 65 ANTI-DISCRIMINATION POLICY INTERGENERATIONAL CONTRACT To formalise its commitment to fighting discrimination, the Human Resources Since 2013, MANE has been committed to the sustainable integration of young Department of MANE France signed the Diversity Charter in 2008. Since its launch people and the transfer of knowledge between generations, with the aim of in 2004, this Charter has encouraged companies to guarantee the promotion of and transferring the key skills required by the company. In September 2015, we received respect for diversity among collaborators. In this way, MANE undertakes to fight the 2015 generation contract award from French President François Hollande. The against any form of discrimination and to implement measures to promote diversity. MANE Group won in the 300 or more collaborators category. The main elements that caught the attention of the judging panel were the clear voluntary commitments in the area of recruitment and retention, the pragmatic nature of initiatives In accordance with the charter, we undertake to: particularly in terms of professional risk prevention and the willingness to transfer the key skills required by the company. In 2017, MANE renewed its collective agreement for France for a further 3 years. >> Raise awareness among and train managers and collaborators involved in The agreement includes measures promoting: recruitment, training and career management in issues of non-discrimination and diversity. >> Respect and apply the principle of non-discrimination in any form and at all stages >> Sustainable integration of young people into employment; of human resource management, specifically recruitment, training, professional advancement or job promotions for collaborators >> Employment of experienced workers; >> Attempt to reflect the diversity of French society and particularly its cultural and >> Transfer knowledge and skills. ethnic diversity within the workforce, across all qualification levels. >> Keep all our collaborators informed of our commitment to promote nondiscrimination and diversity and ensure they are up to date on the practical results MANE set itself an ambitious target of awarding 40 permanent contracts under this of this commitment. agreement. After 1 year of the agreement, 48 people were recruited on permanent >> Ensure the development and implementation of the diversity policy is a topic for contracts. debate with staff representatives. >> Include a chapter describing the company’s commitment to non-discrimination and diversity in the annual report: actions taken, practices and results. In 2017, MANE went even further by updating its Human Resources Policy to allow collaborators to inform the Ethics Committee of any failings in terms of diversity, discrimination or equality of opportunity. 66 67 8. ENVIRONMENTAL At MANE, we are convinced that reducing the INFORMATION environmental impact of our activities and protecting the communities in which we do business are an integral part of our company’s performance and social acceptability. 68 69 E N V I R O N M E N TA L M A N AG E R I A L POLICY A P P R OAC H MANE is working to reduce its environmental impact across all its sites, through the following specific actions: GREEN MOTION™ BY MANE Research and Development (R&D) has always been at In 2013, we extended the methodology to flavour the heart of MANE's innovation strategy. Currently, and fragrance formulas using an internal software >> Develop products and processes that are more >> Optimise the consumption of water and raw the Group invests 8.3% of its yearly turnover in program that encourages and supports perfumers respectful of the environment and humankind; materials; R&D activities. MANE’s commitment to sustainable and flavourists to develop greener products. >> Design and distribute environmentally friendly >> Conserve and ensure the sustainable and innovation involves designing environmentally friendly technologies; equitable use of biodiversity. products and chemical processes in order to reduce The tool is available at the following link: or eliminate the use of dangerous substances. https://greenmotion.mane.com/login following >> Improve energy efficiency and the use of registration. renewable energy sources; To achieve this, in 2011 MANE designed its own >> Prevent and reduce air emissions and effluents; evaluation tool, GREEN MOTION™, based on the 12 To receive the GREEN MOTION™ evaluation results >> Prevent, reduce and recycle waste; principles of green chemistry introduced by P. Anastas published in the Journal of Green Chemistry, send a and J. Warner. The tool is based on a global and multirequest to tony.phan@mane.com criteria approach that calculates the overall impact of manufactured ingredients on the environment on a Study reference: T.V.T Phan, C. Gallardo, J.M. Mane, scale of 0 to 100. It is a simple yet relevant method Green Chem., 2015, 17, 2846-2852 that uses a range of criteria grouped into seven basic concepts, such as the E factor, atom economy, mass of the chemical reaction, source of raw materials and risks and toxicity of reagents, solvent types and manufactured products. >> 2021 OBJECTIVE Over 80% of quantities of natural extracts and synthetic molecules produced with a GREEN MOTION™ score of more than 50/100 70 71 ISO 14001 CERTIFICATION OUR RESULTS In order to reduce the environmental footprint of Proportion of shipped product its business as far as possible, the Group is working tonnage from ISO 14001 certified to implement an ISO 14001 certified Environmental sites Management System (EMS) for its main production sites. Our target is to ensure that more than 90% of our total shipped product tonnage is from ISO 14001 certified sites 53 % by 2021. 46 % 47 % 34 % ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION TRAINING MANE has invested in training programs designed to integrate environmental protection into all its activities. These training policies are an integral part of the environmental and energy management systems being implemented. 2013 2015 2016 2017 For example, in France, all new collaborators participate in a two-day training session covering safety, environment, energy and occupational risk prevention, as soon as they >> 2021 OBJECTIVE start working for the company. Collaborators are then encouraged to follow training Over 90% of shipped product tonnage from ISO 14001 certified sites modules chosen according to their responsibilities and the risks linked to their roles, throughout their professional career. Elsewhere, as regulatory pressure on environmental issues intensifies, especially in terms of nomenclature for Classified Installations for Environmental Protection (ICPE) and the Seveso 3 directive, the Group has initiated training and information sharing activities for collaborators affected by CLP regulations on classification, labelling and packaging substances and mixtures. Dedicated poster, communication and IT system campaigns are also being developed internally in order to ensure collaborators are aware of efficient actions, labelling regulations, chemical hazards, policies, indicators etc. All of the Group's manufacturing sites in France have Across the Group, the drop in certification from 53% been ISO 14001 certified for a number of years. These to 47% between 2016 and 2017 can be explained by represent 29% of the Group's total tonnage. the acquisition of DELI SPICES in South Africa, as this site is not currently ISO 14001 certified. However, with Abroad, MANE's manufacturing sites in Mexico, four years until our target date of 2021, we are putting Thailand and China and its KANCOR sites in India all our efforts into achieving our environmental (Angamaly and Byadgi) have all achieved ISO 14001 certification targets. The next sites to be certified certification. These sites account for 18% of the during 2018 will include MANE activities in Indonesia Group's total shipped tonnage. and Colombia. 72 73 METHODS USED TO PREVENT ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS AND POLLUTION PREVENTING The budget allocated to preventing environmental hazards have been POLLUTION incorporated into the investment and operational expenses used to implement the Group's environmental policy. It is therefore detailed in the environmental management programmes that list the significant environmental impacts, targets and associated methods. VOC EMISSIONS Investment and operational expenses for preventing environmental hazards and pollution are linked to the following priorities: Controlling Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions resulting from the use of organic solvents is a priority in the Group's environmental policy. MANE is focusing its efforts specifically on its manufacturing sites in France, where VOC emissions are the greatest due to the synthesis and extraction activities performed. To effectively reduce our VOC emissions, we are taking action at several levels. >> Decreasing water consumption (implementing closed systems, Clean in Place (CIP) automatic systems, etc.); >> Ensuring continuous, effective operation of internal effluent treatment systems (replacing membranes, preventative A STRUCTURED ON-SITE TREATING maintenance, repairs, etc.); APPROACH REDUCTIONS EMISSIONS >> Decreasing air emissions (installing or replacing VOC traps, vent Our manufacturing sites in Incorporating one or more of Where substituting VOC condensers, smoothing filters, dust extractors, etc.); France have set out a solvent the twelve principles of green emissions is technically or >> Improving understanding and monitoring of energy consumption management plan to identify VOC chemistry when setting up a economically impossible, we (information tools, computers, energy diagnostics, installing emission sources and quantify the chemical process or synthesis are capturing and treating the detection/timer systems, etc.); atmospheric output in order to makes it possible to reduce VOC emissions to reduce the various >> Improving energy performances (renovating or replacing production find solutions for improvement emissions at their source. For pollutants contained within. Our equipment, refrigeration units, heating rooms, lighting, energy adapted to the emission sources example, supercritical CO2 is an processes include biofilters, gas recovery, etc.); involved. alternative to organic solvents. scrubbers, condensers, cold traps. >> Decreasing noise pollution (installing silencers on air extractors, This is a clean technology which soundproofing, etc.); can be used for extractions without the need for organic >> Ensuring industrial safety of sites (using specialised external solvents and without generating companies, CCTV monitoring, fire detection systems, storage for effluent. certain agents next to sites, etc.). >> OUR RESULTS The two sites in Le Bar-sur-Loup are subject to local authority decrees fixing their annual emissions targets at Studies and monitoring services acquired from independent 8% of the quantity of solvents used during the year for the Notre-Dame site, and 5% and 10% for new and organisations have also been funded to ensure the sites comply with old installations respectively at the La Sarrée site. standards and regulations and to identify areas for improvement. In 2017, we were significantly below these regulatory limits with an average of 5.8% at Notre-Dame and 4.9% During 2017, the Group spent over 7 million euros on investment and at La Sarrée. management expenses to protect the environment. 74 75 EFFLUENT Industrial effluents generated by activity on our The Group has two objectives with regard to effluent manufacturing sites may contain pollutants. For this management: reason, all our effluents are systematically treated or pre-treated before being released into local sewage >> Improving purification yields for our treatment plants; systems or the environment, in accordance with current legislation. Each site is responsible for defining >> Reducing as much as possible the volume and its own effluent management programme depending pollutant load of released effluent. on its activity levels, materials produced and products EVALUATING THE RISK OF EXPOSURE TO CHEMICAL PRODUCTS used. MANE has developed a method for modelling the risk of employee exposure to chemical products that is more relevant than the ECETOC (TRA) tool commonly used in the fragrances and flavours industry. The method In Bar-sur-Loup, the effluent from our production sites at Notre-Dame and La Sarrée are released into the proposed by MANE is a preventative tool that supports the decisionenvironment following purification in our internal waste water treatment plant. This is the Group’s only site that making process in order to reduce the risk of dangerous exposure, install releases its purified effluents into the environment. To this end, we have put in place a system to monitor and appropriate individual and/or collective protective equipment and provide control the quality of the effluent before it is released. Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) is the main indicator of targeted training for collaborators. The model can also help design exposure effluent quality. monitoring measures for the following areas: facility structure, work organisation, material storage, individual respiratory protection, ventilation, packaging choices, process automation, etc. OUR RESULT Measurements taken at MANE have already led to specific and positive changes to the workshops. One example is the use of smaller containers in EFFLUENT QUALITY (ON RELEASE FROM THE TREATMENT PLANT) * 2009 2015 2016 2017 order to minimise volatilisation during transfer operations, as well as reducing handling for the most dangerous substances at the end of the weighing and IN TONNES OF COD 25 22 15 14 mixing stages. IN KG PER TONNE OF PRODUCT 2,6 1,5 1,0 0,9 This evaluation tool was discussed in the PLoS ONE journal. Study reference: Angelini E, Camerini G, Diop M, Roche P, Rodi T, Schippa C, TREND 2009 2017 : -65 % et al. (2016) Respiratory Health – Exposure Measurements and Modelling in * COD data perimeter : only for Bar-sur-Loup the Fragrance and Flavour Industry. PLoS ONE, 11(2): e84138. http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0148769 Over the last few years, we have invested significantly Elsewhere, our sites in Indonesia (Cibitung) and India to improve the purification yield of our wastewater (Byadgi) have also built on-site wastewater treatment treatment plant at Bar-sur-Loup. As a result, we have plants to treat their effluent before it is released into reduced the pollutant load of our effluent by 65% from local sewage systems. The plant in Byadgi can even be 2009 to 2017. This result also reflects strict ongoing used to treat effluent to a level of quality acceptable upstream checks on our releases, particularly around for the internal reuse of treated water, leading to water our encapsulation plants, with, for example, better savings. separation and recovery of edible oils. In 2017, the pollution reduction rate was 98.6% for COD, 99.2% for Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD5) and 99.8% for Suspended Matter (SM). 76 77 WASTE The Group generates various types of waste while Although it does not involve our primary industries, manufacturing its products: paste-like residue, organic several measures have been implemented at the staff waste, sludge from the internal treatment of effluent, canteen in Bar-sur-Loup in order to reduce food waste: used edible oils, packaging waste (paper, cardboard, offering “standard” plates with average portions to metal, plastic), glass, solvents, etc. limit the amount of food that is not eaten and wasted; using a computer tool to calculate the daily takeThe Group's waste management policy aims to: up rate; re-offering meals that have not been eaten the first time, subject to compliance with health and >> Reduce the volume of hazardous waste generated; safety requirements(this amount is then deducted from the number of meals calculated for the next >> Recover an increasing proportion of generated day); implementing partial self-service, allowing each waste; employee to create their own meal by choosing what >> Ensure collaborators are aware of selective waste they want (for salads and fruit); systematic refiltering of sorting. frying oil in the kitchens after each use, thus reducing consumption; sorting and putting to the fore foods with short use-by dates (cheese, for example) to encourage consumption of these products and reduce waste. SPECIFIC EXAMPLES: Our Indian manufacturing sites (Angamaly and In the United States, our manufacturing site in Byadgi) extract spices and condiments. The resulting Lebanon, Ohio, has increased its waste recovery rate plant waste is locally treated and thermally recovered from 45% to 60% between 2016 and 2017 by directing OUR RESULTS before being used as fuel for on-site boilers. part of its waste to a local incineration plant with ON-SITE REDUCTIONS energy recovery. With help from our suppliers in Indonesia, we have changed the packaging and delivery methods for MANE has also set up a centralised Intranet site to WASTE 2009 2015 2016 2017 some large volume products to reduce the quantity of make all used industrial and laboratory equipment metal waste (by asking for deliveries in 20-tonne ISO that is still in good condition and not being used, IN TONNES tank containers rather than 200 litre metal drums). available to the technical departments, R&D and HAZARDOUS WASTE (HW) 2 228 4 097 3 986 4 059 production teams from across the Group. In this way, NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE (NHW) 3 477 8 253 12 565 14 903 In France, vegetable waste from extraction activities the equipment can be reused internally, wherever it is and sludge from the wastewater treatment plant needed, giving the used equipment a second life TOTAL 5 705 12 350 16 550 18 961 are sent to an external partner to be converted into compost. All our paper and cardboard waste is IN KG PER TONNE OF PRODUCT (DD) 71 62 57 51 sorted and recycled as are our metal drums and nonsoiled plastic packaging. As long as they are in good condition, our wood pallets are reused before being TREND 2009 2017 : -28 % recycled. In Mexico, improvements in waste sorting in recent years led to an increase in the proportion of waste recovered from 63% to 98% between 2009 and 2017. 78 79 Proportion of waste recovered Hazardous Waste ( in kg / t ) (hazardous and non-hazardous) 80 % 83 % 71 69 % 71 % 62 57 51 2009 2015 2016 2017 2009 2015 2016 2017 >> 2021 OBJECTIVE >> 2021 OBJECTIVE Reduce by 33% the quantity of hazardous waste per tonne of product compared to 2009 Over 80% of waste (hazardous and non-hazardous) recovered* 2021 objective achieved and exceeded in 2017 *recyclés et incinérés avec valorisation énergétique Reduce hazardous waste produced per tonne of product by 33% lcompared to 2009 We have already achieved The Group generated 18,961 tonnes of waste in 2017. Our target for 2021 is to recover over 80% of all our a 28% reduction in 2017. We are therefore on track to achieve this target. waste generated, both hazardous and non-hazardous. In 2017, we have already achieved 83%, an increase of 3% compared to 2016. We have therefore exceeded our 2021 target four years earlier than expected. WASTE TREATMENT DISTRIBUTION BY TREATMENT METHOD (IN TONNES) 2016 2017 RECYCLED WASTE 10 968 8 519 INCINERATED WASTE WITH ENERGY RECOVERY 2 330 7 205 INCINERATED WASTE WITHOUT ENERGY RECOVERY 450 457 LANDFILLED WASTE 2 589 2 340 OTHER (DESTROYED, PHYSICOCHEMICAL TREATMENT, ETC.) 213 442 TOTAL 16 550 18 961 80 81 ODOUR POLLUTION NOISE POLLUTION MANE manufactures aromatic The Quéven site in France mainly The problem of odour pollution MANE activities do not lead to any significant noise products that can occasionally manufactures savoury flavours. can also be linked to our internal pollution. Nevertheless, certain activities can be the result in odour pollution for Several years ago, in response to wastewater treatment plants. At source of noise pollution, particularly for collaborators its neighbouring residents. complaints from its neighbouring Bar-sur-Loup, for example, we working close to our industrial machinery. This problem Sometimes, when manufacturing residents, it carried out an odour store treatment sludge for as short has therefore been taken into account in the context of flavours using garlic, blackcurrant dispersion study to improve its a time as possible as these can stress at work. MANE works to identify the workstations or durian (a tropical South-East evaluation of odour pollution. occasionally generate unpleasant and collaborators affected by noise exposure and Asian fruit known for its peculiar This targeted study helped us to odours. We have also installed an implements appropriate preventative and protective smell), strong odours can be focus our actions appropriately activated charcoal trap system measures, including personal protective equipment, produced that, if conditions are to reduce the odour impact of to treat emissions from the belt installing silencers on air extractors, installing systems not appropriate, can be detected the site's activities. For example, press filter and the thickener. to absorb the noise of hammering to the ceilings by neighbouring residents. Some a new treatment system for of maintenance workshops, implementing noise chemical synthesis activities can the drying unit was installed. In our new manufacturing site protection around cooling towers, adding timers to air also produce noticeable odours Additionally, the site improved in Indonesia (Cibitung), odour extractors so they do not run overnight when possible, for neighbouring residents. MANE its treatment of waste gasses emissions from the production improving the fittings for rain water gratings, etc. has therefore implemented a using a spray tower (air scrubber) unit are processed using a biofilter range of measure to limit the by implementing an innovative in which the filter material is made We also measure noise levels on the edge of the olfactory impact of its activities. process that destroys molecules up of compost, peat and wood property from time to time to control any noise These include using bleach and/ before the air is released without bark. This facility is the largest pollution that neighbouring residents may experience. or caustic soda traps that can the use of chemicals. biofilter used by the Group and At each of its sites, the Group is committed to dealing capture certain smells. As a last can treat all extracted air from promptly with any complaints that could be made by resort, certain by-products are weighing stations in the flavour its immediate neighbours. treated in specialised centres. and fragrance production unit to reduce odour pollution. GROUND POLLUTION Each of MANE's sites have implemented systematic retention methods and adapted maintenance programmes to ensure its effluent collection networks remain sealed and to collect any accidental spills in areas where potentially hazardous products are stored or handled, in order to avoid any ground contamination. Spillage simulation exercises are organised throughout the year to ensure collaborators are adequately trained in case a major accident should occur and to highlight developments and adaptations that need to be made to safety plans to reinforce their validity. 82 83 S U S TA I N A B L E U S E O F RESOURCES WATER WATER CONSUMPTION OUR RESULTS Water consumption 2009 2015 2016 2017 Water is a vital component of MANE's processes Water consumption (m3/t) and is used in several production phases. We use it IN THOUSANDS OF M3 329 675 694 764 for natural raw material extraction processes (steam 10,5 10,2 9,9 distillation and hydrodistillation), but it is also crucial to 9,6 IN M3 PER TONNE OF PRODUCT 10,5 10,2 9,9 9,6 the operation and cleaning of production tools in order to comply with strict hygiene standards in the area of food safety in the manufacturing of flavours. TREND 2009 2017 : -9 % Water management is a key issue for MANE's manufacturing sites with many efforts undertaken each year to reduce and optimise their water consumption. Our target for 2021 is to reduce water consumption per >> 2021 OBJECTIVE tonne of product by 15% compared to 2009. To achieve 2009 2015 2016 2017 Reduce by 15 % water consumption per tonne of product compared to 2009 this, our activities have been focused on the following measures: >> Implementing specific measures and awareness-raising among staff to reduce water consumption In 2017, 764,255 m3 of water was used across all of Across the Group's manufacturing sites, we were able (restraint, recycling, closed circuits, automatic Clean-in-Place (CIP) systems, etc.); our sites to feed our manufacturing processes and to reduce our water consumption by 9% (in m3/tonnes meet hygiene and food safety standards. The Group's of product) from 2009 to 2017. We must therefore >> Monitoring the consumption of equipment with remote meter reading to detect leaks and abnormalities in real time; sites in Bar-sur-Loup in France (31%), Lebanon in the continue to provide targeted activities to achieve United States (31%) and Angamaly in India (16%) are our target of 15% reduction for 2021. It should be >> Improving the effectiveness of effluent treatment, so that the treated water can be reused internally. noted that in Bar-sur-Loup, since 2009, the absolute the main consumers of water. These sites mainly consume water to produce steam (boilers), in cooling value of our water consumption in our factories has circuits (cooling towers) and to clean manufacturing increased by 4%, although production has increased equipment in the flavour manufacturing workshops. by 64% over the same period. This is equal to a 36% reduction in water consumption per tonne of product by the end of 2017. 84 85 WATER SUPPLY SOURCES ENERGY All our manufacturing sites get their water supply from local municipal networks. ENERGY CONSUMPTION None of our sites take water directly from the natural environment. In order to take local water supply constraints into account, MANE undertakes and updates yearly water risk mapping to evaluate the level of water stress of its reservoirs. To do MANE’s industrial activities use energy in different this we use the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas tool from the World Resources Institute forms: natural gas (47% of total consumption), (WRI) which publishes a global water stress index (consumption vs. resource) for electricity (42%), energy produced internally from around one hundred river basins located in over 180 countries. The index ranges biomass (9%) and domestic heating oil (2%). Natural from 0 to 5 (with 5 being the highest level of risk). gas is mainly used for steam boilers that allow heating and creep of reactors and fractionating columns, and None of the Group's production units are located in areas of very high water for the burners of atomization towers. stress (level 5). Five of our manufacturing sites, representing 10% of the Group's total consumption, are located in high risk areas (level 4): the manufacturing sites Due to their energy intensive extraction and in Indonesia (Cibitung and Cikarang), the DELI SPICES factory in South Africa (in encapsulation activities, MANE’s manufacturing Cape Town), one of the MANE sites in the United States (in Wayne) and the MANE sites in Bar-sur-Loup account for 39% of the Group's site in Rio de Janeiro in Brazil. We do not believe that our local consumption (69,000 total energy consumption in absolute terms, despite m3 in Cibitung/Cikarang, 4,588 m3 in Wayne, 3,347 m3 in Cape Town and 1,944 m3 accounting for only 20% of total shipped tonnage. in Rio de Janeiro) has a significant impact on the water resources available in these We have therefore naturally focused our energy basins. However, if one of these areas were to suffer from regular droughts, the management efforts on Bar-sur-Loup. To this end, we sites affected would have to implement priority water reduction and conservation have implemented an ISO 50001 certified energy actions. management system in both Bar-sur-Loup and Quéven. Our energy management process is based on the following measures: CONSUMPTION OF RAW MATERIALS >> Develop a policy for more efficient energy use; The raw materials consumed by the Group are generally naturally sourced (essential >> Perform energy reviews to better understand oils, flowers, fruits, rubber and resin, cocoa, vanilla, sugar, seafood, etc.) or chemical energy use and consumption and to make synthesis products, including solvents primarily used to synthesise active products. relevant decisions; >> Monitor energy consumption closely and OUR RESULTS continuously. Consumption of raw materials 2015 2016 2017 IN TONNES 78 464 89 109 101 945 IN TONNES PER TONNE OF PRODUCT 10,5 10,2 9,9 86 87 Our site in India (Angamaly) is also ISO 50001 certified. It represents 8% of the Group's total energy consumption. C L I M AT E CHANGE Elsewhere, yearly investments are made on our manufacturing sites to acquire more energy efficient equipment (replacing refrigerated units with newer models, lighting, automating heating systems, installing thermostats, etc.), and to adapt our manufacturing equipment to decrease its consumption. CO2 EMISSIONS OUR RESULTS Conscious of the challenges linked to climate change We welcome the adoption of a new universal climate ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2009 2015 2016 2017 and its responsibility as a manufacturing company, agreement at COP21 in Paris, which is a critical step IN GIGAJOULES ( GJ ) MANE is working to reduce its greenhouse gas on the path to solving climate change. We pledge our emissions. The Group has formalised its position in support to ensuring that the level of ambition set by NATURAL GAS 196 989 286 702 298 765 321 191 the fight against climate change by supporting two the agreement is met or exceeded . ELECTRICITY 135 371 248 782 264 446 290 029 initiatives. In 2007, MANE signed the Caring for SELF-GENERATED ENERGY 0 62 506 62 687 58 579 Climate (C4C) declaration, a joint initiative from As part of this commitment, we have set ourselves a DOMESTIC HEATING OIL 10 708 6 794 17 677 13 209 the United Nations Global Compact, UNEP and the target of reducing our CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and Secretariat of the UNFCCC. In 2015, MANE took its 2) by 15% per tonne of product between 2009 and TOTAL 343 068 604 784 643 574 683 007 commitment further by signing the Paris Pledge for 2021. Our main areas of action are improving energy Action, encouraging support for the Paris Agreement efficiency, as discussed previously, and researching IN GJ PER TONNE OF PRODUCT 11,0 9,1 9,1 8,6 by bringing together a large number of participants in alternatives to fossil fuels for our manufacturing sites. support of a collective declaration: TREND 2009 2017 : -22 % Energy consumption ( in GJ / t ) 10,5 9,1 9,1 8,6 >> 2021 OBJECTIVE Reduce by 20% energy consumption per tonne of product compared to 2009 2021 objective achieved and exceeded in 2017 2009 2015 2016 2017 The reduction measures we have implemented over several years have helped improve the energy efficiency of our manufacturing sites. In 2017, the Group reduced its total energy consumption by 22% (in GJ/tonne of product) compared to 2009. We have therefore already exceeded our target of 20% by 2021. 88 89 OUR RESULTS The Group's greenhouse gas emissions were around Although MANE Bar-sur-Loup managed to reduce its 52,300 tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2017 for scopes greenhouse gas emissions for scopes 1 and 2 (tCO2e/ GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (SCOPES 1 AND 2)* 2009 2015 2016 2017 1 and 2. Half of these emissions are generated by our tonne of product) by 30% between 2009 and 2017, it sites in Bar-sur-Loup (France) and Lebanon (United is not enough for the Group to achieve its 2021 target IN TONNES OF CO2 EQUIVALENT 20 682 40 227 47 936 52 297 States). This is primarily due to the use of natural gas of an overall reduction of 15% for greenhouse gas IN TONNES OF CO2 EQUIVALENT PER 0,660 0,608 0,681 0,658 for steam boilers, gas burners for spray-drying towers emissions per tonne of product. TONNE OF PRODUCT and heating, as well as electricity consumption in the United States and India where electricity is generated TREND 2009 2017 : -0,4 % from fossil fuels. We are therefore focusing our * excluding industrial CO2 and non-fuel oil efforts on these sites to reduce our carbon footprint. Methodological note: The emission factors used to calculate the CO2 emissions attributable to energy consumption come from: (1) For electricity: the ADEME Base Carbone Version 1.02 November 15, 2013 for all countries (excluding USA) and from the Environmental Protection Agengy (EPA) site for the United States (2) For natural gas: the ADEME Base Carbone Version 1.02 November 15, 2013 for France, the Environmental Protection Agengy (EPA) site for the United States and the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories for other countries. (3) For heating oil: the ADEME Base Carbone Version 1.02 November 15, 2013 for France and 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories for other countries CO2 emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) (tCO2e/t) 0,66 0,68 0,66 0,61 >> 2021 OBJECTIVE Reduce by 15% GHG emissions ( Scopes 1 et 2 ) per tonne of product compared to 2009 2009 2015 2016 2017 90 91 USING RENEWABLE ENERGY ADAPTING TO THE CONSEQUENCES OF CLIMATE CHANGE To compensate for its difficulties in achieving significant 21% for MANE Quéven and Sablé-sur-Sarthe, 25% for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, MANE is MANE Inc. at Milford and Woodlawn and 16% for MANE focusing on reducing global warming by reducing its USA at Wayne. This represents about 11,900 MWh of The Group has not identified any immediate or Additionally, extreme climate events such as consumption of fossil fuels in favour of renewable electricity from renewable sources. significant risks to its activities due to climate cyclones, floods or storms also present a risk for energy. MANE aims to increase the proportion of total change. Nevertheless, we are aware of the risks our supply streams. For all these reasons, MANE is energy consumption from renewable sources to more MANE has also built new high environmental linked to the impact of climate change on our ability working to implement recovery plans for sourcing its than 10% by 2021. performance buildings that are being LEED® certified to source natural raw materials. In the first instance, most vulnerable and strategic raw materials. in Colombia and La Sarrée at Bar-sur-Loup. LEED climate change may have an agricultural impact on Our KANCOR sites in India recover the plant waste certification (Leadership in Energy and Environmental these raw materials. Changes in yield due to climate produced by their extraction processes thermally, Design) evaluates projects according to several key irregularities will also impact the prices at which we allowing them to self-produce 82% of the energy used categories. Energy efficiency, water management, can buy these materials. by the Angamaly site and 67% of the energy used by the site layout, material choices and innovation or design Byadgi site. are scrutinised in order to ensure the building's construction or refurbishment has a neutral or In order to achieve its 2021 target, MANE has also signed positive impact on the environment. several renewable electricity supply contracts (by buying Guarantees of Origin certificates) to provide 35% of the electricity consumption for its two sites at Bar-sur-Loup, Proportion of renewable energy C O N S E R VAT I O N O F 15 % 14 % 15 % BIODIVERSITY MANE IS A SIGNATORY TO THE BUSINESS AND BIODIVERSITY PLEDGE” During the Business and Biodiversity Forum held by to affirm their commitment to taking positive measures to the United Nation's Convention on Biological Diversity support it. Signing the pledge indicates a commitment to 3% (COP13-CBD) held in December 2016 in Cancun providing solutions for the conservation of biodiversity, (Mexico), MANE signed the Business and Biodiversity its sustainable use and the fair and equitable sharing of Pledge. This pledge provides an opportunity for business benefits arising from the use of resources. 2009 2015 2016 2017 leaders to highlight the importance of biodiversity and ecosystem services for their respective companies and >> 2021 OBJECTIVE Over 10% total energy consumption from renewable sources 2021 objective achieved and exceeded in 2017 In 2017, 15% of the Group's total energy consumption was from renewable sources. This is a 5% improvement on our 2021 target. 92 93 9. SOCIETAL At MANE, we believe growth is only sustainable if it is shared. Contributing to the local development INFORMATION of the areas in which the Group operates is a responsibility MANE takes very seriously. 94 95 SOCIETAL COMMITMENTS SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REGIONAL, ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF OUR ACTIVITIES MANE not only contributes to the sustainable socioeconomic development of the regions in which it operates through direct and indirect job creation and skills development (recruitment and training of local collaborators, knowledge transfers, purchasing local goods and services, revitalising local manufacturing INDONESIA networks) but also through the social investment decisions it makes (e.g. developing infrastructure, improving access to healthcare, drinking water and For over 10 years, MANE Indonesia has supported In September 2017, several MANE Indonesia appropriate sanitary facilities). the NGO Yayasan Emmanuel's Outreach programme, collaborators participated in the Run to Give event, which provides sponsorship and study grants an annual 5K charity run in Jakarta. Our collaborators We aim to: ensure that our activities and our social launched by the organisation. To date, 250 children ran on behalf of Yayasan Emmanuel's Food Rescue commitment create value for the communities with have been sponsored by MANE. Not only do we pay programme. whom we are involved. their school fees, we also provide social support Also in 2017, and for the fourth year in a row, MANE to help the children succeed and make the most Indonesia continued to organise our free medical of their studies. We have, for example, organised consultation days for neighbouring residents (health factory visits for some of the children to introduce checks and treatment). Each year, over 500 people our professional world and broaden their horizons from 6 villages benefit from this medical programme to include new employment possibilities. We have in a country where access to healthcare is difficult for also helped some of the children go on to complete poorer members of society. university degrees. Some will be offered jobs with us. PARTNERSHIP OR SPONSORSHIP ACTIVITIES In addition to the social responsibility linked directly to its manufacturing activities, MANE's involvement in local regional development includes support for general interest initiatives. Here are some examples: 96 97 THAILAND CHINA MANE Thailand's manufacturing site is located in Since 2013, MANE Shanghai has supported The Children of Madaifu association. This association looks after the Ladkrabang industrial area, near Bangkok. In children from poor families in the impoverished Chinese provinces of Gansu and Shaanxi whose parents have 2017, MANE worked in partnership with the District disappeared or passed away. As part of a 5-year commitment, MANE provides The Children of Madaifu with Environment and Sanitation Department to improve the financial support needed to fund living expenses and tuition for 15 students until they enter the job market. the environment surrounding the site. A neglected, MANE also offers internships to those students who are interested. Every year, MANE Shanghai also runs the unhealthy and swampy area was converted into a Love Apples operation, in partnership with The Children of Madaifu. MANE buys apples from the association pleasant garden to improve access paths, providing a and the profits from this sale are used to fund the association's activities, especially the Orphanage without walks safe and comfortable space for pedestrians. programme allowing children to go to school and continue their studies while staying with close family. In 2017, MANE Thailand organised an internal auction of office furniture that was still in good condition but no longer used. The funds raised were used to fund external lighting (high bay LED system) for the courtyard of a primary school near the factory. Thanks to the lighting system, the courtyard can now be used in the evenings by neighbouring residents for a variety of events. COLOMBIA Each year, MANE Colombia donates money received from the sale of recycled waste and packaging to several foundations that support education and food for disadvantaged children. BRAZIL FRANCE Since 2016, MANE Do Brasil and the Brazilian NGO Onda Verde have participated in a forestry project MANE makes yearly donations to several organisations, such as: aimed at restoring areas degraded by agricultural QSolidarSport, Q which promotes respect in all its forms through sport and cultural activities with schools; activities by planting trees indigenous to Nova Iguaçu QLa Q Fondation Motrice, which supports research into Cerebral Palsy; on the banks of the Ana Felicia river. As part of this QCEW, Q whose beauty centres provide free beauty treatments to hospital patients; partnership, MANE will financially support the planting QLes Q Amis Des Enfants (ADE), who support children in Sudan; of seedlings along with their maintenance for at least Qthe Q congregation of the Petites Sœurs des Pauvres; 3 years. QGrasse Q hospital, to support aromatherapy workshops for chemotherapy patients. 98 99 INDIA Our KANCOR joint venture has implemented a CSR policy focusing on social engagement and investment in the communities where the company does business. This policy is focused on the three following measures: 1 Supporting sustainable procurement through programmes that aim to support farmers and suppliers in improving farming practices and post-harvest processing in order to minimise the carbon footprint of their supply chain (training, awareness, supply of clean packaging); 2 Supporting access to key health services and clean water as well as appropriate sanitary facilities to improve hygiene conditions and comfort for local populations (e.g. in schools and neighbouring villages); 3 Supporting education through funding to meet the needs of schoolchildren (books, shoes, school kits, uniforms) in the areas in which KANCOR is located. In 2017, KANCOR was involved in installing sanitary SOUTH AFRICA facilities in a school in Byadgi and in a market in For the past 5 years, MANE South Africa has years in planning and construction, the first of three Bareilly. KANCOR also provided funding for the supported the Children's Hospital Trust, which raises intensive care units opened its doors in August 2016, planting of 1000 saplings in villages near Byadgi. funds for the War Memorial Children's Hospital, while a second unit providing facilities for patients, In Angamaly, KANCOR has participated in several the largest children's hospital in sub-Saharan Africa. families and staff was opened in November 2017 and initiatives in partnership with local authorities to fill A child requiring intensive care is a harrowing a third unit providing neonatal intensive care will gaps in public health provision. Examples include experience for the whole family. It is therefore open in February 2018. installing a refrigerated mortuary with an emergency important for hospitals to create a comfortable and generator at the local public hospital and donating welcoming space for families, and just as important In December 2017, MANE South Africa collaborators a kidney dialysis machine to the Angamaly Little to create an environment that complies with the gifted toy animals to children hospitalised over the Flower hospital. highest standards so that the intensive care service Christmas period. can provide advanced treatments for children whose symptoms require careful monitoring. Since its creations, the Trust has helped the hospital modernise its buildings, buy vital equipment and fund essential research and training programmes. After several 100 101 RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING Proportion of MANE purchasing >> 2021 OBJECTIVE volume from suppliers committed Over 90% of MANE Bar-sur-Loup purchasing volume to a CSR policy coming from suppliers committed to a CSR policy INTEGRATING CSR INTO MANE's responsible purchasing policy involves: PURCHASING 93 % 85 % Our activities are mainly linked to the purchasing of >> a Code of Ethics for Group buyers that 78 % 2021 objective achieved and exceeded in 2017 raw materials and packaging. The quality of MANE’s commits buyers to behaving in an ethical relationships with its suppliers helps to sustain its manner to build fair relationships with our supply chains in the long term. In this way, MANE suppliers, not engage in discriminatory 53 % 90 % 93 % is committed to building lasting relationships with practices and ensure the transparency of any suppliers all around the world based on balancing transactions; individual interests, trust, and reciprocal CSR >> a Purchasing and Sustainable Development commitments. Charter for MANE suppliers, to present our sustainable development policy and encourage 2009 2015 2016 2017 The Group believes it has a responsibility to them to respect our six basic principles of influence the actions of its suppliers in terms of both human rights, labour standards, environment, environmental and socio-economic impact. This responsible purchasing and anti-corruption; ambition aims to incorporate CSR as a key selection criterion for our suppliers, alongside aspects such as >> a supplier risk analysis method. We have Proportion of significant* suppliers who >> 2021 OBJECTIVE quality, cost and deadlines. developed an in-house risk mapping process, have been evaluated on their CSR Over 50% of significant suppliers will have been resulting in a regularly updated document evaluated on their CSR (audit performed on-site by For this reason, our responsible purchasing policy is designed to identify potential CSR risks by MANE, EcoVadis evoluation or SMETA audit) an integral part of our CSR strategy. We expect our product category and country; suppliers to adhere to the Group's ethical and CSR 27 % 2017 principles. To achieve this aim, we ensure suppliers >> training for MANE's internal auditors and are linked to a CSR policy and provide support to buyers to perform on-site CSR audits for 17 % evaluate their practices and carry out on-site audits suppliers; 12 % (for suppliers identified as being at risk). >> a CSR evaluation process for suppliers (self0% evaluation questionnaire sent to suppliers, on2009 2015 2016 2017 site audits, evaluation of a number of suppliers outsourced to ECOVADIS, using the SEDEX platform to access SMETA audits performed by our suppliers). * As part of our supplier CSR monitoring process, a supplier is considered to be significant if they meet at least one of the following criteria: (1) one of the suppliers providing 80% of our total purchases; (2) one of the suppliers providing 80% of the total quantity purchased; (3) a supplier displaying at least one of the potential CSR risks identified in our cartography of potential CSR risk; (4) one of the Group's global suppliers. At the end of 2017, over 280 suppliers had been identified as significant and were subject to CSR monitoring. Together they represent over 96% of the total purchases made at MANE Bar-sur-Loup. 102 103 VIRTUOUS VANILLA SUPPLY (MADAGASCAR) At the end of 2017, 93% of the purchases made at Vanilla beans processed by MANE come from Madagascar. Our supply chain, in place for over forty MANE Bar-sur-Loup were from suppliers committed to years, was reinforced twenty years ago with the creation of a local structure to help producers improve a CSR policy (either by signing MANE’s Purchasing and their farming practices and export the vanilla beans. Our partner, FLORIBIS, represents MANE's Sustainable Development Charter, or by communicating interests locally with farmers, cooperatives and gatherers. For example, FLORIBIS's extension agents a CSR report verified by an independent third party). teach farmers how to improve cultivation and preparation. These efforts significantly improve the quality of the vanilla beans. Farmers are encouraged by the results. MANE also deals directly with 70% of our significant suppliers have, with our support, cooperatives to guarantee a minimum purchase price and with NGOs aiming to protect biodiversity. performed a self-evaluation of their CSR practices. With FLORIBIS, MANE has developed strong ties with local communities and endeavours to constantly Since 2013, 80 suppliers have undergone CSR create shared value with all stakeholders involved in the vanilla supply chain. Following initiatives in assessment (on-site audits by MANE, ECOVADIS place since 2009 to support the FITAMA cooperative to produce fair trade certified vanilla, MANE evaluation or on-site audit by an independent third renewed its commitment by signing a tripartite agreement with FANAMBY NGO and FLORIBIS in party using the SMETA standard), representing 27% of May 2014. The aim was to implement an entirely traceable vanilla supply, from pollination to the flavour all significant suppliers. Our target is to achieve a CSR stage in order to: evaluation for 50% of all significant suppliers by 2021, with priority given in our audit schedule to suppliers identified as potentially most at risk (e.g. with a low self>> Ensure a stable supply of vanilla beans; evaluation score and presenting a potential CSR risk >> Guarantee complete traceability along the supply chain; linked to their product or country of origin). >> Ensure quality control of vanilla beans from farming communities in Vohemar, one of the four main villages in the vanilla-producing region of Sava (Sambava, Andapa, Vohemar, Antalaha) in north-western Madagascar; >> Guarantee sustainable and responsible purchasing that complies with ethical and social standards. SUSTAINABLE SOURCING PROJECTS A critical issue for local communities is ensuring From an environmental perspective, deforestation CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS WITH LOCAL PRODUCERS OF PERFUME PLANTS food storage and supply for periods where there is a significant cause of biodiversity loss in are no crops to meet basic needs. For this reason, Madagascar. Plantation areas are often expanded MANE provided funding to build a rice granary and so they encroach on forests. The NGO FANAMBY MANE's headquarters are located at Bar-sur-Loup, near the birthplace of the perfume industry, to purchase initial stocks of rice. The first stone was and FLORIBIS are working on mapping domains Grasse. Flower production in the Grasse region is part of our history and heritage. These are the laid in July 2014, and the granary was completed in to limit forest destruction and have implemented flowers, expertly showcased by perfumers, that have written our history, sculpted our landscape February 2015. a 5-year reforestation programme in a protected and contributed to the economic success of Grasse and the perfume industry. However, this area. FANAMBY is also managing the creation of a specific French feature has tended to vanish, overtaken by urbanisation, relocation of plantations From a social point of view, the vanilla purchased national park in Daraina, where farmers who supply and competition from cheaper synthetic materials. For this reason, MANE decided to become by MANE impacts 500 workers and 280 farmers, vanilla beans to MANE and FLORIBIS are located. involved in preserving and restoring its plantations in the Grasse region. For several years now, representing a total of around 1900 people, This region in Madagascar is unique and precious in as part of its responsible purchasing policy, MANE has been committed to building special including their families. MANE and FLORIBIS have terms of biodiversity and the national park will soon relationships with small growers of perfume plants from Grasse and Provence (narcissus, jasmine, implemented a payment system for farmers so be listed as a UNESCO world heritage site. Centifolia rose, mimosa, lavandin, cypress, etc.). that they can earn extra income for higher quality vanilla beans. We provide training and guidelines for harvesting the beans that have reached full maturity (good pollination, growing and care practices). 104 105 SUSTAINABLE VETIVER PRODUCTION (MADAGASCAR) Vetiver is a remarkable and very undemanding plant currently grown for its roots, which can grow to a depth of 3-4 metres. It is very tolerant of drought and has been used in the past for the construction of roofs, to make brushes, to protect furniture and linen and to protect soil against erosion. Also, vetiver has always been used for perfume, extracted from its roots. Since the 1980s, the authentic Bourbon type of vetiver had disappeared from the market as a result of more competitive prices from new sources. Devastating hurricanes in Haiti have also led to a bad harvest of this source, causing prices to rocket. Seven years ago, in collaboration with the communities involved in MANE’s vanilla supply chain in Madagascar, MANE reintroduced the cultivation of Bourbon vetiver in Madagascar. Production of precious roots has now intensified and the quality of the essential oil is stable. This project has two effects on local communities: it generates a second source of income (after vanilla) and, because the crop is grown on a plot at Vohemar airport, it contributes to the maintenance of the regional airport. Vetiver is grown on poor soil with no additives or additional watering. The crops are planted section by section to allow farmers to harvest all year round. The roots reach maturity after one year, a time period which is very important for ensuring the olfactory quality of the Bourbon vetiver. On our plantation, farmers are trained by FLORIBIS to follow good harvesting practices to ensure constant quality. 106 107 A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN FOR TIMUR BERRIES (NEPAL) Also known as Timut pepper, Timur berries are used increase income and stabilise demand for farmers as a spice in Chinese, Tibetan, Nepalese and Indian while ensuring quality and traceability for clients. cooking and in traditional Chinese medicine due to their active properties. They develop an unusual 75 households (around 300 people) will benefit from aroma, with clear citrus (lemon, grapefruit), vegetal the economic effects of this supply chain. The sale of and woody notes, and provide interesting olfactory Timur berries is an incredible opportunity to empower properties to perfumes. local women. By increasing their income, the women will now be able to fix their homes, educate their The berries grow on small thorny trees of the children and send them to good schools. In some Zanthoxylum armatum species which, in the wild, cases, it can also help to limit the rural exodus of men is native to the mountains of Surkhet in the middle from the community who generally travel for several mountains region (known as the hill region) of Nepal, years at a time to the big cities in India or Qatar to between 1000 and 2000m in altitude. The berries find work. are generally picked by disadvantaged, low-caste, rural communities that depend on farming to survive. MANE is also investing in the community to encourage Women do the bulk of the production and harvesting social development, specifically by building rain water while the men go to look for work in India. For this reservoirs and rolling out an educational programme reason, the berries are often their only source of for the women. income. Given their place in the value chain, the women are vulnerable to price fluctuations and are In 2014, a nursery was set up to supply Timur plants therefore unable to guarantee a stable income for to farmers and support the creation of plantations, themselves. as a complement to picking wild berries. It will take 5 years for these plants to produce fruit for harvesting. As part of the HVAP (High Value Agriculture Project) programme created by the Nepalese government, and under the supervision of two local NGOs, MANE is actively participating in the development of a sustainable supply chain for Timur berries with the Kuvindedaha community in the Salyan district. MANE has signed a trade agreement which aims to 108 109 CONSUMER HEALTH AND SAFETY FOOD SAFETY FOR FLAVOURS EVALUATING PRODUCT SAFETY (TOXICOLOGY) Consumers today are particularly concerned with food As early as possible, during the development stage for new products, we assess the potential toxicological risks safety, due to increasing concerns caused by various posed by the products we manufacture. The development process for any new research project is subject to a recent health crises. Ensuring the quality and safety meticulous safety evaluation process. Production cannot begin prior to approval by a scientific committee made of our food flavours is therefore crucial for our food up of members with various backgrounds. In addition, the raw materials used to manufacture products must processing clients. The aim is to protect consumer meet strict specifications drawn up by the Group's product safety and regulatory affairs department. health and safety. Our approach covers the whole logistics chain, starting with suppliers. We incorporate We are also involved in research projects run by ImmunoSearch, a company developing high quality in vitro very strict controls in our purchasing and audit toxicology tests to evaluate the potential for irritation, sensitisation or genotoxicity in perfume and cosmetic processes, enabling us to select safe and high-quality ingredients, thus avoiding animal testing. raw materials. Product/process audits are carried out at the supplier’s premises to ensure they are able to meet the MANE Group’s quality and safety requirements and to identify possible areas of weakness. All our production sites (in France and abroad) have put in place quality and food safety management SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION systems, which set out the procedures and methods We believe our role in sustainable consumption In terms of nutrition, consumers want healthier and to be followed at each stage of production (receipt, relates to the products and services we offer, their life nutritionally beneficial products. Our customers in quality control during production, final check) to cycle and the nature of the information we provide to the food industry are looking to reduce the sugar ensure the manufacturing and quality control of our our customers. and salt content of their products. The challenge products meets strict standards. Long before the finished products leave our sites, we test them to make is to do this without drastically altering the taste From this perspective, although the first step for consumers are used to. To this end, MANE has sure they can be used safely. The tests carried out on MANE is to develop products that provide greater developed a range of products, Sense Capture, finished products generally include physicochemical, environmental benefits, it is also necessary to to help its customers adapt to these behavioural microbiological and organoleptic tests. This ensures give customers all the social and environmental changes and new consumer expectations. To ensure that the finished products we supply to our customers information about our products to enable them to the result meets the taste expectations of consumers are safe and of uniform quality, meeting consumer make informed purchases. With GREEN MOTION™, in terms of organoleptic quality, MANE offers natural safety requirements. The majority of the Group's food our tool to assess the environmental impact of the food flavours to decrease quantities of sugar (Sense flavour manufacturing sites are certified ISO 9001, IFS ingredients manufactured, MANE gives its customers Capture Stevia) and salt (Sense Capture Salt) without & BRC, FSCC 22000 or ISO 22000, depending on the possibility to find out about the environmental changing the taste of the lighter products. A further location. profile of products and makes them aware of the solution offered to our customers is the inclusion choice of more ‘green’ formulae. of vegetable proteins in meat products with Sense Capture Protein. 110 111 MONITORING CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Customer satisfaction highlights the level of care taken by MANE to meet the needs and preferences of our customers and is therefore vital for the company's continued success. In the context of sustainable development, customer satisfaction has an impact on the way in which MANE manages its customer relationships. Every year, as part of the Quality Management System implemented across the various MANE sites, a customer satisfaction survey is sent to a representative panel of customers. The aim of the survey is to define customer satisfaction in the following areas: >> Promotional offers; >> Order processing and follow-up; >> Meeting delivery specifications and related commitments; >> Quality and CSR monitoring; >> Key expertise and solutions (R&D, Marketing). Completed customer satisfaction surveys are sent back to the Sales Department and analysed by the Quality Department, who will contact the customer in case of poor results. The Quality Department will then produce a statistical review of the customer satisfaction surveys, which will be presented on a yearly basis to the Quality Management team for review. Our aim is to achieve a response rate of more than 33% and a satisfaction score exceeding 15/20. In France, for example, 207 questionnaires were sent out in 2017, with 95 customers returning the completed surveys, or 46% of the surveys sent out. The average score achieved for all customers who completed the survey was 17.6/20. 112 113 10. CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH CSR REPORTING GUIDELINES 114 115 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Decree Global Compact Report Profile Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Reporting period for information provided G4-28 Pages 6-7 1. About this report Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents G4-31 Decree Global Compact Strategy and Analysis Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of Pages 8-9 2. A Word from the President G4-1 sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability 6. Our ethical policy Statement by the Chief Executive expressing continued support for the UN Global Compact Pages 40-41 > Commitment to the United x Nations Global Compact Decree Global Compact Organizational Profile Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Name of the organization Primary brands, products, and services Location of the organization’s headquarters Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either G4-3 the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability Pages 6-7, 12-13 1. About this report à topics covered in the report. 3. Group Profile G4-9 Nature of ownership and legal form Markets served Scale of the organization (total number of employees, total number of operatins, net sales, quantity of products or services provided…) Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report Decree Global Compact Commitments to External Initiatives GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-15 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international Pages 18-19 3. Group Profile advocacy organizations in which the organization: Holds a position on the governance body; > Our external commitments G4-16 Participates in projects or committees; Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; Views membership as strategic. Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report Decree Global Compact Identified Material Aspects GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Explanation of the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 5. Our CSR policy Explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining G4-18 > CSR governance 7.2.3 Report Contentu Pages 24-29 > Key challenges G4-19 List of all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content > Commitments Relations entretenues Engagementavec les parties prenantes Relevant Pages etpages and chapters chapitres dédiés du in the CSR Report Rapport RSE Decree Global Compact Stakeholder GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 5. Our CSR policy Pages 26-27 Conditions of dialogue with these stakeholders > Stakeholders G4-24 4.5 9. Societal Information à A. 3° a) 5.3 Partnership or sponsorship activities Pages 96-101 > Societal commitments supporting G4-27 sustainable development Decree ISO 26000 Global Compact Ethics and Integrity Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 6. Our ethical policy Description of the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as >The Group's Code of Ethics 4.4 #1-2 codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Pages 34-35 G4-56 > Ethics Committee #3-4-5-6 6. Our ethical policy Anti-corruption Pages 36-37 G4-SO4 B. 1° 6.6.3 # 10 > Anti-corruption scheme 6.3 #1-2 6. Our ethical policy Human Rights Page 38 > Respect or human rights and B. 2° working standards 116 117 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: SOCIAL Decree Global Compact General Human Resources policy Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 7. Social information Managerial approach Pages 44-45 G4-DMA > Human Resources Policy Decree Global Compact Employment Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Total number of employees by age group, gender and geographical location 7. Social information G4-LA1 Recruitment and departures A. 1° a) 6.4.4 Pages 46-51 > Employment Salaries > Human Resources Policy G4-52 G4-LA13 Organisation of work GRI G4 Decree ISO 26000 Global Compact Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 Organisation of working time 7. Social information G4-10 Pages 52-53 A. 1° b) 6.4.4 Absenteeism > Organisation of work G4-LA6 Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report Decree Global Compact Occupational Health and Safety GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Health and safety conditions in the workplace G4-DMA 7. Social information Accidents in the workplace Pages 56-59 > Occupational health and safety G4-LA6 A. 1° c) 6.4.6 Summary of collective agreements G4-LA8 Social relations Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report Decree Global Compact GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Organisation of social dialogue, specifically information gathering, employee consultation and negotiation procedures G4-DMA 7. Social information Summary of collective agreements Pages 54-55 > Social relations A. 1° d) 6.4.5 #3 Percent of all employees included in a collective agreement GA-11 Training Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report Decree Global Compact GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Training policies implemented G4-DMA G4-LA10 7. Social information Total training hours Pages 60-62 > Training and education G4-LA9 A. 3° a) 6.4.7 Yearly appraisals G4-LA11 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 Decree ISO 26000 Global Compact no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 Measures taken to support equal treatment for men and women Measures taken to support employment and placement of people living with disabilities 7. Social information A. 1° f) 6.3.7 #6 Pages 63-67 > Equal treatment Anti-discrimination policy 118 119 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL General Environmental Policy Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 Decree ISO 26000 Global Compact no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 Organisation of the company to take into account environmental issues and, where necessary, environmental evaluation and certification procedures G4-DMA 8. Environmental information 6.5.1 Employee training and information activities relating to environmental protection Pages 70-74 > Environmental Policy A. 2° a) # 7 89 > Managerial approach 6.5.2 Methods used to prevent environmental hazards and pollution EN31 Decree Global Compact Pollution Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 VOC emissions Pages 75-76 G4-EN21 Effluent Page 77 G4-EN22 6.5.3 # 7 89 Page 82 8. Environmental information A. 2° b) Odour pollution G4-EN27 > Preventing pollution Noise pollution Page 83 G4-EN27 Ground pollution Page 83 Decree Global Compact Circular economy Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Waste management and prevention Pages 78-81 8. Environmental information A. 2° c) i) 6.5.3 Measures to prevent, recycle, reuse, recover or eliminate waste in other ways G4-EN23 > Preventing pollution Sustainable use of resources Water consumption and supply sources in accordance with local constraints G4-DMA G4-EN8-EN9 Consumption of raw materials and measures taken to improve usage efficiency Pages 84-88 8. Environmental information G4-EN1 A. 2° c) ii) 6.5.4 # 7 89 > Sustainable use of resources G4-DMA Energy consumption and measures taken to improve energy efficiency G4-EN3 à EN7 Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report Decree Global Compact Climate change GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Greenhouse gas emissions Medium to long-term reduction targets set voluntarily to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 8. Environmental information G4-DMA 6.5.5 # 7 89 and the methods used to achieve this Pages 89-93 A. 2° d) Use of renewable energies > Climate change G4-EN15 à EN18 Measures taken to adapt to the consequences of climate change Biodiversity Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report Decree Global Compact GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 8. Environmental information 6.5.6 #3 Measures taken to preserve or restore biodiversity Page 93 G4-DMA A. 2° e) > Conservation of biodiversity 120 121 CATEGORY: SOCIETAL Decree Global Compact Societal commitments supporting sustainable development Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Impact of the company's local employment and development activities 9. Societal information 6.8.3 Pages > Societal commitments supporting A. 3° a) 6.8.5 Impact of the company's activities on local or neighbouring communities 96-101 sustainable development 6.8.7 Decree Global Compact Suppliers Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 LA14, LA15 EN33 A. 3° b) Taking social and environmental issues into account in purchasing policies Pages 9. Societal information 6.6.6 #1&2 102-108 > Responsible purchasing HR5, HR9HR11 Decree Global Compact Consumer Health and Safety Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Protecting consumer health and safety 6.7.4 Pages 9. Societal information A. 3° c) # 7 89 110-111 > Consumer health and safety Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report Decree Global Compact Customer Satisfaction GRI G4 no. 2017-1265 dated 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Page 9. Societal information G4-PR5 6.7.4 112 > Monitoring customer satisfaction 122 123 11. EXTERNAL VERIFICATION 124 125 KPMG S.A. Siège social Tour EQHO Téléphone : +33 (0)1 55 68 86 66 2 Avenue Gambetta Télécopie : +33 (0)1 55 68 86 60 CS 60055 Site internet : www.kpmg.fr 92066 Paris la Défense Cedex France V. MANE FILS S.A. Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important : We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we have used, based on our Siège social : 620, Route de Grasse professional judgement, are sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance 06620, Le Bar-sur-Loup at parent entity level, we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more Capital social : €. 24 640 000 to corroborate the qualitative information (organisation, policies, actions), performed extensive procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques and other limitations analytical procedures on the quantitative information and verified, using sampling inherent to information and internal control systems, the risk of not detecting a techniques, the calculations and the consolidation of the data. We also verified that REPORT BY THE INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY ON THE CONSOLIDATED HUMAN the information was consistent and in agreement with the other information in the material misstatement in the CSR information cannot be totally eliminated. management report; RESOURCES, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE Conclusion Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has come to our attention at the level of a representative sample of entities selected by us on the basis of MANAGEMENT REPORT their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines. risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify that procedures are properly applied For the year ended 31 December 2017 and to identify potential undisclosed data, and we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. The selected sample represents 31% of headcount considered To the Shareholders, 1. Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information as material data of social issues and between 20% and 78% of environmental data In our capacity as independent third party of V. MANE FILS S.A., (hereinafter named considered as material data of environmental issues. the “Company”), certified by COFRAC under number 3-1049 , and member of KPMG Paris-La Défense and Valbonne, 14 June 2018 Nature and scope of our work International network as one of your Statutory Auditors, we hereby report to you on On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of the relevant departments, we For the remaining consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its consistency based the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information for the year KPMG S.A. obtained an understanding of the Company’s sustainability strategy regarding human on our understanding of the company. ended 31 December 2017, included in the management report (hereinafter named CSR resources and environmental impacts of its activities and its social commitments and, Information ), pursuant to article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code where applicable, any actions or programmes arising from them. We also assessed the relevance of explanations provided for any information that was Philippe Arnaud Philippe Levert de commerce). Partner Partner We compared the CSR Information presented in the management report with the list not disclosed, either in whole or in part. Sustainability Services provided in article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. Company’s responsibility The Management Board is responsible for preparing a company's management report For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we verified that explanations including the CSR Information required by article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial were provided in accordance with article R.225-105, paragraph 3 of the French Code in accordance with the guidelines used by the Company (hereinafter the Commercial Code. Guidelines ), summarised in the management report and available on request from We verified that the CSR Information covers the scope of consolidation, i.e., the the Company's head office. Company, its subsidiaries as defined by article L.233-1 and the controlled entities as defined by article L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code within the limitations set Independence and quality control out in the methodological note, presented in the “Scope of consolidation” section of Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the French Code of ethics (Code de the management report. déontologie) of our profession and the requirements of article L.822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control Conclusion including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical Based on the work performed and given the limitations mentioned above, we attest requirements and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. that the required CSR Information has been disclosed in the management report. Responsibility of the independent third party 2. Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to: We specify that, as this is the first year for which the company is subject to the attest that the required CSR Information is included in the management report or, in verification of the fairness of its CSR information, the CSR information concerning the event of non-disclosure of a part or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation the year ended 31 December 2016, presented in comparison, has not been subject to is provided in accordance with the third paragraph of article R.225-105 of the French such verification. Commercial Code (Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information); Nature and scope of our work express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information taken as a whole is, We conducted about ten interviews with the persons responsible for preparing the in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines (Conclusion CSR Information and, where appropriate, responsible for internal control and risk on the fairness of CSR Information); management procedures, in order to: However, it is not our responsibility to express an opinion on the compliance with the assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, completeness, 3 Social indicators: Total workforce and distribution by gender, age and geographical other relevant legal provisions applicable if necessary, in particular those envisaged by reliability, neutrality and understandability, and taking into account industry best region; Number of hirings; Number of departures (including layoffs) ; Proportion of article L. 225-102-4 of the French Commercial Code (Duty of care) and by the law n ° practices where appropriate; collaborators benefiting from training ; Frequency rate and severity rate of work-related 2016-1691 of December 9, 2016 known as Sapin II (fight against corruption). -verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, processing and control accident. process to reach completeness and consistency of the CSR Information and obtain Environmental indicators: Energy consumption; Water consumption; Greenhouse gas Our work involved seven persons and was conducted between May and June 2018 for an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures used to emissions (scopes 1 and 2); Quantity of hazardous waste. three weeks period. We were assisted in our work by our CSR experts. prepare the CSR Information. Social qualitative information: Working time organization; Occupational health and safety We performed our work in accordance with the order dated 13 May 2013 defining conditions; Measures implemented to promote gender equality. We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures based on the Environmental qualitative information: The organization of the company to integrate the conditions under which the independent third party performs its engagement and nature and importance of the CSR Information with respect to the characteristics of environmental issues and, if appropriate, the assessments and certification process with the professional guidance issued by the French Institute of statutory auditors the Company, the human resources and environmental challenges of its activities, its regarding environmental issues; Measures of prevention, reduction or repair of (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes) relating to this engagement and sustainability strategy and industry best practices. discharges into the air, water and ground, impacting severely the environment; Measures with ISAE 3000 concerning our conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information. of prevention, recycling, reuse, other forms of recovery and disposal of waste; Water consumption and water supply adapted to local constraints. KPMG S.A. Societal qualitative information: Integration of social and environmental issues into Tour Eqho 2 avenue Gambetta 92066 Paris la Défense Cedex the company procurement policy; Action implemented against corruption; Measures Société anonyme d’expertise comptable et de commissariat Capital : 5 497 100 €. implemented to promote consumers health and safety. aux comptes à directoire et conseil de surveillance. Code APE 6920Z 1 whose scope is available at www.cofrac.fr Inscrite au Tableau de l’Ordre à Paris sous le n° 14-30080101 775 726 417 R.C.S. Nanterre 2 ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial 4 V. MANE FILS S.A., Bar-sur-Loup Factory (France) et à la Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes TVA Union Européenne information 5 Please refer to the environmental indicators list presented in footnote 3 de Versailles. FR 77 775 726 417 126 127 Photos Credit : David Morganti, Gérard Uféras, Patrick Hanez Images Bank : Pexel, Istockphoto, Shutterstock, Unsplash, Pixabay 128
