1 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable development Contents The year gone by 3 Bech-Bruun focus areas 4 People 6 Targeted focus on the individual career path 7 Development programme for law students 8 Society 10 At the forefront of the future 11 CSR partnership with sustainable start-up 12 Pro bono work 14 Environment 16 Best canteen in Denmark 17 Ethics and Compliance 18 New whistleblower scheme 19 3 The year gone by 2017 was not merely an exciting year ongoing development and training ing the reporting of issues or conduct in which we came off to a good start programmes to our employees, in violation of the Act. with our unique collaboration model, clients and business partners, 2017 the Bech-Bruun model. It was also was also the year when we opened Our adoption of advokatKODEKS, the a year centred on high professional up for a conference on future new code of conduct of the Association and individual development. Our emtransportation, inviting all interested of Danish Law Firms (Danske Advo­ ployees remain one of Bech-Bruun’s parties to join in the exchange of kater), means that we continuously permanent focus areas. We strive ideas and collaboration. work with the five principles of advokatto offer our clients the best legal KODEKS: openness, social responsibility, counselling, which of course demands Pro bono work also remains a natuhandling of ethical dilemmas, focus on that we have the best employees. As ral part of our business. 2017 saw a clients and employees, and diversity. such, we keep a keen eye on develrange of solid pro bono relationships opment, and we continuously ensure with established enterprises as well For the ninth year running, we confirm that our employees are offered the as with newly founded businesses. our commitment to the UN Global right career paths. In 2017 we develAs an example, we entered into a Compact and its 10 principles with our oped and introduced new appraisal working relationship with the sustainfocus areas: People, Society, Environinterviews with our senior associates, able start-up company Entrée, where ment and Ethics & Compliance. with an intensified focus on individwe, in addition to being a close legal ual career development. We also business partner, also advise the new Enjoy the read. developed a new Bech-Bruun career enterprise about business strategies path for highly experienced lawyers and development opportunities. and a development programme for Bech-Bruun’s law students, concen2017 was also the year when it was trating on well-being. established once and for all that Bech-Bruun has the best canteen As one of Denmark’s leading law in Denmark. An award granted by firms it is crucial that we are at the the Danish Agriculture and Food Michael Honoré forefront – in the area of law but also Council with intense focus on health CSR partner with regard to current trends. To quality, ecology, animal welfare and be able to offer our clients the best environment. legal counselling, we use substantial resources on following the developEthics and compliance remained ments in their industries, and not some of our focal points. In 2017, Simon Evers least on sharing this knowledge. as a result of the new Danish Money Kalsmose-Hjelmborg Besides the fact that our Bech-Bruun Laundering Act, we implemented a Managing partner Academy in 2017 continued to offer new whistleblower scheme, facilitat4 Bech-Bruun focus areas People Bech-Bruun’s objectives • We want to ensure that our employees achieve the best possible skills and expertise under optimal conditions. • We want to support the right career choices and ensure diversity across Bech-Bruun’s organisation. Society Bech-Bruun’s objectives • We will take corporate responsibility by way of training and knowledge sharing. • We will apply our core competencies to making a difference. 5 Environment Bech-Bruun’s objectives • We will minimise our resource consumption and optimise sustainable business procedures. • We will use green suppliers. Ethics & Compliance Bech-Bruun’s objectives • We will maintain high ethical standards among ourselves as well as our clients. • We will ensure openness within the framework of the duty of confidentiality that is the foundation of our client relationships. • We will be the Danish law firm with the highest IT security standards. 6 People We strive to offer our clients the best legal counselling, which of course demands that we have the best employees. Employee well-being is a top priority for Bech-Bruun, and we make a determined effort to establish the best conditions for development, training and a good working environment for our employees. In 2017 we offered more than 230 in-house courses in continuing professional development (CPD) across all staff groups. Moreover, we have kept focus on creating diversity in the firm by implementing a new career path. Bech-Bruun’s objectives • We want to ensure that our employees achieve the best possible skills and expertise under optimal conditions. • We want to support the right career choices and ensure diversity across Bech-Bruun’s organisation. Our 2018-2019 targets: • Launch of a development programme for our associates, designed to lift their individual strategic, value-adding and advisory skills to a new level. • Launch of a development programme for our junior associates, designed to fortify their skills as future lawyers. • Conducting an extended mandatory development programme for all our law students. 232 21% 79% 97% CPD* courses were of the courses covered of the courses covered of our employees and held at Bech-Bruun the development of the development of partners declare themselves in 2017 personal skills professional skills satisfied or very satisfied with working at Bech-Bruun (WPA survey) *Continuing professional development 7 Targeted focus on the individual career path We know that diversity adds considerable value. Consequently, we continuously strive to create diversity and equip our employees with the best tools for success, professionally as well as personally. In 2017, one of our approaches to this was a new concept for appraisal interviews for our senior associates, and at the turn of the year we opened up for a completely new career path in Bech-Bruun. An even clearer alignment of expecAnne-Marie Sparre Avnsted, Head of spent a lot of time and resources tations, a keener eye on feedback, HR and Administration at Bech-Bruun. rethinking our career structure and and a more distinct declaration of creating a new attractive path that where and in which direction the inA new career path offers more responsibility, strategic dividual wants to take their career at The conventional career structure influence and management,” says Bech-Bruun are all significant focus of the legal industry has often been Christian Ejvin Andersen, managing areas in a new concept for appraisal hard pressed to offer attractive director at Bech-Bruun. interviews for our senior associates, career paths to highly experienced rolled out in 2017. The object is to oflawyers. Several criteria must be met The object of this new job category fer our senior associates more focus to become a law firm partner, and is to allow managing associates to on their individual development and not everyone is interested in making take part in the managerial tasks in career plans. partner and what this career may general; that is, to be responsible for involve. Consequently, at the turn of general in-house project manage“Our new appraisal interview concept the year we opened up for an entirement and to be in charge of large hinges on a more systematic evalualy new career path and welcomed assignments as well as to contribute tion of our employees, allowing us Bech-Bruun’s very first managing substantial professional expertise to to reveal their expectations and associates. the performance of such tasks and wishes. There is a vast difference assignments. from one person to the next in how “In order for us to retain and make they express their expectations to, better use of some of our highly exfor instance, development,” says perienced senior associates, we have ” Our new appraisal interview concept hinges on a more systematic evaluation of our employees, allowing us to reveal their expectations and wishes. There is a vast difference from one person to the next in how they express their expectations to, for instance, development. Anne-Marie Sparre Avnsted, Head of HR and Administration 8 Development programme for law students Many law students feel pressured to achieve top grades and have high expectations to themselves for a top-level performance. In many ways, this impairs their well-being. In 2017 Bech-Bruun developed a mandatory development programme for our law students to help them to a healthy academic life. Over the past two years we have “It is a fact that the competitive en“My problem was getting started conducted surveys among Danish vironment among law students has on my studies when I got up in the law students about their academic changed enormously in recent years. morning. I spent hours doing all life and well-being. The last survey We want to help break the circle that kinds of other things. Thomas helped was conducted in the spring of 2017 creates stress among the students me set up a schedule for every day, and is based on 218 replies from law – based on social responsibility, but recording what I actually did during students at BA and MA level. Both also because we at Bech-Bruun will those hours. This way I could see surveys clearly indicate that many get better employees if they comhow much time I spent on other students place very high demands on plete their studies as whole persons,” things, and it made me aware of themselves and have high expecsays Anne-Marie Sparre Avnsted, what I actually spent my time on. tations to their performances. The Head of HR and Administration at It generally helped me use my calensurveys also show that more than Bech-Bruun. dar in a more productive way. It may half of the questioned students not sound like much, but it helped have had stress symptoms, and it is Development programme me being more realistic as to what worrying that a stress symptom such contents I actually decide to get done,” says as anxiety is on the up. During the course of the mandatory Valdemar Torp-Pedersen, student development programme in 2017, of law at Bech-Bruun. A whole person Bech-Bruun’s law students have com­At Bech-Bruun our employees’ well-­ ­pleted various workshops and interOur development programme was being is a high priority, and we conviews centred on their well-being and a huge success, and in 2018 we exsider it part of our responsibility that work methods. The object of the propand the programme with an added our employees feel well. In 2016 we gramme was to provide them with course designed to centre on the entered a working relationship with tools they could use in their studies participants’ self-insight and mental the stress clinic SPINE to help law as well as in their work life. Mental performance. The students will gain students to a healthier student life, coach and stress counsellor Thomas realistic views of themselves and and in 2017 we decided to extend Pape gave the students lessons in become aware of their behaviour, the collaboration and launched a achieving mental robustness, which strengths, weaknesses and patterns. mandatory development programme simply means learning how to handle for all Bech-Bruun law students. everyday challenges, big or small. ” It is a fact that the competitive environment among law students has changed enormously in recent years. We want to help break the circle that creates stress among the students. Marie Sparre Avnsted, Head of HR and Administration 9 Employee composition Owners: 55 Salaried partners: 14 Associates: 107 Junior associates: 95 Case handlers: 68 Students: 53 Other employees: 130 Total number of employees: 522 522 Diversity Partners 7 women Associates 45 women Junior associates 40 women 62 men 62 men 55 men 7.8 11 years is the average employees were seniority at Bech-Bruun seconded at some time during 2017 All figures as at 31 December 2017 10 Society Development was a focal point in Bech-Bruun in 2017. In order to be able to offer our clients the best advisory services, we invest many resources in following developments in their industries, optimising our services to support their business targets in the best way possible. Knowledge sharing is an important part of our business model, and in 2017 we worked towards this with a vast range of free courses, events and late-afternoon seminars, thus contributing to societal development. The basic idea of our CSR activities is to apply our core competencies to making a difference, which is why we have entered numerous pro bono and business relationship agreements with enterprises that make a difference. Bech-Bruun’s objectives • We will take corporate responsibility by way of training and knowledge sharing. • We will apply our core competencies to making a difference. Our 2018-2019 targets: • Supporting initiatives that focus on sustainability. • Developing our training courses so that they continue to accommodate the requirements of our employees, clients and business partners. 65 4.6 3,753 free courses, late-afternoon in course satisfaction persons attended seminars and full-day events on a scale of 1-5 Bech-Bruun Academy’s offered by Bech-Bruun free courses in 2017 Academy in 2017 11 At the forefront of the future With Bech-Bruun Academy we make an immense effort to acquire new knowledge and pass it on to clients and other interested parties. In 2017 we concentrated on welcoming the future, for instance by holding a conference on future transportation. As one of Denmark’s leading law “For many years Bech-Bruun has speWe share our knowledge firms, it is crucial that we are at the cialised in the areas of infrastructure As a knowledge-based enterprise, forefront – within legal developand transportation. In our opinion, training and development are imments, but also with regard to curwe are currently seeing some imporportant elements, and we are happy rent trends in our clients’ industries. tant steps being taken, which will not to share our knowledge. In 2017 By sharing knowledge with clients only change transportation patterns more than 3,750 people attended and interested parties we establish but also create new opportunities Bech-Bruun Academy’s free courses, relations and contribute to societal for growth in our society. We want over 250 more than the previous development. to support this development,” says year. Christian Ejvin Andersen, managing In 2017 one of the efforts of director at Bech-Bruun. Bech-Bruun Academy also offers Bech-Bruun Academy was an open continuous development and trainconference on future transportation, At the conference, the industries that ing courses to employees as well as allowing interested parties from are and will be part of the driverless clients and business partners. This the business sector to test drive a development had the opportunity allows us as well as the attendees driverless bus, hear about political to meet and exchange views and the opportunity to keep a vigilant eye visions from Ole Birk Olesen, Danish experiences. The object was to invite on new legislation, business sector Minister of Transportation, Construcexchange of ideas and collaboration, developments, and to keep ahead tion and Housing, and of course be as we believe this is crucial to finding at a time when everything is moving updated on the latest legislation in the optimum solutions that will bring very fast. the area. Denmark quickly and safely into the future. Academy Client Academy Client is free training, offered to and customised for our clients, again focusing on future opportunities and challenges. With Academy Client we concentrate on the knowledge and expertise that is demanded from future employees. In 2017 we offered training in strategic trendspotting with Liselotte Lyngsø, futurologist, and training in how to support innovation in the workplace through management. 12 CSR partnership with sustainable start-up The start-up enterprise Entrée is not just another restaurant. In addition to offering tasty food through catering and events in Frederiksberg’s iconic Hermes Halls, they are also a job academy for non-ethnic Danes. In 2017, Bech-Bruun entered a close pro bono-relationship with Entrée, assisting the enterprise with legal counselling and business feedback in a number of areas. The restaurant business is one of advice during the start-up stage. a visionary enterprise in taking off with the most successful in Denmark, but The advice spans widely across all the proper legal and business advice. according to the start-up enterprise aspects of commercial law, including Besides being a close legal partner, Entrée, one issue in particular corporate law, labour law, tax law, the advisory services also include comchallenges the industry’s continued data protection law, etc. mercial sparring and advice in relation success: the lack of qualified labour to business concept, development – particularly kitchen staff. Mean“As a start-up enterprise there is so opportunities, etc. As such, Bech-Bruwhile, a steadily increasing number much to keep in mind, from labour un was awarded a seat on Entrée’s of refugees and migrants come to law to corporate law. It means a Advisory Board. our country in the hope of a better lot to have the legal assistance you life. Entrée has decided to combine need. We just really want to get off “Our partnership with Bech-Bruun these two needs and find a solution. to a good start. One project that sends a strong signal to the world In their Frederiksberg kitchen they is very close to our hearts is to – and not least to possible investors – have established a job academy for help non-ethnic Danes into Danish that we are a serious and trustworthy non-ethnic Danes, training them in kitchens. The law aspect is of course business with a strong legal foundathe Danish restaurant industry and important, but it is not our area tion. We are truly grateful for the Danish professional and cultural of expertise. Our partnership with support we have received from culinary skills – with a view to being Bech-Bruun means that we can take Bech-Bruun since the very early stages employed in the industry when the off – and with the right legal founof our enterprise. They have not just training is completed. dation,” says Jakob Gaard Nielsen, been our legal advisors, they provide co-founder of Entrée. important business feedback, for Sustainability at the core instance by challenging our ideas, In 2017, Bech-Bruun entered a The common incentive for the relavisions and strategies,” says Jakob. business relationship with Entrée to tionship was value-adding advisory assist the enterprise by rendering services and sustainability – assisting ” One project that is very close to our hearts is to help non-ethnic Danes into Danish kitchens. The law aspect is of course important, but it is not our area of expertise. Our partnership with Bech-Bruun means that we can take off – and with the right legal foundation. Jakob Gaard Nielsen, co-founder of Entrée 13 14 Pro bono work Pro bono work is a natural part of our business, as we believe we can help the most by doing what we do best. As such, every year we offer our legal expertise free of charge to organisations that work for a better world – locally as well as globally. These are some of the organisations that received our advisory services free of charge in 2017. The Danish Association for Hellebro employment relationships and Responsible Construction Hellebro takes in young homeless custodial care to compensation and (Foreningen for Byggeriets people in Copenhagen, let them insurance issues. Further, in 2017 Samfundsansvar) have a bath, a cup of coffee and a Bech-Bruun made its course facilities, The Danish Association for Respon­ meal. Dedicated volunteers arrange including refreshments, available to sible Construction works to make activities, and the young people are the Copenhagen Legal Aid so that sustainable solutions, decent workoffered help and advice with their the organisation could conduct a place conditions, training opportunieconomy, finding a home, going course on immigration law. ties and business (good governance) (back) to school or getting a job. In the foundation of healthy com2017, Bech-Bruun assisted Hellebro Social Foodies petition throughout the property, in a large specific case. Social Foodies manufactures and building and construction industries. sells ice-cream and chocolate, but in In 2017, we assisted on the updating Copenhagen Legal Aid addition to providing consumers with and presentation of legal templates Many of our employees regularly voldelicious goods, social responsibility designed to make it easier for enterunteer at the Copenhagen Legal Aid, is at the top of the chain’s agenda. prises in these industries to include Denmark’s largest and oldest legal Social Foodies’s profits are invested sustainable solutions as early as in aid organisation. Here, they render in the production of raw materials the tender process. advice on anything from leases, in Africa, educating small farmers 15 and creating jobs in the local areas. established in 2007 by HRH Crown petitions and general salvage law Bech-Bruun rendered pro bono asPrincess Mary. The Foundation’s issues. For many years a partner at sistance to the organisation in 2017. mission is to combat social isolation Bech-Bruun has been a member of – based on the belief that everyone the board of directors. Red Cross has a right to belong. Bech-Bruun The Red Cross helps the world’s is standing counsel to the Mary Reach for Change neediest, and for many years Foundation, and all our work for the Reach for Change is a non-profit Bech-Bruun has been in a close Foundation is pro bono. organisation with an ambition to working relationship with the Red improve the lives of children and Cross, regularly providing pro bono Human Rights Watch young people. They pursue this legal advice. In 2017, we assisted Human Rights Watch is a non-profit cause by supporting social entrethe Red Cross on cases concerning global organisation defending human preneurs with the same target. By abuse of the organisation’s name rights across the world. We provide offering social entrepreneurs their and logo, working relationship pro bono legal advice to the organiadvisory services and the possibility agreements, and transportation sation and have, among other things, of financial support, they can turn of second-hand clothes, etc. assisted on foundation and labour their ideas into sustainable enter­ law issues. prises that can grow and create Missionaries of Charity a positive difference in the lives Every Christmas our canteen preDansk Søredningsselskab of children and young people. pares several Christmas meals for Dansk Søredningsselskab (DSRS) Bech-Bruun has had a working relathe Missionaries of Charity, an order is a non-profit association helping tionship with Reach for Change for of nuns founded by Mother Teresa. yachters and boat owners in non-life several years, and in 2017 we assistTogether with the order we see that threatening situations at sea and ed the organisation free of charge on the meals bring holiday joy to socially assisting official emergency groups. articles of association, drafting of a challenged Copenhageners. Bech-Bruun supports the associaroyalty agreement, various foundation’s work by providing pro bono tion issues, etc. The Mary Foundation legal assistance and has in 2017 We provide legal support and advisoassisted with articles of association, ry services for the Mary Foundation, tax and donation policies, foundation 16 Environment As a modern law firm, it is important for Bech-Bruun to keep abreast of the latest developments in new energy and environmentally sound solutions benefiting the environment as well as our own business and our clients. We continuously strive to reduce and re-think our consumption and thus improve our resource efficiency. We attach importance to sustainable procurement and to choosing environmentally sound alternatives. Bech-Bruun’s objectives • We will minimise our resource consumption and optimise sustainable business procedures. • We will use green suppliers. Our 2018-2019 targets: • To replace – on an ongoing basis – electronic equipment, light-bulbs, etc., with energy-saving alternatives. • To cover even more kilometres on our bikes when we join the “We cycle to work” campaign for the 11th time. 21% 22,663 59% reduction in paper kilometres reached by bike organic food in our kitchen consumption on 2015 in 2017 when we joined the annual Danish campaign “We cycle to work” 2015 2016 2017 Electricity (kWh) 907,464 985,454 951,300 Heating (mWh) 1,068 1,193 1,052 Water (m ) 3 3,846 4,169 3,853 Combustible waste (t) 76.60 69.62 38.76 Recyclable material (t) 56.51* 22.72 25.55 *Owing to discontinued archive, equal to 17.8 metric tons. 17 Best canteen in Denmark We have Denmark’s best canteen. That was established once and for all in September when Bech-Bruun’s canteen in Copenhagen won the Canteen Award 2017, granted by the Danish Agriculture and Food Council. The award centres highly on health quality, ecology, animal welfare and environment. Delicious salads, homemade pasta, Agriculture and Food Council’s on the agenda, and in 2017 we organic meat dishes and fresh Canteen Award 2017. The canteen intensified our focus on these three tartare are merely examples from a award is a recognition of the canareas. Almost 60% of the food is day’s menu in Bech-Bruun’s canteen. teens in Denmark that enthusiastiorganic, and seasonal raw materials No wonder the offices at our Copencally, professionally and innovatively are increasingly bought from local hagen premises are empty come serve meals that centre on quality areas and selected suppliers who 11.30, as this is when lunch begins and tastiness – every day. The award also prioritise organic principles, and employees flock to the canteen is granted by a jury comprised by animal welfare and the environment. to enjoy a good meal together. people in the trade, who make unannounced visits to nominated “In 2017 we introduced a new initi“It is important to us that people canteens to find the annual winner. ative that we call “More greens, less smile when they show up for lunch In addition to the culinary and meat”. This is healthier for our guests here. When I was a child, the highhealth qualities of the food, the jury and for the environment. We still light of the week was our Sunday prioritises that the canteens focus on serve meat every day, but only from family dinner. If we can pass on that seasonal raw materials and a sustainsuppliers we work closely with, so we joy of coming together for a meal able mind-set. are sure the animals were treated to our guests in the canteen, then well,” says Giovanni. I know we did a good job,” says Organic principles, animal Giovanni Fico, head chef at welfare and environment At Bech-Bruun, our ambition is to Bech-Bruun. on the agenda choose green suppliers, and our For Giovanni, the well-being of his canteen plays an important part. This appreciation of enjoying a meal canteen guests is not the only prioriThis benefits our employees and our in the canteen was one of the factors ty. Organic principles, animal welfare environment. that won Bech-Bruun the Danish and the environment are also high ” It is important to us that people smile when they show up for lunch here. When I was a child, the highlight of the week was our Sunday family dinner. If we can pass on that joy of coming together for a meal to our guests in the canteen, then I know we did a good job. Giovanni Fico, head chef at Bech-Bruun 18 Ethics and Compliance As a law firm, we carry a considerable ethical responsibility. Consequently, our work and business methods are based on good conduct and respect for our clients, our employees and our surroundings. Responsible business conduct is a basic element in the way we do business, and it forms the basis of what our clients and business partners can expect from us. On the basis of the Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society and our own Code of Conduct, we have created a sound corporate governance system. Bech-Bruun’s objectives • We will maintain high ethical standards among ourselves as well as our clients. • We will ensure openness within the framework of the duty of confidentiality that is the foundation of our client relationships. • We will be the Danish law firm with the highest IT security standards. Our 2018-2019 targets: • Continue to set high ethical standards, internally as well as in relation to the rest of the industry. • Continuous improvement of our IT security. 19 New whistleblower scheme In 2017, as a result of the new Danish Money Laundering Act, Bech-Bruun implemented a new whistleblower scheme, facilitating the reporting of issues or conduct in violation of the Act. In recent years, profits from organvices should in one way or another “We are more interested in the ised crime have grown. Operating deal with this threat scenario, and individual transaction. We must a criminal organisation, such as a Bech-Bruun does. In 2017 we implebe able to document that we have terrorist organisation, is impossible mented various adjustments to our investigated issues that caught our without money, and the new Money previous procedures in this area. attention, and that we have received Laundering Act, effective as from 26 satisfactory information,” says Lars June 2017, introduced a range of For one thing, we established a new Lindencrone Petersen, Knowledge tightened requirements. The Act is whistleblower scheme. This is to enManagement partner at Bech-Bruun. to ensure that Denmark contributes sure that issues or conduct concernactively to the international fight ing violation of the Act by our employBech-Bruun continuously works conagainst money laundering and fundees or members of the management structively to make these in-house ing of terrorism. board or the board of directors can procedures even more effective and easily and safely be reported via a secure, so that we may continue Even though the focus on organised special, independent channel. to fight money laundering and the crime was intensified and the law funding of terrorism. has been repeatedly tightened since In addition to stricter in-house prothe first provisions were introduced cedures, the Act requires new and in 1989, the problem has grown. different handling of various issues in Anyone dealing with money and serconnection with client knowledge. Copenhagen Aarhus Shanghai T +45 72 27 00 00 Denmark Denmark China www.bechbruun.com
