5 CEO Statement Even though Hans Følsgaard have had consecutive growth since the global financial crisis, 2017 was by far the best year ever in the 95-year history of our company. The overall growth in the industrial sector, globally and Our long-term sustainability work focuses on economic, locally, affects companies supplying solutions within process social an environmental responsibility. An ISO-9001:2015 and energy optimization as well as advanced control and certification facilitates just that which i.a. lead us to initiate communication systems. Hans Følsgaard proudly excel in an ISO project in 2017. We expect to be ISO-9001:2015 these areas especially due to the knowledge and knowcertified during the first quarter of 2018. how of our long-term employees. To further push growth we wish to expand our business We want our suppliers to trust in us and our customers must globally establishing our presence outside of Scandinavia. always be able to rely on HF’s sales people and technicians. Thus in 2017 we established a company in Germany, It takes a special breed of staff to deliver on all expectations primarily targeting customers within the telecommunication and only by nurturing the right kind of people over a area. Within the first year in business we managed to create Jørgen Stenberg long period of time, is it possible to achieve the mature and a two-digit million turnover, giving us a strong indication CEO specialist knowledge demanded of our employees. that our strategy is right. And no doubt our many senior employees have had a huge Being part of the Addtech Group enables us to benefit from impact on our positive development successfully the synergies. We have merged our electronics department positioning us at the forefront in our specialist areas. To into one of our sister companies in order for us to focus further expand this competitive edge, our staff grew by 10 on our core areas; Industry, Energy and Communication in 2017. supplying customer specific solutions. This turned out to be the right strategy as we have now entered the Gold 1000 HF Telecom and HF Cable departments in particular, league of the 1000 largest companies in Denmark based on benefited from the majority of the new skilled employees turnover. but also HF Container due to the growth in the maritime market for which we have solved substantial challenges with We will continue to work on sustainable business a number of specially designed sustainable solutions. development, implement our 2020 strategy and set clear goals and we are pleased to confirm our continued support We are fortunate to be in a strong economic position which to the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. gives us the power, not only to invest in superior employee recruitment and employee well-being initiatives, but also Jørgen Stenberg the opportunity to engage in new sustainable business CEO Hans Følsgaard A/S development and projects. 3 HF in the Value Chain HF offers high-technology products and We are a value-adding link between customers and We conduct our own production on a minor scale, thus suppliers and create a mutually profitable and competitive the major share of production takes place via orders to solution to companies in the manufacturing trade with our customers. suppliers. & infrastructure sectors. We customize, design and produce solutions in collaboration At one end of the chain we want to be our customers’ with customers and carefully selected suppliers and Technical Partner of choice and at the other end of the manufacturers across the world. chain we want our suppliers to do better operating with HF than with others or alone. Strategy and Governance HF has been a part of the Addtech Sustainability is an integral and important part of our strategy. HF aims to respond to a growing demand from Group for about 3 years. HF works as an stakeholders and customers on sustainability. As from 2018 autonomy unit with widespread CSR is a fixed item on the agenda at board meetings. self-determination in virtually Addtechs sustainability report has been prepared in all areas. accordance with the GRI standards. In conjunction with the end of the financial year HF, as does all affiliates, report We use the group umbrella to explore possibilities of sustainability data as part of our non-financial reporting to collaboration with the other affiliates and benefit from Addtech. intercompany synergies. The annual report is available at Addtech’s company website We cooperate closely on e.g. employee education (Addtech www.addtech.com. Business School), employee surveys and sustainability work. HF sustainability work is governed by the Code of Conduct. Addtech’s board of directors via group management is ultimately responsible for the groups sustainability work and determine long-term goals. However, HF supplement these goals by goals and action plans developed by HF. Thus, the operational sustainability work is driven via the decentralized responsibility in HF. Economic Value Since the global financial crisis of For the seventh consecutive year HF’s has been awarded the highest credit rating, AAA. Consequently, we have been 2007/2008 HF has experience consecutive awarded an AAA silver rating. Having an AAA rating means growth. however, 2017 has been the best that HF has an exceptional degree of creditworthiness and year in the 95-year history of our company. can easily meet its financial commitments. Economic stability and strength gives us freedom and The growth in the industrial sector locally and globally has opportunity to invest not only in sustainable business had a positive impact on the companies providing solutions development and projects but also in superior employee for production companies, process control, energy and recruitment and employee well-being initiatives. energy optimization as well as communication. In 2017 HF experienced growth in all 7 business areas. 10% HF’s profit goal is approx. 10% per year. The profitable target for each subsidiary in the group is a minimum of 45 percent, measured using the relationship between operating profit (P) and work capital (WC). The P/WC model 10% encourages high operating profit a low level of tied-up Capital, which combined with the growth target of 15 percent, enables self-funded long-term profitable growth. 10% 10% YEAR Social Value Long-term employees make The code is based on the UN’s Global Compact, the ILO’s core conventions, and the OECD’s guidelines for a big difference. multinational companies, competition legislation and anticorruption regulations. The long-term employees and the long-term cooperation 2017 has been a year of many new employees and many and relationship with our customers and suppliers is largely anniversaries. Also the company could celebrate its 95th the engine of our success that is exported to the whole anniversary. world. HF has a healthy company culture which is important to We strive to be a reliable, responsible and trustworthy our employees. We strive to hire employees that fit in business partner that provides better business for all parties. our company culture, as our employees are more likely to enjoy their time in the workplace when they fit in with Employees the company culture and when their needs and values Our employees are our most valuable assets. Our future are consistent with those in the workplace. They develop development and success depends on them – their wellbetter relationships with co-workers, and are even more being and job satisfaction are important to us. We want to productive. be an attractive employer and providing a workplace where employees enjoy their work, have a sense of pride and Education develop personally. We want to capitalize on the full potential of our employees. Education and competence development We allow our employees a high degree of autonomy. Giving must ensure that HF’s employees are competent our employees the freedom to manage much of their own technology partners and possess a strong business work we get flexible, dedicated and satisfied employees in understanding. Education and competence developreturn resulting in improved profitability, productivity and ment focuses on both commercial, technical and quality. We do, however, also set clear requirements. personal skills. Thus in 2017 a cooperate Code of Conduct for employees was developed. The Code of Conduct, together with our core values (simplicity, efficiency, change, responsibility & freedom), is the basis of how we perform and act in our day-to-day work. The Code of Conduct summarises the ethical values that the Group believes must be key in our activities, providing a minimum level of acceptable behaviour and covering all employees. We do not accept any actions that breach the Code of Conduct. Social Value... All employees must attend training at least once per Health and safety year. Our employees attend i.e. the Addtech Business Health and safety are priority areas. We have a zero School programme. vision for work-related accidents, illnesses and incidents and an ambition to focus constantly on promoting In 2017 all administrative managers attended a health and well-being among our employees. leadership training course to enhance managerial and leadership competencies including skills such as HF provides free health insurance for employees and coaching, conflict management, motivation etc. their children, free eye examinations and free weekly coaching and massages. Employee survey and appraisal dialogues To monitor our long-term, strategic work on personal Further to this the very active HF staff social club has development we regularly conduct employee surveys been granted a large amount from the Hans Følsgaard thus identifying the strengths and weaknesses as an A/S Foundation to further improve the wellbeing of our employer to map areas of improvement. employees. Measures such as reimbursement for sports membership fees, CPR training and social and cultural The survey conducted in 2017 show that HF has very activities involving the employees and their families have satisfied employees. From the survey appears what been taken. our employees think of the work environment, goals & follow-up, company culture, management, job No injuries or work-related illnesses was 2014 2015 2016 2017 satisfaction, skills development, equality, influence and reported in 2017 salary. We also conduct annual performance appraisal dialogues. No incidents of involvements in labor rights violations have been reported in 2017 17 50 20 53 19 50 24 52 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY GENDER Setting high standards for our suppliers Our partnerships are long lasting some A CSR council in Addtech bears the responsibility for continuous development of group-wide tools and processes of them go back 50 and even 60 years for sustainability work and for disseminating the same for and HF works continuously on deepening use within the group companies. Thus, a common Code of supplier relationships. Conduct for suppliers has been developed in 2017 and will be used by all the companies in the group including HF. We make high demands at ourselves and so it is natural The Code of Conduct for Suppliers summarizes the ethical for us to make the same high demands on every part of values that the Addtech Group believes should apply in the the value chain. Our choice of suppliers is essential for our relationships with all our suppliers of products and services. business and we are very selective. We ensure not only The code is based on the UN’s Global Compact, the ILO’s that their products match our customers’ requirements, core conventions, the OECD’s guidelines for multinational but also that our suppliers are socially and environmentally companies, competition legislation and anti-corruption responsible. regulations. During the year of 2017 we continued to progress our work on supplier assessments to develop dialogue and ensure constant improvements. HF evaluate its worldwide suppliers and is screening them biannually. As from 2018 we are using a group-wide tool for supplier assessment. Ours suppliers are continuously asked to read and sign our Supplier Code of Conduct and in 2018 we will conduct a supplier self-assessment of all suppliers using the new group-wide tool. Group Code of Conduct Our vision is to be a leader in value-added technology trading. In order to live up to our vision, we must constantly develop, but never compromise on the principle of being a responsible company. Setting high standards for our suppliers... Anti-corruption Labour law We have a stated policy of zero tolerance of corruption, We and our suppliers must, under our Code of Conduct, at bribes and unfair anti-competitive practices. least meet the minimum requirement of national legislation in the area of labour law. Guidelines regard labour law are No cases of corrupt were found to have occurred during set out in our code of conduct. We have zero tolerance 2017 or previous years. policy on force labour and works actively to assure that no breach of regulations takes place in our operations or value Child labour chain. The UN convention on the Rights of the child, the ILO’s minimum Age convention (no 138) concerning Minimum No incidents in connection with infringements of human Age for Admission to Employment and the ILO’s convention rights, corruption, working conditions were reported in 2017 (no 182) concerning the prohibition and Immediate Action or in previous years. for the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labour serve as guidelines for all activities conducted in our group. No incidents involving any breach of these conventions were reported during 2017. 7 Our Role in Society HF actively supports many worthy causes ■ Donations to Julemærkehjemmet in Denmark which helps children who have problems with bullying and in the community, thus provide financial social isolation. support to humanitarian organizations and sports associations. ■ Donation to Lions Club – Christmas donations to families in need. HFs most important positive impact on society lies in our contribution to economic and social growth in the form of ■ Donation to Stine Sofie Foundation for Children jobs and taxpayers. in Norway against violence and abuse. Through our products, we also help, for example, to bring ■ Donations to organizations that help fight cancer. efficiency improvements and to cut energy consumption. ■ Sponsorship for sports clubs, handicap sports and HF employ apprentices since 2011. The apprenticeship takes local initiatives. 2 years to complete after which a new apprentice is hired. Examples of social commitment projects in 2017 During the period, HF was not ordered to pay any fines because of offences in the form of breaches of laws and regulations governing the provision or use of products and services. 2014 2015 2016 2017 DKK 547.107 DKK 547.072 DKK 756.311 DKK 797.653 DONATIONS AND SPONSORSHIP Environmental Value A strong intention to safeguard the The environmental perspective must be part of all important decisions and activities conducted continuously in environment forms part of HFs business HF to safeguard environment. strategy. We take pride in constantly striving to reduce Co2 and The aim is to minimize HFs impact on the environment by energy consumption and in developing environmentally working to reduce waste, CO2 emission and energy and responsible and cost-effective solutions – in close paper consumption. HFs main operations consist today of cooperation with our customers and suppliers. technology sales and distribution and only very limited production. Through our Code of Conduct we encourage our suppliers to do the same. HFs main direct impact on climate is from the handling, packaging and transportation of finished goods, and HF has neither been sued nor fined or received any penalties business travel. The majority of purchases is from suppliers for violation of environmental laws or environmental outside Denmark; i.e. from Europe, the US and Asia, regulations in 2017 necessitating a high transport volume. We do our utmost to consolidate shipments from our supplies to limit transports and handling, thus gaining economic, social and environmental value. 2014: 9,0 % 2014: 3,10 2014: 1.122,1 kg 2014: 70.648,6 Hours 2014: 139.953,0 kWh 2014: 1.116.667,0 km 2014: 554.624,0 CO2 /kg 2015: 3,5 % 2015: 2,80 2015: 1.083,3 kg 2015: 68.205,8 Hours 2015: 137.910,0 kWh 2015: 1.070.000,0 km 2015: 588.325,0 CO2 /kg 2016: 16,1 % 2016: 2,50 2016: 0.908,5 kg 2016: 57.285,0 Hours 2016: 160.161,0 kWh 2016: 1.203.300,0 km 2016: 480.331,0 CO2 /kg 2017: 4,0 % 2017: 2,40 2017: 0.883,5 kg 2017: 55.625,0 Hours 2017: 161.928,0 kWh 2017: 1.339.670,0 km 2017: 419.834,0 CO2 /kg CO2 REDUCED BY USED TREES PRODUCED CO2 EQUIV. TO BULP HOUR ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION TRANSPORT DRIVEN EMISSIONS IN TOTAL FROM NON-RENEWABLE BY EMPLOYEES IN LINE RESULTED FROM INAND ENERGY OF SERVICE OUTBOUND SHIPMENTS. Hans Følgaard A/S is a subsidiary in the Addtech Group. Designspace.dk 02.2018 Addtech has a Code of Conduct that covers all subsidiaries, and each year a sustainability report is produced to present the results of the CSR work. The reporting complies with the guidelines for Application Level C of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). HF FØLSGAARD HF DANYKO AS THEILGAARDS TORV 1 BARK SILAS VEI 8 DK 4600 KØGE N 4876 GRIMSTAD TEL: +45 4320 8600 TEL: +47 37 090 940 hf@hf.net danyko@hf.net www.hf.net www.hf.net
