2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report global business platform that opens up the future of Korea About this report Ever since its foundation more than 50 years ago, KOTRA has been working diligently to promote Korea’s exports and attract foreign investment. In particular, as a national trade promotion organization, KOTRA has faithfully supported the overseas expansion of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) while carrying out sustainability management activities including global corporate social responsibilities (CSR) programs that are closely connected to its areas of business. This report covers the full range of KOTRA’s efforts to reinvent itself as a global business platform, based on cooperation and communication with its stakeholders. Characteristics This report includes KOTRA’s sustainability management performance and value in connection with its management strategies. It provides comprehensive information including not only the business and financial performances of global businesses and other activities, but also nonfinancial performances such as organizational management and the creation of social values. The section on human rights, in which KOTRA’s performance in human rights and its future plans are explained, continues to be an important part of this report. Criteria and Assurance This report has been prepared in accordance with the comprehensive option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines and, in part, with the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Framework. Specifically to enhance the objectivity and accuracy of the report, it received assurance from the Korean Association of Business Education Accreditation (KABEA), a third-party assurance provider. Reporting Period, Scope and Boundaries This report covers KOTRA's sustainability management performance from January 1 to December 31, 2016. It presents the major quantitative data for the last three years in order to show changes in trends. Unless otherwise stated, the fiscal year ends on December 31, while specific reference dates are indicated where necessary. The scope of this report includes the financial and nonfinancial performances of KOTRA’s head office in Korea and overseas branch offices. Some of the environmental data are relevant only to the head office in Korea. Additional Information This report has been published in Korean and English. The content can be viewed or downloaded on our website (http://www.kotra.or.kr). KOTRA welcomes your feedback. If you have any inquiries or comments about this report, please contact us at the following numbers or email address. Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA) Planning & Coordination Dept. / Management & Assessment Team 13 Heolleungno, Seocho-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Tel +82-2-3460-7075 Fax +82-2-3460-7908 e-mail: sustainability@kotra.or.kr Document No. KOTRA자료 17-043 ISBN 979-11-6097-296-2 (95320) Contents Introduction About This Report / Contents 01 CEO’s Message 02 2016 KOTRA Highlight 04 Company Introduction 06 Business Model 07 Global Network 08 Stakeholder Engagement 10 Interviews with Stakeholders 12 Stakeholders Committee 14 Global Initiatives 15 Materiality Test 16 A Global Business Platform for the Future 18 Challenge 20 Strengthening the Export Capabilities of SMEs 21 Attraction of More Foreign Investors 26 Global 30 Creating New Export Items 31 Providing Trade Support and Overseas Market Information 34 Customer 36 Customer and Field-oriented Work Posture 37 Operating Communication and Collaboration-oriented Programs 42 Contribution 44 Implement an Corporate Culture for Growth 45 KOTRA, a Trusted Public Institute 48 A Business Platform that Promotes Human Rights Management 56 HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT 58 Creating a Human Rights Management System 59 Internalization of Human Rights Management 60 Spreading Human Rights Management 61 Appendices 62 Management Report 63 Results of Sustainability Management 70 GRI Standards Index 77 Third-party Assurance 80 UNGC & ISO26000 82 Awards, Associations, and Memberships 84 KOTRA’s Previous Sustainability / Publications 85 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea CEO’s Message Dear Stakeholders: and resolving structural problems that have On this note, we first strengthened SMEs’ been weighing heavily on our export industry. export capabilities and increased foreign Uncertainty is growing on both the domestic More specifically , our policies and support investments. and international fronts , especially amid have been designed and implemented so that In 2016, KOTRA offered customized mentoring slowing global trade and widespread SMEs can assume a greater role in boosting services to 2, 240 companies that are newly protectionist policies . Under these circumexports , while diversifying export items , entering the export business. According to the stances , expanding the scope of exports is markets, and mechanisms. export capacity of individual SMEs, KOTRA offered crucial to jumpstarting our economy . As the term-based support designed to clinch deals, country ’ s trade and investment promotion In addition , we concentrated on attracting including Jisahwa and marketing assistance as agency, KOTRA is doing its utmost to generate foreign investments that can substantially part of the World Champ project. As a result, the new economic momentum by leading the benefit our economy , improved communiproportion of exports by SMEs in the entire Korean growth of exports. cation with our customers and the local export market share increased for two consecutive communities and expanded the scope of years, from 35.9 percent in 2015 to 37.5 percent in Notably , our endeavors in 2016 focused on cooperation with our partner organizations. 2016. turning around the downward export trends 2 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report On the other hand, inbound foreign investment Furthermore, we made improvements to the way reached a record high of USD 21.3 billion, running the Service Advisory Group is operated by allowing counter to the downward global trend in foreign customers to get involved in designing how our investment attraction. This impressive growth is services will be delivered, primarily by providing attributed to efforts designed to attract foreign feedback on the services they have used. investments, ultimately helping restore exports and advance domestic industries. In addition, Fourth, we recognized our employees and local KOTRA tried to convey a consistent message to communities as our partners and accordingly potential investors under the newly adopted strengthened our organization’s capacity and slogan “Global Link to Success” and revamped fulfilled our social responsibilities. Invest KOREA's website and mobile homepage to Based on an in-depth analysis, we conducted improve and expand our communication channels. business restructuring to raise efficiency and ran Great Work Place (GWP) programs under the four Second, we encouraged and assisted the themes of trust, pride, fun and health to create industry with the development of new export a healthy corporate culture. In 2016, we made items and markets. extra efforts to develop global social contribution KOTRA helped foster new export industries programs linked to the UN ’ s Sustainable including services , ICT and biomedicine . We Development Goals (SDGs). We expanded shared also assisted the parts and materials sector, one value creating businesses in emerging countries, of Korea’s key export areas, to enter the global including the technical school program and the value chain (GVC) and develop into a high-tech, transfer of equipment, and tackled social issues innovative industry. Moreover, our agency is in our communities by helping the local economy implementing customized strategies to better grow and creating a virtuous cycle. support exporters of high-end consumer goods and technology for advanced markets . We also In recognition of its contribution to transforming promote the development of mediumand highdomestically-focused companies into exporters, priced consumer markets, while increasing exports KOTRA was honored with the Prime Minister’s of intermediary materials for emerging markets. In Award for Corporate Innovation by the Ministry particular, by strengthening its Knowledge Sharing of Trade, Industry and Energy. Our agency also Program (KSP), KOTRA is building the foundation President of KOTRA, received the Employment and Labor Minister’s for economic cooperation with strategic markets Award for exemplary labor-management culture for Jaehong Kim including Cuba, Iran, and Myanmar–countries its efforts to promote sustainable growth. which are integrating themselves into the international economic order following the removal KOTRA , as a key player of the national trade of economic sanctions. and investment infrastructure, will perform its roles with a stronger sense of responsibility to Third, we engaged in more active communication address uncertainties in the changing global with our stakeholders including customers and trade environment. We will also adapt to new partner organizations. trends, including the rapidly the Fourth Industrial KOTRA has an open and cooperative culture that Revolution. allows us to provide additional services that were previously unavailable due to its limited resources. Finally, I would like to ask our stakeholders for In 2016, we introduced an advanced system for their continued support for and interest in all of analyzing the global competencies of individual KOTRA’s future endeavors. SMEs and recommended the most appropriate support program based on the results of the analysis. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report | 3 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea 2016 KOTRA Highlight A Exceeded USD 20 billion Rated Excellent mark for fifth consecutive year  Inbound foreign investment exceeded USD 20 billion for the second  KOTRA rated “excellent” in the Integrity Investigation by the Anticonsecutive year. Corruption & Civil Rights Commission for Fifth Consecutive Year Since FDI surpassed USD 20 billion for the first time in 2015, inbound foreign KOTRA has been rated “excellent” in the integrity investigation for public investments remained above USD 20 billion for two years in a row, reaching a organizations conducted by the Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission. This record high of USD 21.3 billion. This impressive outcome is attributed to the rating represents full recognition of our efforts to build integrity, including the strategic approach and its close collaboration with the government undertaken by holding of an oath ceremony at which employees pledged to observe the AntiKOTRA in order to attract high-profile investments. Graft Act, and the strengthening of our companywide anti-corruption campaigns and education. KOTRA has been rated “excellent” for each of the past five years since 2012.  KOTRA rated “best”(1st degree) in  KOTRA certified for establishing an excellent  KOTRA wins grand prize at the 100 Great anti-corruption policy evaluation culture of labor-management cooperation Work Place Awards for fifth consecutive year KOTRA was rated “best” (grade 1) in the 2016 antiIn 2016, KOTRA was recognized by the Ministry KOTRA has been consistently implementing the corruption policy evaluation for public organizations. of Employment and Labor for its excellent laborFamily-Friendly Workplace campaign to ensure that Starting from the grade 3 (“acceptable”) in 2014, management relations. The award is usually given its employees maintain a sound and healthy balance KOTRA has raised its rating by one notch each year. to corporations that succeed in establishing a between work and family. As a result, KOTRA has won This achievement is a reward for KOTRA’s operation cooperative labor-management relationship and the grand prize at the 100 Great Work Place (GWP) of various ethics management units, including the an exemplary culture of win-win labor-management Awards, hosted by Great Place to Work Korea, for a Clean KOTRA Committee, and its anti-corruption relations. KOTRA won the award for its efforts to create fifth consecutive year. In 2016, KOTRA took measures efforts in 3 core areas: appropriateness of budget a culture of close labor-management cooperation, to reduce its employees’ workload and encouraged execution, transparency in HR management, and such as reflecting the results of external evaluations the implementation of a flexible working-hour prevention of moral hazards to prevent or eliminate in its efforts to improve labor-management relations, program among other initiatives. In addition, various corrupting factors on continuing basis. and benchmarking other companies with excellent family-friendly programs introduced by KOTRA, labor-management relations. such as “Father School” and “Mentoring for Working Mothers” were highly recognized. GWP 4 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Prime Minister’s Prize at Corporate Innovation Awards  Prime Minister’s Prize at Corporate Innovation Awards  Sole operator of Trade & Investment KSP project KOTRA won the Prime Minister’s Prize at the 2016 Corporate Innovation Awards Previously, KOTRA and the Korea Institute for Industrial Economics & Trade (KIET) hosted by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, for its project to transform jointly operated the KSP project for sharing Korea’s development experiences domestically-oriented companies into new exporters. KOTRA fundamentally with partner countries. However, KOTRA took over the entire project and became changed the way it provides services. As a result, 2,373 domestic companies or the sole operator in 2016, a clear testimony of the government’s recognition 5.9% more than the 2016 target became exporters. The prize was awarded to of KOTRA’s professional expertise and capability in this field. However, KOTRA KOTRA in recognition of its role in achieving this outstanding result. refuses to allow itself to become complacent with this achievement and has instead embarked upon expanding its business horizons to official development assistance(ODA).  Grand Prize for a global contribution at The  Ranked 1st in the Korean Sustainability  Three prizes at the Web Award Korea Companies With The Best CSR Reputations Index (KSI) for the third consecutive year In The World by Forbes KOTRA was awarded the grand prize in global As part of its efforts to fulfill its social responsibility, At the 2016 Web Award Korea hosted by the Korea contribution for four consecutive years at the 2016 KOTRA is implementing companywide global Internet Professionals Association, the website for The Companies With The Best CSR Reputations CSR programs and running an advisory group of PC and mobile phones operated by Invest Korea, a In The World jointly hosted by Forbes and Korea experts from various fields to actively communicate foreign investment promotion arm of KOTRA, won the Chamber of Commerce , in recognition of its with its stakeholders. As a result of these efforts, prize in three sections, namely public services, mobile outstanding global CSR activities. Going forward, KOTRA was ranked 1st for three consecutive years websites, and customer support. KOTRA will faithfully perform global CSR activities in the Korea Sustainability Index in the category to create shared values with local communities of quasi government agencies under the Ministry around the globe. of Trade, Industry and Energy at the Sustainability Management Survey conducted by the Korean Standards Association (KSA) , the ISO 26000 secretariat of Korea. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report | 5 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Company Introduction Role of KOTRA KOTRA was established to facilitate the development of the national economy by promoting trade, supporting cross-border investment, attracting foreign professionals from abroad, and representing Korean government on G2G(Government to Government) contract. As of February 2017, KOTRA has established a global network of 126 Korea Business Centers (KBCs) in 86 countries, which allows KOTRA to accumulate and share global knowledge and experience and to expand its open collaboration with related organizations, thereby ensuring that KOTRA offers high-quality services to Korean corporations. Company Name Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency(KOTRA) Headquarters 13 Heolleungno, Seocho-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea KOTRA emblems Competent Authority Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy President Jaehong Kim Establishment Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency Act (Law No.1059, established on April 24, 1962) Established Date June 21, 1962 ”Dream” in the emblem above The rectangle represents a window, while Ownership Completely owned by the Korean government implies SMEs’ desire to export their products, the globe symbolizes the world. The emblem Capital 50 billion won while the slogan expresses KOTRA’s expresses the idea that KOTRA will act as a commitment to helping SMEs make their guide that navigates Korean corporations No. of Employment 886 dreams come true. through the complexities of the global market Organization Headquarters: 5 HQs 23 Depts. 16 Centers(Group,Team) as they strive to export their products, do Overseas: 10 regional head offices, 126 KBCs in 86 countries business, and attract foreign investment. Domestic: 9 support teams, 1 office KOTRA Core Values CORE VALUES Customer Contribution Top priority = Customer Sense of duty We are enhancing customers’ global value. We are contributing to the nation. Responsiveness TRUST Transparency We are responding to customers’ demands. WORTHY We are pursuing zero defect in ethics. Utmost satisfaction Worldwide CSR We are realizing customer surprise. Behaviorable standard We are taking full social responsibility. for members of KOTRA Global Challenge Out-of-the-box thinking We are overflowing with creativity. Highly qualified experts Relentless enthusiasm We are developing into local experts. We are overcoming all the difficulties. Youthful & open mindset Trend-setter We are treating others with respect. We are shaping future trends. 6 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Business Model KOTRA, a Global Business Platform KOTRA aims to play the role of a platform that connects the entire global value chain in order to realize the vision of “becoming a global business platform that opens up the future of Korea”. Generally, a “platform firm” means a company that creates added value by linking the upstream and downstream domains of the value system of the broader industry. KOTRA will take advantage of its broad overseas network and open collaboration with partner organizations to establish a global business ecosystem and create tangible results throughout the entire process of the global value chain . KOTRA Character How the platform will be used from the perspective of roles and services Global Value Chain Up-Stream Middle-Stream Down-Stream Supply Sales Operation R&D Production Finance Logistics Marketing (A/S) Globee Global Competency Overseas Attract of Foreign Support Overseas Information Strategic Globee represents KOTRA’s determination to work Empowerment Marketing Investment Expansion Research Business hard like a bee. The globe-shaped head indicates that KOTRA is globally active while the Möbius strip symbolizes the spirit of challenge with which KOTRA Value Chain KOTRA constantly strives to keep its Direct service domain Indirect service domain customers satisfied. KOTRA Businesses and Responsbilities In an effort to strengthen export competencies of domestic SMEs, KOTRA is actively involved in transforming domestically-oriented companies into exporting companies and providing exporting companies customized services according to their different stages of growth. KOTRA is also responsible for encouraging and facilitating foreign investments in domestic industries as well as for boosting the export competitiveness of domestic companies. In addition, it develops and nurtures new export industries, explores export markets, and creates systems to proactively respond to evolving modes of trade, with the ultimate goal of enhancing the global competitiveness of Korea in trade and investment. Finally, KOTRA provides the latest information on trade and overseas markets including ongoing developments in FTA negotiations. • Turn domestically-oriented companies into new exporters • Strategically attract foreign investment Strengthen Export Attract • Increase customized support for exporting Competencies foreign companies with the potential to contribute to companies in different stages of growth of SMEs investment the growth of the national economy • Support overseas expansion of domestic companies for their globalization • Develop and foster new export industries Support • Strategically capitalize on trade cooperation • Explore new export markets Create new export utilizing expanded including FTAs • Proactively respond to new trade methods growth engines economic cooperation zones • Provide information on overseas markets and trends 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report | 7 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Global Network Major Brand Projects China Fostering SMEs to enter local online platforms Europe 2016 Korea-France business partnership North America (10) North America Enhancing accessibility for Central & South second and third America city residents with (14) KBC consultants visiting the area Middle East Korean Goods/ Products Expo 2016, Dubai Africa Korea Premium Consumer Goods Showcase 2016, Cape Town <Overseas branch offices>: 10 head offices, 126 overseas KBCs (86 countries) China(19)  North America(10) Beijing (China), Shanghai (China), Guangzhou (China), Dalian (China), Tianjin (China), New York (USA), Los Angeles (USA), Chicago (USA), Dallas (USA), Washington DC (USA), Chengdu (China), Qingdao (China), Wuhan (China), Xian (China), Shenyang (China), Silicon Valley (USA), Miami (USA), Detroit (USA), Vancouver (Canada), Toronto (Canada) Nanjing (China), Chongqing (China), Changsha (China), Zhengzhou (China), Hangzhou (China), Xiamen (China), Shenzhen (China), Hong Kong (Hong Kong), Taipei (Taiwan) Middle East(15)  Dubai (UAE), Cairo (Egypt), Tehran (Iran), Tel Aviv (Israel), Riyadh (Saudi Arabia), Europe(23) Amman (Jordan), Tripoli (Libya), Casablanca (Morocco), Kuwait (Kuwait), Muscat(Oman), Baghdad (Iraq), Algiers (Algeria), Damascus (Syria), Istanbul (Turkey), Frankfurt (Germany), Hamburg (Germany), Munich (Germany), Paris (France), Doha(Qatar) London (UK), Stockholm (Sweden), Copenhagen (Denmark), Amsterdam(Netherlands), Brussels (Belgium), Milan (Italy), Zurich (Switzerland), Madrid(Spain), Vienna (Austria), Africa(10)  Athens (Greece), Helsinki (Finland), Budapest (Hungary), Warsaw (Poland), Prague Johannesburg (Republic of South Africa), Lagos (Nigeria), Nairobi (Kenya), (Czech Republic), Bucharest (Romania), Zagreb (Croatia), Sofia (Bulgaria), Khartoum (Sudan), Addis Ababa (Ethiopia), Accra (Ghana), Dares Salaam (Tanzania), Belgrade (Serbia), Bratislava (Slovakia) Kinshasa (Congo), Maputo (Mozambique), Abidjan (Republic of Cote d'Ivoire) 8 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report KOTRA is operating 126 KBCs in 86 countries in 10 regions. The KBCs, whose top priority is to facilitate the expansion of Korean companies’ exports, are actively working out in the field in close collaboration with Korean exporters to develop new markets, attract investments and collect information. In 2016, KOTRA opened a new KBC in Abidjan, Republic of Cote d'Ivoire, as part of its move to augment the infrastructure to facilitate domestic companies’ expansion into West Africa. Japan Korea-Japan business partnership CIS Southeast Asia& Oceania (10) Europe LAZADA online Korean (23) Products Pavilion China Japan (19) (4) Southwest Asia Southwest Asia Middle East Support for Korean (7) (15) companies to open online shopping malls Southeast Asia & Oceania (14) Central & South America Support for Korean companies to launch e-commerce business Africa (10) CIS Creation of a core network in the medicine and bio sectors Japan(4) Central & South America(14) Tokyo Japan), Osaka (Japan), Nagoya (Japan), Fukuoka (Japan) Mexico City (Mexico), Panama (Panama), Guatemala (Guatemala), Havana (Cuba), Santo Domingo (Dominican Republic), Sao Paulo (Brazil), Rio de Janeiro (Brazil), Lima (Peru), Bogota (Colombia), Buenos Aires (Argentina), Southeast Asia & Oceania(14) Santiago (Chile), Caracas (Venezuela), Asuncion (Paraguay), Quito (Ecuador) Singapore (Singapore), Manila (Philippines), Bangkok (Thailand), Oceania (14) Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Yangon (Myanmar), Jakarta (Indonesia), Surabaya (Indonesia), HoChi Minh (Vietnam), Hanoi (Vietnam), Phnom Penh (Cambodia), Vientiane (Laos), CIS(10)  Sydney(Australia), Melbourne (Australia), Auckland (New Zealand) Moscow (Russia), Vladivostok (Russia), Novosibirsk (Russia), St. Petersburg (Russia), Kiev (Ukraine), Almaty (Kazakhstan), Baku (Azerbaijan), Tashkent (Uzbekistan), Minsk (Belarus), Ulan Bator (Mongolia) Southwest Asia(7)  New Delhi (India), Mumbai (India), Chennai (India), Bangalore (India), Karachi (Pakistan), Dhaka (Bangladesh), Colombo (Sri Lanka) 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report | 9 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Stakeholder Engagement As uncertainty surrounding the external environment and CSR are emerging as key factors that have a major impact on sustainability, companies are finding it increasingly necessary to listen to the voices of various stakeholders in the course of exploring new growth opportunities and to proactively manage risks. KOTRA defines its core stakeholders according to the stage of value creation, and has put in place a system of close communication with different groups of stakeholders so as to be able to cope with the changing external environment in a flexible manner. Stakeholders of KOTRA Our stakeholders can be divided into three major groups according to the flow of value: value creation, value impact, and value consumption and sharing. Our stakeholders include employees, labor unions, the government and the National Assembly, SMEs, buyers and investors, citizens and local communities. Since different groups of stakeholders have different expectations and concerns, we analyze core needs by stakeholder group and create customized communication channels to ensure effective communication with all stakeholders. Major Communication Major Concerns Major Achievements Channels • Corporate culture TF • Work-family balance • Monthly general meetings: include such features such as Value Creation • Monthly broad executive • Competency development and meeting career management outside lectures, concerts and other fun programs, and act as a Employees • Instant meetings • Motivation Employees • Monthly general meetings regular channel through which the management and employees can Labor Union • Meetings with entry-level regularly come into direct contact. employees • Corporate culture TF: Employees at the same or similar stages of the life cycle get together • Labor-management council • Protection of human rights at sub-group meetings to share their • Labor-management joint TF • Improvement of labor practices concerns and thoughts. Opinions and • Working-level staff meetings progress within the department are shared on a monthly basis for Labor Union follow-up. Major Communication Major Concerns Major Achievements Channels • Service advisory • Latest overseas trends • Service advisory: • Mobile KOTRA for consultation • Regional Headquater meeting Listens to the voices of exporters and advice and shares their concerns with management so that their ideas SMEs Value and opinions can be reflected in businesses and strategies. • International expos • Latest domestic trends • KOTRA Express webzine: Consumption • Trade mission and foreign • Matching buyers and investors Made available in print, on the investment promotion group with sellers of goods that web, and mobile applications SMEs’ with subscribers exceeding Buyers & • KOTRA Express webzine meet their demand, easing regulations on foreign 150,000 Buyers & Investors Investors investment companies 10 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Art Collaboration, a space for communication with stakeholders Art Collaboration, an exhibition hall in the lobby on the first floor of KOTRA’s head office, is open to the public and thus serves as a venue for communication with stakeholders. Visitors to the hall include the trade competency enhancement missions of government officials from developing countries, college students, and middle and high school students seeking to explore future career paths. * Art Collaboration is a KOTRA support program that integrates art into SME products to create stories for their brands. Major Communication Major Concerns Major Achievements Channels Value Impact • Emergency export planning • Policy implementation and • Function-integrating collaboration: meetings communication Government and • Regular council of export • Information provision and Executives and working-level employees meet regularly National assembly Government support institutions • Joint projects sharing to share agenda items Partner Organizations and National Assembly concerning cooperation and performance achievements, thereby maximizing the • Synergy effects through effects of cooperation. cooperation Partner Organizations Major Communication Major Concerns Major Achievements Channels • SNS (Facebook, Linked-in, etc.) • Development of the national • Art Collaboration: • Public contests (UCC, posters) economy KOTRA created an exhibition • Art Collaboration • Export growth hall where SME products • Contribution programs for local • Social contribution meet with works of art on the communities first floor of the head office building. The hall is open to People Value Sharing local residents and visitors, and Local functioning as a local venue Communities for cultural experience. People and Local Communities 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report | 11 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Interviews with Stakeholders KOTRA listens to the expectations and concerns of its stakeholders, and tries to reflect them in its activities in order to ensure its sustainable growth. In 2016, especially, KOTRA identified six groups of core stakeholders who represent the varying stakeholder interests, and listened to what they had to say. The opinions and comments made by these stakeholders during their interviews with us will be used in the planning and implementation of our sustainability management activities. Interview with a KOTRA Employee Hyeona Kim | Customer Service Team, KOTRA ‘I’m happy with the program that helps employees to be more time-efficient and the consulting program that helps us to lead a happy family life!’ KOTRA runs a flexible working-hour program and allows its employees to take 1/4 of the day off as needed, thereby helping them to effectively manage their time. Many KOTRA employees take advantage of these programs. I was particularly happy with what I learned in the Learn how to take care your children better which was organized as part of the GWP program, because experts provided advice on childrearing based on the results of temperament and character tests for parents and children. I found the counseling very useful in making a happier family. Interview with Academia Jinseop Jeong, Professor | Chungbuk National University ‘KOTRA plays a pivotal role in promoting collaboration and cooperation on trade and investment’ I received help from KOTRA when I was involved in the KSP project in Iran. I realized that without KOTRA’s support, Korean companies would have found it much more challenging to do business in Iran, given the vast differences in the business environment. In order for KOTRA to enhance its sustainability, it should play a greater role in bringing the government and corporations together for closer cooperation, in addition to supporting SMEs’ overseas expansion. I hope that KOTRA benchmarks the successful models of similar organizations in other countries and grows into a more dynamic global business platform. Interview with Partner Organization Tung-Chung Tseng, President | TAITRA ‘Cooperation that extends to food and services’ TAIRA was founded to help Taiwanese companies conduct business overseas and attract foreign investments. The Korean Office of TAIRA is working hard to connect Taiwanese businesses wishing to do business in Korea with the Korean government and Korean corporations and businesses. Previously, business collaboration between the two countries was centered on electronics, machinery and parts, areas where Korea and Taiwan have a competitive advantage; more recently, however, bilateral collaboration has been expanding to other sectors including food and services, which I find encouraging. Like Korea, Taiwan has a small domestic market, which makes export competitiveness crucial. Going forward, I expect that TAIRA and KOTRA will further expand their cooperation and grow together. 12 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Interview with a Customer Migyeong Park, CEO | FORCS ‘Consultations with KOTRA’s IT specialists help us resolve problems that are specific to the industry.’ For SMEs, finding foreign buyers and doing business overseas is no easy task. FORCS joined an export expo hosted by KOTRA and received the support we needed to expand our business abroad. In particular, KOTRA’s IT specialists provided substantial and practical advice on how to address our problems, and they were readily available to offer advice whenever I needed it. It would be great if there were more specialists in different fields so that companies in other areas could also benefit from this wonderful service. Interview with a Customer Jangjae Won, assistant manager | WELTECH ‘We received steady support for a sufficiently long period of time to ensure the success of our overseas business.’ WELTECH participated in KOTRA’s Jisahwa service to start a business in Iran. Iran was a new market about which we knew little, and we did not know what to prepare for or what to be cautious about. We weren’t ready to meet all of the challenges, so the help of KOTRA’s staff in Iran was crucial. I think that many other Korean companies are hoping to do business in other countries. It is important to help as many companies as possible, but I hope that the period of Jisahwa service could be extended until a recipient company is fully ready and able to operate successfully in its target market on its own. Interview with a Foreign Investment Company Yasuaki Ueno, CEO | Fuji Xerox Korea ‘A bridge of collaboration and communication between the government and corporations’ I think KOTRA’s ombudsman program is truly useful. The program keeps us informed about Korea’s laws and regulations, and provides opportunities for us to share information with other foreign investment companies. When KOTRA plans and implements projects for the purpose of attracting new foreign investments, the needs of foreign companies that are already operating in Korea may be overlooked. I would ask KOTRA to act as a bridge of communication between the government and foreign investment companies. Interview with a Local Community Baekseon Ha, Head | Seocho-gu e-Eum Center for Happy Elderly Citizens ‘More interest and involvement in projects for elderly citizens living by themselves’ Whenever I see KOTRA employees volunteering at our center, I feel that they are positive and open-minded. Communicating with and serving the elderly can be tough, so it really warmed my heart to see how they made kimchi and delivered briquettes for the elderly in need, and how they kept a beautiful smile on their face. I am very grateful to them for making the elderly people of our community happy for the past three years, and I hope that KOTRA continues to be interested and involved in other programs that are planned for the elderly. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report | 13 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Stakeholders Committee CSR Stakeholders Committee As stakeholder engagement is becoming increasingly important in corporate management, KOTRA is making concerted efforts to closely communicate with various stakeholders. In particular, KOTRA discloses, through the sustainability management report, its economic, social and environmental performances in an effort to keep its stakeholders informed, and uses the report as an additional channel of communication with them. The Stakeholders Committee, which is composed of CSR experts, offers valuable opinions on our sustainability management, and KOTRA listens carefully to what the committee has to say before reflecting its major expectations in the year’s report. Review of 2015 Report Changes to 2016 Report Jayhyuk Rhee, Professor | Korea University • Further specified stakeholder The 2015 report aptly and succinctly describes KOTRA’s roles, but classifying stakeholders according to groups are classified according to the flow of value can make it difficult for readers to gain a comprehensive understanding of those roles. the flow of value. The report needs to shed more light on how doing business globally and exporting products are different • Content is arranged more strictly so as to reduce overlapping content. Finally, if KOTRA’s CSR is presented in closer connection with its core competencies, the report will be more useful for stakeholders. and titles are more specific. Juhyeon Gang, CEO | Global Competitiveness Empowerment Forum Considering the scope of KOTRA’s global businesses and the size of the organization, it is praiseworthy that KOTRA includes the sustainability management performances of its headquarters and overseas regional headquarters • The report clearly indicates the in its report, and evaluates and discloses the performances of individual regional headquarters according to unit in charge of sustainability ISO 26000. However, the report does not make it clear that KOTRA has a unit that is exclusively responsible for management. sustainability management. It seems necessary to clearly indicate this in the report. The report is clear, readable and accessible. Although gathering the opinions of foreign employees is not an easy task, detailing KOTRA’s efforts to this end will be instrumental in improving its image. Junseok Oh |Sookmyung Women’s University The report presents the content in a clear and comprehensive way that encompasses all aspects of its businesses, and is of informational value in that KOTRA’s efforts and achievements regarding sustainability • The report presents social management are described in an organized manner. Recent trends in the international trade environment contribution plans in connection show that how a company can contribute to the target market is becoming increasingly important for market with business plans when entry; and, given this trend, seeking co-prosperity with the target market carries added significance. As such, entering target markets. I recommend that KOTRA present its social contribution plans as well as its business plans when negotiating market entry in other countries. Jinseop Jeong | Chungbuk National University In general, the report effectively presents KOTRA’s basic competencies and environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects. However, some images do not match the content and more attention needs to be paid to detail • The report ensures that content when adding images to the report. For example, Europe is either unclearly indicated or missing altogether from and image match in detail. some of the images when KOTRA’s pillar markets include Europe, North America, China, and Japan. In addition, I • Uses easy-to-understand words. recommend that more specific words be used to clarify meanings and help readers better understand the report. For example, “environmental improvement” could be replaced with “environmental clean-up” in order to convey • Includes the latest information a more specific meaning. Lastly, Iran has been included in the list of KSP countries, and if the report includes the latest relevant information on Iran, the stakeholders will likely find the report more useful. 14 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Global Initiatives Sustainability Management in Sync with SDGs Sustainable Development Goals, or SDGs, as a follow-up agenda to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), were officially adopted by the UN in September 2015. SDGs are the common goals that the United Nations and the global community jointly set, with the agreement of the heads of the UN member states, to reach from 2016 to 2030. The SDGs comprise a set of 17 Global Goals and 169 targets that need to be accomplished in order for the global community to ensure sustainable development, including ending poverty and hunger, combating climate change, promoting economic growth, and creating quality jobs. KOTRA is conducting its activities in connection with these SDGs as it strives to increase Korea’s export competitiveness in the global market. In addition, KOTRA intends to contribute to the sustainable development of the international community by developing new businesses that support the SDGs. UN SDGs KOTRA’s SDGs-linked Activities (Sustainable Development Goals) Relevant SDGs KOTRA’s Achievements Sections of the Report 1. Ending poverty Donation to refugees, 54~55p Providing education on risk management (terror, earthquake situation) 3. Promoting health Provision of medical services 51, to the elderly and infirm, 54~55p and women, donation of hospital supplies and medical equipment, running of an implant technical school. 4. Ensuring inclusive Technical school for economic 52~55p and equitable development, export schools Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms everywhere. education and Goal 2 End hunger, achieve food security and improve nutrition and with various themes. promote sustainable agriculture. promoting life-long Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. learning Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opporunities for all. Goal 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. 7. Ensuring access to Donation of photovoltaic 51, Goal 6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. sustainable energy power generation facilities, Goal 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. 54~55p Goal 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, running of new renewable full and productive employment and decent work for all. energy school. Goal 9 Build resilient infrastructures, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization, and foster innovation. 8. Promoting sustainable Goal 10 Reduce income inequality within and among countries. Creation of global jobs, running 49, Goal 11 Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. economic growth and of trade & business start-up Goal 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. ensuring decent work 51~55p camp, One Village One Product Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts by r for all egulating emissions and promoting developments in renewable energy. (OVOP). Goal 14 Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development. 17.Strengthening the Strengthening of 50p Goal 15 Protect, restore and promote the sustainable use of terrestrial means of implemenintergovernmental ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, and halt biodiversity loss. tation and revitalize cooperation by Goal 16 Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable the global partnership Knowledge Sharing Program development, provide access to justice for all, and build for sustainable effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. (KSP). development Goal 17 Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report | 15 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Materiality Test KOTRA performed a materiality test in order to identify and report on a wide range of expectations and core issues that internal and external stakeholders have, in a more organized and effective way. In the materiality test conducted according to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, KOTRA conducted media research on economic, social and environmental issues, analyzed global initiatives, created a pool of issues, and prioritized those issues based on the results of a stakeholder survey and benchmarking. Materiality Test Process Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Identification of sustainability management Stakeholder participation and Validation and reporting issues identification of core issues In order to identify the issues of sustainability KOTRA compiled a list of ten core issues drawn The core issues identified through the management, KOTRA analyzed global initiatives from the issue pool, after evaluating their social materiality test were reviewed internally, including the GRI Standards and ISO 26000, and impact and impact on business, based on the and presented with details including scope, conducted media research. KOTRA created results of surveys on internal and boundaries, and period. The core issues are a pool of 31 issues, based on the external stakeholders and presented in detail in the 2016 findings of the analysis and benchmarking. Sustainability Report. research. Stakeholder Participation • Survey respondents: employees and external stakeholders (surveys were conducted in Korean and English) • Method: online questionnaire • Period: 2 weeks (February 13~24, 2017) • No. of respondents: 217 employees, 306 external stakeholders (domestic: 157, overseas: 149) KOTRA conducted an online survey on its internal and external stakeholders in order to determine the gravity of the sustainability management issues in its economic, social and environmental performances. The core issues were identified as follows according to the analysis of the survey findings by stakeholder group. Employees Stakeholders (domestic) Stakeholders (overseas) 1. Support of domestic companies for overseas 1. Support of domestic companies for 1. Market status market entry overseas market entry 2. Support for overseas investments by 2. Support of domestic companies for overseas Economic 2. Support inbound foreign investment domestic companies market entry 3. Support for overseas investments by domestic 3. Economic performance 3. Economic performance companies 1. Diversity and equal opportunities 1. Employment 1. Employee education and training 2. Improvement of human rights management and Social 2. Ban on discrimination 2. Employment audit 3. Anti-corruption 3. Anti-corruption 3. Employee health and safety 1. Support for green companies to expand their 1. Support for green companies to expand their 1. Support for green companies to expand their business overseas and win business opportunities business overseas and win business opportunities business overseas and win business opportunities 2. Waste reduction and greater efficiency in the use of Environment 2. Efficient use of energy 2. Efficient use of energy resources 3. Water conservation and promotion of water reuse 3. Water conservation, promotion of recycling, waste 3. Increasing green procurement and recycling reduction 16 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Materiality Test MATRIX Core Issues No Issue 1 Support of domestic companies for overseas market entry 2 Improvement of human rights management and audit 3 1 3 Support for overseas investments by 4 2 domestic companies 5 Social impact 8 7 4 Influence on local communities (such as 9 10 social contributions) 6 5 Anti-corruption (strengthening internal control and protection of whistleblowers) 6 Support inbound foreign investment 7 Employee education & training 8 Support for working and starting business overseas 9 Customer health and safety 10 Labor-management relations impact on businesses Identification of Core Issues Relevant pages in the Material Issue Topic category report 1. Support of domestic companies for overseas Challenge – To strengthen SMEs’ export Other Business Issues 21~25p market entry competencies. 2. Improvement of human rights management Human Rights Assessment Human Rights Management 58~61p and audit 3. Support for overseas investments by domestic Challenge – To strengthen SMEs’ Other Business Issues 21~25p companies export competencies 4. Influence on local communities (such as social Contribution – KOTRA, an organization Local Communities 50~55p contributions) that is trusted by all. 5. Anti-corruption (strengthening internal control and Contribution – KOTRA, an organization Anti-Corruption 48p protection of whistleblowers) that is trusted by all. ChallengeTo strengthen inbound foreign 6. Support inbound foreign investment Other Business Issues 26~29p investment Contribution – Creation of an corporate culture 7. Employee education and training Training and Education 46p for growth. Contribution – KOTRA, an organization 8. Support for working and starting business overseas Other Business Issues 49p that is trusted by all. Customer – Customer and field-centered 9. Customer health and safety Customer Health and Safety 40~41p business Contribution – Creation of an corporate culture 10. Labor-management relations Labor/Management Relations 45, 47p for growth 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report | 17 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea A Global Business Platform for the Future Exporting Korean SMEs’ Dreams 18 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Challenge 20p Global 30p Customer 36p Contribution 44p 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report | 19 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Challenge Advancement of Trade and Investment Businesses Business Relevance A number of advanced countries are pursuing protectionism amid sluggish exports caused by the global downturn and dismal trade growth, dealing a heavy blow to the Korean economy. The structure of Korean exports is vulnerable to external changes because it relies heavily on large corporations. Therefore, effort is required to diversify the exporters by boosting the export competitiveness of SMEs to remedy the situation. To this end, KOTRA will help SMEs grow into global businesses by providing them with support to strengthen their export capabilities, so that exports can serve as a driving force behind economic growth. KOTRA also promises to contribute to Korea’s economic growth by attracting foreign investors to a greater degree than ever before. Our Approach KOTRA is mainly supporting the new exporters by providing them with more opportunities to expand to the global market to overcome the crisis of sluggish Korean exports and solve their problems in local markets through Jisahwa service. KOTRA is also providing customized support programs to SMEs as an export support organization in order to revive the export sector. KOTRA will carry out its role as a business platform and focus on increasing exports quantityand qualitywise. Our Risk • Too many SMEs focusing on the domestic market • Limited accessibility for the companies residing outside of Seoul Metropolitan area Our Opportunity • Transform domestic companies into exporters • Helping innovative startups expand overseas • Globalization of regional SMEs • More support programs customized to capabilities • Attract more foreign investors Key Performance Index Turn Domestic Companies into Exporters KOTRA's Performance in Attracting Investments (unit: number of companies) (unit: USD 100 million) Companies Benefiting from Jisahwa Service Investments of Over USD 1 million (unit: number of companies) (unit: investment) 2016 4,171 2,373 2016 421 171 2015 2,812 1,592 2015 328 161 2014 2,400 1,302 2014 264 151 20 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution Strengthening the Export Capabilities of SMEs Strengthening the Global Competitiveness of SMEs To curb the decline in Korean exports, domestic SMEs need to be provided with more opportunities to advance into the global market. KOTRA is making efforts to expand the program for “transforming domestic companies into exporters” and support startups in advancing into the global market, through which an export structure would be established. More Support for Transforming Domestic Companies into Exporters KOTRA is making concerted efforts to promote new exporters in order to overcome the limitations of the existing Increase the Number export structure and expand the basis for Korean exports . In 2016, KOTRA took the initiative in contacting of Exporters competitive domestic companies that are willing to export their products and services, and it was able to promote (unit: number of companies) and turn a total of 2,373 domestic companies into new exporters; this is approximately 49% higher than the previous year’s figure. KOTRA also assigned retired experts in exports to these selected companies so that they can ●Number of small/medium exporters support the companies in each step of the export process at home. Experts abroad also assigned to the regions with ●Number of domestic companies transformed into exporters high demand for domestic companies among the 126 KBCs worldwide, so businesses both at home and abroad ●Number of successful overseas businesses can benefit from the support program. by startups [ Domestic/Overseas Support System ] No. of domestic companies No. of export Understanding of the No. of employees that were transformed into Discovery of regions of experts: 165 feasibility of accepting assigned at KBCs: 20 exporters: (2,373) interest & delivery of companies & delivery of 91,639 93,944 support requests support requests 24 companies* Export Expert 1 A. KBC Provide Close Discovery of buyers 1,592 2,373 24 companies* Support Services Export Expert 2 & arrangement of B. KBC video consultation 29 60 * Number of mentee companies per export expert Service Support Request Provide Services 2015 2016 Partner Organizations “Born to Global” Startup Support KOTRA provides various support programs to new innovative companies dubbed “Born to Global,” assisting them in attracting foreign investments, building partnerships with foreign companies, and participating in startup conferences. In the early stage of their startup, the support is aimed at funding for management and technology development. In the production stage, the goal shifts to tapping into new export markets. In short, KOTRA offers support programs for each stage of business growth depending on the demands of the startup companies. Support Program for Startup Companies in Overseas Marketing Showcase of Major Domestic Startups Support Program for Startup Partnering Support Program for Participating in (K-Startup Summit) International Startup Conferences Hosting of a summit for attracting investments to startups at the Supporting startup companies in having meetings with global Supporting a group of startup companies in participating in core of the global startup ecosystem (London, Silicon Valley, New companies and Venture Capitals (VCs) and discussing issues startup conferences such as “SLUSH,” where a network can be York, Beijing) regarding export, investment, and business cooperation built between foreign VCs and promising startups (Singapore, (Shenzhen, Beijing, Wuhan, Singapore, Jakarta, Stockholm) Helsinki, London, Taipei, Shenzhen) 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report | 21 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Strengthening the Export Capabilities of SMEs Discovering Export Routes and Strengthen Marketing Competitiveness KOTRA operates an extensive support program for domestic companies to enable them to gain export competitiveness by providing marketing opportunities. In 2016, KOTRA tapped into promising overseas consumer goods markets by cooperating with the home shopping channels in Japan and Southeast Asian countries and had KBCs focus on providing local marketing services to domestic companies so that they can export their goods and services in the respective countries. KOTRA also set up special booths for domestic companies at export conferences and exhibitions and operated an online shopping mall for domestic companies on “buyKOREA,” a major export and Special booths for domestic companies at the marketing site for Korean products, through which full export support could be provided to domestic companies. “2016 Boom Up Korea” Performance of Projects that Directly Led to Export Category Target Market Projects Key Performance TV Home Shopping in Kansai and Japan 6 new exporters Central Region Sold in CJ Home Shopping Broadcast Home Thailand 5 new exporters Sales and Online Shopping Mall Shopping Myanmar TV Home Shopping 33 new exporters Promotion of Korean food by inviting Netherlands 4 new exporters home shopping buyers Participation of 400 companies, Exhibitions 19 KBCs in 16 countries in Central/South America and Europe out of which 47 began exporting Globalization of Regional SMEs Team Manpower KOTRA has expanded the regional support infrastructure for SMEs that are experiencing difficulties in accessing exhibitions, conferences, and other export support services due to their location. To this end, KOTRA has opened Category Regional Experts Support Management four new branch offices in Suwon (Gyeonggido), Incheon, Ulsan, and Jeonju (Jeollabuk-do) -in addition to the five Group* '15 5 locations 22 people 22 people branch offices in Busan and Daegu -and assigned staff to regions where there are no branch offices. KOTRA also '16 9 locations 37 people 122 people performed demand analysis based on the promotion policy of the local autonomous government in order to expand * (Existing) Busan, Daegu, Gwangju, Daejeon, its customized support programs aimed at helping companies of special industries wishing to export their goods Gangwon (Chuncheon) and services. (New) Gyeonggi-do (Suwon), Incheon, Ulsan, Jeollabuk-do (Jeonju) Incheon Gangwon-do • Special industry: Biomedicine • Special industry: Medical equipment • Major program: Korea Bio Plus • Major program: Gangwon-do Support for the Globalization Medical Equipment Exhibition of Regional Companies Gyeonggi-do Daegu, Gyeongsangbuk-do (unit: number of companies) • Special industry: Consumer goods • Special industry: Smart energy • Major program: G-TRADE Japan • Major Program: International Green ●Number of customers by order of services for the regional company Energy Conference ●Domestic companies in regions that were Daejeon, Chungcheong-do Ulsan transformed into exporters • Special industry: Beauty • Special industry: Power supplies • Major program: Cosmetic & Beauty Expo, • Major program: Conference for Osong Korea Shared Growth of Korea EastWest Power's Vendors Jeollabuk-do • Special industry: Material and parts Busan Gyeongsangnam-do • Major program: International • Special industry: Aviation parts 10,282 12,139 Carbon Festival • Major program: Sacheon 18.1% increase Aviation Parts Business Forum Gwangju, Jeollanam-do 986 1,686 • Special industry: Basic process 71.0% increase • Major program: International exhibition 2015 2016 on manufacture industry 22 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution Strengthening Support for SME Export The main interest of companies that are new to export is to acquire basic information on export and make inquiries, Increasing Export Volume whereas promising exporters are more interested in discovering and managing actual buyers and carrying out (unit: no. of companies, USD 1 million) marketing activities in the local market. Companies that already have global market position endeavor to create ●Number of companies benefiting from more added value by utilizing their intellectual resources including brand power and IP. KOTRA offers various Jisahwa service (no. of companies) ●Amount of the export support fund through support programs customized to the capabilities of each respective company and provides solutions through them. Jisahwa service (USD 1 million) ●Number of companies applying for the “World Champ project” (no. of companies) More Customized Support According to Capabilities ●Amount of the export attributed to “World Champ project” (USD 1 million) KOTRA categorizes the stages of the support program in accordance with the capabilities of the SMEs in order to promote the “Global Growth Ladder” program designed to support sustainable growth. In particular, KOTRA offers services that correspond to the demands by categorizing the recipient companies into startup businesses, those new to export, promising exporters, companies that already have global market position. In 2016, KOTRA expanded the World Champ project and Jisahwa service in order to boost exports and established a system for periodically checking performance with which to increase the scope of risk management. 2,812 4,171 2,530 3,543 Startup Business New to Export Promising exporters Strong Export Companies with global Business market position 149 170 Transformation Export Export Startup Jisahwa service Sales Lab World Champ Global Products 1,762 1,977 into Exporter Incubator Acquire Study the Direct Local Support for 2015 2016 Attract Investments Agent Marketing, Mutual Funds Information on International Marketing and Improving for Overseas Increase the for Customized Export and Make Trends and Discover Management of Non-Price Startups Number of Buyers Marketing Projects Inquiries Buyers Buyers Competitiveness 294 companies 4,000 companies 4,171 companies 273 companies 24 companies 170 companies 100 companies Logistics support(B2C logistics, consulting, warehouse rent, refund support) (Promising exporters): KOTRA is strengthening the capabilities of the staff assigned to help exporters by * Jisahwa service refers to the program designed to help Korean exporters through each implementing a number of systems such as consulting for special areas and manager for the Jisahwa service as there stage of export, from market research to finding are more who wish to participate in the “Jisahwa service” program. KOTRA has expanded its marketing and consulting buyers and signing a contract, by having KBCs serve as their overseas branch office. support services by setting up an export incubator in the center of major overseas markets such as the USA, Europe, China, and others so that SMEs can reduce their overseas marketing costs and settle in the market sooner. Comments by Stakeholders Strengthening Capabilities of Experts Assigned Workshop for Assigned Staff to the Service KOTRA has implemented various programs to strengthen the capabilities of experts assigned to the service in order to increase the quality of Jisahwa service. In particular, KOTRA assigned professional consultants for each of the industries such as machinery, chemical, IT, automobile, medical, and consumer goods. High achievers among those assigned to Jisahwa service for over five years at one of the nine KBCs in the USA, China, and Japan were promoted to the position of manager to teach others what they know and help them to Workshop for 201 employees assigned to Jisahwa service and perform better. World Champ projects (Oct. 2010) We're realizing our dream of going global through an excellent program called the “Jisahwa service.” If the service is provided for a little bit longer, I think it will be a real, practical (Companies with global market position): KOTRA provides qualified companies with marketing services customized help to companies wishing to do to the product characteristics and local environment in order to foster SMEs with the will and potential to become a business in overseas markets. world-class company. In 2016, KOTRA increased the range of companies subject to the support program and initiated Jangjae Won follow-up services to companies that have already graduated from the program by creating the Preand Post-World Assistant Manager at WELTECH Champ project. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report | 23 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Strengthening the Export Capabilities of SMEs Collaboration with Partner Organizations Increase the Number of Collaboration Projects KOTRA is making efforts to run the programs more efficiently in order to increase the number of domestic and overseas open collaborations. KOTRA is looking for ways to create synergies in cooperation with partner (unit: no. of companies, USD 1 million) organizations, industry-specialized professional associations, and large corporations. KOTRA defined collaboration ●Number of companies participated in in three ways as functional convergence, functional support, and joint venture according to the characteristics and collaborative projects (no. of companies) cooperation method of the collaborating organizations. ●Total contract amount by collaborative projects (USD 1 million) ●Amount of contracts signed by collaborative Functional Convergence Collaboration Enhance Business Performance by Converging Strengths of partner projects (USD 1 million) Organization • A form of merging the merits of each institution to develop linkage services or to carry out joint projects; a typical example is the “Korea Consumer Goods Export Competition” co-hosted by KOTRA, SBC, KITA, and others. KOTRA SBC KITA : Overseas network : Domestic business network : Business consulting and B2C 1,656 3,370 • Joint operation of 「e-Power 300」 support program (Select 300 consumer goods suppliers, thereafter provide package 705 1,378 program for their global business approach) 643 726 e-Power 300 Business Process Identification, review, • Priority to export support programs operated by KOTRA or partner organizations 2015 2016 e-Power 300 and selection of 300 Main • Development of specific businesses (20 direct sourcing forums) appointment companies by 3 institutions support • Enhancement of support completeness as specialized business by each ceremony ('16.2) ('15.10~'16.1) institution Functional Convergence Collaboration Operation of big conferences with partner organization's specialty • International conferences, once operated by individual organizations, converged into mega event. KOTRA is cooperating with partner organizations, sharing each other's professional resources. Global Mobile Vision: Global Bio & Medical Plaza: Korea Service & Contents Market: Support the export and investment Promote complex businesses such as Serve as an export platform for the promotion of IT startup companies by marketing strategy presentations, the service industry by hosting 1: 1 export collaborating with the “Born to Global” investment attraction road show, and conferences, presentations, and forums Center. Startup companies not only consultation forums through collaboration on major service sectors such as participate in business meetings, with professional organizations as the education, finance, tourism, and but also get the chance to consult with KoreaChina FTA promises to advance medical care. global investors. into healthcare services. Comments by Stakeholders Joint Venture Collaboration Collaborate with conglomerates to support joint ventures with cooperating companies • Support the export of SMEs through collaborative projects using the brand power of large corporations, Hallyu contents, and home shopping channels. Marketing support using Hallyu contents (6 cases): Held export forum linked with the Hallyu award ceremony (Mnet Asian Music Awards). Pioneered overseas markets by combining the overseas network of KOTRA and the Hallyu marketing capabilities of CJ KOTRA must strive for a three dimenE&M. sional approach to cover both the government and businesses from a Support using home shopping channels and overseas sales network (21 cases): Support SMEs in exploiting the distribution global ecosystem perspective in order and sales networks of large enterprises in cooperation with large distribution companies that have already advanced into to pioneer and expand the market. overseas markets such as China and Vietnam. I hope that KOTRA will become a Sales support for SMEs by linking with overseas projects (6 cases): Support the sales of small and medium-sized vendors in support organization for the Smart connection with the projects won by conglomerates, such as solar IoT solution projects. Global Enterprise ecosystem based Consultation forums inviting both conglomerates and buyers (9 cases): Support small and medium-sized vendors in connection on a new framework for strategic with the projects won by conglomerates, such as an export platform hosted by Korea South-East Power Co. thinking. Diversification of local sales networks of SMEs that have jointly advanced with conglomerates (2 cases): Large overseas buyers Jinseop Jeong of auto parts in overseas markets are invited by conglomerates to arrange consultation sessions for joint marketing. Prof. at Chungbuk National University 24 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution Special Prime Minister Award in the Category of Business Innovation for Transforming Domestic Companies into Exporters KOTRA endeavors to establish a stable export structure by increasing Korean exports and making SMEs the main player of exports. As a result of providing differentiated support services for domestic companies in 2016, we were awarded the Prime Minister Prize at the “Business Innovation Awards” hosted by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. KOTRA has provided proactive services for finding promising domestic companies by visiting SMEs instead of waiting for them to come, listening to their exporting difficulties. In addition, KOTRA provided in-depth support throughout the entire export procedure, from establishing market strategy to signing the final contract. KOTRA continued to provide support by connecting 9 institutions with 18 different services in the areas of export funding, standard certification, and trade training in order to provide substantial support through open collaboration. ① Passive service ① Proactive service Company • Domestic companies visit KOTRA • Office-visiting service to identify small and for help. mediumsized domestic companies. ② One-time support ② Customized support according to Support for New Exporters competence • Individual companies should • Participate in projects after taking GCL Two-Track search for service necessary (Global Competence Level) test. Mentoring by Experts KOTRA Export Support Program • Continuous mentoring by export experts. From trade training to Export delegations, export • Encourage domestic companies to participate in contract signing forums, exhibitions, etc. KOTRA programs optimized for them. Open Collaboration with the Relevant Organizations ③ KOTRA service only ③ Establish a cooperation and support system with partner organizations Cooperation for identifying Carry out support programs Contract signing and domestic companies for domestic companies follow-up management • KOTRA and relevant organizations • Integrated support system through • Share customer DB • Discount fees for domestic • Share follow-up database of cooperation with partner organizations. companies provide their own services. • Joint identification of domestic companies each SMEs supports Successful Cases of Collaboration for Supporting the Export of Consumer Goods KOTRA supports the expansion of consumer goods exports by collaborating with export-related organizations. In 2016, KOTRA, SBC, and KITA selected 100 promising consumer goods companies, total of 300 companies as “e-Power 300” companies eligible for special support. KOTRA provided the selected companies with the opportunity to participate in joint projects first, developed and supported exclusive support programs and helped create new routes for exporting consumer goods by hosting showcases. In addition, KOTRA identified some of the major distribution channels and introduced them to SMEs' products, based on which a win-win platform would be established. As a result, problems of distribution, marketing, logistics, and payment, which had been a stumbling block to the export of consumer goods SMEs, have been improved. KOTRA focused on providing export consultation, promoting premium consumer goods using Hallyu content, and utilizing the home shopping platform, thereby smoothing the way for SMEs to do business in overseas markets. 300 Jointly Selected and Supported Companies (e-Power 300) Export in Collaboration with Number of support programs and supported companies (unit: no. of companies) Export Expansion (unit: USD 100 million) Three Organizations No. of programs (unit: program) Supported First export About 4,000 more USD 630 2016 2016 of 27 9,000 companies million compared companies 21 companies to the 2015 USD 570 2015 About 700 target million 10% companies 21 *Performance of KOTRA and three relevant organizations e-Power 300 appointment Korea Consumer Goods Showcase Development of exclusive programs 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report | 25 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Attraction of More Foreign Investors Attracting more Investments that can Contribute to the Korean Economy Amid increasing global economic uncertainty, KOTRA is carrying out various activities to attract investments in accordance with the regional characteristics and FTAs, while at the same time expanding its strategic project targeting global influential investors. KOTRA is also building and operating a project database platform to find and attract foreign investment based on the domestic demands for investments. Expansion of Programs to Attract Global Investors Inbound Foreign KOTRA selected strategic industries in China, Japan, Europe, etc. and invited decision makers such as the CEOs Investments in Korea of global companies in order to attract investments. Events were presided over by the Minister of Trade, Industry (unit: 100 million won) and Energy to show that the Korean government is serious about attracting investments. In 2016, KOTRA held seven roundtables with investors such as China Week and FIW 2016. As a result, a total of 19 companies received investments worth USD 812 million. KOTRA also integrated the IR activities that have so far been carried out separately according to region, time, and target. Now integrated IR(Investor Relations) is conducted in national scale, with the participation of the central and local governments, and Free Economic Zone (FEZ). Moreover, KOTRA improved the contents of the IR forums by introducing promising domestic projects based on the demand of the 209 213 investors instead of simply promoting the investment environment . KOTRA held 6 IR forums and 146 consultation sessions with the participation of a total of 514 companies in 2016. As a result, KOTRA was able to lead 15 projects 2015 2016 to success. Expansion of Local Specialization Projects with FTA platform KOTRA has established an organizational system to respond systematically to changes in the investment environment of the EU, United States, and China where the FTA with Korea took effect, and it is promoting IR activities reflecting national and regional characteristics. In order to strengthen the linkage between the head office and KBCs abroad, KOTRA reorganized its Invest Korea Team to shift its focus from industry to region while strengthen its professional capabilities in IR activities by hiring a number of PM(Project Manager)s. In addition, KOTRA has established strategies to attract investment by region as well as targeted certain regions by operating the China Investment Desk and the Japan Center. In 2016, the China Investment Desk focused its promotion to Korea-China FTA agreement at ten business centers operating in China, expanding the base of IR activities to second-tier cities. On the other hand, the Japan Center served as a control tower to attract more investments from newly rising industries such as service and IT(Information Technology) with the help of three experts at the head office. Development of Demand-based Investment Attraction Projects KOTRA launched Invest Korea Market Place (IKMP), a database platform of investment needs in Korea, It aims to strengthen the functions of identifying domestic companies that want strategic investments from foreign companies and demands for new projects, at the same time focusing on identifying suitable foreign investors. To this end, KOTRA expanded its base for identifying startups that want foreign investments, SMEs, and joint projects in cooperation with financial investment institutions, local governments, and FEZ. In 2016 alone, KOTRA set up a total of 251 projects through IKMP and selected 58 promising projects after a review. In the future, KOTRA will cooperate with governmental funds to expand its activities of identifying the demands of startups and SMEs for foreign investment. 26 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution [IKMP Platform System] Identification of Foreign Investors IKMP : Project Database managed by IR Demand Project KOTRA Headquarters Interested Promotion IR investor project Real-time management of project DB project Startup and venture companies Busin IR Project for SMEs 36 business esses Potential Collaboration with financial and investment centers Receive and announce institutions located Project identification promising ments by overseas with Local Autonomous Government and FEZ foreign Project analysis outside potential organizat Joint Development Project investors investors Project management ions areas Other Public Projects Inquiry Collaboration between Local Autonomous Inquiry IR Governments and FEZ support performance Promotion of IR Activities that can Strengthen National Competitiveness KOTRA will establish strategies to attract investment in new growth industries in the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, expand investment in the service sector, which can create many jobs, and support customized investments in non-metropolitan areas. KOTRA is striving to promote investment attraction that helps balance development. Expansion of New Growth Engines Investments of Over USD KOTRA selected target areas for 2016, conducted a close-up survey on promising industries with high potential for 1 Million in newly rising industries attracting foreign investment, and held meetings to discuss strategies. Based on the survey results and discussions, (unit: case) KOTRA designed strategies for individual new target industries and supported efforts to attract foreign investments as part of the complete package-type program. In 2016, KOTRA selected the rechargeable battery, futuristic automobile, and hi-tech chemical material industries, KOTRA conducted a close-up surveys, established long-term strategy to provide future investors with value suggestion. As a result, investment in new industries increased 38% from USD 3.96 billion in 2015 to USD 5.48 billion in 2016; the number of investment attraction cases worth more than USD 1 million also increased dramatically from 150 to 186. In 2017, KOTRA plans to expand further the scope 150 186 of targeted research by intelligence information, content, and robotics.. 2015 2016 Expansion of the Service Sector’s Investment Attraction The problem of youth unemployment is intensifying due to the overseas transfer of domestic companies and persistent low growth. KOTRA is laying the foundation for the activation of investment attraction in the service sector where employment effects are high. In 2016, KOTRA launched strategies to attract foreign investment such as logistics, tourism and leisure, regional development, medical care, content, finance, and IT. As a result, the performance of service investment attraction increased from USD 14.73 billion in 2015 to USD 15.51 billion in 2016. Diversification of investment destination by region In order to diversify investment destination, which has been concentrated in Seoul metropolitan area, and to revitalize the local economy, KOTRA is strengthening activities to attract high-quality projects in non-metropolitan areas. To this end, it supports the establishment of strategies to attract investment by utilizing the expertise and resources of KOTRA and enhancing the investment attraction capacity of local governments, FEZs, etc. through the Seminar on high-tech automobile industry with training of public officials and investment environment. The number of non-metropolitan area IR projects increased local government officials from 32 in 2015 to 43 in 2016. As a result, KOTRA's non-metropolitan area projects increased from 633 in 2015 to 687 in 2016. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report | 27 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Attraction of More Foreign Investors Good Environment for Business Improvement Comments by Stakeholders KOTRA is making efforts in order to create an environment that can stimulate foreign investment. In order to upgrade the management environment of foreign investment companies, KOTRA set up troubleshooting processes and differentiated its investment promotion methods and content to strengthen the linkage between investment promotion activities and PR. In addition, KOTRA is promoting various public relations activities to improve public's perception to foreign capital. Improving Management and Investment Environment for Foreign Investment Companies KOTRA holds small-scale, sector-specific meetings to collect and improve troubleshooting and difficulties of KOTRA plays a central role as a foreign investment companies mainly in the fields of taxation and labor. KOTRA's 'Home Doctor service' connects communicator between foreigninvestors to domestic experts with various professional skills. Furthermore, KOTRA visited investors' overseas invested companies and Korean government, businesses, and other parent companies to deeply understand their grievances and relieve them preemptively by gathering investment related organizations by offering a inconveniences and government proposals. As a result, KOTRA addressed 409 complaints in 2016. network that brings them all together. Attracting new foreign investments is important, but I would like to ask In order to enhance the investment convenience of foreign investors, KOTRA is providing one-stop services for for more programs and support for 20,352 cases in 15 fields including tariff, national tax, and visa, from declaration to investment. In addition, KOTRA foreign-invested companies that are already operating in Korea. published the Doing Business in Korea and Web Service for English Version of the Statutes of the Republic of Yasuaki Ueno Korea for investment schemes and procedures, investment incentives, visas. As a result of these facilitation efforts CEO of Fuji Xerox Korea for foreign investment companies, investment attraction has increased by 33.6% from USD 8.7 billion in 2015 to USD 11.7 billion in 2016. Establishing an Investment Attraction Brand System and Strengthening Publicity In 2016, KOTRA established “Global Link to Success” as a slogan for attracting foreign investors and branded the slogan at a meeting with foreign reporters in Korea from the New York Times, British Financial Times, and Japan NHK. Through this, KOTRA aims to build a unified, consistent investment promotion business brand and enhance the investment intentions of promising investors by utilizing differentiated PR methods, contents, and various online and offline promotion channels. In addition, KOTRA redesigned the website of Invest Korea. Recognized for its high convenience and openness, the Announcement of the slogan Global Link revamped website won three awards in the categories of Web Award Korea 2016, Public / Medical Website, and to Success Mobile Web Service, and the number of visits is expected to increase from 0.96 million in 2015 to 3.06 million in 2016. The number of cases has increased dramatically. In addition, KOTRA is building a foundation for investment attraction by operating SNS channels, promoting overseas media, and publishing multilingual promotional materials. Creating a Friendly Atmosphere for Foreign Investors For the activation and successful settlement of foreign investment, the public should have a positive perception of foreign investment. KOTRA is promoting the economic contribution of foreign investment through various media such as newspaper advertisements and large outdoor advertisements in order to improve the negative perception that is spreading in Korea about foreign investment . In addition, KOTRA is actively engaging in joint social contribution activities targeting multicultural families and marginalized people along with foreign investment companies in Korea. In particular, in order to spread the positive perception that foreign investment leads to job creation, KOTRA holds a foreign investment company job fair; thus contributing to the recruitment of 256 young job seekers. 28 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution Special The Largest Foreign Investment Week (FIW) In September 2016, KOTRA invited potential foreign investors to the Foreign Investment Week 2016 (FIW 2016), a foreign investment promotion event that consisted of 18 programs including forums on different subjects, business consultations, and tours to industrial sites. This event was held under the theme of “Strengthening Global Partnership in the Future New Industry,” with a total of 965 companies and 1,425 participating companies including foreign investment companies, foreign investment enterprises, and domestic companies attending. The total number of meetings was 674, and USD 2.89 billion was pledged. In particular, KOTRA invited 16 global investors to host the round table, which resulted in a USD 330 million investment from various investors such as Beijing Yunshang. Investment Promotion to Chinese investors, with Korea-China FTA effect KOTRA is operating the China Investment Desk to respond to the changing investment environment after the Korea-China FTA entered into force. The China Investment Desk has expanded its existing four business centers to include Hangzhou, Chengdu, Shenyang, Tianjin, Shenzhen, and Nanjing business centers in order to expand the investment base into second tier cities in China. Based on the investment cooperation model that combines Korean high-tech and Chinese capital and market, KOTRA recorded a total investment of USD 2.04 billion in 2016. In addition, the “2016 Korea-China FTA Business Plaza” has actively sought out Chinese investors that are interested in the Hallyu consumer goods sector and matched them with companies wishing to attract domestic investment. Through this, 21 companies were invited to invest in the company, and they helped attract investment in 73 domestic companies, which received a new investment plan worth USD 110 million from 5 companies. Expansion of KOTRA Express , Korea's Only One English Trade and Investment Webzine KOTRA Express is the only domestic trade and investment news in Korea that provides foreign investors, potential foreign investors, buyers, and other foreign customers with trade and investment information such as foreign investment company success stories, investment news, domestic industry, and economic trends. KOTRA expanded and reorganized KOTRA Express's content, distribution targets, and forms in 2016. Through this, KOTRA is developing online contact and communication channels for overseas customers. Moreover, KOTRA is positioning KOTRA express as the representative trade and investment webzine of KOTRA, which can promote KOTRA and related projects in Korea. Major revisions include expanding the content of existing foreign direct investment information, including international trade information, domestic business success stories, and pre-promotion of construction projects. The magazine has expanded the number of its subscribers from 12,000 to 160,000. In addition, KOTRA changed the existing PDF format to a webzine format to reflect the needs of existing subscribers, Thus, it created user-friendly environment to click on content as well as for convenient viewing on mobile devices. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report | 29 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Global Pioneering a new Global market Business Relevance To cope with the global economic downturn, KOTRA needs to diversify exports items, markets, and trading methods. Furthermore, KOTRA is expanding manufacturing-based export items to the service industry and analyzing its entry strategy to ﬁnd out the most potential overseas markets and responding quickly to new trading trends. Our Approach KOTRA recognizes the need to create new export items in response to external conditions, such as the slowing growth of the global economy and trade, and market opportunity. To this end, KOTRA strives to develop strategies to expand the market and to foster new export industries such as services, ICT and biomedicine. In addition, KOTRA is diversifying its export methods such as support for entry into the global value chain and support for Online to Ofﬂine (O2O) marketing. Our Risk • Structural limitations of export focused on main products, emerging countries, and large corporations • Decline in exports of intermediate goods due to the slowing economy in China Our Opportunity • Strengthening new market development and fostering new export industries • Diversifying export methods • Providing information on overseas market Key Performance Index Global company apO* utilization O2O* marketing performance art collaboration performance (unit: number) (unit: USD 10,000) (unit: case) ●Number of APO participating buyers ●Sales amount on the spot ●Number of business-artist matches 58 137 38 49 2016 2016 2015 2016 * APO : Asian Purchasing Office * O2O : Online to Offline Challenge Global Customer Contribution creating new export items support for new market entry KOTRA is rapidly enhancing the possibility of Korean companies entering overseas markets by providing differentiated market entry strategies with thorough analysis of the market demand and local conditions. KOTRA strives to preoccupy the fast-changing global market and create new export items by building a favorable image for Korea and Korean companies by sharing social contribution and development experiences. expansion to strategic markets using market-speciﬁc Opportunities 2016 market development In the short term, KOTRA will focus on opportunity factors by establishing a market entry strategy against the latest strategy international issues in each region. In the midto long-term. KOTRA displayed strategies by each market. M&A and • Validity of '15 issues Major strategic alliance in advanced market, whereas search for 'blue ocean' market opportunity is important in emerging • '16 New trend to be issues by discovered markets. In particular, KOTRA will establish a “global strategy support team” to strengthen the in-depth analysis of market • Political / Social overseas market information and a regional advancement strategy to set clearly the direction of the project. change check Analysis • Economy / Industry / establishment of Business direction by market of entry Policy environment environment • Trend of economic cooperation with Korea Category Main Markets Emerging Markets Strategic Markets Region China, North America, Japan, EU Southeast Asia, Central and South Vietnam, India, Iran, Cuba, • Competition trend by America, Middle East, etc. Myanmar Local item market • Case study of Korean analysis Market • Intensifying competition by • Increase of middle class and • Acceleration of opening the companies Conditions item, generating new product their preference to Hallyu Korean economy to foreign • SWOT analysis and industry cooperation • Changes in consumption businesses demand patterns such as e-commerce • Change of market environment trend according to government policy Market • Derive detailed entry strategies for each strategy sector and item in 10 regions Project Seize new opportunity by Focus on high-growth Leverage competitive Direction market promising areas by country advantages compared to competitors  preemptive support of Government policy By introducing opportunities for each market, KOTRA not only presents various approaches to the market but also delivers timely information to strengthen a company's ability to respond to changes in the business environment. In addition, Korea holds local brieﬁng sessions to help local SMEs access information. social contribution and ksp Business expansion for the future market  A growing number of countries are interested to learn from the experiences of economic growth in Korea. Therefore, KOTRA promotes KSP and longevity CSR projects in each ﬁeld such as industry, trade, and investment and operates a regular KSP consultation body so that the business can be continued and the CSR business Strategies for Entering Overseas Markets 2017 promotion method is diversiﬁed. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 31 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea creating new export items diversiﬁcation of the export industry Through the export industrialization support of the new growth industry, KOTRA is easing the reliance on exports centering on large corporations and heavy chemical products and building a new base of economic vitality. In particular, KOTRA is expanding the role of global business by strengthening export support for services, IT, and medical industries as the nation's new growth engine. expansion of service industry export support The service industry has twice as much employment as the manufacturing sector, but growth is slowing due to limitations in the domestic market. KOTRA expanded its dedicated organization in August 2016 and the service industry overseas support system in order to establish a support network for the overseas expansion of the service industry. In September 2016, KOTRA was appointed as member of the Service Promotion Agency Overseas Advancement Promotion Team. It also formed a national public-private network to support the advancement of the service industry overseas. • 9 services (distribution, content, education, ﬁnance, logistics, medical, tourism, software (SW), intellectual Promising property) category areas • New promising sectors (manufacturing, services) Strategic China, United States, Japan, and other areas where performance can be achieved markets Region Emerging Newly entered markets including Vietnam, Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia, Kazakhstan, and the UAE markets → Focus on identifying demands (participation in exhibitions, send staff to roadshows, etc.) Business Support system·Network construction / Performance creation expansion / Expansion of promising business areas strategy expansion of ict industry export support The ICT industry accounts for 10.1% of Korea's real GDP, and it is the third largest industry in the world. KOTRA has been supporting the local export business by establishing a local support business strategy for promising ﬁelds such as IOT, robotics, and pin tech. Promising Robotics, Pin Tech, Information Security, IoT, e-Government (Consultation), AR / VR, 3D Printing, Drones, category areas AI (Big Data) Strategic Supporting advancement in potential markets such as France, the USA, and China markets Region Emerging Acquisition of ICT projects in emerging markets such as Vietnam, Philippines, and Poland markets Business Expansion of collaboration / Business convergence / ICT consortium support / Customized consulting support strategy diversiﬁcation of the Biomedical industry export support Business The biomedical industry is growing continuously around the world. It is expected to grow at an annual average of 5.3% until 2020. As for the Korean industry, exports of medicines and medical devices increased by 9.4% and 11.2%, respectively, for ﬁve years until 2014, and they are still growing. KOTRA has set up target markets for advanced and developing countries for each promising sector and has established strategies for diversifying and strengthening biomedical export support projects. • (Pharmaceuticals) Biopharmaceuticals, new drug development products, etc. Promising category • (Medical equipment) IT convergence medical equipment, customized diagnosis technology, etc. areas • (Health care services) Specialized hospitals, post-partum care centers, etc., Strategic (Advanced countries) Technology base such as advanced products / Region markets (middle / developing countries) Quality and price competition-based Business Expansion of domestic and overseas platform business / Improvement of customized support / Pre-order support strategy 32 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution new trade trends through diversiﬁcation of the export method KOTRA is helping Korean companies effectively respond to new trading methods and trade issues and enter the global value chain by restructuring the global industry structure. In particular, KOTRA is expanding opportunities for Korean companies to enter overseas markets by responding to new trade trends through the spread of the GP business, O2O export marketing support, and art collaboration business. support for Joining the Global value chain (Gp, Global partnering) KOTRA uniquely supports the entire process from finding global demand research development through GP Consultation Forums utilizing Asia Purchasing Headquarters (APO) collaboration with related organizations. In 2016, KOTRA expanded the number of key business centers in emerging markets from 12 to 18 and the number of domestic suppliers DBs from 2,632 companies in 7 industries to 4,420 in 9 industries. In addition, KOTRA is working to generate demand for cooperation with APO (Asian Purchasing Ofﬁce) in performance in apO utilization line with the decentralization of procurement decisions of global companies. * Global Value Chain (GVC): The division of labor between the development and sale of goods and services. 477 consultation sessions Process Identify demands Matching Gap Closing Development of domestic GP Consultation Strengthening technical performance suppliers DB by industry Technology capacity R & D funding Survey on demands for Commercialization for product development cooperation with global Conference (to help transfer companies idle patent to SMEs in need) participation usd 30 million GP Program of 38 global worth of companies contracts Expansion of target markets, Expansion of consultation Support for narrowing industries, and routes for support for domestic SMEs by the gap in capabilities for identiﬁcation of demands linking with the demands for entering GVC for cooperation with global global companies companies O2O export marketing support KOTRA works with VIP.com, one of China's leading online shopping companies, to support entry into the Chinese market through online marketing and hands-on O2O marketing. In particular, hands-on O2O is attracting attention as a way of buying overseas consumer goods with high quality and low brand recognition cheaply and quickly. In addition to the existing cross-border shopping groups, consumers who have not been interested in imported products are able to check the products directly and create a new consumption trend. Unlike other Chinese online markets, “VIP.com” enables export to China when a Korean company delivers the goods to the “VIP.com” warehouse in Gimpo. This is because VIP.com is responsible for shipping, marketing, and selling by direct purchase or consignment. As such, KOTRA will actively utilize the hands-on O2O business model and support small and mediumsized enterprises with good quality but low recognition to enter the Chinese market. * Offline To Online (O2O) transaction method: The consumer purchases products in the online store through QR code on the spot after experiencing the product sample offline. Bonded Delivery products at O2O O2O Experience experience event app / Online Product Bonded Pick-up by Direct business consultation forum with “VIP.com” event purchase clearance warehouse consumers China 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 33 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea providing trade support and Overseas market information strengthening the trade support function as Response to the intensiﬁcation of protectionism Non-tariff barriers and import regulations are expanding as protectionism spreads worldwide, including emerging markets. By monitoring trade barriers, KOTRA understands the actual conditions of non-tariff barriers and facilitates FTA negotiation. monitoring and Responding to trade Barriers KOTRA has uncovered cases of non-tariff barriers through the Korea business center and submitted them to the government as local countermeasures and trade negotiations. KOTRA also monitors the import control measures of each country and provides relevant information to the government, related organizations, and corporations to help our companies entering each country. Non-tariff Barriers Review Direct Support Government Support Expert review by international Provide non-tariff barriers to select norms and ﬁelds government non-tariff barriers Supporting efforts to resolve norms fields difﬁculties through joint efforts Review of Expert review with local embassies, related violations of of TBT by organizations, and industry regulations area, sanitary 213 cases in 2016 such as WTO quarantine expansion of fta negotiation and utilization support KOTRA has established FTA Support Team in August 2016 to meet the demand of the government for negotiation support based on the understanding of the foreign entry scene and the norms of trade. The team is also expected to enhance understanding and utilization of FTAs among foreign buyers and entrepreneurs. KOTRA established internal procedure that allows it to provide information on trade and FTA utilization for SMEs. At the same time, KOTRA is comments by stakeholders expanding its FTA support center from four to nine locations, mainly in China and Vietnam. In 2016, KOTRA performed FTA consultation by hiring dedicated staff at each center and utilizing advisory panel formed with outside experts. Also, KOTRA is trying to spread the FTA utilization plan through local FTA explanatory meetings, mobile conferences, promotional booths, and help desk operations. Best practice cases of utilizing fta case of dissolving non-tariff Barriers In Korea and Taiwan, the domestic markets are small, so it is necessary to The China Chengdu business center actively provided In January 2016, the Iraqi Standards Authority's develop overseas markets more actively the buyer with the effect of utilizing the FTA, including sudden introduction of energy labeling of electronics based on export competitiveness. I look forward to seeing more Korean the establishment of the FTA negotiation support posed a burden on domestic companies. The Iraqi companies enter overseas markets system and FTA utilization support activities. As a business centers and the embassy co-responded by through Korea making good use of the result, Korean company U (a cosmetics manufacturer) dissolving the non-tariff barrier through delaying the strengths of FTA. has won export contracts worth approximately USD enforcement date six months and encouraging them 100,000 and has entered a Chinese home shopping to adopt favorable ISO and EU regulations for Korean Tung-Chung Tseng Director of TAITRA channel. products. 34 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution strengthening information provision for smes to support their Overseas expansion Due to market fluctuations and uncertainty, it is becoming increasingly important for SMEs to rapidly obtain information and respond when entering the overseas markets. Accordingly, KOTRA has established a system to manage information on foreign exporters so that SMEs can quickly acquire market information on overseas markets and support them actively in responding to major overseas trends and issues. Reorganization of the information channel KOTRA Overseas Market News Consultation forums on entering strategic markets Website (pc) (unit: people) ●Daily average visitors 11,436 Rapid provision of Overseas market information through information channel Reorganization 8,354 KOTRA reorganizes its information portal with a user-friendly user interface (UI) that counteracts customer demand to improve accessibility and readability of overseas market information for customers using portals. As a result of improving portals to overcome the existing disadvantages from screen layouts to integrated search functions and to Before After reorganization reorganization provide customers with the information they need quickly and accurately, the number of daily visitors on the website after reorganization increased by 37%. In addition, KOTRA provides simpliﬁed services based on news and travel data and develops content for SNS to provide information optimized for the mobile environment. mobile (unit: people) ●Daily average visitors 878 support for timely Responses to Global issues 210 Sudden global issues can cause a lot of difficulties for the overseas expansion and activities of Korean companies. To this end, KOTRA runs a global issue checkup to help Korean companies monitor the issues they may encounter in advance and respond to them in a timely fashion. In 2016, KOTRA will monitor global issues such as Brexit, China's Before After protectionism, Hanjin Shipping court management, and US presidential election issues. It identiﬁed the company's reorganization reorganization difﬁculties and needs, and held brieﬁng sessions. Best practice preparation and propagation of measures for smes Related to hanjin shipping On August 31, 2016, immediately after the application for statutory management by Hanjin Shipping, KOTRA launched an emergency task force on September 1 to monitor the overseas market trends as well as domestic companies, buyers and exporting companies. KOTRA reported the damage to the government. KOTRA aided the logistics transportation of disadvantaged companies by locating local logistics companies centered on the port and business center and helped them maintain business relations through continuous communication with buyers. In addition, KOTRA provided support for minimizing the damage of its companies by preparing the countermeasures of SMEs by transportation situation before shipment, refusing entrance, unloading, etc., and disseminating them through media, website, and e-mail. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 35 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Customer Prioritize Win-Win Value with Customers Business Relevance Successful companies approach customers to create new value by providing innovative services based on their needs. In order to do this, it is important to communicate positively with customers. KOTRA must listen to its customers' opinions to ﬁnd various needs and differentiate them in order to provide new value. In addition, given the growing social demand for shared growth activities that large cooperation should align with its suppliers mostly SMEs in global market approach. The role of KOTRA as a trade and investment promotion organization is becoming more important. Our Approach In order to create a customer-oriented service innovation culture, KOTRA has set its goals of enhancing customer convenience, strengthening its response capabilities, and providing aggressive consultation to promote innovative service activities. KOTRA endeavors to provide customers with new services based on expertise such as Big Data. KOTRA also managed various communication channels to respond to customers' needs through active cooperation with related organizations. In addition, KOTRA is actively promoting shared growth activities among large cooperations and SMEs, such as promoting joint venture with overseas companies, utilizing its extensive overseas network. Our Risk • Higher customer's demand in specialized areas such as R&D, capacity growth... • Intensifying competition among industrial and functional related institutions • Higher risk of natural disasters, terrorism, and personal information leakage Our Opportunity • Various customer service contacts such as local support groups, KBCs, Trade Doctor • Advanced customized support system • Expanding partnership programs with partner companies Key Performance Index public service customer satisfaction Global competitiveness diagnosis Overseas joint market entry of index (pcsi) (unit: grade) service providers conglomerates and smes (unit: number of companies) (unit: case) S S s 9,124 181 6,445 137 5,523 105 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 36 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution customer and site-oriented Work posture improvement of the customer support system To create values that our customers need, it is essential for us to understand the businesses and services of our maintains the customers. Also, it is necessary to communicate and share their needs and difﬁculties actively through communication. highest rating (s) for three consecutive s To this end, KOTRA has built a customer-oriented culture of service innovation, and it is focusing to improve customer convenience and services. In addition, KOTRA established a cooperative system with partner organizations to share years various communication channels, thereby communicating with customers and actively responding to demands. establishment of a customer-oriented service innovation culture In order to identify customer-oriented service innovation tasks, KOTRA draws out 50 or more candidate drafts by collecting opinions of internal and external stakeholders such as customers, employers, and general publics. After reviewing and re-examining and integrating similar tasks, KOTRA selected 32 service innovation projects which means connection, sincerity, and basic to enhance service satisfaction. In particular, by sending hand-written letters directly, not only did KOTRA delivered information in the eyes of the customers but also strived to convey its sincerity to customers based on emotional approach. strengthening services to visit customers' sites In response to customers' needs, KOTRA is expanding services that focus on on-site service, KOTRA visited customers that participated its well-known services such as Jisahwa, Worldchamp. It also includes visits occurred overseas, with KBC staffs visit customer's overseas branch. It helped KOTRA to enhance its understanding of customer's products, Sincere, hand-written letters business model, etc. KOTRA also provides consultation services for overseas entry by holding meetings and briefing sessions for local SMEs with relatively poor conditions. In addition, KOTRA established a zero-stop system to work with export-related institutions in order to solve various export related difﬁculties. preemptive actions to ease foreign investors' concern If there's anything that concerns foreign investors, all they have to do is to visit KOTRA office. KOTRA offers one-stop platform that easily relates investors to various governmental departments. In particular, KOTRA assigned a home doctor — a special commissioner for grievance handling — to a foreign investment company and provided a home-visit service to solve problems. In 2016, KOTRA outsourced experts where foreign investment companies do not have expertise to support policy proposals as well as expand the meetings for each sector to provide a forum that enables companies to number of on-site visit identify and deal with the difﬁculties they face. (unit: number of companies) 10,305 expansion of small-scale, Overseas parent company visit home doctor management for 5,078 sector-oriented foreign investment consultation troubleshooting company meetings Listening to speciﬁc difﬁculties Induce increases in invest Home Doctor Troubleshooting Process 2015 2016 through small-scale peer-to-peer amounts by receiving problems Grievance reception meetings and suggestions to the government, and by promoting Regional forums and meetings the investment environment in Visit / Investigate the site (unit: number of companies) Korea and foreign investment Chemical management system Consult with the relevant government ofﬁces ombudsman system (96) improvement meeting, regulatory (71) 5,764 information portal usage Provide one-stop services such as eliminating troubles 4,178 conversation meeting, automobile and machinery outreach Ombudsman visited 11 parent roundtable meeting, marine companies overseas (Austrailia, Arrange consultation with relevant experts in ﬁsheries conference Middle East and Europe) industrial, academic sectors 2015 2016 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 37 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea customer and site-oriented Work posture advanced customer support and counseling system Obtain and provide Reﬁned export KOTRA restructures the online and offline service system to prevent risks that might occur and to respond efficiently information when problems arise. The Smart Consulting System was adopted to provide necessary services by comprehensively analyzing customer's big data on-line. KOREA also operates the Global Competence Level (GCL) test program, a precompetency analysis program, so that SMEs can become competitive export companies. KOTRA offers customized providing customized information services that can help them grow. To provide a more effective solution to exporting difﬁculties, KOTRA offers customized Providing competency information to services by appointing counselors for each area in charge. corporate customers Providing market information on export products of corporate customers provision of Global competency level diagnostics and tailored services Providing business information to corporate customers KOTRA is also implementing customized capacity building programs to systematically analyze the capabilities of each company and foster competitive export companies. First, KOTRA conducts the GCL test to diagnose corporate smart counseling information longevity, and then analyzes the results and internal and external data in a comprehensive manner to provide Providing an environment and information on promising markets and customized projects and services needed for overseas expansion. As a result, information that enables quick Q & A the number of companies participating in the GCL TEST increased by 65.2% compared to the previous year. Provide existing VOC information for effective consultation Gcl* integrated analysis platform internal Information on KOTRA-afﬁliated implementation of Gcl diagnosis Results participation in target projects history / performance management companies, GCL information, business information, call-out GCL tests for evaluating Diagnosis guide for KOTRA programs CRM history / Performance information (booklet), VOC SME's export compentence overseas marketing (82) management information ① Analysis of the company's external UN Comtrade (ITC), Customs, (‌unit: number of companies capabilities KISLINE with GCL level) ② Recommendation of 9,124 promising markets Data analysis ③ Information on target projects 5,523 Projects of relevant Preliminary consulting organizations Utilization of 2015 2016 (phone, visit) (814) KOTRA programs * Global Competence Level Test (GCL): Analyzes and evaluates the globalization competence of a company to recommend promising markets and customized businesses implementation of the “smart consulting system” KOTRA counselors apprehend the related information through the VOC keyword search using the internal network, increase in customer satisfaction and customers are consulted through the “Quick FAQ” service of the external network. Recently, KOTRA has been thanks to providing consultation providing proactive consultations based on Big Data, such as prior consultation results and business participation on difﬁculties in export (unit: points) histories, to respond to inquiries in advance. This service is provided in the form of mobile and PC-based chat, which improves accessibility and the speediness of information. 89.9 86.7 establishment of the preemptive export damage prevention and Response system The preemptive export damage prevention system is introduced to prevent export damage and entry of bad buyers and a response process against the occurrence of trade fraud cases is established. In addition, KOTRA is carrying out active 2015 2016 promotion through the media to prevent secondary and tertiary damages. accept suspicious (phase 1) (phase 2) cooperate with introduction to the cases self-investigation Outside Organizations company Trade investment Investigate buyers through Additional measures Prevent secondary damages consultation center the business centers and by cooperating with by showing research results (Application received by consultants government organizations on company newsletters consultants) and local government and media 38 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution discount on service fee to ease customer Burden KOTRA cut fees for major services, considering the ﬁnancial difﬁculties of SMEs due to low economic growth and the Brexit shock. As a result, the utilization rate of KOTRA services has increased, resulting in an increase in the number of customers and the creation of a virtuous cycle wherein exports are activated. number of customers Beneﬁting area details from the program in 2016 Higher discounts for domestic companies that have transformed into 50 companies exporters and BI resident companies Implementation of the 2-year Jisahwa service for 6 regions Jisahwa service 817 companies (Jisahwa service 2.0) Expansion of customers targeted for the customer management 33 companies service Support for connecting Higher discounts for companies volunteering to become new 76 companies to business partners exporters Service consultants Higher discounts for service consultants 121 companies World Champ Increase the ratio of the matching fund to cope with Brexit 18 companies listening to customers through various channels KOTRA is strengthening bilateral communication with customers through happy call and voice of customer, opinions of the customers, and service consultants meetings. In addition, KOTRA has been listening to customers' voices through various channels including customer participation in the commission review committee. Likewise, by improving the service of the business department, KOTRA is improving customer satisfaction. Happy Voice of the Opinions Service Fee Review Call Customer of the Consultants Committee (VOC) Customers Add speciﬁc phrases in Share likes and dislikes Share ideas for Discuss service Beneﬁt customers the new Happy Call 2.0 through the website improving KOTRA proposals from the participate directly, model and monitor dissatisﬁed programs and services consultants adjust the fee by comments by stakeholders customers as well as new ideas reﬂecting the voice of the ﬁeld improve communication channels KOTRA is proactively operating a system that allows business departments to manage customer performance efﬁciently. In order to solve the inconvenience of accessing the information due to the many website it owns, KOTRA introduced the one-portal concept and revised the homepage. It is very helpful to ﬁnd information on Revised the Website Revised the KOTRA App various overseas trends to companies such as global trade news and daily newsletters. I hope that KOTRA will provide more active support for companies that need cooperation with the government, while the role of providing information is also important. Migyeong Park CEO of FORCS List various contents Highlight the main Icons only Place important information contents on one page 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 39 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea customer and site-oriented Work posture establishment of an emergency system for customer safety As the global crisis of natural disasters, epidemics, and terrorism increases, there is a higher likelihood that overseas activities involve safety risk. Terrorism in particular continues to persist in the Middle East, Europe, and United States. Therefore, KOTRA is strengthening its differentiated safety management and support by considering the past cases and areas where frequent incidents have occurred recently. establishment of a crisis management system for the safety of koreans Reorganizing the crisis management system purpose KOTRA is raising awareness to manage crisis factors preemptively and strengthening various aspects of crisis Ensure the safety of employees and management systems, including operational systems and hardware. In 2016, KOTRA revised the manuals and people by improving the safety & disaster guidelines for responding to domestic and overseas crises. KOTRA selected ﬁve crisis factors* to establish a step-bymanagement system step response procedure to protect the safety of local staffs and business travelers as well as domestic and overseas strategy direction employees. KOTRA is doing its best to ensure the safety of employees and customers through systematic safety and Headquarter Safety management and disaster management. disaster prevention at *Riots, kidnapping, deaths/injuries, earthquake, fire ofﬁce buildings Overseas Ensure the safety of companies and employees diversiﬁcation of the channels for collecting ideas for improving the crisis management system overseas KOTRA is proposing the “Overseas Disaster Crisis Response Proposal System” in order to respond positively to management Guideline disasters and to collect ideas on improving the crisis management system. KOTRA collects proposals for the regional At (General) Crisis management headquarters and KBCs to collect ideas that can be shared with related organizations, KBCs, etc., as well as share Home task guidance (for disaster abundant know-how. and safety management), disaster crisis management action manual Overseas proposal Review select apply system Overseas KBC disaster crisis proposal survey committee proposals and feedback management orders, customer / KBC employees, Accept proposals from 10 Standards for effort and Selected the three ﬁnal • Immediate implementation and accompanying families regional headquarters actual effects Review and proposals from the regional of selected proposals ﬁrst selection headquarters in Southwest • Incentives after Asia, China, and CIS. assessment strengthening capabilities for spreading news on disasters and crisis KOTRA quickly responds to possible accidents at home and abroad and strengthens the capability to respond to a crisis more actively. In 2016, KOTRA set up a “365 Hot-Line” to share real-time information about an overseas crisis. Through the establishment of this system, KOTRA quickly shares risk information between its overseas network and head office, which greatly reduced the response time in case of an incident. Hot-line screen by regional headquarters Report screen for information on overseas Check the distribution of information on dangers dangers 40 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution disaster safety education and training KOTRA has conducted various education and training programs, including internal training and emergency response training, to improve disaster response capabilities. In Korea, disaster prevention education and drills assuming disaster situations are being conducted. Specialized training is regularly conducted for facility management personnel. In overseas business center, the priority is personal safety, and it strives to prevent and respond to each type of crisis. Efforts have been made to enhance crisis response capabilities, such as expanding business trip education and sharing know-how and organically linking crisis management response systems with regional headquarters. Mock evacuation training in Santiago Disaster and crisis training Building Risk management cooperative system KOTRA is building a cooperative system with related organizations to share know-how on risk management and to enhance performance and efﬁciency through collaboration. Especially, KOTRA shares breaking news about personal safety through the hot-line with related agencies such as NIS to reduce the risk of accidents. In 2016, KOTRA reviewed personal safety threats by reconsidering staff's participation after obtaining information on terrorism targeting participants in the Tunisia International Investment Conference. KOTRA also publishes newsletters to share the relevant information with customers participating in the KOTRA business. KOTRA publishes case studies on accidents overseas and disseminates them to overseas companies. kOtRa Study cases of accidents overseas, basic management guideline for overseas network cooperation and share information on regulations Share the overseas network kOica system to cope management system, guideline/ with crisis regulations, mobile hot-line management know-how national intelligence Regularly send news on overseas dangers service and publish cases of incidents and accidents Best practice cooperated in publishing a Guide to understanding islamic culture for companies in the Respective Region KOTRA investigated damages of Korean people caused by cultural and religious differences with local residents for the past ﬁve years through the overseas business centers. The survey results were used by ministries to publish the Foreign Enterprises’ Guide for Understanding Islamic Culture to Prevent Terrorism, and KOTRA helped distribute this booklet to foreign business centers and overseas companies. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 41 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Operate communication and collaborationoriented Business framework for promoting shared Growth KOTRA established four major growth strategies in conjunction with its corporate strategy to create a shared growth ecosystem with domestic companies and build an industrial structure centered on SMEs . In addition, KOTRA established a systematic shared growth promotion system based on the shared growth committee in connection with the 5+5 model that supports domestic companies in entering new overseas versions and promoting the actual growth of partner companies. core value challenge Global customer contribution action Promotion of export and Expanded joint overseas market Support for shared growth Fair trade and win-win purchase strategy marketing using Hallyu entry between domestic companies with vendors from vendors for shared Growth Joint overseas market entry (5 models) shared growth with vendors (5 areas) •Utilization of the sales networks of conglomerates •Utilization of the overseas branch offices of conglomerates •Training •Consulting •Survey •Joint project marketing •Promotion •Marketing •Joint identification of local buyers •Utilization of support programs provided by public companies promotion kOtRa shared Growth committee (chair: vice president) system for shared cooperating organizations Joint Overseas marketing entry support center shared Growth cooperation center vendors Growth •Government (Head of center) Head of company competency (Head of center) Head of administration •Equipment / •Shared Growth enhancement team support team Transportation Committee (General) Medium enterprise support team (General) Administration team •Interpretation •Public companies (Function) Conglomerates and SMEs overseas (Function) Suppliers’ shared growth •Travel joint market entry •Conglomerates •System •SMEs Overseas network cooperating teams by area •Printing •Foreign investment companies 30 KBCs 7 teams at the headquarters culture for shared Growth In order to foster a culture of shared growth within the organization, KOTRA is establishing strategies for setting up a joint venture, focusing on business development, monitoring performance, and improving measures to enhance the internal operating system of shared growth. In addition, KOTRA will increase the share of shared growth targets and evaluations of executives of the Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership, raising interest in and the performance of shared growth. In 2016 in particular, KOTRA introduced a performance-sharing system of 32 performance-sharing goals were adopted and awarded chief executives in the best-in-charge departments to strengthen its commitment to shared growth throughout the company. shared Growth through hallyu convergence KOTRA utilizes the global popularity enjoyed by Korean pop culture to promote the marketing of SMEs. KOTRA promoted SMEs' products to audiences in connection with the Hallyu performances and export conferences held overseas. In 2016, 70 domestic SMEs and 120 buyers participated in 3 events. In addition, KOTRA is supporting highpriced marketing using Korean celebrities, which is expensive for domestic SMEs. The pop-up store, which exposes PPL in Hallyu Star's photo album and exhibits actual products and pictorials, is generating various public relations effects by promoting the intimacy of SMEs to buyers and general consumers. 42 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution KCON JAPAN KCON LA expansion of Joint Overseas market entry of domestic companies domestic companies in Joint Overseas marketing KOTRA has set up its own ﬁve models for joint overseas market entry and supports in cooperation with conglomerates and public enterprises by selecting domestic companies with export accounting less than 10% of total sales in B2B (unit: no. of companies, USD 1 million) industry. In 2016, total 38 projects were carried out; 578 domestic companies participated in the project, which ●Participating SMEs (no. of SMEs) resulted in USD 807 million worth and 5,374 export consultation cases. Of these, 181 new export contracts were ●No. of contracts signed (contracts) settled. ●Contract amount (USD 1 million) area category major cooperating Organizations main programs Utilizing the sales Export conferences held by inviting buyers to channels of large Power supply Korea South-East Power Co. Korea (from Japan, USA, Poland, etc.) companies Utilizing the overseas Identify buyers through the GS Home 472 578 branch ofﬁces of large Distribution GS Home Shopping Shopping's Thailand and Malaysian local companies distribution network 137 181 Korea Information Technology Bidding for the Solar IoT Solution Project Joint projects ICT 73 96 Service Industry Association (Ho Chi Minh) Joint identiﬁcation of Joint identiﬁcation of auto parts local sales 2015 2016 Automobile Hyundai Motor local sales channel channel (Chennai) Utilizing the support Support setting up branches for companies Metal and programs of public Kookmin Bank recommended by Kookmin Bank machinery organizations (KOTRA Overseas Marketing) improvement of communication with vendors and systems KOTRA's shared growth model aims to enhance the competitiveness of partner companies and achieve the globalization of SMEs. To this end, KOTRA formed a consortium to communicate with the partners in five areas (device/transportation, interpretation, travel, system, printing) and support education, public relations, and consulting. KOTRA is taking the lead in improving its competitiveness. fair trade and Win-Win purchase from vendors To establish fair and transparent procurement practices, KOTRA extended the pre-release system of procurement standards to the entire bidding notice with an estimated price of 100 million won or more. This has increased the fair Partnership announcement for shared growth in 2016 competition among vendors as the number of applicants increased from 3 in 2015 to 67 in 2016. In addition, when purchasing consumables such as paper and toner, KOTRA introduced a purchase request in 2016 to induce priority purchase from SMEs, social enterprises, cooperatives, and vulnerable companies. In particular, KOTRA arranged a winwin partnership agreement with Woori Bank to introduce a win-win payment system*. Then an electronic payment system was adopted so that its partners and other small-business customers can also use the win-win payment system. * Win-win payment system: A billing system that enables first-party suppliers of conglomerates to pay quickly for goods that are paid to their 2nd and 3rd suppliers. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 43 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Contribution realization of sustainable organizations and society Business Relevance There is a growing awareness that partnerships between employees and the community are essential for sustainable development. A corporate culture based on family-friendly aspect, active communication and cooperation not only raises the value of employees but also creates jobs and further extends to enhancing the value of local community by investment and social contribution. Hence, this responsibility is required to the corporate. This is especially important for the KOTRA business, which is based on global networks and platforms. Our Approach KOTRA supports the development of the competence of its employees based on a bottom-up communication and cooperation system by global ﬁeld and establishes a foundation for internal growth by creating a corporate culture that balances work and life. In addition, KOTRA shares economic development experiences with emerging and developing countries and is building friendly cooperative foundation by supporting Korean companies' local corporate philantrophy and taking the lead in the future market. Our Risk • Physical limits in terms of internal communication due to overseas dispatch, various occupational group and etc • Increasing demands for the normalization of public institutions and fulﬁllment of social responsibility Our Opportunity • Social needs for job creation and socially representative recruitment • Cultural spread which emphasizes balance between work and family • Strengthening global contribution to help Korean companies expand overseas Key Performance Index GWp satisfaction index (unit: point) Overseas Jobs found (unit: case) ksp Business (unit: case) 75.0 2,671 9 70.0 70.0 2,281 2,079 6 4 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 44 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution implement an corporate culture for Growth creative corporate culture KOTRA's dispersed organizational structure – wherein 40% of its employees work in 126 KBCs in 86 countries — is increasing the need to establish a communication culture. KOTRA promotes two-way communication and actively utilizes new communication channels to establish a creative, horizontal corporate culture, thereby enhancing corporate competitiveness and encouraging employees' sense of belonging. Bottom-up communication channel KOTRA is operating an corporate culture TF as a bottom-up communication channel to improve the corporate culture. By holding a regular monthly meeting, managers including basic and intermediate level freely discuss ideas about improving the corporate culture. KOTRA not only reports the results to the senior executives but also improves implementation ability, thereby realizing open management wherein employees participate and giving vitality to the organization. In addition, KOTRA gathers suggestions and opinions from employees through various channels such as public hearings, debates, bulletin boards, and newsletters, and it is searching for new methods and expanding programs in order to boost intimacy between employees. CEO interview for company newsletter new communication program annual average name of program major details no. of participants Producing a lip dub Performance on the theme of business and core values New employee 2 events, 76 new during the training of new employees, to be shared among employees both lip dub* employees at home and abroad. Anniversary celebration by holding a masked singing contest and 11 to the ﬁnals, 400 Mask singing contest sharing the videos and reviews with KBCs around the world. on-site audiences troubleshooting performance of Installing the “Mission Hope Tree” game app on the employee's mobile 178 employees Augmented reality Overseas Regional head Ofﬁces phone, ﬁnding a gift box hidden inside the company and donating to a working at the game linked donation poor neighbor. headquarters (unit: case, %) Establishment of an SNS hot-line between the head ofﬁce and business ●No. of problems solved (cases) Business center safety 361 employees centers; Share the safety of overseas employees round the clock and hot-line posted to KBCs ●Troubleshooting success rate (%) send the news to the nearest business center. Sharing of links to overseas KBCs such as the new employees' lip dub, More than 10 times at Video message masked night songs, monthly meeting awards, etc. 126 KBCs *Lip dub: MV type video clip which lip-syncs to music 219 336 Global site-centered communication channels KOTRA is enhancing solidarity of the organization through active field communication with employees working 83 92 overseas. The CEO visits the site personally to organize a meeting of foreign trade managers, and encourages 2015 2016 employees, and the head of overseas regional headquarters actively tackles difﬁculties of the jurisdictional business center. Also, KOTRA is strengthening the network and cooperation among business centers by organizing workshops (10 times) and local staff workshops (10 times) among the regional headquarters' jurisdictional business centers. In addition, KOTRA uses various communication channels such as videos, SNS, and video conference to strengthen communication with the head ofﬁce. labor-management communication channel The labor-management council and the labor-management conference are held quarterly, whereas the labormanagement working meeting is regularly held every month. KOTRA is sharing opinions by frequently holding case Labor-management council and wage agreement ceremony by case basis joint TFs for labor-management and daily labor-management meetings. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 45 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea implement an corporate culture for Growth Global talent development KOTRA builds human resources development strategies and systems based on its corporate strategic goals and the needs of its employees. KOTRA set the goal of education and training as a “global leader with specialized competence” and established the directions of training and detailed strategies to achieve the goal. hRd Goals Global leader with professional capabilities human resources development of site continuous hRd strengthen global development for new skills customized to identiﬁcation of the strategy leadership growth engines customers needs for hRd • Expansion of • Management • Improvement of • Improvement of occupational training leadership training assessment of KBS heads' training efﬁciency training by tier for management capabilities and training with more feedback Objectives • Expansion of training staff, women, new • Improvement of • Assign rights to the for enhancing generations occupational training for ofﬁces in charge of professional expertise overseas employees training improvement of the level of professionalism to secure new Growth engines KOTRA implements job training based on educational needs so that it can effectively enhance the competencies required by each class and enhance professional expertise. Educational needs are identiﬁed internally through job training surveys, regular labor-management councils, and in-house surveys. In addition, external needs are assessed through an enterprise-wide customer demand survey to strengthen employees' identity. The final education and training plan established through this is confirmed through internal verification of the training committee and the personnel committee. Women's leadership development training KOTRA organizes women's leadership workshops to improve the leadership and job skills of female employees and to increase the proportion of female managers. Workshops for female executives and mid-level managers working in Korea are held by inviting outside instructors to provide training for strengthening women's leadership, such as the reconciliation of work and family, career development as specialists, and ways to improve the system. strengthening Job training for Overseas employees Women's Leadership Workshop KOTRA is expanding its training programs to strengthen its overseas staff capacity with the idea that the answer to the problem is overseas. In 2016, KOTRA provided support for master's degree programs for overseas staff, mentoring training for new employees and mid-level managers, and support for job training (USD 500 per person). KOTRA also provides online language courses and overseas regional head ofﬁces workshops. kOtRa human Resources training input kOtRa human Resources training Output average training Budget per person level of customer satisfaction (unit: pts.) (unit: 1 million won) ■ Outside ■ Inside 2.39 1.97 1.76 4.51 4.53 4.49 0.95 1.14 0.79 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 46 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution Special KOTRA is operating various programs to make itself a great place to work for guided by the philosophy of work-life harmony. enhancing Operational efﬁciency A company-wide workload reduction campaign was carried out in order to relieve employees’ stress from dealing with excessive workloads and working overtime. Individual target workload have been slashed to reduce work-related stress and allow employees to have more time to spend outside of work. The minimum cycle for ﬂexible working hours has been cut short from one month to one week so that employees beneﬁt from the ﬂexible working hour system in a way that best ﬁts their needs. The number of employees who used the flexible working hour program increased 38.6% to 117 in 2016 from 83 in 2015. In addition, employees are now allowed to take only half of a half-day off Quit smoking program and to carry the remaining days of annual leave forward to the subsequent year. How many days of the permitted annual or monthly leave used by employees during the set period is also utilized as an indicator in the evaluation of heads of teams and departments in order to make it easier for employees to take a leave. As a result, KOTRA employees used 79.3% of their usable leave days in 2016, 3.9%p up from the previous year. family-friendly corporate culture KOTRA is implementing various family-friendly policies and programs. No employee is expected to work overtime on Wednesday, which is Family Day, and families of employees are invited to company events so that employees can spend more time with their families. “Mobile Fathers’ School” and “Mentoring Program for Working Moms” are intended to help employees become better parents. Pregnant employees can rest in a space created according to the Equal Employment Opportunity Labor-Management Joint Hi-Five Day and Work-Family Balance Assistance Act and Labor Standards Act. The company also provides financial support for childcare to domestic employees with children aged up to 5. In addition, KOTRA is actively promoting a corporate culture wherein employees experiencing difficulties from childbirth and childcare can take maternity or childcare leave without restrictions. All these efforts mirror KOTRA’s commitment to protecting female employees and fulﬁlling the company’s corporate responsibility of supporting childcare at the workplace. In 2016, KOTRA was honored with the grand prize for ﬁve consecutive years at 2016 Korea’s Best Places to Work for Awards by Great Place to Work (GPTW) Korea in recognition of all its efforts toward work-family balance. Furthermore, KOTRA was certiﬁed by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family as a family-friendly corporation and awarded KOTRA received the grand prize at 100 GWP Awards an encouragement prize at the Work-Life Harmony Awards hosted by Seoul Regional Ministry of Employment and Labor. comments by stakeholders kOtRa GWp programs theme Goal major programs Talk concert-type monthly meeting (performances by employees, sharing thoughts, etc.) To build The monthly newsletter has been expanded with more employee involvement through the Trust trust among contribution of articles and interviews employees Music program, theme-based labor-management joint Hi-Five Day, Team Spirit Day, Team Day (with lunch boxes), etc. Considering the fact that KOTRA Instill a Highlighting coworkers’ strengths and selecting award winners, Mobile Fathers’ School, employees spend half of their entire Pride sense of mountain-climbing with families, gift package for childbirth, welcome gift package and career overseas, ensuring work-family pride card from the president for new employees for families to be involved and to feel proud balance is crucial . I expect many employees to take full advantage of the Selfthe Work-Life Harmony programs that Music school, cultural lectures, and e-library to offer self-development opportunities improvement promote work-family balance so that Fun Support for club activities, Family Day, Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to promote and fun they can build a successful career for an atmosphere conducive to the One-Family, Double Beneﬁts campaign workplace the long-term. “Overcome the Metabolic Syndrome” project, quit smoking program Promote Hyeona Kim Opened tennis courts Health health for all Deputy Director, Increased the number of standing desks employees Customer Support Team, KOTRA Hi-Five Day with varying themes 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 47 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea kOtRa, a trusted public institute stricter ethics management The public has growing expectations for corporate integrity. To meet these expectations, KOTRA is working hard to build the foundation for sustainable growth and fulfill its social responsibility as a public institution by carrying out diverse activities to internalize the zero-defect ethics culture. KOTRA was rated “highest” in the 2016 Anti-Corruption Policy Evaluation by the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission and rated “high” in overall integrity for five years in a row, suggesting that KOTRA is recognized for its performance in ethics management. internalization of a culture of Zero-defect ethics management At KOTRA, employees range widely in position and work in many different places around the world, thus exposing them to different ethical challenges. Thus, KOTRA is offering ethics education programs designed to meet the varying needs of employees in different positions at home and abroad and global standards including ISO 26000. These programs provide employees with knowledge on ethics management as required in different circumstances. Various incentives are used to motivate and encourage employees to be involved actively in ethics management. In addition, employees are assigned ethical tasks that fit their job, and how they perform their tasks is reflected in their evaluation. In 2016 in particular, KOTRA held a ceremony pledging to fulﬁll CSR together with 169 companies that joined the KOTRA World Champ project as part of efforts to communicate and promote to its customers its KOTRA employees receiving education on ISO 26000 commitment to ethics management. Responses to the anti-Graft act With the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act (“Anti-Graft Act” hereinafter) coming into force in 2016, KOTRA set up a task force of 22 members to respond to the Anti-Graft Act and identify risks that KOTRA may have in connection with the Act. The task force established a roadmap regarding how to ensure compliance with the Act and revised 7 sets of rules and regulations including the code of conduct accordingly. All employees at home and abroad have been educated to have a better understanding and awareness of the Act, and KOTRA urges companies that visit the KOTRA headquarters and KBCs abroad to comply with the Act by distributing to the companies a leaflet containing key information on the Act. Ceremony pledging to observe the Anti-Graft Law clean Report center KOTRA is running the Clean Report Center, which receives reports on corruption and graft. KOTRA strictly follows the “Guidelines for the Protection of and Reward for Public Interest Whistle Blowers” to ensure that the identity of whistle blowers remains conﬁdential and that they are well-protected. KOTRA is working to raise awareness of the Center and to encourage employees to report cases of corruption through education and campaigns. In addition, reporters are given monetary reward. advancement of internal system of checks and Balances KOTRA is making various efforts to advance its internal system of checks and balances, including strengthening its internal competencies, receiving outside advice, and collaborating with other related organizations. In order to prevent corruption, compliance officers work actively and diligently on monitoring whether all employees comply with rules and regulations proactively and on an ongoing basis. In addition, KOTRA is further enhancing the professional expertise and internal control competencies of auditors through education. It also works with citizens to ensure that it remains free from corruption. To this end, ﬁve citizens are appointed as anti-corruption ombudsmen to offer their opinions and recommendations at the Clean KOTRA Committee and other committees; a group of outside audit advisers help improve the professionalism and objectivity of auditors. KOTRA, Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA), Korea Tourism Organization (KTO), Korea National Oil Corporation (KNOC), and other public organizations are working together as a group to facilitate self-initiated cooperation for anti-corruption, strengthening audit competencies by holding joint workshops and performing cross-audits, and taking the lead in spreading a corruption-free corporate culture in the public sector. 48 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution kOtRa, the Job creator KOTRA recruits talent from around the world on a continuing basis in response to the growing demand from new business projects and global projects. By following a fair, merit-based employment procedure according to the National Competency Standards (NCS), KOTRA fulﬁlls its social responsibility of creating jobs as a public institution. kOtRa-type Job creation model Global Job creation Based on Global hR demand project content The Global Job Fair is KOTRA’s leading global job creation program. Major global employers are invited to the fair, where they have 1:1 interviews with qualiﬁed young Korean job seekers who have been selected through preliminary Tokyo, Silicon Valley, Jakarta, k-move center Ho Chi Minh City, Dubai, interviews in Korea. The fair is organized to match overseas companies and qualified young talent and to offer high(14 centers Beijing, Singapore, Sydney, quality job opportunities to Korean youth. In 2016, far more companies participated in the fair, and 5,299 one-on-one opened in Vancouver, Frankfurt, Sao job interviews were conducted, resulting in the actual employment of 104 candidates. The fact that such a high number 2016) Paolo, New York, Osaka, Hong Kong of job candidates joined the fair is attributed to the massive advertising campaign efforts through tours to universities and exposure via SNS. “Global Job Fair, Find an Overseas Job with KOTRA” is a joint project with other government Overseas LA, Hamburg, Shanghai, ministries and related organizations to give equal access to global employment information to job seekers and college employment Kuala Lumpur, Melbourne, Doha, centers Moscow students who are living far from the Seoul metropolitan area and who are consequently at a disadvantage in terms of (7 centers) accessing global job information. KOTRA visited 32 universities across the country and explained how KOTRA and the Global Job Held twice a year (Seoul, government are helping young job seekers find jobs overseas. KOTRA’s global employment officers explained trends Busan) 5,299 1:1 interviews, in the global job market and provided strategic mentoring to the participating students. In addition, KOTRA is operating consulting 104 persons recruited the K-Move Center and overseas employment centers. New K-Move Centers were opened in New York, Osaka, and Hong Toured 32 universities around Global Job fair Kong in 2016, and KOTRA is operating strategic programs tailored to the circumstances of the job markets in areas with the country/3,263 students kOtRa Joint high potential. As a result of all these efforts, overseas employment increased 24% to 511 persons in 2016 from 411 joined the session/built a Job information session database of 3,896 global job a year ago, with the average annual salary also rising from 30.53 million won to 32.3 million won, thus implying that seekers KOTRA helped create better jobs in terms of both quantity and quality. strategic Job creation in korea, taking advantage of kOtRa’s unique functions KOTRA is matching qualiﬁed human resources and domestic SMEs operating overseas in order to help them better compete globally. In 2016, KOTRA organized a job expo for foreign students, and a total of 87 persons found a job through 1:1 job interviews at the expo. KOTRA also held the Korea-Vietnam Job Information Session in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam to help Korean businesses in Vietnam find qualified human resources. Through the session, 5 Koreans and 11 Vietnamese were recruited. In addition, KOTRA is contributing indirectly to job creation by attracting investments from global corporations, which offer a high number of new jobs, while helping foreign investment companies hire employees in Korea. In 2016, KOTRA held job information sessions at Chonbuk National University, Yeungnam National University, Chungbuk National University, Pusan National University, and Soon Chun Hyang University to raise awareness of foreign investment companies located outside of the Seoul metropolitan area and help these companies find the human resources that they need. A total of 5 sessions were held and joined by 34 foreign investment companies and 1,707 college students. KOTRA also organized a job expo for foreign investment companies where 27 major global companies and 14,616 job candidates participated, with 256 candidates hired. case. korea-canada shipbuilding and marine industries hR exchange project Recently, Korea’s shipbuilding industry, considered the world’s No. 1, has gone through major restructuring, resulting in massive layoffs. KOTRA, together with the Ministry of Employment and Labor, Human Resources Development Service of Korea, and other related institutions formed a council to develop job opportunities for the laid-off employees. The KBC in Toronto, Canada, which specializes in building special-purpose ships, set up a task force team with related organizations, and a feasibility investigation group was sent to Toronto to develop demand for Korean shipbuilding engineers. As a result, Canada’s biggest shipbuilding company visited Korea and conducted 2 rounds of job interviews with 131 Korean job seekers in the industry. Eight people landed a job. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 49 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea kOtRa, a trusted public institute about ksp Korea’s impressive economic growth has drawn much interest from many countries around the world, and Korea has been used as a benchmark case particularly by emerging and developing countries that hope to emulate its economic success. The Knowledge Sharing Program (KSP) was initiated to share Korea’s experiences of economic development with other countries; the program focuses on helping partner countries improve their competencies beyond merely sharing information and knowledge. KOTRA is also supporting KSP by sharing its knowledge and know-how. ksp for industry, trade, and investment Previously, KSP focused on supporting academic research and offering policy advice to KSP partner countries from a macroeconomic perspective. It was noted, however, that partner countries expect the program to produce tangible results such as bilateral cooperation for development projects and joint business opportunities, instead of simply receiving information and knowledge on paper. KSP for industry, trade, and investment is a packagetype program including training programs for the enhancement of trade and investment competencies and development of new business opportunities through public-private joint efforts, in order to meet the demand of emerging and developing economies better. The expanded KSP is serving as a bridge that helps domestic companies and partner countries work together on economic development projects. expansion of cooperation in core competencies KOTRA is expanding cooperation by sharing Korea’s experiences of economic development in industry, trade, and link to sdGs investment and matching Korean companies with speciﬁc competencies with emerging and developing countries that need such competencies. In 2016, KOTRA concentrated on working with strategic partner countries including Cuba, Iran, Kenya, Myanmar, Russia, and Ecuador and worked out bilateral MOUs between governments and MOUs between governments and companies. ksp-based new Growth engines Results of ksp Previously, KOTRA and Korea Institute for Industrial Economics & Trade (KIET) jointly operated KSP. In 2016, however, KOTRA became the sole operator of KSP for industry, trade, and investment. As the sole administrator of KSP, KOTRA category 2015 2016 strived to take full advantage of its strengths and got the private sector involved in development consulting to provide Advice tasks 6 9 substantial and tangible support. In addition, KOTRA created a new development model to expand KSP to the sphere (cases) of ofﬁcial development assistance. Budget (100 6.8 36 million won) social contribution through ksp KSP is intended to help domestic companies expand their business globally; ultimately, however, the program aims to help partner countries achieve sustainable development as well. KSP represents the pride in Korea’s transformation from an aid recipient country to a donor country driven by remarkable economic growth. With such a strong sense of pride, KOTRA will remain committed to helping other countries achieve economic development as part of its efforts toward social contribution and will ensure that its partner countries receive tangible and practical support. myantRa master plan KOTRA proposed a blueprint for strategies and establishment of Myanmar Trade-Investment Promotion Agency (MYANTRA) based on Korea’s experiences of economic development export promotion. Following the signing of the agreement with KOICA in December 2014, KOTRA invited Myanmar’s working-level government ofﬁcials to four training sessions until October 2016, and dispatched KOTRA experts to Myanmar. At the ﬁnal meeting held in October 2016, KOTRA presented the policy advice report (or the master plan) to the Myanmar government, including export promotion policies, based on Korea’s experiences, for six industries including agricultural products processing, ﬁsheries, textile and garment, and jewelry, and the launch of Trade Promotion Organization (TPO), a trade promotion agency with 180 employees. With KSP that has been conducted in the past two years, KOTRA has not only contributed to the establishment of MYANTRA, the trade and investment promotion body of Myanmar, but to Myanmar’s economic growth and sustainable development. 50 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution major achievements KSP partners are mainly emerging and developing countries, and KSP consulting should be customized to meet the varying needs of individual partner countries. In addition, cooperation models should be designed to provide support that partner countries actually need. Thus, KOTRA shares its competencies in trade and investment and proposes businesses that can beneﬁt both sides, based on competencies that domestic companies have to offer. Russia Russia is hig hly interested in chile With its vertically stretching geography, iran Following the removal of economic developing its far east region , and KOTR A one of Chile’s major interests is developing s anc t ions , Ir an is ac t i vel y eng ag ing in is carr ying out KSP mainly in Kamchatka the country ’s much needed medical human negotiations and cooperation with other Peninsula , Sakhalin Island , and Maritime resources and infrastructure . KSP in this countries and pushing ahead with reform and Province of Siberia. A marine cluster set up in country focuses on improving competencies opening policies. KSP in Iran focused on forming Kamchatka facilitates business establishment in public medical services and telemedicine. a partnership with Iran’s investment promotion and expansion by Korean companies , and In par ticular , KOTR A is working to link the agency. Recently, FDI promotion has been the KOTR A is working on plans to develop the country’s needs to actual businesses so that the key subject of KSP in Iran, raising expectations aquaculture industr y in Sakhalin . KOTR A geographical disadvantages can be overcome for private investments and public-private assisted in attracting foreign investments into with telemedicine. partnership (PPP) between the two countries. the advanced development zone in the Maritime Province. ksp 사업 cuba As a test bed for reform and opening , kenya Kenya is expected to ser ve as a myanmar Myanmar is seeking export-driven Cuba stands at a turning point to determine bridgehead for Korean companies’ expansion in economic growth; to that end, it is in the process the path of its national development . As part East Africa. Cooperation with Kenya was initiated of creating a trade promotion agency. KOTRA is of KSP in Cuba, KOTRA is holding seminars and via KSP to establish an industrial complex; assisting in preparing a master plan to establish consultation sessions to help industries with since then, KOTRA has been steadily expanding MYANTR A , the trade promotion agency, in high potential enter the Cuban market . The cooperation with the country. KOTRA signed order to gain an advantageous status through Ministry of Strategy and Finance and Korea an MOU for bilateral investment cooperation and preoccupancy and is maintaining a friendly Electric Power Corporation entered into MOUs promotion with the Investment Authority of relationship with Myanmar by working on followwith the Ministry of Foreign Trade of Cuba. Kenya, acting as adviser on the plan to develop a up projects. speciﬁc industrial complex. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 51 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea kOtRa, a trusted public institute kOtRa csR With protectionism spreading globally, creating a cooperative business ecosystem is becoming important in pursuing global expansion. KOTRA is fully utilizing its unique resources and global network in operating its SCR programs to build a solid foundation for global expansion. KOTRA is conducting CSR activities together with domestic companies to build friendly relationships with local communities and boost exports in the process. csR programs for local communities KOTRA’s professional competencies prove to be a valuable tool in forming close relationships with local communities. In addition, KOTRA is helping members of local communities become economically independent and perform their roles as a member of a broader society. In particular, KOTRA is holding CSR forums and offering rewards for outstanding CSR activities to raise the awareness that contributing to local communities through CSR programs translates into better business for companies operating in the local communities. support for multicultural traders KOTRA provides various training programs for migrants with multicultural backgrounds to help them ﬁnd jobs or start link to sdGs their own business. The training program offers a practical curriculum including practical trade and global marketing, which is designed to help migrants grow into global traders based on language skills and knowledge of Korean culture as well as the culture of their mother country. In 2016, 126 migrants completed the 7th and 8th training sessions. KOTRA held job consulting sessions in connection with job expos to help migrant workers ﬁnd their career path; as a result, an accumulated total of 111 persons have been hired since the 1st session was ﬁnished, and 10 started their own business. Global csR forum and Rewards KOTRA, together with the governments of host countries, is implementing a reward program to encourage Korean companies operating in the countries to develop and conduct outstanding CSR activities and to share model cases. KOTRA is also hosting a global CSR forum where Korean companies operating globally gather together and share information to improve their brand image. voluntary social contribution activities for local communities All KOTRA employees have been planning and conducting social contribution activities on a voluntary basis in link to sdGs order to help local communities where its headquarters and KBCs are located. These activities include global trade lectures for college students and export school for the youth — both of which are based on KOTRA’s professional expertise and experiences — and Left Hands, a voluntary group which implements a tutoring program for the socially disadvantaged youth. Social contribution increased 8% to 188 activities in 2016 compared to 174 in the previous year, indicating active involvement by all KOTRA employees. Labor-management joint free meal serving Kimchi making for the elderly living alone Painting a mural for a children’s library Christmas fund raising for charity 52 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution csR activities to create a Global Business ecosystem for cooperation CSR activities are considered an important instrument not only for conveying the warm message of support to the recipient local communities but also for building a friendly relationship with trade partner countries. As such, KOTRA’s KBCs design and implement CSR activities tailored to the circumstances of the host countries, thereby contributing to blazing trails for exports despite adverse conditions. csR through products and services KOTRA donates the products and services of domestic companies to target countries and creates a new marketing link to sdGs network, thus helping improve the brand image of the companies involved. This program is intended to help build a positive corporate image in the recipient local communities by donating individual companies' products and services instead of simply providing relief goods. Global technical school The global technical school is run in collaboration with domestic companies that have technologies to offer, based on the demand of target countries identiﬁed by KOTRA. As CSR activities, the school project not only contributes to the technological development of the recipient countries but also leads to business opportunities including winning projects. In 2016, 41 SMEs participated in the program, representing a 64% increase from the previous year. transfer of idle equipment Under these CSR activities, domestic idle equipment and operation know-how are transferred to recipient countries. comments by stakeholders The free transfer of equipment and know-how allows recipient countries to achieve technological development and donor companies in Korea to gain an advantage in doing business in the countries. csR with k-pop stars K-pop is gaining growing popularity in China and Southeast Asia. KOTRA is planning CSR activities involving K-pop stars and using products donated by domestic SMEs for these programs. In 2016, KOTRA worked with Jahyeon Chu and Red Velvet donating SME-manufactured products worth 1.79 million won to promote their products and enhance Korea’s brand image. The heartfelt volunteer activities of KOTRA employees bring so much joy and hope to the elderly in our community. I am so grateful to them for consistently serving our community, and I ask for their continued interest and social contribution through the csR Business involvement in the new projects that Seocho-gu is planning for the elderly. CSR activities aim to improve the lives of people in socially marginalized local communities and to make a better Baekseon Ha society for everybody. KOTRA intends to concentrate its CSR efforts on areas where it is strong so as to maximize Head of Seocho-gu Happiness e-Eum Center for the Elderly the effects. To this end, KOTRA will remain interested in social issues, stay up-to-date on global trends including SDGs, and develop new CSR businesses to meet evolving CSR demands. Campaigns through murals Export School for the Youth KOTRA at Red Cross bazaar Donation of hematopoietic stem cells 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 53 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Special assessment of kBcs' implementation of social Responsibility Since 2015, KOTRA has been conducting an evaluation on the fulfillment of its global social responsibility and implementation of social responsibility by KBCs based on the 7 core subjects of ISO 26000, a global standard for social responsibility. For the evaluation, a survey with a 5-point scale was conducted. In 2017, 126 KBCs were surveyed, and 74 KBCs submitted the survey results. The survey was on the 2016 performance on social contribution, and the average was 4.15 points. The highest score of 4.69 was garnered in the core subject of “community involvement and development,” followed by fair operating practices, organizational governance, consumer issues, and human rights. europe There are refugee camps across Europe, and corporations are actively involved in social contribution activities with the aim of coping with poverty among these refugees. KBCs in Europe either donate relief goods or get personally involved in volunteer programs to help refugees suffering under adverse circumstances. Paris, Frankfurt, Amsterdam, Vienna, etc. middle east Although gaps exist between regions in the Middle East, large-scale projects are underway mainly in oil-producing countries. KBCs in this region are operating a technical school and holding technology forums to help local residents learn skills in areas of high interest to them, including construction, railroad, medicine, and energy, as a channel through which to build a partnership with local communities. Dubai, Riyadh, Amman, Cairo, etc. africa southwest asia china Many countries in Africa have poor educational Many countries in this mountainous region KBCs are conducting K-pop CSR activities in infrastructure. Thus, KBCs in Africa are operating a have poor social overhead capital. KBCs in this connection with expos to take advantage of the technical school to help local people improve their region donate photovoltaic modules or LED popularity of K-pop culture among local people. competencies. In addition, they are helping build lighting devices to deal with energy deficiency as Products and services donated by Korean SMEs educational infrastructure by donating money for part of their CSR activities. Donations focus on are presented at the expos together with K-pop activities to improve the educational environment educational facilities so that many local residents stars. Donor SMEs can generate marketing effects, or donating school supplies or equipment. can beneﬁt. and proceeds from the donated items are used to Johannesburg, Nairobi, Lagos, Khartoum, Dares New Delhi, Karachi, etc. help disadvantaged people. Salaam, etc. Shenyang, Dairen, Wuhan, Zhengzhou, etc. 54 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report Challenge Global Customer Contribution assessment of kBcs’ implementation of social Responsibility (isO 26000) (unit: point) ■2017 ■2016 ■2015 survey period: February 13~24, 2017 Respondents: 74 out of 126 KBCs (59.2%) 4.69 4.50 4.53 4.41 4.33 4.31 4.31 4.24 4.24 4.17 4 23 . 4.12 4.09 4.15 4.17 3.94 3.94 3.83 Organizational Human rights Labor practices Fair operating Consumer issues Community involvement governance practices and development cis Due to vast land areas and severe weather conditions, many countries in the CIS region have poor medical infrastructure. KBCs are helping local residents in health promotion by donating medical equipment, medical and pharmaceutical supplies, wheelchairs, etc. to local medical facilities. In addition, a technical school is operated to share Korea’s implant technology. Almaty, Novosibirsk, Minsk, Baku, etc. north america CSR activities in this region focus on creating jobs through start-your-business camps and providing education to improve professional competencies. Given the large number of Koreans living in this area, KBCs are planning CSR programs that can be done together with the Korean activities in the region so that more local communities can get involved; thus, our CSR activities produce greater satisfaction. LA, Silicon Valley, Chicago, Toronto, etc. southeast asia & Oceania Japan central and south america KBCs are running a technical school together Since Japan is subject to frequent earthquakes, With the growing interest in Korea in the region, with Korean companies with technological KBCs provides aid to earthquake-hit local KBCs are conducting CSR activities using Koreacompetencies, mainly in Southeast Asia with its governments or supports evacuation drills to build a related contents. KBCs support Korean language poor technological infrastructure. Technical schools bond with local communities. Considering the high schools in different areas to boost interest in K-pop deal with various ﬁelds including national terrestrial interest in K-pop and Korean food among Japanese culture further and hold economic seminars for information, welding, animation, logistics, ICT, etc. people, KBCs are also planning CSR activities local businessmen wishing to trade with Korea. to meet the different needs of individual countries, featuring these two elements. Rio de Janeiro, Santo Domingo, Quito, Asuncion, etc thus creating synergistic effects from collaboration Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya, Fukuoka, etc. with the local communities. Kuala Lumpur, Hanoi, Vientiane, Surabaja, etc. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 55 a Business platform that promotes human Rights management creating a human Rights management system 59p internalization of human Rights management 60p spreading human Rights management 61p Human RIGHTS Management Business Relevance Since the adoption of the UN Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights (UNGP) in 2011, ‘business and human rights’ has come under the global spotlight as an essential item of the business agenda. Particularly since the release of the UN Human Rights Reporting Framework in 2015, a growing number of corporations have begun to publish a human rights management report. In Korea, efforts to promote human rights management have been led by the National Human Rights Commission of Korea and other public organizations that are preparing and distributing guidelines on human rights management. KOTRA fully recognizes the importance of human rights management and publishes its efforts to promote human rights in its sustainability management report. Our Approach KOTRA understands that human rights management is an overarching concept that encompasses both ethics and sustainability management. Our underlying belief is that we should strive to protect the human rights of our employees and the rights and interests of our stakeholders including customers, business partners and local communities. Human rights management includes activities aimed at preventing violations of the relevant laws and other forms of unethical behavior, and social contribution activities designed to promote human rights for the residents of our local communities. KOTRA is working hard to build a zero-defect organization in its ethics management, improve the rights of employees and stakeholders, and implement global standards in its human rights management, in order to set an outstanding example for others to follow in the field of human rights management. Our Risk • Violation of laws in countries where our KBCs are operating • Unethical behaviors • Corruption Our Opportunity • Review of risks through internal assessment • Promotion of human rights management through KBCs • Changing the perception of human rights among Korean companies operating overseas Key Performance Index integrity survey anti-corruption policy evaluation (unit : grade) (unit : grade) 1grade 2grade 3grade Excellent Excellent excellent 3 2 1 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 creating a human Rights management system kOtRa’s human Rights management in Brief Given its role in supporting domestic companies’ exploration of new markets and expanding their business overseas, KOTRA often operates in countries where people are vulnerable to human rights violations. KOTRA is working hard to internalize human rights management as well as providing businesses with information on the prevalent human rights issues of their target countries in order to ensure that Korean companies operating or wishing to operate overseas, as well as KOTRA employees, do not face problems in connection with human rights. KOTRA is in the process of completing a global business platform that incorporates human rights management, and began to submit an annual report that meets the UN Global Compact’s standards (advanced level) in 2016. creating a human Rights management system milestones in kOtRa’s human Rights management The ultimate goal of human rights management lies in promoting the human rights of our employees and, externally KOTRA declared the Human Rights speaking, in protecting the rights of KOTRA’s various stakeholders in the course of conducting all our business. To Charter in December 2015, integrated human rights management into its that end, we include not only our employees but also all stakeholders, customers, business partners, and residents existing ethics management system to of local communities in our efforts to protect human rights. further enhance the rights of internal and external stakeholders , and initiated various efforts to bring its establishing 3 major Goals human rights management into line KOTRA has created a framework for human rights management including rules and organizations, and set three with global standards. major strategic goals that need to be met in order to spread human rights management from domestic to overseas operations, and from the inside to the outside of the organization, to ensure that all KOTRA employees are able to Level application of global 03 standards internalize human rights management as they perform their roles. active involvement in external activities for human Rights protection Level promotion of KOTRA upholds the UN principles on human rights, and is actively involved in programs and events in which 02 stakeholders’ rights corporations, academia and NGOs gather together to discuss and promote human rights. Notably, KOTRA’s executives joined the working-level group on the National Action Plans (NAP) for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights, Level Zero-defect led by the National Human Rights Commission of Korea, thereby taking the lead in human rights management. 01 organization human rights establish a foundation for sustainable growth by internalizing a culture of respecting human rights. management strategic creating a human Rights internalization of spreading goals management system human rights management human rights management Organization •‌Overhaul the rules on human rights and systems management •‌Strengthen the internal checks and balances of the system •‌Set up a human rights and ethics committee •‌Set up a unit dedicated to ensuring a corruption-free KOTRA •‌O perate a secretariat for human rights •‌Appoint human rights management officers and ethics management Rules and •‌Ban on discrimination in recruiting local •‌Publish exemplary cases of human rights process •‌Grievance ombudsman employees management and share the guidelines (Labor-Management Joint Grievance •‌Honor employees’ outstanding of other countries Settlement Center) performance in human rights •‌P ledge ceremony for World Champs’ management, with awards “CSR” diagnosis and •‌A member of the NAP led by the National •‌Evaluation of the implementation of tasks evaluation related to human rights management Human Rights Commission of Korea •‌Social contribution programs for the •‌D iagnostic consulting on progress in •‌A  pplication of UNGC at overseas KBCs promotion of human rights implementing the UN Guiding Principles •‌ Evaluation of efforts toward CSR and on Business and Human Rights social contribution kpi external integrity, evaluation of internal integrity, internal evaluation of impact on human rights evaluation of anti-corruption policy 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 59 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea internalization of human Rights management improving systems and processes for human Rights management In order to establish human rights management as a standard practice within the company, it is important to put in place systems and processes that help employees to follow the principles of human rights management in the course of performing their work. Since its declaration of the Human Rights Charter in December 2015, KOTRA has had its progress in human rights management assessed by human rights civic groups. The assessment looked into five aspects including management approach and risk identification, and KOTRA reflected their recommendations in its human rights management systems. self-assessment of the impact on human Rights at Overseas units KOTRA has prepared a set of guidelines on how specifically the ten principles of the Human Rights Charter should be implemented, and has distributed the guidelines to its overseas units. These guidelines are designed to help employees review and assess their own progress and results in following the principles. The results of the assessment are submitted Building a Network of Human to the secretariat to identify major human rights risks associated with KOTRA’s organization and businesses. Rights Management Officers human Rights management Ofﬁcers Domestic Overseas Given the global scope of KOTRA’s business activities, building a human network is crucial to the goal of internalizing human rights management. To achieve this, 62 domestic employees and 10 overseas employees have been appointed as human rights management officers to serve as the heart of KOTRA’s human rights management. In particular, overseas officers have been assigned the task of establishing strategic frameworks within their respective regions to 62 persons 10 persons facilitate social contributions to their local communities, and of providing consulting to employees who may have trouble discussing and resolving grievances due to time differences between their locations and the headquarters in Korea. education and Rewards for human Rights management In order for KOTRA employees to internalize human rights management, the organization must ensure that its employees understand the purpose of human rights management and keep abreast of global trends, and that they are fully aware of how they can protect and promote human rights in their day-to-day operations. Furthermore, as part of its efforts to raise employees’ awareness of human rights, KOTRA provides education on, and rewards employees for their outstanding performance in, human rights management. unGp-based education and campaigns KOTRA provides education on global trends, based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, to its human rights management officers and other employees who wish to receive education. In addition, KOTRA has revised its code of conduct to better protect the human rights of its employees, and distributed it to all of its executives and employees to draw attention to human rights issues. kOtRa Global friend awards Each year, KOTRA honors selected employees with Global Friend Awards to encourage all its employees to abide by the Human Rights Charter and to increase their awareness of human rights. Candidates are selected upon the Human rights education based on the UN Guiding recommendation of human rights management officers. In 2016, the Global Friend Awards were presented to three Principles on Business and Human Rights overseas employees including one employee who actively involved in relief efforts in earthquake-struck areas in recognition of their contribution to improving the rights of external stakeholders. The awards were broadcast by the sky-wave TV channel. 60 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report spreading human Rights management spreading human Rights management Beyond national Borders implementation of the ten principles of the unGc KOTRA is spreading human rights management through 126 KBCs in 86 countries. In 2016, we focused our efforts on • Investigate local practices that violate the principles : bringing our local recruitment procedure into line with the principles of human rights management and on changing Investigate and review practices in countries where KBCs are operating. the perception of human rights management at KBCs. • Work out specific ways to apply the principles. • Require regional head offices to identify human Ban on discrimination in employment rights risk factors specific to their respective regions. Legal systems vary considerably in the 86 countries where our KBCs are operating, and there is a vast gap in human rights awareness among these countries, thus exposing KOTRA to a wide variety of human rights risks. KOTRA has China established a set of guidelines designed to prevent discriminatory elements that may exist in its local employment •Discrimination against minorities •‌Opportunities to get involved in eco-friendly projects procedures. The guidelines require that job interviews should be conducted by at least three interviewers, and that •‌Need to respond to the local practices of city governments, etc. the standard evaluation matrix and interview questionnaire should be used so as to ensure that only candidates’ job-related competencies and qualifications are discussed and evaluated, and that no potentially discriminatory Europe elements are mentioned during the interview process. •Labor practices in Greece •Low environmental awareness in East Europe •Need to respond to public procurement implementation of the ten principles of unGc at kBcs North America KOTRA had its 126 KBCs survey local practices that do not comply with or conform to the ten principles of the UNGC. •Racial discrimination In addition to the survey, the KBCs came up with a series of countermeasures that KBCs and Korean companies •Growing interest in new renewable energy operating in other countries can take in order to remain fully aware of and manage the associated risks. •Strict penalties against unethical behaviors Middle East •Discrimination against foreigners and women •Inadequate legal framework on environmental issues •Bribery in certain countries encouraging companies Operating Overseas for Better human Rights management Africa Building on its experience and competencies in human rights management, KOTRA is accelerating its efforts to spread •Violation of human rights •Child labor, discrimination human rights management among KOTRA’s business partners and companies looking to expand their business •Lack of interest in environmental issues •Rampant corruption overseas. Japan csR pledge ceremony •Changes to corruption--related laws •Stricter environmental regulations KOTRA held a ceremony involving a CSR pledge by 169 companies seeking to start a business in other countries. •Accounting frauds involving some companies During the ceremony, the participating companies were informed of the human rights and ethical risks that they may Southeast Asia encounter while doing business in other countries, and KOTRA emphasized that social responsibility is an integral part •Violation of human rights of corporate management deserving of much attention and consideration. •Some cases of forced labor •Low awareness of environmental issues Southwest Asia •Discrimination based on social status and religion future plans for human Rights management •Forced & child labor/Widespread use of child labor •Low awareness of environmental issues KOTRA’s commitment to human rights management is an expression of its determination to help create a fair and CIS equitable society for future generations. KOTRA will continue to enhance transparency in its operations by ensuring •Low awareness of human rights in certain countries successful human rights management that conforms to global standards. •‌Lack of awareness of environmental issues in certain countries •Widespread corruption improving human Rights management in phases Central & South America KOTRA intends to make the best use of its unique capacities and global resources to protect human rights and •Low awareness of human rights in certain countries promote awareness of human rights. Furthermore, we shall abide by the global principles of human rights in every •‌Low awareness of environmental issues in certain countries aspect of our business activities, and improve our systems of human rights management in phases in tandem with •Widespread corruption external changes, thereby consolidating our leadership in human rights management. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 61 APPENDICES management Report 63p Results of sustainability management 70p GRi standards index 77p third-party assurance 80p unGc & isO 26000 82p awards, associations, and memberships 84p kOtRa’s previous sustainability / publications 85p management strategies framework of management strategies KOTRA is playing a significant role in boosting exports and attracting foreign investments to Korea by faithfully performing its duties in the face of the adverse external environment including the global economic slowdown. In this era of slow economic growth and new uncertainties, KOTRA intends to overhaul the framework for its long-term management strategies in a way that strengthens its role as a global business platform, and thereby take a major leap forward. Guided by the vision of becoming “a global platform that opens up the future of Korea”, KOTRA has set four major strategic goals and sixteen strategic tasks to achieve its mission of “contributing to the wellbeing of the Korean people and the development of the human race by facilitating the conduct of global business.” vision to become a global business platform that opens up the future of korea mission to contribute to the wellbeing of the korean people and the development of the human race by facilitating the conduct of global business core values challenge Global customers contribution strategic Goals Advance trade and Pioneer new global Customer value and mutual Create a sustainable investment projects markets cooperation as top priority management system management •‌Strengthening Export Competencies •‌D  iscover New Export Growth Engines •‌A dopt an adventurous approach with  Create substantial business promotion •‌ principles of SMEs the focus on customer demands and •‌S  upport utilizing expanded economic •‌Build a trusted public institution for the •Attraction of foreign investments cooperation zone onsite service public that adheres to the basic values •‌Function as a global business and principles. platform through communication and cooperation. strategic 1. Transform domestically-oriented 5. Develop and nurture new export 9. Pursue customer-centered service 13. Innovate business structures and tasks companies into exporters. industries. innovations. processes with the focus on core 2. Provide maximum support customized 6. Explore new export markets. 10. Conduct field-oriented business businesses for different stages of growth. 7. Proactively respond to emerging trade operations. 14. Strengthen organizational 3. Support overseas expansion for the mechanisms and dynamics. 11. Promote communication-focused competencies for sustainable growth globalization of domestic companies. 8. Strategically utilize trade negotiations inter-departmental cooperation. 15. Promote an corporate culture that 4. Attract foreign investment companies including FTAs and summit diplomacy 12. Promote user-oriented open values merit, performance, and mutual with high potential to contribute to the FTA. collaboration. respect growth of the national economy. 16. Take the lead in innovating public organizations by successfully implementing an advanced management system. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 63 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Governance composition of the Board As of the end of December, the board of directors consists of 6 standing directors and 7 non-standing directors who are experts in the fields of business, law, and media. Non-standing directors who make up more than half of the board provide effective checks and balances against the management and perform audits to ensure fairness. The president of Invest Korea acts as an observer to the board. The chairman of the board concurrently serves as president of KOTRA; if the president is unable to perform his duties for unavoidable reasons, a standing director acts on his behalf according to the rules of the organization (Article 18(4) of the Act on the Management of Public Institutions, Article 3 of the Rules of the Board of KOTRA). KOTRA’s employees are prohibited from concurrently holding offices in order to prevent conflicts of interest pursuant to Article 2(2) of the Public Service Ethics Act and Article 17 of the Articles of Incorporation of KOTRA. Directors with personal interest in any of the issues subject to the board’s resolution cannot be present at the board meeting, as per Article 27(2) of the Articles of Incorporation of KOTRA. category name position appointment procedure Appointed by Jaehong Kim President and Chairman of the Board the President of Korea Tae-Sik Lee Senior Executive Vice President, Management Support Standing Seokgi Seon Executive Vice President, SMEs Support Directors Appointed by Doo-young Kim Executive Vice President, Strategic Marketing the President of Korea Won-suk Yoon Executive Vice President, Business Information & Trade Kwang-young Jeong Chairman of China Headquarters Director General for Trade, the Ministry of Trade, Jin-Kyu Park Position of the Ex-officio Industry & Energy Young-Pil Kang Director, Jeju Journalists Club Kwang-keun Lee Advisor of Sang Hyun Industries Co, Ltd. Recommended by the Non-standing Executive Nomination Chan-Kyu Park Chairman of SJ Co., Ltd. Directors Committee Sang-Baek Kang Former auditor, Aju Capital Co., Ltd. → Appointed by the Visiting professor, Graduate School of Business, Minister of Commerce, Jong-Rae Kim Industry and Energy Chungnam National Univ. Young Lee CEO of Teruten Appointed by Auditor Jin-Eok Kim Auditor the President of Korea President of Invest Yong-Kook Kim Head of Invest KOREA KOREA Operation of the Board The board regularly meets to discuss important matters that affect KOTRA’s operations. The board also operates subcommittees in accordance with Article 12 of the Rules of the Board to enhance efficiency in the board’s activities. Each subcommittee is made up of three directors including non-standing directors, and the chairman of the subcommittee is appointed from among non-standing directors. The Executive Nomination Committee, Clean KOTRA Committee, Service Commission Review Committee, and Financial Operation Committee are operated, and experts from each field participate in subcommittee meetings to discuss issues of key concern. Important outcomes of board meetings or Executive Nomination Committee meetings are published on the website so that they can be shared with stakeholders. executive nomination committee As a public institution, KOTRA appoints its executives and directors through a fair process in accordance with its purpose of establishment and laws. The Executive Nomination Committee is responsible for looking for candidates, setting the evaluation criteria, evaluating candidates, and determining the executive candidates. The committee is composed of individuals who represent different fields from among non-standing members and board members. 64 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report Board’s performance and Remuneration The board of directors deliberates and makes decisions on corporate goals, budget, funding and financial management plans, and other important matters. In order for the board to convene a meeting, the auditors or president should raise issues 12 days prior to the meeting; the head of the Planning and Coordination Office collects agenda items to be discussed and submitted to the president for approval, and the agenda is finally presented to the board for discussion and resolution. Regarding the publication of the sustainability management report, the head of the Planning and Coordination Office and the head of the business administration team review and approve the process, content of the report, and indicators. category 2014 2015 2016 No. of BOD meetings (meeting) 13 16 14 No. of agenda items (case) 23 30 22 No. of modified decisions (case, %) 2 (9%) 3 (10%) 3 (14%) Attendance ratio of standing directors (%)* 90 92.3 88.6 Attendance ratio of non-standing directors (%)* 91.7 94.9 91.4 * Excludes ex-officio non-standing director: The ex-officio non-standing director attended 4 out of a total of 14 meetings in 2016 due to sluggish exports. evaluation of the Board’s performance The board’s activities and performance are assessed by 3 major monitoring indicators the board’s composition, activity, and professionalism and 10 measurable sub-indicators. category monitoring indicators sub-indicators (measurable) Weight (%) •Ratio of non-standing directors and neutral appointments, Composition Is the board operated independently? diversity in non-standing directors’ professional expertise 30 of the Board •Board’s independence as the top decision-making body •Measurable data such as no. of meetings held, attendance Is the board active? Are non-standing rate of non-standing directors, ratio of appropriate agenda Activity directors actively involved in the board’s items handled by the board, no. of opinions expressed per 60 activities? item, etc. •Measurable degree of non-standing directors’ participation •How often do advisory committees on different fields Are non-standing directors allowed to meet compared to general board meetings? Professionalism use their professional expertise in the 10 •Are the roles and responsibilities of the board adequately board? divided and allocated? transparency in Remuneration KOTRA proposes a revised remuneration policy based on internal revision demands and advice from outside professional institutions and gathers opinions from related stakeholders including the union and the government before finally determining the remuneration plan. The remuneration for executives and board members is paid transparently and fairly according to the rules of compensation. Executive remuneration is made up of the basic annual wage and bonus, which are adjusted at the beginning of each year according to the guidelines of the government. Bonuses paid to executives are determined based on the yearly business performance of the organization. The bonus for the president is determined according to the contract, and auditors are paid bonuses according to the performance evaluation for standing auditors. The president determines the bonus paid to standing directors, but no bonus is paid to non-standing directors. The average remuneration paid to executives in 2016 was 163,228,000 won, and employees were paid 77,380,000 won on average. The average annual wage of executives was approximately 2.1 times as much as the average annual wage of employees. The average wage paid to employees, which is determined through labor-management negotiations, increased by 817,000 won from 2015, and executives were paid 5,462,000 won more compared to 2015. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 65 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Risk management enterprise Risk management KOTRA has in place an enterprise risk management system that enables it to respond swiftly to rapidly changing circumstances including changes in both internal and external environments and expanding internal businesses and networks. The risk response system is designed to cope with 5 major risk types disaster, finance, business, operation, security and 13 risk factors. Furthermore, risks are classified into 5 levels according to which the response process and manual are created. KOTRA operates a risk management unit headed by an executive. types of Risk Risk factors chief Risk manager (cRO) Uprising, kidnapping, human Disaster casualties, diseases, earthquakes, Department in Charge of Crisis Management (Planning and Coordination Office) fire Losses from changes in foreign disasters financial Risks Business Risks Operational Risks security Risks Finance exchange rate, reduction in government Operational Planning & Head Department of Operational Customer subsidies Support Office Coordination Office Each Business Division Support Office Strategy Office Rm Rm Rm Rm Rm Poor customer management, Business inadequate business management Mismanagement of conflicts, Operation supervision of employees’ services and conduct (misbehaviors of employees) domestic departments kBcs Security Leak of personal data, cyber terror Management Support / SME Support / Strategic Marketing / Business Information Support / Invest KOREA Overseas HQs Rm * Rm: Risk Manager internal check system KOTRA has built an internal check system based on risks specific to the organization as a component that completes its system of strategies for identifying, assessing, and responding to evolving risks. In particular, efforts are concentrated on enhancing professional competencies and independence of the internal check system and on taking all of the required follow-up actions on audit outcomes, thereby contributing to value creation for KOTRA. mission of to contribute to value creation for a global kOtRa audit analyze Risks analyze internal and external environments, government policies, characteristics of kOtRa’s businesses, and audit cases to list the risk factors identify Risks Risks from regular business management Risks from improper business management Risk factors how to phased control prevention and audit improvements to policies and systems Respond strategic Goals strengthen the increase improve the performance internal check activities of the of follow-up system internal check management strategic •Improve the internal check system to reflect KOTRA’s •Expand proactive and preventive efforts in line with •Deter recurrence of the same or similar problems by tasks unique characteristics better the implementation of the Anti-Graft Law imposing strict punishments •Enhance professionalism and independence of audit •Increase system-based checks and balances •Systematically monitor follow-up actions on audit •Strengthen auditors’ competencies •Increase efforts to prevent improper management outcomes providers (internal) standing auditor, non-standing directors, corruption prevention ofﬁcer, compliance ofﬁcer + (external) anti-corruption ombudsman, audit advisory group Regular check Regular audit, e-audit system, monitoring of corporate credit card use, operation of internal report channel, monitoring of employees’ conduct of duties activities 66 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report financial management KOTRA sets midand long-term financial management goals, manages performance according to financial management strategies, and revises and improves its financial management strategies based on feedback in order to respond better to economic slowdowns and uncertainties. In addition, KOTRA strives to increase the stability of its businesses and create new values by proactively identifying various risk situations. long-term Growth proﬁtability stability financial Sales : 4,811 billion won Financial independence : 23.3% Debt-equity ratio : 41.7% management Goals strategies securing a stable supply of funding expanding proﬁt-generating businesses maintaining ﬁnancial soundness • Secure budget by further solidifying • Expand profit-generating businesses • Continue with debt-free management KOTRA’s core businesses and • Increase revenues from businesses • Impose stronger control on efficient developing new businesses for jointly conducted with related budget execution export promotion organizations performance CRM-based evaluation of specific Internal evaluation on how much of ERP system-based monitoring of management and businesses, customers, and processes the profit goal has been reached major spending feedback financial stability Since the majority of KOTRA’s budget comes from government subsidies, KOTRA is restricted in conducting its businesses and executing its budget. Given these restrictions, KOTRA has established strategies to ensure long-term financial stability, with the aim of building the foundation for financial stability through debt-free management and asset expansion and of improving financial health through increased revenues and efficient expenditure management. strategies for ensuring long-term financial stability financial debt Continue with debt-free tangible & intangible assets Raise asset management, maintain zero financial debt value through optimized management by debt non-financial debt Prevent debt from assets asset type accruing by effectively managing noncapital Create a capital buffer to cope financial debt with financial risks by increasing capital state Budget Continue efforts to secure Budget allocation Allocate budget funds from government budget, despite the efficiently through stricter management of government’s reduction of subsidies business performances Revenues kOtRa’s Own Revenues Diversify revenues expenditure Risks Minimize foreign exchange losses through collaboration including increasing through close monitoring of foreign commissions for collaboration with other exchange movements organizations long-term financial management plan KOTRA has established long-term financial management strategies in order to cope proactively with the changing business environment and ensure mid-long term financial stability. implementation task 2017 ~ 2018 2019 ~ 2020 2021 ~ Create a system to enable • Support for SMEs to develop new engines of export • Continue providing integrated support for trade • Play a leading role in promoting comprehensive KOTRA to respond proactively growth and investment and long-term economic cooperation with strategic to the changing business • Promote trade and investment projects that create • Enhance KOTRA’s role as a comprehensive markets environment jobs platform to support companies’ entry into the • Correct the imbalance in the makeup of export global value chain better and create an ecosystem items by diversifying the export portfolio and conducive for SME’s growth manage mid-long term trade risks Ensure financial stability • Continue debt-free management, prevent • Expand tangible and intangible assets • Improve financial stability by increasing net profit incurrence of debt • Increase capital and decreasing the debt-equity ratio • Asset management by asset type • Continue developing new revenue sources • Expand sales • Manage budget expenditures efficiently 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 67 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea information security information security management system Nowadays, cyber terrors and hacking incidents are becoming sophisticated, mainly targeting institutions that handle highvalue information. In addition, there are an increasing number of attempts to break into the internal network and steal information; as a result, creating and operating a solid system of information security management are emerging as a major concern. KOTRA does its best to keep its business information and customer data safe so as to remain a reliable institute. Objective ensuring the security of business information and enhancing public trust by strengthening information security changes to the Nowadays, cyber terrors are targeting Recently, KOTRA has been subject to a environment External specific institutions and becoming Internal growing number of hacking attempts and sophisticated attempted leaks of information through email direction for Raise the level of information Zero-defect response to create an advanced, more improvement security cyber terrors sophisticated information security management system implementation • Get the management involved to • Implement strict preventive • Conduct a comprehensive check tasks increase accountability measures and responses on information security and take • Promote the internalization of • Improve the capability to respond actions to address vulnerabilities information security to hacking emails • Have the information security • Take follow-up actions on the • Create a new wireless response system certified by the government outcomes of the information system • Strengthen the personal security evaluation by the information management system National Intelligence Service (NIS) Raising the level of information security In an effort to hold the management more accountable for information security, the guidelines for information security were revised in 2016 to appoint a vice president as Chief Information Security Officer and specifically stipulate the mission and roles of the officer. In addition, the vice president is empowered to convene and preside over a meeting when major issues of information security arise and decisions need to be made, and the key executives and employees involved should be able to share information prior to the meeting. Furthermore, non-permanent employees as well as permanent employees are required to receive compulsory education on information security, with the latest issues on cyber threats and information security shared with all employees on a monthly basis as part of efforts to internalize information security. As a result, KOTRA’s score in the 2016 information security evaluation by the National Intelligence Service (NIS) rose by 7.29 points to 77.95, particularly in recognition of the prompt follow-up actions taken by KOTRA following the results of the previous evaluation. Follow-up Actions and Outcomes in Connection with the 2016 NIS Evaluation on Information manual system cctv software follow-up Manuals have been revised Access by unauthorized Restrictions on access to Newly installed a regular actions to reflect the changes in the employees to the internal CCTV have been tightened to patch process for the information security environment system is completely ensure that only authorized Internet, PCs, and software including growing cyber terrors blocked employees access it and separation of networks Outcomes Promptly respond to cyber Prevent leaks of CCTV Eliminate software Protect internal data terrors recordings weaknesses 68 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report Zero-defect Response to cyber terrors As part of an advanced cyber terror response system that it is building, KOTRA created a system to defend against hacking attempts from outside and enhanced its capability to cope with hacking emails while strengthening its ability to deal with wireless hacking. defend against hacking enhance capability to cope with Respond to Wireless (Wi-fi) attempts hacking emails hacking attempts changing A total of 340 hacking attempts targeted Recurring information leaks through Nowadays, cyber terror is diversifying environment KOTRA in 2016, making it No. 1 among email and infection attempts using its attacking routes including wireless MOCIE-affiliated organizations malignant codes routes as well as wired Government The National Cyber Security Center The government demands that KOTRA NIS recommends creating a system policy demands thorough responses to rapidly and other government agencies continue designed to cope exclusively with growing cyber attacks to increase their ability to respond to wireless cyber terrors hacking emails Responses Make all-out efforts to ensure information Introduce an advanced training Establish a separate system to cope security in response to rapidly growing program to enhance employees’ ability exclusively with wireless cyber terrors hacking attempts to respond to hacking emails advancement of information security management system A team of internal and external experts examined KOTRA’s information security management system and identified areas for improvement. KOTRA took follow-up actions to make the required improvements. An examination of the information system revealed 15 vulnerable areas, and KOTRA addressed the issues by taking the necessary actions including tightening the monitoring of by whom and how the system is used. A mock website-hacking event identified 18 vulnerable areas including technical and administrative weaknesses and vulnerability with source code security. As a result of its efforts to strengthen its information security management system, KOTRA acquired the Information Security Management System (ISMS) certification in 2016. security check on the information system mock-hacking action plan The information system was examined for technical and Mock cyber security drills that closely resemble authentic administrative issues according to 104 checkpoints hacking incidents were conducted on KOTRA’s 17 websites, Established phased action plans according to priority, published by the government, and a total of 15 and a total of 18 weaknesses were found including based on the analysis of information assets under vulnerabilities were found. vulnerability to website falsification and alteration. management and their relative importance. personal information management prevention of personal information leaks system (unit: points) KOTRA encrypted sensitive information such as SMEs’ export data in addition to important personal information ●Average of public institutions (grade) whose encryption is legally required. Personal information stored in employees’ PCs is regularly monitored, and ●KOTRA (grade) how employees manage personal information constitutes part of employees’ performance evaluation in order to ensure that all employees manage personal information properly. In addition, KOTRA promptly worked on areas for improvement that were listed in the personal information management assessment conducted by the Ministry of the Interior in 2015. KOTRA was recognized for its aggressive efforts toward better management of personal information in the 2016 information security evaluation where KOTRA scored 95.6 points. Particularly noteworthy is the fact that 87.5 (Good) 83.5 (Good) KOTRA maintained the highest grade (“excellent”) when the average score for all public institutions included in the 94.9 (Excellent) 95.6 (excellent) evaluation dropped. 2015 2016 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 69 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Results of sustainability management summary of financial performance (summary of financial statements) (unit: won) category 55th period (current) 54th period 53rd period assets Current assets 61,967,676,996 67,550,465,382 90,990,578,441 Cash and cash equivalents 47,368,759,179 33,407,378,973 36,008,984,399 Current financial assets 856,112,000 23,896,319,000 21,903,521,500 Trade and other receivables 1,448,002,519 746,445,502 755,054,053 Current income tax assets 21,548,523 327,887,677 269,440,143 Current non-financial assets 12,273,254,775 9,172,434,230 32,053,578,346 non-current assets 122,543,496,215 117,884,659,000 79,104,355,359 Non-current financial assets 5,675,090,000 5,498,509,000 5,385,981,242 Long-term trade and other receivables 39,436,091,623 40,074,396,300 9,263,017,896 Tangible assets 15,230,291,012 16,317,422,105 15,208,737,973 Real estate investments 2,284,503,843 2,321,357,683 2,430,977,374 Intangible assets other than goodwill 5,903,452,798 5,933,388,841 4,427,870,846 Investments in associates and joint 53,900,635,944 47,451,085,866 42,337,165,177 ventures Non-current, non-financial assets 113,430,995 288,499,205 50,604,851 Total assets 184,511,173,211 185,435,124,382 170,094,933,800 Liabilities Current liabilities 43,616,772,571 47,421,377,641 40,556,306,416 Trade and other payables 15,670,663,339 15,166,921,158 10,723,830,404 Current non-financial liabilities 11,367,920,294 15,466,661,248 13,590,228,175 Liquidity provisions 16,578,188,938 16,787,795,235 16,242,247,837 non-current liabilities 12,349,047,159 10,443,228,757 9,062,407,309 Long-term trade and other payables 694,466,389 822,816,996 819,751,846 Non-current non-financial liabilities 903,738,968 488,562,480 425,467,403 Provisions for employee benefits 10,750,841,802 9,131,849,281 7,817,188,060 Total liabilities 55,965,819,730 57,864,606,398 49,618,713,725 Capital Paid-in capital 50,000,000,000 50,000,000,000 50,000,000,000 Retained earnings 76,660,270,580 75,670,036,607 68,575,738,698 Other components of equity 1,885,082,901 1,900,481,377 1,900,481,377 Total capital 128,545,353,481 127,570,517,984 120,476,220,075 Total liabilities and capital 184,511,173,211 185,435,124,382 170,094,933,800 ※The 2014 Financial Statements have been revised according to the new accounting rules of 2015 including classifying as contra-cash “balance from government subsidy” previously carried as “accrued payables.” 70 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report financial performance (summary of comprehensive income statement) (unit: won) category 55th period (current) 54th period 53rd period Sales 408,028,336,401 361,265,216,517 342,257,088,836 Revenue from rendering of services 78,258,999,380 74,028,939,451 65,106,740,415 Transfer earning (sales) 326,614,240,154 284,480,293,996 275,413,044,267 Other revenues (sales) 3,155,096,867 2,755,983,070 1,737,304,154 Cost of sales 281,817,210,524 241,074,831,247 226,944,302,219 Cost of sales on revenue from rendering of 279,311,584,131 238,555,813,674 224,679,332,266 services Cost of sales on other revenues 2,505,626,393 2,519,017,573 2,264,969,953 Gross proﬁt 126,211,125,877 120,190,385,270 115,312,786,617 Selling and administrative expenses 130,831,512,932 119,662,284,961 108,830,530,587 Labor cost 114,749,500,329 104,516,657,802 94,472,388,721 Other expenses 16,082,012,603 15,145,627,159 14,358,141,866 Operating income (4,620,387,055) 528,100,309 6,482,256,030 Other income 5,727,478,232 5,727,478,232 5,727,478,232 Government subsidies 5,727,478,232 5,727,478,232 5,727,478,232 Other expenses 34,556,242 34,564,128 34,820,869 Depreciation expense on investment property 34,556,242 34,564,128 34,820,869 Other proﬁt (loss) 1,002,921,668 3,554,479,096 3,418,268,087 Gain on disposal of property, plant, and 62,008,677 107,587,907 1,599,830,359 equipment Gains on foreign exchange translations 365,886,847 1,368,265,003 281,490,792 Gains on foreign exchange transactions 522,099,203 568,358,931 499,114,578 Other gains 1,928,021,615 2,137,993,382 1,648,908,174 Losses from disposal of property, plant, and (27,793,080) (36,563,934) (22,959,380) equipment Losses on foreign exchange translations (1,254,476,557) (66,979,595) (252,612,584) Losses on foreign exchange transactions (592,825,037) (524,182,598) (335,503,852) Financial income 117,850,072 2,242,871,410 2,013,128,403 Interest income 117,850,072 2,242,871,410 2,013,128,403 Gains (losses) from associates and joint ventures 736,012,198 (398,884,208) (719,032,614) Gains on evaluation of associates and joint 736,012,198 49,481,801 394,414,764 ventures Losses on evaluation of associates and joint -ㅤ (448,366,009) (1,113,447,378) ventures Gross proﬁt 2,929,318,873 11,619,480,711 16,887,277,269 Income tax expense -ㅤ net proﬁt 2,929,318,873 11,619,480,711 16,887,277,269 Other comprehensive income 2,086,737,384 589,973,478 (3,986,464,067) Other comprehensive income that may not be 2,102,135,860 589,973,478 (3,986,464,067) reclassified subsequently into profit or loss Other comprehensive income that may be (15,398,476) -ㅤ -ㅤ reclassified subsequently into profit or loss total comprehensive income 5,016,056,257 12,209,454,189 12,900,813,202 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 71 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Results of sustainability management economic and Business performance category unit 2014 2015 2016 annuities Amount under management (DB) million won 24,343 26,866 31,294 No. of annuity holders (DB) persons 534 607 691 No. of beneficiaries (DC) persons 290 275 266 Ratio of wages paid to new employees Minimum legal wage 1,000 won 13,067 13,995 15,124 Wages paid to new employees 1,000 won 29,826 31,547 32,399 Wages paid to Male 1,000 won 30,748 32,511 33,388 new employees Female 1,000 won 28,904 30,584 31,410 distribution of economic value category major activities unit 2014 2015 2016 Shareholders Dividends won 5,115,156,280 4,041,220,760 1,039,908,190 Procurements and Suppliers won 2,289,645,196 2,322,761,071 2,525,601,156 outsourcing cost Corporate tax payments, Government won 2,071,837,686 2,110,958,589 2,050,917,640 other taxes and dues Financial donations, cost Local of social contribution won 91,882,300 45,151,000 communities programs environmental performance category unit 2014 2015 2016 use of recycled ingredients and materials Paper million won 20 12 21 Ratio of recycled paper use % 100% 100% 93.3% Water use and water reuse rate* Water use (ground water) ton 10,823 10,339 12,258 Water use (water supply system) ton 15,047 16,287 17,991 Total annual water use ton 25,870 26,626 30,249 Reused water ton 1,310 1,320 1,595 Water reuse rate % 12% 13% 13% Direct & indirect GHG emissions Total tCO2eq 564 530 518 Direct GHG emissions (stationary combustion-city gas) tCO2eq 384 381 369 Scope 1 Direct GHG emissions (mobile combustion-gasoline) tCO2eq 155 121 120 Direct GHG emissions (mobile combustion-diesel) tCO2eq 25 28 29 Total tCO2eq 2,490 2,599 2,664 Scope 2 Indirect GHG emissions (electricity) tCO2eq 2,490 2,599 2,664 72 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report category unit 2014 2015 2016 expenses and investments for environmental protection Sewer charges million won 24 26 29 Sewer treatment cost(wastewater purification cost and million won 18 16 23 general waste treatment cost) Procurements of environment-friendly products million won 602 674 547 Total amount of procurements 668 730 576 Ratio of environment-friendly products purchased % 90.1% 92.3% 94.9% * Wastewater use can be monitored through water meters; ground water was used as the denominator to calculate the water reuse rate. * KOTRA manages its environmental indicators including GHG emissions according to the government recommendations. social performance category unit 2014 2015 2016 employment and turnover Male person 21 44 55 Female person 34 29 39 New employment Locally recruited employees person 5 11 12 Science & engineering majors person 7 17 14 Non-permanent employees person 14 15 20 Male % 3.8 3 1.8 Turnover rate Female % 3.9 4.4 2.9 employee makeup Total person 7 7 7 Executives Male person 7 7 7 Female person Total person 54 59 57 Level 1 Male person 53 58 56 Female person 1 1 1 Total person 153 160 165 Position Level 2 Male person 146 152 154 (permanent) Female person 7 8 11 Total person 150 154 158 Level 3 Male person 132 128 127 Female person 18 26 31 Total person 321 368 499 Levels 4, 5, and 6 Male person 194 220 266 Female person 127 148 233 Total person 685 748 886 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 73 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Results of sustainability management category unit 2014 2015 2016 Gender Male person 532 565 610 (permanent) Female person 153 183 276 Region Domestic person 345 400 529 (permanent) Overseas person 340 348 357 35 and below person 223 271 330 Age 36~45 person 224 241 287 (permanent) 46~55 person 206 192 221 56 and older person 32 44 48 Total person 7 7 7 Executives Male person 7 7 7 Female person Total person 678 741 803 Trade & specialized Function Male person 525 558 588 functions (permanent + Female person 153 183 215 non-permaTotal person 128 135 62 nent) Special services Male person 46 47 34 Female person 82 88 28 Total person 79 79 76 Administrative Male person 15 15 15 Female person 64 64 61 Total person 685 748 886 Permanent Male person 532 565 610 Female person 153 183 276 Total person 6 18 62 Employment Indefinite-term contract Male person 4 9 34 type positions Female person 2 9 28 (permanent + non-permaTotal person 43 38 nent) Contract positions* Male person 27 23 Female person 16 15 Total person 74 17 20 Non-permanent Male person 57 13 7 Female person 17 4 13 person 30 31 31 Employment Disabled employees % 2.7 3.2 3.0 of members 153 183 276 of socially Female employees disadvantaged % 22.3 24.5 31.2 classes person 36 34 45 Patriots and veterans % 5.3 4.5 5.0 Total person 30 33 37 Employees who have Male person 2 4 taken a leave Female person 28 33 33 Employees who returned Total person 15 17 22 to work after taking a Male person 2 3 Childbirth leave Female person 13 17 19 and childcare Employees who have Total person 14 13 17 leave worked for 12 months or Male person 1 longer after returning to work following a leave Female person 14 12 17 Total % 93 87 100 Employees working for Male % 50 12 months or longer Female % 92 100 * Contract positions were integrated into indefinite-term contract employees in 2016. 74 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report category unit 2014 2015 2016 employee education Total number of employees who have received education person 839 857 948 Total education cost 1,000 won 1,850,400 2,502,000 2,348,065 Total number of education sessions session 790 763 940 Total hours of education hour 185,040 230,060 165,291 Education cost per employee won/person 2,205,483 2,919,487 2,476,862 Total hour/person 221 268 174 Male hour/person 223 268 177 Gender Hours of education Female hour/person 216 271 170 per employee Executives hour/person 58 45 43 Position 1, 2 hour/person 252 307 203 Level 3 or lower hour/person 212 258 167 Hours of foreign language education per person hour/person 72 58 52 Ethics management Executives person 5 6 6 Education on ethics Domestic person 501 management Employees 806 835 Overseas person 359 Corruption risk No. of business locations assessed locations 39 34 40 assessment by business location Ratio of business locations assessed % 30 25 29 Sharing ethics code No. of business partners organization 35 33 33 with business partners Ratio of sharing % 100 100 100 Corruption cases and actions taken Confirmed cases of corruption case 1 Employees Disciplinary actions action 1 Human rights education Employees who have received education on sexual harassment person 6 6 7 No. of sexual harassment education sessions case 896 935 948 Unionized employees and employees covered by collective bargaining No. of employees eligible to join the labor union and person 537 633 763 collective bargaining No. of unionized employees person 438 506 539 Ratio of unionized employees % 81.6 79.9 70.6 Grievance settlement Labor-Management Joint Grievances reported and case 7 10 Grievance Settlement Center settled EAP (employee assistance Employees on EAP person 23 17 54 program) No. of inquiries inquiry 144 139 115 Grievance report center for Grievances reported and grievance 7 special customers settled Clean KOTRA center Reports received and handled report 15 12 13 Customer satisfaction survey Customer satisfaction Head office point 97.3 95.6 94.1 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 75 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea Results of sustainability management category unit 2014 2015 2016 Injuries and diseases Accident Total per million hours 0.67 injury rate Gender Male per million hours 0.89 Female per million hours Position Level Executives per million hours 1, 2 per million hours 3 or below per million hours 0.96 Region Domestic per million hours Overseas per million hours 0.14 Rate of Total per million hours 0.57 occupational diseases Gender Male per million hours 0.83 Female per million hours Position level Executives per million hours 1, 2 per million hours 0.23 3 or below per million hours Region Domestic per million hours -.96 Overseas per million hours Rate of days Total % 0.00015 0.00019 off taken Gender Male % 0.0002 0.0028 Female % Position level Executives % 1, 2 % 0.00077 3 or below % 0.00022 Region Domestic % 0.00032 Overseas % 0.00032 Absence Total % 0.26 0.38 0.5 rate Gender Male % 0.08 0.19 0.28 Female % 0.87 0.96 0.98 Position level Executives % 1, 2 % 0.12 0.1 0.2 3 or below % 0.32 0.5 0.6 Region Domestic % 0.41 0.65 0.77 Overseas % 0.11 0.07 0.09 No. of Total person 1 work-related fatalities Gender Male person 1 Female person Position level Executives person 1, 2 person 1 3 or below person Region Domestic person 1 Overseas person 76 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report GRi standards index GRi standaRds univeRsal standaRds (GRi 100) Topic no. Title Reporting Status Report Pages external assurance GRI 101 : Foundation 102-1 Name of the organization ● 6 √ 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services ● 7 √ 102-3 Location of headquarters ● 6 √ 102-4 Location of operations ● 8~9 √ 102-5 Ownership and legal form ● 6 √ 102-6 Markets served ● 7~9 √ GRI 102 : Organizational Profile 102-7 Scale of the organization ● 6 √ 102-8 Information on employees and other workers ● 6, 73~74 √ 102-9 Supply chain ● 7 √ 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain ● 6~7 √ 102-11 Precautionary principles and approach ● 66~67 √ 102-12 External initiatives ● 13 √ 102-13 Membership of associations ● 84 √ 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker ● 2~3 √ GRI 102 : Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities ● 2~3 √ 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior ● 48 √ GRI 102 : Ethics and integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics ● 48 √ 102-18 Governance structure ● 64~65 √ 102-19 Delegating authority ● 64~65 √ 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics ● 64~65 √ 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics ● 64~65 √ 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees ● 64~65 √ 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body ● 64~65 √ 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body ● 64~65 √ 102-25 Conflicts of interest ● 64~65 √ 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy ● 64~65 √ 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body ● 64~65 √ 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance ● 64~65 √ GRI 102 : Governance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts ● 64~65 √ 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes ● 64~65 √ 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics ● 64~65 √ 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting ● 64~65 √ 102-33 Communicating critical concerns ● 64~65 √ 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns ● 64~65 √ 102-35 Remuneration policies ● 64~65 √ 102-36 Process for determining remuneration ● 64~65 √ 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration ● 64~65 √ 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio ● 64~65 √ 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio ● 64~65 √ 102-40 List of stakeholder groups ● 10~11 √ 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements ● 10~11 √ GRI 102 : Stakeholder Engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders ● 10~11 √ 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement ● 10~11 √ 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised ● 10~11 √ Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Disclosure 102-46 102-45 ● 0 √ Defining report content and topic Boundaries 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries ● 16~17 √ 102-47 List of material topics ● 16~17 √ 102-48 Restatements of information ● 0 √ 102-49 Changes in reporting ● 0 √ GRI 102 : Reporting practice 102-50 Reporting period ● 0 √ 102-51 Date of most recent report ● 0 √ 102-52 Reporting cycle ● 0 √ 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report ● 0 √ 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards ● 0 √ 102-55 GRI Index ● 77~79 √ 102-56 External assurance ● 80~81 √ 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 77 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea GRi standards index GRi standaRds_ecOnOmic peRfORmance (GRi 200) Reporting external Topic no. Title Report Pages note Status assurance GRI 201 : Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ● 70~72 √ Performance 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans ● 72 √ 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage ● 72 √ GRI 202 : Market Presence 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported ● 72 √ 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts ● 72 √ GRI 203 : Indirect Economic 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers ● 72 √ Impacts GRI 205 : Anti-corruption 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary. ● 58 √ GRI 103 : 103-2 The management approach and its components ● 58 √ Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ● 58 √ 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption ● 59~61, 75 √ GRI 205 : 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies ● 59~61, 75 √ Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ● 59~61, 75 √ GRi standaRds enviROnmental peRfORmance (GRi 300) Reporting Reporting external Topic no. Title note Status Pages assurance GRI : 301 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 73 √ Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used. ● 73 √ GRI : 303 303-1 Water withdrawal by source ● 73 √ Water 303-3 Water recycled and reused ● 73 √ GRI : 305 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions ● 73 √ Emissions 305-2 Indirect GHG (Scope 2 GHG emissions ● 73 √ KOTRA has not been found nonGRI : 307 compliant with environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations ● N/A √ Environmental Compliance laws or regulations, or subject to any administrative measures GRi standaRds sOcial peRfORmance (GRi 400) Reporting external Topic no. Title Report Pages note Status assurance 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover ● 73 √ GRI 401 : Employment 401-3 Parental leave ● 74 √ GRI 402 : Labor/Management Relations 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ● 44 √ GRI 103 : 103-2 The management approach and its components ● 44 √ Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ● 44 √ GRI 402 : Labor/Management 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes ● 45, 47 √ Relations Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety GRI 403 : 403-1 ● 75 √ committees. Occupational Health and Safety Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 403-2 ● 76 √ and number of work-related fatalities 78 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report Reporting external Topic no. Title Report Page note Status assurance GRI 404: Training and Education 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ● 44 √ GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its components ● 44 √ Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of management approach ● 44 √ 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee ● 46, 75 √ GRI 404: 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs ● 46, 75 √ Training and Education 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development .. ● 46, 75 √ GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees ● 74 √ Opportunity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men ● 72 √ GRI 406 : 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ● 75 √ Non-Discrimination GRI 408 : Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor. ● 61 √ GRI 409 : Operations and suppliers identified at significant risk for incidents of forced or 409-1 ● 61 √ Forced or Compulsory Labor compulsory labor GRI 411 : 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples ● 61 √ Rights of Indigenous Peoples GRI 412 : Human Rights Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ● 58 √ GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its components ● 58 √ Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of management approach ● 58 √ 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments ● 59~61, 75 √ GRI 412 : 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures ● 59~61, 75 √ Human Rights Assessment 412-3 Human Rights Assessment sets out reporting requirements on the topic. ● 59~61, 75 √ GRI 413 : Local Communities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ● 44 √ GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its components ● 44 √ Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of management approach ● 44 √ Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, development GRI 413 : 413-1 ● 49~55 √ programs Local Communities 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities. ● 49~55 √ GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ● 36 √ GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its components ● 36 √ Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of management approach ● 36 √ GRI 416: 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories ... ● 40~41 √ Customer Health and Safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety ● 40~41 √ GRI 418: Substantiated complaints regarding concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses 418-1 ● 68~69 √ Customer Privacy of customer data 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 79 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea third-party assurance to the Readers of 2016 kOtRa sustainability & human Rights management Report: foreword Korea Management Registrar Inc.(hereinafter “KMR”) has been requested by of Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency(hereinafter “KOTRA”) to verify the contents of its 2016 Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report(hereinafter “the Report”). KOTRA is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. KMR’s responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below. scope and standard KOTRA describes its efforts and achievements of the corporate social responsibility activities in the Report. KMR performed a Type 2, moderate level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) as an assurance standard. KMR’s assurance team(hereinafter “the team”) evaluated the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected GRI Standards indices as below, where professional judgment of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. ● GRI Standard Reporting Principles ● General Disclosures ● Generic DMA of each of following material Indicators of Aspects Anti-corruption: 205-1, 205-2, 205-3 Labor/Management Relations: 402-1 Training and Education: 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 Human Rights Assessment: 412-1, 412-2, 412-3 Local Communities: 413-1, 413-2 Customer Health and Safety: 416-1, 416-2 This Report excludes data and information of joint corporate, contractor etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. KOTRA, among report boundaries. Our approach In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the team has carried out an assurance engagement as follows: ● Reviewed overall report ● Reviewed materiality test process and methodology ● Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets ● Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities ● Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report Our conclusion Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with KOTRA on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the verification scope is not presented appropriately. 80 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report ● Inclusivity Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. KOTRA is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder KOTRA left out during this procedure. ● Materiality Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. KOTRA is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. ● Responsiveness Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any evidence that KOTRA’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Comprehensive Option’ of GRI Standards. Recommendation for improvement KMR recommends that (or we hope) the report published by KOTRA will be actively used as a tool for stakeholder communication and continuous improvement. ● Improve the completeness of the report: Most of the KOTRA reports are being reported as in quantitative data, however some nonfinancial indicators are being reported qualitatively. It is recommended to improve the completeness of the report through the selection, editing and quantification of more consistent information to help your readers to understand better in the future. ● Improve the reliability of information management systems: KOTRA has already developed and used guidelines on how to select and collect sustainability data. To keep the system specificity and clarity, it is recommended to regularly improve the guidelines to continually improve the quality and reliability of the data. Our independence KMR has no involvement in KOTRA business activities other than providing third party assurance services and maintains independence to avoid conflicts of interest. April, 2017 000-129 CEO Ki Ho Park 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 81 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea unGc & isO 26000 un Global compact (advanced level) KOTRA has joined the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative; it abides by ten principles in four areas: human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. The UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) was further refined to an advanced level in order to encourage corporations to fulfill their social responsibilities and engage in dialogue with stakeholders. This report contains KOTRA’s efforts to meet the 21 criteria at the advanced level. Preparing a COP at the advanced level means voluntary declaration and disclosure of having implemented and disclosed a sustainability governance and management process based on the blueprint for corporate sustainability leadership and UN Global Compact management model in presenting the results of sustainability management performance. nO. summary of criteria Report pages 1 Organization’s roles and business units 6~9 2 Implementation of UN Global Compact principles within the value chain 7, 10~11 3 Strong will, strategies or policies for protecting human rights 58 4 Effective management system to integrate the principles of human rights 59~61 5 Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism of principles of human rights 59~61 6 Strong will, strategies or policies for labor issues 44, 58 7 Effective management system to integrate the labor principles 45, 47, 59~61 45, 47, 8 Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism of labor principles 59~61, 73~76 9 Strong will, strategies or policies for environment management 73 10 Effective management system to integrate the principles of environment management 73 11 Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism of principles of environment management 73 12 Strong will, strategies or policies for anti-corruption 48 13 Effective management system to integrate the principles of anti-corruption 48 14 Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism of the principles of anti-corruption 48, 75 15 Contribution of core businesses to promoting the UN goals and issues 15, 82 16 Strategic social investments and social contribution activities (charitable work) 50~55, 72 17 Support for policies and involvement in public policies 15, 82, 83 18 Partnerships and collaborations 42~43 19 CEO statement and leadership 2~3 20 Explanation of decision-making process and governance structure for corporate sustainability 64~65 21 Description of engagement of all key stakeholders 10~11 82 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report isO 26000 ISO 26000 is a global initiative providing guidelines for CSR under seven core subjects: governance, human rights, labor practices, environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development. KOTRA’s progress in fulfilling social responsibility in the seven key topics can be viewed below. core subjects key issues Report pages Organizational Decision-making process and structure 64~65 Governance Due diligence Human rights risk situations Avoidance of complicity Resolving grievances Human Rights 58~61 Discrimination and vulnerable groups Civil and political rights Economic, social, and cultural rights Fundamental principles and rights at work Employment and employment relationships Conditions of work and social protection Labor Practices Social dialogue / Health and safety at work 45~47, 74~76 Human development and training in the workplace Human capital development and training in the workplace Prevention of pollution Sustainable resource use Environment 73 Climate change mitigation and adaptation Protection of the environment, restoration of natural habitats Anti-corruption Responsible political involvement Fair Operating Fair competition 42~43, 48, 75 Practices Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Respect for property rights Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information, and fair contractual practices Protecting consumers’ health and safety Sustainable consumption Consumer Issues Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolu37~41, 75 tion Consumer data protection and privacy Access to essential services Education and awareness Community involvement Education and culture Community Employment creation and skills development Involvement and Technology development and access 49~55, 73 Development Wealth and income creation Health Social investment 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 83 Global Business Platform that opens up the future of Korea awards, associations, and memberships awards title awarding Body date of award Certification for Excellent Labor-Management Relations Ministry of Employment and Labor July 2016 GWP 100 Best Places to Work for (grand prize) GPTW Korea December 2016 Korea Sustainability Index (MOCIE-quasi-government organizations category: 1st place) Korea Standards Association (KSA) July 2016 LACP Vision Awards (silver prize) LACP July 2016 Korea South-East Power Co. BEST Export Supporters KBC (institution category) Korea South-East Power Co. April 2016 Social Contribution Awards (global contribution category) Korea Chamber of Commerce/ Forbes September 2016 2016 Emergency Preparedness Drill Awards (Prime Minister’s Award) Ministry of Public Safety and Security November 2016 Seoul Southern District Employment and Work-Family Balance Awards (encouragement prize) December 2016 Labor Office Family-Friendly Corporation Certification Ministry of Gender Equality and Family December 2016 MOCIE/Korea Chamber of Commerce/ 23rd Corporate Innovation Awards (Prime Minister’s Award) November 2016 JoongAng Ilbo Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future 2016 Korea Mobile Awards (grand prize in the public sector) November 2016 Planning/Money Today 2016 GTI International Trade and Investment Expo (citation for contribution) Gangwon Provincial Government November 2016 Software Industry Protection Awards (Digital Times President’s Award) Korea Association of SW Groups November 2016 Labor-Management Culture Awards (Minister’s Award) Ministry of Employment and Labor December 2016 Web Award 2016 (best prize in public institutions, public services, and global services) i-Award Committee December 2016 associations and memberships Group major activities Korea International Trade Association Head Office and KGCs use the database on the association’s website all year round Korea Institute of Auditors KOTRA attends major forums hosted by the Institute and uses the forums to build a network with other related institutions Auditors Forum for the Advancement of Exchange information on audit performance, promote the innovative mindset, and network with other members Public Institutes Korea Society of Public Enterprises A channel for sharing information with other related institutions Korea Accounting Association Improve transparency in financial and budget management Korea Management Association Share information on training programs offered by different organizations Korean Red Cross Participate in settlement work Seoul Foreign Correspondents’ Club Hold FDI meetings for foreign correspondents working in Korea, invite influential foreign media to FDI meetings Collect information on HR and labor trends in foreign investment companies, host labor-management relations seminars jointly Korea HR Club with HR Club Submit an annual COP report on the implementation of ten core principles, publish the CEO statement of continued support for UN Global Compact the UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles Share quality information, network with quality experts, establish and publish a roadmap for the development of the state and Quality Leaders Forum industry Ethics Management SM Forum Share and spread models of ethics management, promote learning from benchmarking other organizations A forum where investment promotion organizations around the world gather together to express opinions and share WAPA information; 174 countries attend conferences regularly as members UFI Entitled to join top global expos and expos eligible for government subsidy 84 | 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report kOtRa’s previous sustainability / publications past Reports 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 publications (2016) cover story The icons on the surface of the globe symbolize KOTRA’s contribution to promoting the happiness of Korean people and the development of the human race through KOTRA’s dedicated support for global business. The globe with the icons expresses the image of KOTRA as a dynamic global player that is capable of coping with the different aspects of the global environment. 2016 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report | 85 06792) 13 Heolleung-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul, Korea (Yeomgok-dong 300-9) Phone: 82-1600-7119 www.kotra.or.kr This report is printed with soy ink on environment-friendly paper.
