OTHER NAME OF TASTE MEMİŞOĞLU TARIM ÜRÜNLERİ TİC. LTD. ŞTİ. Global Compact Report,2018 MEMİŞOĞLU GROUP Sustainability Report 1) About the report ………… Page 3 2) Message of the CEO ……. Page 4 3) Briefly Memişoğlu Group.. Page 5 4) Global Compact Report ….. Page 6 5) Progress / Development Report Page ..6 6) Principles of Human Rights Page 6 7) Principles of Labor Management… Page 7-11 8) Environmental Principles…………. ..Page 12 9) Combating with Malpractice ………Page 13 10) Targets, Success and New Projects….Page 14 About this Report;  This report is the second sustainability report prepared by the Memişoğlu Group. This report contains our business , experience and performance results from 1 January to 31 December 2017. It also shows our goals in 2018 and the following years.  The standards being implemented in the company are as follows; Memişoğlu Tarım Ürünleri Tic. Ltd. Şti. is one of the leading companies having ISO 9001 Quality Management System, ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System, ISO 27001 Information Security Management System and BRC rev 7 certificates. It also has got Certificates of Product Compliance of Turkish Standards. Our company, which accepts quality as a lifestyle, adhering to its customer portfolio has got the Halal Certificate, Kosher Certificate and has been implementing its requirements. Our Logistics Branch located in Memişoğlu Group has been certified with ISO 9001, ISO 22000 Management Systems as well as the certificate of sufficiency of American Organizations in our TATLOG Customs Cold Storage and Dry Product Storage facilities. 3 MESSAGE OF THE CEO For everlasting success, it is obligatory to constantly follow innovations, to use foresight and strategy as a tool. We make business to embrace the future. We are dedicated to serve for global social, environmental and economic welfare programmes. As Memişoğlu Group, we are committed and have social and economic conditions. The main target of the sector should be to guarantee high quality level as the competition conditions between the companies is so tough. Our company is proud of TAT brand as it is distributed and consumed worlwide as a reliable provider. We are succesfull because we develop sustainable systems to gain the predetermined goals. Reasearch and development actions are taken to solve technologic, maintenance, product and marketing needs. As being aware of human resources the main driver force, we search for and employ the qualified people, having liabilities and ethic values to enhance the business and human resources. Our business is to supply clean, healthy, functional and ecology friendly products to bring together TAT with consumers. Our company corresponds with the Global Compact responsibilities within its own passions. We are informing our partners about the Global Principles Contract articles. As publishing the yearly advance report in web site, we are transferring human rights, environmental responsibilities and code of ethics worldwide. We are proud of the rapid development of our company. CEO 4 Şerafettin Memiş BRIEFLY MEMİŞOĞLU GROUP  Its business segment is sifting, selection, cleaning, processing and packing of pulses, rice , bulgur and lentis.  Product range is rice, bulgur, lentils, beans, chickpeas, cranberry beans, peas, broad beans, popcorn and black eyed peas etc.  53 % of its sales capacity is domestic market and 37 % is foreign market. It is successful at both markets whenever focuses on it by the way of high capacity of purchasing power.  The group is composed of three companies employing totally 354 staff.  In terms of yearly sales and capacity level, it is the biggest Rice, Lentils, Bulgur and Pulses producer in Turkey.  It has got 45.000 m2 closed grains processing area, also has got many factories and stores in different cities, processing 2000 tonnes of high quality grains daily.  It has got a strong trade network as it has got 50 domestic distributers and exports to more than 80 countries worldwide.  It has developed by %18 on sales and got the turnover as 498 million TL.  It has successfully managed and been proceeding many heat energy and waste treatment scientific projects.  It is the legal supplier of United Nations Aid Organizations such as World Food Programme and UNRWA since year 2000.  It has got many quality certificates such as ISO 9001, ISO 22000, ISO 27001 showing the evidence of food safety, work safety and information security. 5 GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT RESPECT TO HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights are the fundamental rights and freedom that all people have to gain. Human rights have to be gained by all kind of people regardless of race, religion, political or other opinion, nationality, language and gender. Principle 1: Entreprises should support and respect human rights. Principle 2: Entreprises should take all necessary precautions to avoid human rights’ violation Commitment: As Memişoğlu Group, we do not discriminate against different race, color, sex, language, religion and political opinion in our business and also we support the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. We respect human rights because they are basic rights to live. We employ people from different races, nations, different education level and different professions. We are implementing management systems committing Quality, Work Safety, Environment and Social Responsibility and written in the TAT System Handbook. TAT Managment Policy commits taht the working condition conform with Türkish and international work regulations. All the employees are informed about the legal working rights. While work applications, staff is trained on the quality, environmetal, on the job, work safety, food safety programmes. Professional trainers are subcontracted and the company is audited by the third parties conforming the regulations. 6 GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Training Implementations:  Basic Occupational Health and Safety Trainings  Environmental Trainings: Environmental Concept and Environmental Pollution Results and First Aid Training  Emergency and Fire Extinguishing Trainings: Occupational Trainings and Vocational Trainings Quality  Management System Trainings  Hygiene Training Social Needs;  Measurement of Results: Job definitions are made and performance criteria are measured periodically.  Sustainable improvement of employee is followed by department managers. Actions are taken to improve the productivity of all staff by evaluating the effectiveness of the training. At the end of the year, a performance note is issued within the performance evaluation system. It is evaluated by senior management.  Female staff can be employed in every suitable part of our company. There is no gender discrimination. In addition, disabled personnel are employed above the legal obligatoy level. There are social needs rooms, showers and resting areas for the men and women working in production seperately. The attitude of the staff towards each other is observed by the department supervisors. In addition, facility and workers are monitored with the cameras by the managers. Our employees are recruited according to their abilities and career targets, are oriented between different departments. In cases such as marriage, military service, etc., our company is obliged to pay severance payments in case of leaving the work. 7 GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Measuring the Results; Memişoğlu Grup Staff Quantity Change : 2016-2017 Depending on the continously developing business volume , staff number is increasing steadily. 2016 2017 Women ; 65 61 Women 291 Men 2016; 280 8 GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT LABOR FORCE PRINCIPLES Principle 3:Company should give maximum importance to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Principle 4:Company should give max importance on preventing of all kinds of crude force and anger. Principle 5:Company should pay max attention to the abolition of child labor. Principle 6:Company should give max importance on eliminating discrimination on recruitment and employment Commitment: As Memişoğlu Group, we are committed not to force staff unintended work, crude attitude, not to employ child labor. Within our group companies, employment is supplied according to specific expertise, and we do not undertake any pressure on them. Method: In the Memişoğlu Group Organizational Handbook, there are job description for each employee. Staff reads and validates that he accepts to work for the occupation. There is no discrimination. he rights of those who work within the framework of the applicable labor law in our country are protected. We also have a complaint / recommendation box in our administrative building and are periodically evaluated by management. Events: Social Meetings , Participation in the Employment Fair Job announcements 9 GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT LABOR FORCE PRINCIPLES; Evaluation of the Results; Yearly Staff 2016 Staff 2017 Staff Increase % Number 348 388 11% 348 388 2016 2017 10 GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT LABOR FORCE EDUCATION LEVEL ; Evaluation of the Results; Educational Primary High School Univercity Master # Degree 234 110 30 14 30 14 Primary 110 High School 234 Univercity Master Degree 11 GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES; Principle 7: Companies should support a cautious approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Companies should take more responsibility actions to save the nature Principle 9: Companies should develop and support using environmetal preventive technologies. Commitment: Memişoğlu Group has been implementing waste water regaining process research and development activities. Its main target is to prevent environmental polution. Memişoğlu has determined all the poluting affects originated by its activities and planned some precautions and implementing them rapidly. All the wastes are seperated according to their nature , labelled and disposed by the accredited companies. Hazardous wastes are eliminated by the licenced eliminating companies. Evaluation of the results, 2017 Code of Waste Waste Quantiity kg 100102 Coal Dust 180.000 130113 Other Hydrolic Lubricant 100 150101 Paper Package 1400 150102 Plastic Packing 1300 150110 Ambalages Contaminated With 400 Hazardous Material 200121 Fluoresans 20 200126 Otger than 200125 solid gress 125 12 GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT Fighting Corruption in the Supply Chain Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery The company fully supports the UN Global Compact 10th Principle, which requires participants to not only avoid corruption, but also to develop policies and concrete programmes to address it. Our business relationships are built on honesty, fairness and trust. . 13 TAT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY  Memişoğlu Tarım Ürünleri Ticaret Ltd. Şti commits;  To establish, implement and sustain the TAT MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS involving Information Security, Global Food Safety, Quality Systems, also supply the necessary resources for them.  To focus on not only the customer requirements , also to overreach the customer needs.  To carry out the international legal requirements in all of the supply chain and also promoting the awareness.  To obey the global food safety, health, environmental, social and security standards,  To use and promote all of the assets including staff, technology, software, hardware, machines etc.  To make SWOT periodically to promote competitors and minimize the riscs.  To promote new and innovative products with new technology.  To promote dignity and brand value, also the TAT Brand sense of trust ,  To use and save all of the company memory and commercial knowledge with sensitivity. 14
