TABLE OF CONTENTs MANAGING PARTNERS’ MESSAGE 2 FinanCiaL inCLUsion 10 FinanCiaL inCLUsion Deep Dive: KUBO 12 ENERGY 16 Investments Energy Deep that matter. Dive: BBoXX 18 HEALTHCARE 22 Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit. Aenean commodo ligula Healthcare eget dolor. Aenean massa. Cum sociis natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient Deep Dive: VIVA 24 montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Donec quam felis, ultricies nec, pellentesque eu, pretium quis, sem. Nulla consequat massa quis enim. IMPACT MANAGEMENT 28 “Our expertise and results BCP and its are proof that private capital partners IN can be deployed profitably as a tool for effective change” THE PRESS Jean Philippe de Schrevel Founder and Managing Partner Putting The Impact In Impact Investing: 28 Funds Building A Credible, Transparent Marketplace. Finding the ‘Magic Thing’: Funds Recognized for Improving Their Customers’ Lives Introducing Bamboo MANAGING PARTNERS’ MESSAGE industry to blossom, all players need to deliver on their impact claim. This year we are presenting our investments aligned to the Capital and All 2017 Best Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We believe this 193-country for Customers Funds We launched Bamboo ten years ago with a bold strong exercise of setting development goals merits our attention. pledge: to improve lives by investing in businesses The achievement of the SDGs by 2030 will largely depend on our that leverage technology to deliver at scale, both capacity to innovate and cooperate. financially and socially. Today we can comfortably During 2017, we have seen the consolidation of a number of trends. say we are pioneers within the industry, delivering Firstly, we have witnessed the arrival of new players in the industry. kubo.financiero earns on our promise of profit and purpose. In a sign that impact investing is becoming more mainstream, new entrants are coming from development finance institutions (DFIs), Financial Inclusion Award We are industry leaders and serial pioneers who develop solutions to high net worth individuals, and corporations. We welcome this have impact at scale in emerging and frontier markets. We engage trend because impact investing benefits all players along the value in long-term partnerships with businesses and aim to contribute chain, from investors to end users, who focus on underserved popuvalue in their endeavors throughout our holding period. We are lations. A genuine impact investment has impact at scale – both often their first time institutional investor. We support them as financial and social. they professionalize processes, operations, fine-tune blueprints, improve distribution channels, develop their social and environHowever, a word of warning to new players: investing with purpose mental impacts, and find new equity partners. Today we manage Leapfrogging into the light requires strong skills and know how. No stage of the equity investUSD $300 million across 37 companies and over 33 countries and ment should be overlooked: proper valuation, competent risk with a team of 25 in five offices. management, contract enforceability, FX risk assessment, adequate transaction structuring, and timely, responsible exits. All of this requires Since the beginning, we have given the impact claim rigorous conprofessional skills, even more so when you are dealing with comsideration and are actively involved in industry initiatives that seek panies and markets in emerging countries targeting remote, underto improve impact management. We are persuaded that for this served populations. 2 IMPACT REPORT 2017 3 We are Today, our focus is on investing in companies that leverage technology to deliver impact at scale. We work across three main sectors: financial services, energy and healthcare. We look for companies that incorpassionate porate affordability, innovation, and client centeredness into their business models. Access to financial services, energy and healthcare are essential services for empowerment and well-being. Affordability about is critical to reach the target populations we focus on, technological innovation is key to make this possible and this is all tied up by a genuine interest in the customer. All processes begin and end with the end user at the center. Central to our desire to contribute and share our experiences with the public at large has been our annual Impact Report. In each delivering impact. year’s edition, we share our challenges and achievements, and provide our insight into the trends and innovations we are seeing across our three investment themes. √√ GIIRS rated 2013 We are passionate about the industry, and the work we do, it truly is a √√ GIIRS rated 2014 transformational industry. When our partners at BBOXX say “we √√ GIIRS rated 2015 are shaping the future of electrification” they are not exaggerating. √√ GIIRS rated 2017 Innovation is in every step of the value chain. It combines purpose with profit. Combined with the mix of demographic facts, such as the growth of the middle class in emerging markets, and the offer of disruptive technologies, lies a deeply transformational potential. We are grateful to our investors, and to the ultimate champions of the impact investing industry: the businesswomen and businessmen who face multiple obstacles to conducting businesses in remote places around the world, and who are determined to overcome them. 4 IMPACT REPORT 2017 5 FINANCIAL INCLUSION IMPACT REPORT 2017 9 FinanCiaL inCLUsion under the radar, nimble and independent, it will be hard to continue to standalone, and many will consider integrating into the ecosystem of a larger player. We have been in the microfinance sector long enough to have witnessed its transformation. Another trend observed in 2017 was the move away from a purely competitive dynamic between fintechs/startups and traditional finance Moreover, while it may sound pretentious, I players. The dynamic shifted to what can be described as “Cobelieve we have contributed to this change. We opetition” i.e. something between collaboration and competition. have not been simple onlookers and have been Indeed, we observed many more joint ventures, and complementary activity between fintechs and banks, than ever before. It is fair to actively involved as the microfinance sector has say that expectations morphed from a “revolution” of financial changed for the better. services to an “evolution” during last year. Bernhard Eikenberg Head of Financial Inclusion Looking back, early microfinance 1.0 was mono-product, supply In 2017 we submitted our Financial Inclusion Fund II to the Global driven, and ridden with market failures and inefficiencies – it was a Impact Investing Rating System (GIIRs). This is considered the gold nascent industry. Today, financial inclusion 2.0 is more professionally standard of independent, third party verified social and environmental 17 goals to run, customer centric, competitive, increasingly technology-based, performance ratings. The result makes us proud of our investees and holistic in the range of services offered. Indeed, the evolution and of course grateful to them for their time commitment. GIIRs transform our world: “Today’s Financial Inclusion brought with it the onset of a greater diversity of products to include provides a holistic examination of five dimensions of a company: Our contribution to the 2.0 industry is more today many of the financial services that you, reader of this report, governance, workers, community, environment and customers. SDGs and I may require, such as insurance, remittances, mortgages, savings, professionally run, customer loans, credit cards etc. We encourage other fund managers centric, competitive, to conduct GIIRs assessments. By doing We accompanied some of our earlier investments through this so, it will help the industry measure its increasingly technologytransformation. Initially, we invested in small, not always profit impact, benchmark performance and based, and holistic in the making, and at times not yet regulated institutions and helped learn and grow. range of services offered” them bring about these changes. However, over time, they became regulated and started to offer savings accounts, insurance services “The GIIRs/ B Lab assessment was certainly worth our time, we etc. They also raised equity from new sources, they became leaner, involved four different persons from our organization in the evaluabetter managed, better governed, and more profitable. This tion process and together we took a deep and careful look at our was the case of Xac Bank, a company we joined in 2009 when it policies and practices in all dimensions: Human resources, governance, was a microfinance institution. We have accompanied the busicustomers, environment and community. We are proud of the results ness throughout its transformation to a strategically significant, which confirm we are leaders democratizing access to credit in the fully-fledged commercial bank in Mongolia. We exited in 2013 Mexican market through peer to peer lending. And we are pleased when it was a leader in corporate governance, transparency and to have a roadmap for future improvement in our ESG policies and risk management. practices. ” Roberto Taboada, Kubo Financiero, Mexico. Today, Bamboo’s investment thesis for financial services has As always, we are grateful for your support and we look forward to evolved. We invest in businesses that enable financial inclusion continuing this journey with all of you during 2018. through a broader set of products and services. In 2016 and 2017 we invested in Kubo and MovilRed, two major fintech innovators from Mexico and Colombia that are at the forefront of peer-to-peer lending and mobile wallets and multi-channel delivery respectively. Today, we are looking at digital small business financing platforms in Africa and Asia. We believe these types of businesses are very attractive investments because they have the potential to disrupt the delivery of financial services in developing countries. Throughout 2017 two industry themes emerged. The first one is the rise and dominance of comprehensive and integrated platforms. For example, Alibaba with its extension to AliPay, Tencent, and Google with its foray into GooglePay. This trend is clear to see – big platforms have expanded their position in the market massively. For fintech companies, many of whom previously cherished staying 10 IMPACT REPORT 2017 11 Working Capital Debt Consolidation Fixed assets & Business Improvement Education & Consumer Loans Financial Inclusion Deep Dive: Kubo • Securing low operational costs through a platform based model, to pass savings on to the clients and drive interest rates down. At the other end, Kubo democratizes access to returns previously Kubo financiero aims to change the way microonly available to large investors. Starting from 50 USD, an investor in kubo could earn annual rates more than 3x higher than what finance works in Mexico, facilitating financial banks offer regularly to investing tickets of 25,000 USD or more. communities that connect people in need of a loan with savers seeking to invest their money • Using technology and available information intensively to understand clients’ needs and design financial products accordingly, “The GIIRs/ B Lab assessment was in a transparent and profitable manner. and also to better select clients and reduce the risk of default. certainly worth our time, we involved www.kubofinanciero.com Kubo financiero is the first and as of today the only regulated peerfive different persons from our • Maintaining a very intense focus on financial education and organization in the evaluation process. to-peer (P2P) lending platform in Mexico and the region, offering building transparent and trustworthy operations. Kubo´s process The evaluation forces you to stop and online financial communities that link creditworthy borrowers with helps rejected users and clients understand what their faults take a deep look at the policies and savvy investors through a lending P2P business model. With a practices in all dimensions: Human have been in their credit history and provides tips on how they branchless model that cuts overhead costs, the company leverages resources, governance, customers, can solve them. environment and community. We are technology and credit information systems that streamline the proud of the results which confirm process of borrowing capital for everyone. • Working with strategic partners and a macro influence strategy to we are leaders democratizing access promote a banking ethic and through changes in the Mexican to credit and investment in the Kubo financiero provides accessible and affordable loans to borrowers in regulation improve the conditions of the sector. Mexican market through peer to Mexico disrupting the current market conditions. The company’s peer lending. Generating impact is a interest rates are 30-60% below average market rates. The typical Under these precepts, Kubo financiero has managed to disburse process of continual improvement. client saves approximately USD 650 in interest paid annually and to date more than 12,000 loans and has been able to reduce interest The assessment of GIIRS-B Lab has also investors earn more than 3X vs saving in traditional banks. The rates by 30 – 60 percentage points in these loans. It has close to given us a clear roadmap for future loan size range between USD 250 to USD 5,000. improvement.” 7,000 borrowers and over 1,100 lenders. Kubo’s impact goal is based in four precepts that respond to the Roberto Taboada, Kubo Financiero, Mexico problems of the Mexican microfinance sector: 12 IMPACT REPORT 2017 13 ENERGY IMPACT REPORT 2017 15 ENERGY What trends are we observing in the off-grid energy sector? As is perhaps normal in any maturing sector, we are seeing increased segmentation and specialization. Some industry players have started to specialize in You, the reader of this report, are likely to be, like one part of the value chain, such as distribution, sales or financing. myself, living a fully connected, 100% electrically They are no longer offering services that span across the value chain, from product design to after-sales services. This is a sign of the sector powered life. Moreover, you probably dream coming of age. Each player is increasingly focusing on the part of the of unconnected holidays, a paradise where you value chain that they can fulfil best. Distribution companies make have no emails and are offered electricity just increasing use of data mining and technology to innovate and reduce costs which results in a better user experience. One of our investee two hours a day to charge your camera and take companies, BBOXX, has developed a leading GSM-enabled remote the perfect holiday photo. You can’t remember monitoring technology to improve productivity, drive down operational Christian Schattenmann when you last experienced a blackout, you can costs, provide powerful data insights and bring visibility to operations. This Head of Energy Access allows businesses to anticipate maintenance needs of solar home syswork, read, cook, study and go about your routine tems and offers customers a unique experience. Remote monitoring life after dusk, you simply turn the switches on. and predictive service means that a solar home system can be repaired 17 goals to World Energy Outlook even before the customer notices it has a failure. transform our world: database records 450 million For the millions of people like us, imaging life without electricity is an intellectual exercise. But in reality, there are over 1.1 billion people, Our portfolio companies BBOXX and Greenlight Planet are at the foreOur contribution to the people who gained access to front of innovation and provide modern clean energy access to thousands with no access to the energy grid. Add to that another 2 billion people SDGs electricity between 2009 and who have unreliable access to the grid and there are over 3 billion of off-grid people every month. We are proud to be partners of these 2013. However, this is largely people on the planet without reliable access to electricity. It’s not only leaders in innovation in the clean energy sector. Together we will conquality of life that is compromised; it is also productivity and the ability to tinue to scale, reaching new customers and developing new ways of compensated by population generate an income. In addition, the energy sources that those deprived serving them better. growth, hence the global of reliable access use are not only unreliable; they are often hazardous, unhealthy, costly and dangerous. It is through innovation, perseverance and stubbornness that we will electrified population was achieve SDG goal 7, something we’ve been working towards long before only increased by 126 million That is why we, at Bamboo, selected renewable energy as one of our it became a global agenda item. We welcome new partners to ensure people. three investment themes, because energy is vital for social and economic access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all development. We aim to generate impact through access and affordaby 2030. bility to renewable energy. It is also a profitable business; a growing Source: International lower to middle income class has growing energy needs. Together Energy Agency 2017 with our investees we have moved from providing entry level lighting solutions to more integrated, holistic energy services that allow customers to climb the energy ladder. A person in rural Sub Saharan In 2015, 193 Member States of the United Africa derives as much or more value from having his phone charged Nations agreed upon Access to Energy for All than we do. Access to his phone may mean knowing the price of sale of his crop, receiving the remittances his daughter is sending from the as a stand-alone Sustainable Development Capital, being reminded of his need to take his antiretroviral treatment Goal. With this, they recognize that sustainable or simply communicating with relatives and friends. We, the hyper connected, may replace all these functions with alternative devices. energy brings about economic prosperity, Information in our plugged world is ubiquitous. For the rural poor a human development and environmental charged mobile phone is essential. sustainability. A specific target, target 7.1 states: Putting the client center stage means we examine the crucial features By 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, of a solar energy solution from the user’s perspective. This includes, reliable and modern energy services. Achieving but is not limited to: product design and quality (e.g. luminosity), SDG 7.1 will require bringing electricity to the cost and financing, reparability and after-sales services. For example, pay-as-you-go (PAYG) and energy-as-a-service models address customers’ remaining 1.1 billion who are still without cash flows more adequately and overcome high up-front investment electricity and reaching the 2.8 billion currently requirements. Indeed, the impact of PAYG models is remarkable: a without access to clean cooking facilities. At recent CGAP-IFC study (Strange Beasts, 2018) states that PAYG has improved the lives of over 8 million people in less than five years. Bamboo we are engaged in this mission. What other product/financing model matches such an impact? 16 IMPACT REPORT 2017 17 125,000 systems deployed to customers 470 staff in 7 offices 3MWh /day generation and growing 40,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions offset 625,000 people have access Energy Deep Dive: BBOXX BBOXX relentlessly focuses on innovation and invests heavily in research clean energy and development. Collecting over one billion data points a month, BBOXX analyses this data to optimise products, provide proactive BBOXX is a next generation utility – powering customer service, and maintain an efficient workforce across 7 countries. growth and transforming lives in Africa and SouthEast Asia, by providing affordable, clean energy to BBOXX also offers a pay-as-you-go service to all customers, allowing off-grid communities in the developing world. more people in the developing world to access clean energy at an affordable price. The company’s business model is fully vertically integrated, looking after every part of the customer experience. Market leading products Since incorporation in 2010, BBOXX has produced nearly 150,000, and appliances are integrated with BBOXX’s data-driven remote selling to over 35 countries, and providing over 625,000 people monitoring technology, providing proactive troubleshooting for effiwith electricity. By using BBOXX, people can have longer working cient customer service. or studying hours, in addition to their safe and clean electricity source. Savings extend beyond kerosene costs: an average BBOXX www.bboxx.uk.co Equally, BBOXX’s ground-breaking financing structure has brought offhousehold saves US$10 per month after the purchase of their grid solar into the world’s financial markets. In 2017 alone, BBOXX system. has partnered with Deutsche Bank as well as Banque Populaire du Rwanda to raise funds to bring electricity to over 200,000 people. BBOXX produces solar home systems and has the capabilities to provide larger, remotely monitored residential solar installations, alongside efficient accessories delivering light and entertainment. BBOXX provides more than just solar lanterns – it offers rural communities an on-grid experience in an off-grid setting. 18 IMPACT REPORT 2017 19 HEALTHCARE IMPACT REPORT 2017 21 HEALTHCARE We are excited about the momentum technology has gained recently allowing greater scale. Mobile and smartphone penetration continues to increase, and the cost of use is decreasing while ease By investing in the healthcare sector, we are aimof use increases. As a result, patients and users alike are accusing to improve lives through access and affordability. tomed to use digital services: from transferring money in Latin America, to managing off-grid energy services across Africa, to ofHealthcare is a universal need, as well as the fering and using UBER-type services in Indian metros. Healthcare largest and most steadily growing economic sector too experiences user emancipation and consumerism. We’re exin countries around the world, often exceeding the cited to see: growth of Gross Domestic Product. The sector Authorities go digital and adopt technologies provides Bamboo with an opportunity to have The Delhi government has started a chain of community clinics Fabian Blank impact at scale both financially, and socially, by called “Mohalla Clinics”, that aim at bringing diagnosis and treatHead of Healthcare Access ment of simple ailments to the doorstep of people and conseproviding care to low-to-mid income populations. quently reduce the burden on secondary and tertiary hospitals. To seek this opportunity, at Bamboo we focus on two crucial comThe clinics offer 110 essential drugs and 212 diagnostic tests to 17 goals to people free of cost. These clinics are high tech. The patient data ponents: affordability and accessibility. Despite massive efforts transform our world: “Technology leapfrogging is stored and managed digitally – feeding data analytics for polundertaken in the past, healthcare coverage remains low. What’s icy making. Some of the clinics even have ATM like automated Our contribution to the traditional Healthcare” has more, the healthcare sector has not yet leveraged the benefits of machines for OTC medicines. The government has tied up with SDGs been core to our approach, technology in both mature and developing markets alike. This is Accuster Technologies that provides 30 tests in a lab-in-a-kit forabout to change, and we expect high growth countries like India and our investment and and Indonesia to play a major role in successfully scaling the next mat – highly portable, efficient, and effective. portfolio activities are set to generations of healthcare service models. Providers go platform and ecosystem intensify this going forward. MyDoc (founded in 2014), is a Singapore based healthcare platOver the last years, we have developed deep expertise, adding local form bringing all the key stakeholders on to an online platform, and global experts to our team, and, most importantly, have been which saves time and provides everyone with valuable data. It proactively working with our healthcare investee companies towards vides facilities for patients to do online consultations with doctors, building profitable healthcare services. “Technology leapfrogging order online prescriptions, access insurance details, and get meditraditional healthcare” has been core to our approach, and our investcal certificates. ment and portfolio activities are set to intensify as we move forward. Consumer devices go medical grade To deliver financial and social impact at scale through healthcare Cost effective devices have always played a vital role in enabling investments, our focus continues to build on three factors: access to affordable healthcare, from easy-to-operate diagnostics, to point-of-care testing devices. What’s new is that we are increasFirst, continued growth of the low-to-mid income population in ingly seeing medical devices that can connect to and communicate emerging markets. Asia’s middle class alone is expected to grow to with other systems. three billion people by 2030. As population and wealth increases, demand for healthcare services will grow. Cost effective offerings We are cognizant of these trends and have been actively shaping will capture this emergent, urgent need for affordable, accessible them as part of our mission to provide access to affordable healthhealthcare services. care, whilst accruing a financial return. We started by pursuing investments in three healthcare verticals: services, devices, and Second, as societies mature, healthcare systems put more emphasis digital. Looking forward, these verticals will remain our priorities. on managing chronic conditions such as diabetes or cardiovascular Two things will however change: we already see more, and more diseases. These non-communicable diseases cause more than two compelling opportunities in devices and digital healthcare, and exthirds of all global deaths, and account for about 80% of healthcare pect to grow our portfolio accordingly. More importantly, we will expenditures. One in four affect the low-middle income population in consider the wider ecosystem when identifying investment candideveloping countries. However, chronic diseases can be effectively dates. A technology to better serve patients in remote locations managed using simple technologies. may be attractive, but a model to embed such an offering into an ecosystem of general physicians and other care providers, pharWhich brings us to the third factor: applying disruptive technologies macies, or communities, backed by a technology platform that opto drive the cost of healthcare down. Solutions like point-of-care erates across multiple regions, is much better geared for traction technologies, cloud-based teleradiology services and digital health and sustainable growth. platforms assist patients and care providers to manage chronic or post-acute conditions. 22 IMPACT REPORT 2017 23 Is one of the largest employers of licensed pharmacists in the country. Sells only quality and authenticity-guaranteed products. Has introduced world-class customer service to mass market consumers. Is a pioneer in the field of following up with patients about their health and tracking impact / outcomes through initiatives like Project Live Longer (an initiative where pharmacists and physicians collaborate with patients to come up with an action plan to reduce their risk of stroke, heart attack, kidney failure, etc by controlling their blood pressure, blood glucose, and cholesterol levels) Offers a clean and hygienic store environment across its network of highly standardised stores. Healthcare Deep Dive: VIVA Health The problem of low pharmacy penetration is further compounded by the unequal distribution of pharmacies across the country, with existing pharmacy chains largely concentrated in Jakarta while Offers doctor services Viva Health provides underserved mass market catering to the more affluent population segments. The limited in an increasing number penetration of generic drugs in key categories further depresses consumers with world-class primary care via its access to medication, as patented products have prices that can of its stores. network of standardised pharmacies and clinics be as high as 22x those of generics. in second and third tier cities across Indonesia. In addition to the issues described above, 85% of existing Established in 2011 and operating under the Viva Health brand, Indonesian pharmacies, and nearly 100% of the pharmacies in Viva has 117 pharmacies and clinics in densely populated areas in Viva’s geography, consist of unregulated mom and pop stores that Middle Java, East Java, and Bali. The business is an early mover often employ non-qualified pharmacists while being exposed to the and pioneer in the field of providing high quality care at affordable sale of counterfeit drugs. Despite the establishment of a National price points. It serves low and middle income consumers, a segment Anti-Counterfeiting Task Force and recent efforts by the Indonesian comprising nearly 80% of Indonesia’s 260 million population. Viva has government to stop counterfeiting activities within the pharmapenetrated second and third tier cities, where the main competition ceutical sector, the International Pharmaceutical Manufacturer www.vivahealth.co.id consists of mom and pop pharmacies. Group (IPMG) estimates that around 25% of the pharmaceutical market in Indonesia consists of counterfeit drugs. The prevalence of Indonesia has one of the lowest pharmacy penetration levels in counterfeit drugs has led to distrust of unregulated pharmacies. Emerging Asia, with one pharmacy for every 15,000 Indonesians, far lower than comparable countries such as the Philippines (one Viva addresses these challenges by offering its consumers cost-effective pharmacy for every 3,300 people), India (one for every 2,300 people) access to quality medication dispensed by licensed pharmacists, as and Vietnam (one for every 2,300 people). well as world-class healthcare provided by trained doctors deployed in low-to-middle income areas. 24 IMPACT REPORT 2017 25 IMPACT MANAGEMENT IMPACT MANAGEMENT The Voice of the Client In 2015, over 150 nations adopted 17 sustainable A few years ago, we committed to go beyond collecting outreach metrics (such us number of products sold) and listen more attentively development goals (SDGs) to transform the world. to the client’s voice, seeking to hear what changed in customers’ This is no simple achievement. Years of thorough lives as a result of having access to the product or service. In social performance jargon this means going from outreach to outcome negotiations to develop a consensus on the state metrics. We have financed several outcome surveys hiring local of the world and our capacity to deliver change is third party consultants to examine the impact our investments a major triumph. have made in Zambia and Kyrgyzstan (use of savings) and in Brazil (impact of affordable housing for first time home owners). We focus on the inclusion of Moreover, the SDGs establish a roadmap through specific targets Ximena Escobar de Nogales for each goal. At Bamboo, we have examined the SDGs carefully In 2017, we took a deep dive with our investee Modern Family underserved populations, Head of Social Performance investing in companies that bring as well as each goal’s measurable targets. In the last decade, we Doctor (MFD), a chain of outlets providing pharmacy, GP, and lab essential needs to underserved, & Impact Management have been committed to channeling private funds to society’s services in India, to listen to their clients. We hired Eximious Health, remote communities. intractable challenges. We have invested in portfolio companies a consulting and research agency based in Bangalore, India. We that contribute to End poverty (SGD 1), increase Gender equality sought to better understand the population profile served by MFD, (SDG 5) and Reduce inequalities (SDG 10). Moreover, our investthe effect of services and assess their satisfaction levels for various ment focus on financial services, energy and healthcare is a oneverticals, including quality of service delivered, affordability, quality of We make investments with to-one alignment to Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG8), delivery. a gender-sensitive lens. We examine how access to the Affordable and Clean Energy (SDG 7) and Good Health and WellA total of 19 healthcare facilities were surveyed products and services of our Being (SDG 3). Learn more about how we are contributing to these investees affect women and girls. goals in the deep dives into the sectors on this report. and 474 interviews held, here some highlights: For the past decade, Bamboo has delivered financial and social • 93% of customers rate MFD as Excellent or Good. Six service returns. We have been rigorous about defining impact, measuring it, categories were assessed (staff behavior and attitude; hygiene; Our investments are about adhering to best industry practices and sharing our learnings with service delivery; customer counselling and communication; inclusion, reducing inequality the industry at large. For over four consecutive years, we have rated care and treatment; inventory management). between genders, rural and our Oasis Fund with the Global Impact Investing Rating System urban populations, and age (GIIRS), and this year, we rated our Financial Inclusion Fund II. For • MFD is the first preference for majority of customers (65%), groups. We are promoting vicinity to home is one of the most valued differentiators and democratization of access to the second year in a row we were recognised as Best for the World contributes to reduced indirect healthcare costs. energy, financial services and Fund, reflecting our long standing focus on business models designed healthcare. to solve social or environmental problems. Client centeredness At Bamboo we put the end user center stage. This sounds like a slogan, it is much more than that; it is an embedded investment practice. For us, making sure the end-users are the focus of our investees means that we invest in companies which are entirely tuned to the customers’ needs. Our investees design the products and services to meet their clients’ needs, they seek and integrate customer feedback at every stage, they make sure the customers understand the products, its features, and offer them financing that meets their cash flows and offer suitable after-sales support. This is of course a constant process and we are all working towards improving it. It is the core of our impact claim. Before investing, we examine the design, production, sales, distribution, financing and after-sales service from the user’s point of view. We then define together with our investees the best outreach metrics to monitor and the feedback loops to reinforce. 28 IMPACT REPORT 2017 29 We find game-changing businesses We apply geographical sector expertice We deliver financial and social returns Editorial Design Credits: Calidoscopio www.calidoscopio.org Investments Photo credits: BBOXX, AmfB Nigeria, VivaHealth, Natalia Gónima, Greenlight Planet, Vaatsalya, Kubo Financiero, Banco that matter. Popular. Bamboo Capital Partners (“Bamboo”) is a pioneering private equity firm that delivers positive social and financial value. Bamboo invests in businesses primarily in financial services, energy and healthcare that leverage technology to have impact at scale in emerging markets. Founded in 2007, Bamboo is a longstanding sector leader and through continuous evolution has a honed strategy for growth. Bamboo has raised over USD300 million and impacted over 96 million lives and created over 30, 000 jobs through its investments in over 30 countries. The firm has a team of 25 professionals active across Europe, South America, Africa and Asia. http://www.bamboocp.com/ CONTACT 7, Rue Robert Stumper, 2557 Luxembourg +352 26 09 57 7, Rue De La Fontaine, 1204, Geneva, Switzerland + 41 22 544 2070 Carrera 7 # 6 7-28 Oficina 401, Bogotá, Colombia +57 (1) 3225720 Nairobi Garage, Mirage Towers, Chiromo Road, Westlands, Nairobi, Kenya +254 204 400 911 354 Tanglin Road, #03-16/17, Tanglin International Centre, Singapore 247672 +65 63610899 Media Inquiries: media@bamboocp.com Investment Relations: investinbamboo@bamboocp.com Business Plan Submissions: businessplan@bamboocp.com
