United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017-2018 In 2015, the Chambers Federation joined the United Nations Global Compact. The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. The table below shows how we are communicating on progress for the Ten Principles. For further information on the Chambers Federations sustainability principles and practices please visit http://www.chambersfederation.com/sustainability/ or https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/64881 to view our participation with the UN Global Compact. Global Compact Principles Human Rights The Chambers Federation works in collaboration with several development agencies, primarily USAID, the UN, and NGOs that Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the focus, in part, on both the protection of human rights but also to protection of internationally proclaimed human ensure the Company is not directly or indirectly involved in human rights. rights violations in any way. Due to the Company’s investments into Principle 2 Business should make sure they are not complicit in CAHRAs, this is one of the most important due diligence standards human rights abuses. the Company focuses on. A full-time compliance officer and intern team manage this internally and audit of our partners and suppliers. Labor Standards Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association Through a combination of detailed contractual obligations to and the effective recognition of the right to consistent site monitoring, the Company does everything possible collective bargaining to ensure any organized groups, typically cooperatives, that the Company invests into/works with are compliant with both local and Principle 4 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms international forced labor, child labor, discrimination and collective of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 Business should uphold the effective abolition of bargaining laws. This is further monitored by yearly audits to ensure child labor. the Company’s efforts are effective. The Company also invests into rural communities to provide women and youth empowerment Principle 6 Business should uphold the elimination of opportunities to further the Company’s investment focus on social discrimination in respect of employment and impact. occupation. Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach The Chambers Federation incorporates environmental protection to environmental responsibility. into its supplier contracts, monitors environmental impact of its investments and actively invests in new technologies to create a Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote ‘net positive’ environmental impact from all of its projects. The greater environmental responsibility. Company finds many opportunities, specifically in the ASM Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and community, to substantially reduce, even eliminate the usage of diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Mercury(Hg), Cyanide(NaCN) and Nitric Acid(HNO3). Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its The Chambers Federation is a US company, subject to FCPA forms, including extortion and bribery. regulations. All of the Company’s accounts are restricted in use to limit the possibilities of corruption All accounts are audited in countries where corruption is known to exist. Measurement of Outcomes For the 2017-2018 reporting period, the Chambers Federation has successfully invested into the Fair Congo initiatives, working in collaboration with USAID, which recently completed the first conflict-free, OECD compliant ASM gold exports from a CAHRA(DRC) into an LBMA supply chain, ever! This initiative also successfully piloted the ITOA program, a multi-stakeholder traceability system implemented by the government of DRC. The Federation expanded the Recycle Tribe initiative into DRC which within its first month had already recycled 1.5 tons of waste material into furniture and household goods. The new Federation initiative, Cocoa Congo, partnered with the DFID funded ELAN RDC, has launched the first ever value addition into the DRC cocoa sector. This initiative has already completed the first ever domestic purchase of cocoa beans as well as manufactured numerous value-added cocoa products including a variety of chocolate bars. The Ukweli Jewelry initiative has also continued to develop, creating the first rings in country from ASM gold from the Fair Congo supply chain. CHAMBERS FINANCIAL GROUP A US Corporation Sept 6th, 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT, REAFFIRMATION To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that the Chambers Federation reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. To view more detailed information on the impact of the Chambers Federations investments and initiatives please visit: http://www.chambersfederation.com/sustainability/ Thank you Matthew Chambers Chairman, Chambers Federation Chambers Financial Group, subsidiary, a US Federal Contractor matthew@chambersfederation.com www.chambersfederation.com
