Communication On Progress 2017 KINROSS 2017 Communication On Progress To Our Stakeholders Kinross has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact for eight years. In line with our continued commitment to the UNGC, I am pleased to provide our 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report as our 2017 Communication on Progress (COP). 2017 marks the 10th anniversary of of our employees, host communities our formal Corporate Responsibility and surrounding environment. (CR) reporting program and the We are committed to supporting accompanying report provides a the principles of the UN Global comprehensive and transparent Compact and strive to continuously account of the Company’s efforts, improve and exceed the high across our global operations, to standards we set. In our 2017 contribute to the ten principles of report we provide comprehensive the UN Global Compact. and transparent information on how we manage our operations The report documents the responsibly and respectably, J. Paul Rollinson Company’s approach to CR which generating sustainable value for all President and Chief Executive Officer continues to focus on the well-being our stakeholders. Kinross Gold Corporation Communication On Progress – 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights Support for the Broader Goals of Conducted socio-economic and • Formalized our commitment to host the United Nations perception studies including one communities in a new Community which examined how mining Relations Policy and updated our • Advancing the SDGs. We participated contributes to sustainable Health and Safety and Environment in a benchmarking exercise to development in the rural areas Policies. Our Approach to Managing facilitate a more detailed mapping around our Tasiast mine in Mauritania. Corporate Responsibility (p. 14) of the SDGs to our business, Empowering Local Communities considering our Values and Guiding (p. 60-104) and Contributing to • Following the formation of Principles. Advancing the Sustainable Sustainable Development in Rural Kinross’ Safety and Sustainability Development Goals (p. 15-16) Mauritania (p. 44) group under Operations in 2015, we reviewed several programs • Through local job creation, Our Strategy, Governance and policies, including the audit procurement and tax payments, the and Engagement program. Based on this review, wealth generated from our mining a new risk-based approach was activities in turn helps to reduce • Our Guiding Principles for Corporate developed using a collaborative poverty, sustain strong communities Responsibility establish the structure process between site management and contribute to improving and framework of our approach and the Corporate Safety & well-being and prosperity in the to corporate responsibility. We Sustainability team. Enhancing Our jurisdictions where we operate. updated our Guiding Principles Audit Program (p. 28) Generating Socio-Economic Value following a cross-discipline review (p. 39-46) to ensure there is operational For more information, see Our accountability against each Principle. Approach to Managing Corporate • Continued engagement with Guiding Principles for Corporate Responsibility (p. 12-29) our local stakeholders with over Responsibility (p. 13-14) 110,000 interactions in 2017. 01 KINROSS 2017 Communication On Progress Human Rights Management • Developed 8 People Commitments the Nevada Department of which define Kinross’ culture Wildlife’s 2017 Excellence in Mine • Kinross’ internal Human Rights and set the standard for how we Reclamation Award for Concurrent Adherence and Verification Program work together as an organization. Reclamation and Wildlife Habitat (HRA&VP) ensures that we adhere Developing a Leadership Culture Restoration at the Bald Mountain to the Voluntary Principles on (p. 57) mine. Reclamation and Closure Security and Human Rights. In 2016 (p. 126-129) and 2017, respectively, 100% and • During 2016 and 2017 signed 98% of Kinross’ security personnel new collective agreements For more information see, were trained. Security and Human in Brazil, Chile, Ghana and Managing Our Environmental Rights (p. 21) Mauritania, with 40% of our global Footprint (p. 105-129) workforce now represented by • Our priorities remain Supplier Code collective agreements. Freedom Anti-Corruption of Conduct (SSoC) compliance of Association and Collective and completing appropriate due Bargaining (p. 59) • Had zero substantiated cases of diligence on high-risk suppliers. By corruption or allegations of human acknowledging our SSoC, suppliers For more information see, Engaging rights violations in both 2016 and confirm their understanding and Our Workforce (p. 47-59) 2017. Ethical Business Conduct commitment to conduct their (p. 17-18) operations safely and uphold Environmental Management the Kinross Code of Business • Improved processes and policies, Conduct and Ethics to include the • Water consumption in 2016 and including updating the Code fundamental principle of the UNGC 2017 was below our five-year of Business Conduct and Ethics respecting human rights, labour average, and almost 20% below and publishing a new “Working standards, environmental protection our highest consumption levels with Integrity” guidebook for and anti-corruption. Managing Our registered in 2013. In 2016 and employees. Our Approach to Supply Chain (p. 22-23) 2017, our operations recycled 79% Managing Corporate Responsibility and 82% of the volume of water (p. 18) For more information, see Human consumed, respectively. Water Rights (p. 19) Management (p. 109) • Strengthened the oversight and governance of donations spending Labour Management • Maintained International Cyanide at the local level to include input Management Code certification from Regional Legal and the • Total Reportable Injury Frequency at all operating sites with the Corporate Donations Committee Rate (TRIFR) of 0.32 is among the certification of Tasiast in Mauritania when required. lowest of our peers, on par with in 2016 and recertification in 2016 rates in low-risk non-industrial and 2017 at other sites. Managing • Provided a transparent account of sectors. We are leveraging Cyanide (p. 112) and Managing political donations and engagement this strong record to focus on Our Environmental Footprint with government. Ensuring preventing serious injuries and (p. 105-129) Compliance (p. 18) and Engaging fatalities through programs such as on Public Policy (p. 104) Critical Controls. The importance • Progress was made on our reclamation program to include For more information see, Ethical of these initiatives was reinforced Business Conduct (p. 17) in November 2017, when a fatality divestiture of Mineral Hill and occurred at our Kupol mine in DeLamar sites in 2017. Announced Russia. This was the first fatality at and completed a partnership with a Kinross mine since 2012. Beyond Trout Unlimited and the Rocky Mitigation: Managing Critical Risks Mountain Elk Foundation at (p. 35) and Putting People First – Mineral Hill to protect and conserve Health and Safety (p. 30-36) important wildlife habitats. Received 02
