What’s in a BRAND? 2018 INTEGRATED ANNUAL RE PORT EVERY THING. There’s no match for THE POWER OF LEADING BRANDS in today’s retail landscape. That’s why the Clorox portfolio is packed with brands consumers love that are supported by the talents of 8,700 people. Together, they’re a formula for long-term growth. What’s in a brand? We’re glad you asked. VALUE What puts our brands on top? Products people want or need at the right price. It’s no wonder a growing number of consumers say our brands are superior to the competition’s, based on price, perception and the products themselves. THAT’S THE STRENGTH OF OUR UNIQUE AND DIFFERENTIATED PORTFOLIO. 02 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report INNOVATION How do you inspire consumer loyalty? ONE BRIGHT IDEA AFTER ANOTHER. Like how we reinvent our Clorox brand beyond classic ® bleach. Creating the Clorox Scentiva line of cleaners ® boasting experiential fragrances. Stepping up the performance of bleach through the power of Cloromax . That same zest for ® innovation permeates everything we do — from breakthroughs in technology and operational processes to pioneering work in our communities. THAT’S THE WAY CLOROX PEOPLE AND BRANDS STAY AHEAD OF THE COMPETITION. LEADERSHIP What drives it? Investing in our people and promoting an inclusive culture where diverse teams are empowered to take bold actions to drive growth. Building trust by adhering to our values, protecting our planet and supporting our communities. A portfolio of purpose-driven brands in new and adjacent categories. The result? GOOD GROWTH™ THAT IS PROFITABLE, SUSTAINABLE AND RESPONSIBLE. 04 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report letter to stakeholders What’s in a BRAND? Everything we need to be fundamentally strong through every type of business environment. Benno Dorer Chair and Chief Executive Officer Dear Stakeholder: For 105 years, we’ve been passionate brand builders. From our earliest days as a “bleach start-up,” creating an iconic new brand that has made a difference in many millions of consumers’ lives for more than a century, to today as a builder of modern consumer experiences for a large, diverse portfolio, Clorox has always been motivated by a desire to understand and meet the needs of our consumers through our brands in unique and novel ways. Why? Because strong, purpose-driven brands drive consumer value. They inspire consumer trust. They stand out and are differentiated from the competition. They deliver long-term shareholder value. At Clorox, we believe in the power of brands. Our brands. What’s more, with the name of our biggest and oldest brand the same as the name that sits atop our headquarters building in Oakland, California, the benefits delivered by our brands — of value, innovation and leadership — carry over to our company as well, with equivalent expectations. Our brands reinforce what we believe in as a company: a commitment to Good Growth — growth that’s profitable, sustainable and responsible. STRONG BRAND EQUITY DELIVERS VALUE TO OUR CONSUMERS AND LEADERSHIP TO OUR PORTFOLIO. In fiscal year 2018, increasing the value proposition of our brands to consumers remained a centerpiece of our strategy. We are bringing to life our company’s mission to “make everyday lives better, every day” through each of our brands by articulating a purpose that expresses their value and meaning in consumers’ lives. For example, the Brita business has identified its purpose to make water better for people and the planet. Today, the majority of our brands are seen by consumers as providing better value. When asked whether our brands are superior or equal to the competition, 80 percent of consumers say “yes”— higher than the number that answered affirmatively four years ago. THE CLEAREST INDICATION OF BRAND VALUE IS SEEN IN THE CONTINUED STRENGTH OF OUR PORTFOLIO. Our Clorox Company brands can be found in nine of 10 U.S. households, almost a million more than a year ago. And more than 80 percent of our brands command the No. 1 or No. 2 market share position in their categories in the U.S. and internationally. Just this year, our iconic Burt’s Bees® beeswax lip balm vaulted to No. 1 in the overall lip balm category for the first time in its history.1 Building on this strength, we acquired dietary supplements maker Nutranext, which encompasses a family of category-leading brands that includes Rainbow Light®, Natural Vitality® and Neocell®. This next HEALTH + WELLNESS generation of brands expands our portfolio even further into the healthWe expanded our health-andand-wellness space, where we see potential for growth as more and wellness portfolio with the more consumers seek a healthier lifestyle. acquisition of Nutranext, a manufacturer and marketer of leading dietary supplement INNOVATION IS THE LIFEBLOOD OF BRANDS, ENABLING THEM TO THRIVE. brands in the retail and This fiscal year also brought a continued emphasis on innovation e-commerce channels. across our portfolio and throughout our business. 1 IRI, 13 weeks ending June 17, 2018. 06 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report Purpose-driven brands drive consumer value. They inspire consumer trust. They stand out and are differentiated from the competition. They deliver long-term shareholder value. At Clorox, we believe in the power of brands. Our brands.” In product innovation, we launched Fresh Step Clean Paws® cat litter, Burt’s Bees cosmetics — the largest introduction in that brand’s history — and a reinvention of the brand that started it all, Clorox bleach, by adding the power of Cloromax, which reduces the adhesion of soil to surfaces and makes whites brighter and last longer. In each case, we’ve stretched the potential of these brands through unique product attributes that meet a consumer need. We also built upon last year’s successful introduction of the Clorox Scentiva experiential scent cleaners platform by expanding into new product categories and fragrances. Innovation at Clorox to strengthen the value proposition of our brands goes well beyond product and also has been integrated into our processes to improve overall operational excellence. Most notably this year, a new Fresh Step Clean Paws cat litter, along with other new launches in FY18, contributed to incremental sales from 258,000-square-foot manufacturing facility opened just outside Atlanta, product innovation. Georgia. Featuring one-of-a-kind, state-of-the-art equipment, this facility is intended to enhance our supply chain and support growth in our Home Care business. We also are innovating how we engage with consumers through the use of technology in all aspects of marketing, tapping the latest digital trends to offer more personalized messaging that delivers on increasingly fragmented consumer needs. This year, our brands deployed artificial intelligence to reinforce their value. Our Kingsford® brand, for example, partnered to provide content for the Google Assistant that answers questions about grilling. Similarly, a chatbot powered by AI was developed for the RenewLife® website to help guide consumers through the buying process. Another reflection of our emphasis on technology is our industry-leading digital media spend, which in fiscal year 2018 was about 50 percent of our overall media spending for the first time, compared to 45 percent last year. We’ve also continued to push the bounds on e-commerce, which grew more than 45 percent in the past year and now represents 6 percent of company sales, with projections to reach 8 percent in fiscal year 2019. In FY18, we matched last year’s all-time-high OUR LEADERSHIP POSITION PROVIDES BENEFITS — AND EXPECTATIONS — 88 percent employee engagement rate. BEYOND OUR BRANDS TO OUR PEOPLE, PLANET AND COMMUNITIES. Simply put, building and maintaining leading brands requires people who are motivated to lead and give their best every single day. The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 07 The leadership of our brands shapes the culture at Clorox. We believe this leadership shows in the engagement of our employees. In fiscal year 2018, we matched last year’s all-time-high 88 percent employee engagement rate , which remains 7 points ahead of competitors in the Fast-Moving Consumer Goods Sector and even 2 points higher than Global High-Performance Companies, which we consider our benchmark. Representation of women and minorities in our workforce continues to move up, among both overall employees and managers. And, we remain leaders within the Fortune 500 in our representation of women and minorities on our board of directors. Building on that strong foundation, we continue to invest even more in our employees — all 8,700 strong — to heighten their sense of ownership and empower them to take bold action, using an agile approach to drive growth. As part of that work, we accelerated our inclusion and diversity efforts through new initiatives that included training to help employees recognize and limit the influence of unconscious bias. Our goal is to achieve a more diverse and inclusive workplace so the collective genius and soul of our company can truly shine. I’m proud that our work has resulted in recognitions by third-party organizations. We were named to two noteworthy indices, the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index and the Thomson Reuters Diversity and Inclusion Index, on which we A chatbot powered by were ranked No. 28. We again received a perfect score on the Human Rights artificial intelligence helps Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index — a recognition we’ve earned since guide consumers through the buying process on the 2006. In addition, Diversity MBA’s list of Top Places for Women and Diverse RenewLife website. Managers to Work placed us at No. 5, while Hispanic Network Magazine cited us on its Best of the Best List of Top Employers in 2017-18. As a brand leader, there’s also an expectation of corporate responsibility that we take seriously. As of the close of calendar year 2017, we’ve now made environmental sustainability improvements to 49 percent of our product portfolio since our 2011 calendar year baseline , just shy of our 50 percent goal by 2020. We’ve also exceeded our goal of 20 percent reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, water use and solid-waste-to-landfill and remain on track to meet a similar goal for energy reduction by 2020. In a year when the planet faced seemingly unprecedented natural disasters from hurricanes to wildfires, we provided support to communities around the world, many of which are places where our own people live and work. I’m especially proud that in fiscal year 2018 we gave a total of $20 million in combined product donations, foundation cash grants and cash through cause marketing campaigns. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we reaffirm our commitment to its Ten Principles by driving our corporate responsibility strategy, a comprehensive set of commitments across our company – from human rights, labor and product Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 49-51 for the Review Report. +3% $113M +3 pts SALES GROWTH COST SAVINGS INCREMENTAL SALES (total company) (from productivity gains) (from product innovation) 08 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report safety to transparency, environmental sustainability and contributions to our communities. We value being a signatory to the UNGC as it provides an opportunity to continue learning from and sharing ideas with key sustainability influencers and other companies. In recognition of our corporate responsibility work, we were gratified to be ranked No. 9 on Barron’s 100 Most Sustainable Companies list and No. 20 on CR Magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens list. While we’ve made great progress, we’re not satisfied. We’ve already begun planning the next phase of our corporate responsibility strategy and will be looking to raise the bar even higher as we set our new objectives for 2025. This work is a critical part of our goal of Good Growth, helping to drive long-term shareholder value. ULTIMATELY, THE STRENGTH OF OUR BRANDS DELIVERS VALUE Emergency supplies are delivered by the American Red Cross to provide some relief to a Northern California neighborhood devastated by wildfires. TO SHAREHOLDERS. Photo by Marko Kokic for The American Red Cross. ©The American Red Cross 2017. Used with permission. By constantly evolving and investing to meet consumers’ needs, our brands were able to deliver ongoing value to shareholders. In fiscal year 2018, we returned $676 million1 in cash to our shareholders, including a 14 percent dividend increase declared three months earlier than originally scheduled due to the benefits of tax reform. This marked the 42nd consecutive year we’ve increased our dividend. We also initiated a share buyback program of up to $2 billion, demonstrating our commitment to return cash to Clorox stockholders. THE STRENGTH OF OUR BRANDS WILL GUIDE US INTO THE FUTURE. Our obsession with building and investing in modern and relevant humancentric brands began with Clorox bleach more than a century ago and continues as we enter fiscal year 2019. What do we believe is behind a great brand? It’s value. It’s innovation. And it’s leadership. All instilled with trust and supported by our highly engaged Clorox team of 8,700 people. In our brands is everything we need, today and into the future, to reward our consumers and, ultimately, all our stakeholders. Benno O. Dorer, Chair and Chief Executive Officer 1 T  otal amount reflects $450 million of cash dividends paid and $271 million of payments for stock repurchases, less $45 million related to issuance of common stock for employee stock plans and other. $6.26 +17% $974M DILUTED EPS DILUTED EPS INCREASE NET CASH PROVIDED (from continuing (on top of a +9% increase (from continuing operations, operations) from FY17) a +12% increase from FY17) The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 09 2020 ST In its sixth and penultimate year, our 2020 Strategy continued to serve MISSION as a guidepost for the company. We make everyday life better, every day. Value, Innovation and Leadership, OBJECTIVE Be the best at building big-share brands hallmarks of our business and in midsized categories. corporate responsibility strategies, COMMITMENT drive us toward our goal of Good Leverage environmental, social and governance performance to help drive Growth — that’s profitable, long-term, sustainable value creation. sustainable and responsible. STRATEGIES BUSINESS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Engage our people as business owners. Promote diversity, opportunity and 01 respectful treatment for all people who touch our business. Drive superior consumer value behind Make responsible products responsibly. 02 strong brand investment, innovation and technology transformation. Accelerate portfolio momentum in Safeguard families through initiatives that 03 and around the core. promote health, education and safety. Fund growth by reducing waste in Shrink our environmental footprint while 04 our work, products and supply chain. we grow. 10 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report RATEGY ANNUAL LONG-TERM ASPIRATIONS GROW EXPAND DELIVER Net Sales By EBIT Margin Free Cash Flow as a % +3-5% +25-50 Basis Points of Net Sales 11-13% OPERATING MODEL FACTORS DRIVING OUR BUSINESS SUCCESS To achieve our business goals, we need to leverage the unique attributes of our company; strengthen our relationships with important partners such as our employees, non-retail customers and communities; and manage external factors that can influence our success. OUR EXTERNAL FOUNDATION RELATIONSHIPS INFLUENCES Our Values Consumers Laws and Regulations • Do the right thing • Stretch for results Employees Global Economy • Take personal ownership Retail and Non-Retail Natural Resources • Work together to win Customers Competition Our Resources • Talented and engaged Suppliers and Other Raw Materials and Business Partners employees Other Input Costs • Leading brands Communities • Superior brand-building capabilities and innovation Investors • Sustained brand investments • Strong product portfolio Civil Society/NGOs • Financial discipline • Strong cash flow The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 11 STRATEGY 01 ENGAGE OUR PEOPLE BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS Engage our people as business owners. • Our annual employee engagement survey showed an 88 percent employee engagement rate , far surpassing the norm for competitors in the Fast-Moving Consumer Goods sector (81 percent) and also exceeding the norm for Global 88% High-Performance companies (86 percent). • We invested in a cross-functional training program for general managers, building CLOROX EMPLOYEE skills and business acumen across this critical talent segment. ENGAGEMENT Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 49-51 for the Review Report. 12 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report • Our newly launched Global Mentoring Program established nearly 500 mentoring relationships, empowering our employees to develop leadership skills, build relationships and identify growth opportunities. 500 • As part of our strategy to evolve our growth culture, we rolled out a companywide initiative, “Be BOLD,” to transform how we generate new ideas, pursue product innovation, and drive value MENTORING for consumers and shareholders. RELATIONSHIPS • Innovent 2.0 – the latest iteration of our longstanding internal FORMED crowd-sourcing innovation competition – generated a record number of ideas from employees around the globe, in all eight of our functions, who responded to specific challenges identified by our businesses. The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 13 01 STRATEGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Promote diversity, opportunity and respectful treatment for all people who touch our business. • We accelerated our inclusion and diversity efforts to align with the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion by focusing on three components: 1) implementing new unconscious bias education and expanding it; 2) continuing to cultivate workplaces that support open dialogue on complex conversations about diversity and inclusion; and 3) sharing best practices with our peers. • We launched a training program on unconscious bias for people managers that was subsequently cascaded throughout the organization. The program aims to lessen the influence of unconscious bias, which can limit our ability to consider all perspectives and prevent us from achieving the best possible outcome. The program is intended to help create a more inclusive workplace that supports our continued growth. • Twenty-five teams in our Product Supply Organization instituted a “Plus One” initiative, in which individuals with different thinking styles, experience or perspectives are added to teams. The Plus One initiative not only provided more insights to these teams but also helped enhance participants’ personal development. Other functions have begun to adopt the concept as well. • Our African-American employee resource group created a business $144M insights committee to proactively educate our employees and creative agencies about multicultural points of view. The committee has provided insights, feedback and ideas to improve the relevancy of our brands with African-American consumers as well as to protect and grow our SPENT WITH standing within this community. DIVERSE • With safety integrated into our day-to-day operations, the company has SUPPLIERS consistently achieved world-class recordable incident rates. Especially (Up $3.7 MILLION notable are our Brampton, Ontario, plant in Canada and our Conghua from FY17) plant in China, which achieved major milestones by reaching seven and 10 years, respectively, without any recordable incidents. • The company spent nearly $144 million with diverse suppliers during the fiscal year. We increased our direct supplier spend by approximately $3.7 million from fiscal year 2017, and we continue to increase our procurement from national diverse suppliers. Diverse suppliers include minority-, women-, service-disabledand veteran-owned business enterprises, as well as gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender business owners in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. 14 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report DIVERSITY REPRESENTATION CONTINUES UPWARD TREND Inclusion and diversity are strategic priorities, OUR PROGRESS and we continue to make progress in our goal CLOROX U.S. MINORITY NONPRODUCTION MANAGERS of having more diverse representation in our board and executive leadership as well as within our overall workforce. Minority and 30% female representation on our board has 28% consistently exceeded that of our peers in 25% 25% 26% 24% 24% the Fortune 500. Women continue to assume senior leadership roles, now making up one-third of our Executive Committee, compared with 20 percent four years ago. During the same time frame, representation of U.S. minority nonproduction employees and managers has risen to be at or near FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 industry averages. 2010 U.S. Census Safety is integrated into our day-to-day business operations. While our recordable incident rate increased to 0.82 from 0.60 a year ago, since the beginning of our goal period, it has been consistently less than 1.0, a benchmark we CLOROX U.S. MINORITY NONPRODUCTION EMPLOYEES consider to be world-class, and well below industry averages of 3.5. 33% 31% 31% 32% For us, employee well-being starts with 30% 30% 30% promoting a sense of belonging, ensuring different perspectives are represented and maintaining a safe work environment. These are the cornerstones of an engaged workforce that’s focused on growing our business profitably, sustainably and responsibly. FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 2010 U.S. Census Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 49-51 for the Review Report. The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 15 STRATEGY 02 DRIVE SUPERIOR CONSUMER VALUE BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS Drive superior consumer value behind strong brand investment, innovation and technology transformation. • Clorox delivered 3 percent of incremental sales behind product innovation — the eighth consecutive year of this achievement. Some of the new products introduced in +3% fiscal year 2018 included the following: o Burt’s Bees cosmetics, masks, lip treatments and liquid lipsticks INCREMENTAL o Clorox disinfecting wipes (Easy to Pull), Clorox Scentiva bathroom foam cleaner, SALES FROM Clorox bleach with Cloromax PRODUCT INNOVATION o Totally Spot-Less Powered by Clorox 2® o Kingsford EcoLight charcoal lighter o  enewLife probiotics + organic prebiotics (Daily Balance, Women’s Daily, Kids Daily, R Strong & Ready, Settle & Restore, Return to Regular) 16 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report o RenewLife probiotics (Restore; Mood & Stress; Prenatal; Kids Daily Boost; Kids Ear, Nose & Throat; Baby Colic Drops) o Fresh Step Clean Paws Triple Action and Fresh Step Clean Paws Multi-Cat with the Power of Febreze cat litter o  lad® ForceFlex Plus, Glad ForceFlex Plus Advanced G Protection and Glad OdorShield Gain Moonlight Breeze trash bags; Glad Home Collection containers o Hidden Valley® Ranch Simply Dinners™ and Hidden Valley Ranch seasoning shakers o Clorox Clothes ultra stain remover (Middle East) o Clorox Triple Accion bleach (Latin America) o Poett® Lov(e)volution® cleaners (Latin America) o Ever Clean® Fast Acting Odour Control cat litter (Europe) The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 17 02 STRATEGY Business Highlights continued. To reach consumers where they are, Kingsford developed content for the Google Assistant to help answer questions about grilling. • Our Burt’s Bees lip balm assumed the No. 1 13-week market share position in the total lip balm category for the first time in its history, achieving that milestone in the fourth quarter of 2018.1 • The Kingsford brand announced a multiyear partnership with Major League Baseball that pairs two of America’s favorite pastimes, baseball and barbecuing, around common purposes of connecting with family and friends, enjoying food and fun, and tradition. • Through a partnership with Google, the Kingsford brand is tapping artificial intelligence (AI) to reach consumers where they are. Consumers can now ask their Google Assistant to “Talk to Kingsford,” and the devices will answer questions about everything from grilling to cleaning grates, storing charcoal and firing up perfect meals over a real charcoal flame. • Hidden Valley Ranch became the first brand to launch an integrated campaign in partnership with a market-leading online recipe site and the market-leading online retail site, allowing millions of home cooks to purchase Hidden Valley Ranch products and make ranch recipes on the same day. • With the insight that many consumers listen to their music and even dance while cleaning, the Pine-Sol® brand created a video, “Cleaning Dance Challenge,” with Inanna Sarkis, an Asyrian-Bulgarian Canadian YouTube sensation with 2.7 million subscribers. The video drove over 3.2 million views and generated a 10 percent lift in brand consideration and favorability, according to a YouTube study. • To launch Fresh Step Clean Paws litter, the brand partnered with the Humane Society of New York to create the Cats on Glass Gallery, a unique pop-up exhibit that featured adoptable cats frolicking on glass above visitors, showcasing their pristine (and litter-free) paws. The event attracted more than 7,000 attendees and garnered more than 90 million media and social impressions. • In partnership with our Information Technology function, the RenewLife brand launched the company’s first AI chatbot. In its pilot phase, “Sunny” We built on last year’s successful introduction of the Clorox Scentiva experiential scent cleaners platform by expanding into new product categories and fragrances. The pop-up Cats on Glass Gallery offered an Instagrammable visual of the new Fresh Step Clean Paws low-tracking litter. 1 IRI, 13 weeks ending June 17, 2018. 18 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report Our new Atlanta West Home Care facility supports long-term growth. Our Poett brand partnered with Spotify to build stronger connections with consumers. is serving as an educational resource to help consumers select the right products on RenewLife.com. It will expand in fiscal year 2019 to include e-commerce and customer service functions. Learnings from the RenewLife chatbot pilot are intended to inform similar AI initiatives across the company. • We invested in innovation within our supply chain, opening a new, state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Georgia. Atlanta West is a 258,000-square-foot plant that is using one-of-a-kind technology to capitalize on the momentum behind our Home Care business and • To build stronger connections with consumers, our Poett support long-term growth. brand partnered with Spotify to develop music playlists for • With the adoption of more streamlined processes to each of our fragrances. The campaign used local influencers get products on shelf faster, our Burt’s Bees brand to maximize reach. As a result, there was a positive impact was able to shorten the beauty innovation timeline on sales as well as a lift in recall of ads when comparing by six to eight months, a vital need in a category consumers who had and had not seen them. heavily driven by trends and rapid innovation. • We continued to lead the industry with about 50 percent of our media spending now focused on digital, up from 45 percent last year. WE CONTINUED TO LEAD THE INDUSTRY WITH ABOUT 50 PERCENT OF OUR MEDIA SPENDING FOCUSED ON DIGITAL The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 19 02 STRATEGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Make responsible products responsibly. • The Brita® brand’s line of Stream pitchers — introduced in 2017 featuring Filter-As-You-Pour™ technology, which allows users to fill the pitcher quickly and pour immediately — no longer require water reservoirs, enabling us to use 30 percent less resin than our standard model with equal capacity. • The Hidden Valley Ranch brand began an initiative projected to reduce more than 1.5 million pounds of plastic needed for bottles annually while also enhancing the design by replacing the screw-on cap with a flip-cap lid that is easier to open and close. •T  he Kingsford brand addressed the growing consumer interest in BRITA products from renewable sources by launching EcoLight charcoal INTRODUCED lighter, which is USDA BioPreferred®-certified and made with naturally derived ingredients (corn and soybeans). TWO PITCHERS • The Burt’s Bees brand collaborated with 18 diverse beauty and USING 30 PERCENT personal care companies, retail customers and nonprofit organizaLESS RESIN tions to develop a common tool to evaluate product sustainability. Caption if needed for image about sustainable packaging 20 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report The new rating system is intended to help WE’RE ON PACE TO MAKE retailers make more sustainable personal SUSTAINABILITY IMPROVEMENTS care products available and promote those TO HALF OUR PORTFOLIO BY 2020 attributes to consumers while also providing an incentive for manufacturers to produce Since our 2011 baseline, the percentage of OUR PROGRESS more sustainable products. our product portfolio with sustainability • The Burt’s Bees brand launched the free improvements has increased steadily, from Recycle On Us program in partnership 7 percent in our first year to 49 percent in with TerraCycle to enable consumers to 2017, our most recent available data. recycle the packaging from Burt’s Bees personal care, lip care and beauty care To meet our 2020 goal, we have established products while raising money for their four pathways for improving the sustainability favorite charitable organization. of our products and packaging, allowing each brand to consider which approach makes the most sense while delivering superior consumer value. These options include 1) reducing materials; 2) using more sustainable materials; PRODUCT PORTFOLIO WITH SUSTAINABILITY IMPROVEMENTS 3) reducing the amount of water or energy (cumulative progress since 2011 base year) required by consumers; and 4) sourcing materials more sustainably. Most of our product sustainability improveCY20 GOAL ments have been achieved through material reduction in the product or package, or both. This helps minimize the footprint associated 50% with the materials saved and reduce the transportation footprint because we can load CY17 49% more product onto fewer trucks for distribution. CY16 34% We’re just shy of our 2020 goal two years ahead of schedule and expect to meet the CY15 31% goal next year. Looking beyond 2020, we anticipate needing to shift more of our efforts beyond material reduction because CY14 20% opportunities for further material efficiency gains will be more limited. CY13 15% CY12 7% CY20 GOAL 49% 50% 1 R  eviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 49-51 for the Review Report. 31% 34% 20% 15% The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 21 STRATEGY 03 ACCELERATE PORTFOLIO MOMENTUM WHAT’S NEXT As part of our ongoing effort to accelerate growth through acquisitions of leading brands in fast-growing categories, we acquired Nutranext, a health-and-wellness company based in Sunrise, Florida. The company manufactures and markets leading dietary supplement brands, including Rainbow Light, Natural Vitality and Neocell, in retail and e-commerce channels. The acquisition brings significant scale and breadth to our dietary supplements business as we continue to drive portfolio momentum with a focus on health and wellness. Natural Vitality, the No. 1 anti-stress and sleep brand in the natural channel,1 is part of the family of brands acquired as part of the Nutranext acquisition. 1 IRI/SPINS, POS retail dollar sales ending Dec. 31, 2017. 22 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS Accelerate portfolio momentum in and around the core. • Building on its strong foundation in natural personal care, our Burt’s Bees brand expanded into the color cosmetics category with the introduction of Burt’s Bees Beauty. The cosmetics line — foundation, concealer, powder, blush, eyeshadow, eyeliner and mascara made with natural ingredients — is the biggest product launch in the brand’s 30-year history. • The Hidden Valley Ranch brand repositioned its dry products as flavor enhancers, giving consumers even The introduction of Hidden Valley more ways to enjoy the taste of ranch. This, along with Ranch seasoning shakers helped expanded distribution of Hidden Valley Ranch seasoning the brand expand into the seasoning category. shakers and the launch of Hidden Valley Ranch Simply Dinners™ breading prep kit, is enabling the brand to compete in the larger seasoning category. • Licensing partnerships that extended our brands into new categories and generated profitable revenue streams included Kingsford spices, Kingsford ribs and entrees, Clorox Fraganzia® laundry care, Brita Pro™ home softeners and filtration systems, and Kingsford wood pellets. • Sales in the e-commerce channel grew more than 45 percent through partnerships with fast-growing retailers and strategic investments in 45%+ high-value digital media. E-commerce now represents 6 percent of company sales. • We further expanded our health-and-wellness portfolio with the GROWTH IN acquisition of Nutranext, a leading manufacturer and marketer of E-COMMERCE vitamins and dietary supplements. SALES • We shifted investments in our International segment toward more profitable businesses, establishing five growth vectors that are expected to represent approximately 30 percent of our portfolio by 2021. The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 23 03 STRATEGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Safeguard families through initiatives that promote health, education and safety. • In response to disasters such as hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria and the California wildfires, we donated more than 55,000 cases of Clorox liquid bleach, Glad trash bags, Clorox disinfecting wipes and Burt’s Bees 55,000+ lip balms, working with our partner, the American Red Cross. The Clorox Company Foundation donated an additional $350,000 to the American Red Cross, our Professional Products Division gave $20,000 and employees donated $90,000 through our workplace giving program, CASES which included matching funds from the foundation. OF PRODUCT • To help extend the life of food donations, we donated 97 truckloads DONATED of Glad food storage products to Feeding America to support 45 of Including Clorox liquid their member food banks nationally. bleach, Glad trash bags, Clorox disinfecting wipes • Expanding our commitment to health and wellness, we pledged and Burt’s Bees lip balms. $1 million in grants over four years to support urban farms. These farms are helping to strengthen disadvantaged communities by addressing food scarcity through nutrition education and by removing barriers to eating nutritious food. • The Burt’s Bees brand began an initiative to strengthen 10 global supplier communities’ capabilities in areas such as access to clean water, women’s and children’s empowerment, health and safety, and biodiversity by 2020. In Tanzania and Vietnam, we provided protective equipment to nearly 500 beekeepers, while in Burkina Faso we supported training of 3,000 women In partnership with Stephen Curry, the Brita brand to build safer, fuel-efficient cookstoves to roast shea butter kernels. An launched a grant program to provide schools with access to clean, safe and additional 2,600 women received training in the processing of quality kernels, sustainable drinking water. development of cooperatives and establishment of savings associations to improve their economic empowerment. • Our brands continued to engage in cause-marketing programs that are both consistent with their purpose and meaningful to consumers. o The Clorox brand signed a three-year partnership with Evidence Action to supply bleach for its bleach dispenser program in Africa that will provide safe drinking water to up to 4 million people in Kenya and Uganda by 2020. This is an expansion of the Clorox Safe Water Project, which began in 2012 and now reaches 25,000 people in rural Peru. o The Brita brand partnered with the Alliance for a Healthier Generation and basketball superstar Stephen Curry to launch Filter for the Future, a grant program that provides schools with access to clean, safe and sustainable drinking water. Through the purchase of specially marked products, consumers are helping support the initiative to equip 24 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report Brita Canada expanded its Filter for Good program to provide cleaner drinking water to 120,000 Kenyans. EVERY YEAR, WE SUPPORT THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE LIVE AND DO BUSINESS. Five years into our strategy, we’ve made substantial contributions to the well-being OUR PROGRESS of our neighbors and our global community. approximately 100 schools with Brita hydration From fiscal years 2013 to 2018, we have stations that will enable kids to fill up their given more than $25 million in foundation reusable bottles with filtered water instead of and corporate cash grants to support relying on single-use plastic water bottles. community initiatives, with a particular o Brita Canada expanded its Filter for Good™ focus on nonprofit organizations in the program to help provide cleaner drinking water areas of K-12 education, youth development, to 120,000 people in Kenya by committing to cultural arts organizations, health initiatives support the completion of a second borehole, and, more recently, urban farming. a type of well, by the end of our 2019 fiscal During the same time frame, the company made year. Through a continued partnership with $44.4 million in product donations, while our the global nonprofit WE, the brand’s initiative brands invested more than $6 million in causealso impacts education, since many young marketing campaigns to make a difference girls who had been responsible for retrieving in safe drinking water, education and youth water for their families will now be able to leadership, pet adoption and men’s health, to attend school. name a few projects aligned with their purposes. o In New York, the Clorox brand partnered with local nonprofit Thrive Collective and more From the 2012 to 2017 calendar years, our than 250 volunteers from the local community employees volunteered 644,553 hours of to clean and transform a former school into a their time to improve their local communities, youth arts center. The freshly cleaned space effort that is valued at nearly $16 million. will serve as Thrive Collective’s new headquarters and will create new possibilities with Consistent with our values as a company, arts and mentoring programs for at-risk youth we will continue to be committed to the in Harlem. well-being of our communities. o T  he Kingsford brand donated to the Movember Foundation and encouraged men on social CLOROX EMPLOYEES media to help support efforts to improve men’s Volunteered 644,553 hours health, with support from former professional football player Vince Wilfork. o O  ur Clorox brand partnered with from calendar years 2012-17 DonorsChoose.org to provide Clorox disinfecting wipes to schools in January — when classrooms are low on supplies — in addition to the more FOUNDATION AND THE CLOROX COMPANY traditional fall back-to-school season when cold CORPORATE CASH GRANTS and flu begins in earnest. Gave Donated $25M+ in community support from $44.4M in products from fiscal fiscal years 2013-18 years 2013-18 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 25 STRATEGY 04 FUND GROWTH BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS Fund growth by reducing waste in our work, products and supply chain. • Through a more flexible and responsive manufacturing process, we’ve been able to increase the number of production orders processed by 33 percent over the last three years. The Kingsford brand, for example, increased production capacity by 16.7 percent without additional capital investment. •W  e simplified the planning process for rail car deliveries at our Spring Hill, Kansas, litter plant, resulting in improved rail carrier service and protecting against disruptions. •B  y focusing on consumer needs, efficiency and process improvements, we continue to reduce the amount of time required to bring new innovations to market, launching approximately 70 percent of new products in 14 months or less. 26 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report An operator at our Atlanta plant prepares cases of our Clorox Commercial Solutions toilet bowl cleaner for distribution. • Enterprisewide initiatives, including investment in a new manufacturing process for our Glad ForceFlex Plus trash bags, changing to a consumer-preferred substrate for our Clorox ELIMINATED disinfecting wipes, and a number of other administrative improvements, contributed to $113 million in cost savings. 10,000 •A  redesign of our process, systems and data is HOURS OF EFFORT enabling us to export U.S. professional products and bring them to global markets faster. IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETING •W  e eliminated nearly 10,000 hours of effort in our international marketing processes, freeing PROCESSES up employees’ time to focus on building the business and better serving our consumers. • Our Bogota, Colombia, plant upgraded its line equipment to increase production capacity of thick bleach and laundry products, cutting production time and increasing efficiency and flexibility based on demand. • We made significant investments in our Glad brand’s manufacturing process and equipment to reduce resin in Glad ForceFlex Plus trash bags, resulting in a new patent-protected product offering greater value to consumers. • We developed a world-class distribution center in Peru, upgrading more than 160,000 square feet of our existing facility to eliminate costs of external rental and freight services, increasing storage space and improving product quality through reduced handling. The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 27 04 STRATEGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS Shrink our environmental footprint while we grow. • Five additional sites achieved zero-waste-to-landfill status — our Tlalnepantla (Mexico City) manufacturing site; Tultipark, Mexico, distribution center; Amherst, Virginia, plant; Willowbrook, Illinois, R&D facility; and Rogers, Arkansas, distribution center — bringing the total number of sites that have achieved this milestone during the current goal period to eight, two shy of the 2020 goal of 10 sites. • Our plants in Bogota, Colombia, and Quilicura, Chile, developed a solution to manage industrial wastewater that’s sustainable and reduces costs. Rather than pump water used to flush residual product in the pipes and tanks to an internal wastewater treatment plant, they now reuse some rinsing water and eliminate rinse cycles in certain production sequences. With less wastewater requiring treatment, Our Mexico plant and distribution center became certified as new zero-waste-to-landfill sites. we saved $2 million per facility and lowered disposal costs. The plants also cut annual water use by nearly 10 million gallons. • After a rigorous audit verifying compliance and validating best practices in environmental risk mitigation, our Tlalnepantla, Mexico, plant received the 5 clean industry certification, the highest environmental recognition offered by Mexico’s environmental authority (PROFEPA). • Using best practices shared from other plants, our Kingsford plant in Belle, NEW SITES Missouri, removed a concrete retaining wall and worn-out pavement, grinding ACHIEVED the debris for reuse as a pavement sub-base in a new concrete expansion ZERO-WASTE-TOLANDFILL STATUS in front of the plant’s warehouses. This kept the material out of landfills, conserved resources by reducing the need for gravel mining and reduced the energy that would have been required to transport new material. • As part of our ongoing commitment to responsible sourcing of palm oil, we have begun to identify opportunities to improve environmental and social sustainability across our supply chain, with benefits extending to the broader industry. Working with our implementation partner, The Forest Trust, we began supporting Priority Areas for Transformation, a program focused on land-use planning in Indonesia that helps members and other participating stakeholders work together to bring sustainable economic growth while protecting a critical ecosystem. 28 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report WE’RE ON TRACK TO DELIVER OUR 2020 GOALS OUR PROGRESS • We reached out to our top 100 suppliers — 2020 GOAL representing approximately two-thirds of our Reduce the environmental spending — to participate in an annual survey impact of our operations disclosing their environmental practices, including and improve the measuring and setting goals as well as reporting sustainability of our on greenhouse gas emissions, energy and water upstream supply chain. use, and solid-waste-to-landfill. This survey enables us to track their progress and is part of a broader effort to improve the sustainability of our upstream supply chain. As the sixth year of our footprint reduction • More than 99 percent of paper-based packaging we goal period comes to a close, we’ve already purchase is now made from recycled or certified exceeded our 2020 goals to reduce solidsustainable fiber. This was one of our 2020 goals waste-to-landfill, water use and greenhouse for product and packaging sustainability. gas emissions and remain on target to reach our 2020 goals to lower energy use. Our facilities are not energy-intensive or waterintensive, making ongoing progress challenging now that we have already reduced energy and water use by 25 percent and 35 percent, respectively, per case of product sold, since establishing our first sustainability strategy in 2008. We continue to seek innovative ways to reduce our overall operational footprint while mitigating the impact of unexpected external challenges that are limiting our ability to recycle certain plastics in areas that have been reliable outlets in the past. We began supporting a land-use planning initiative in Indonesia, part of our commitment to responsible sourcing of palm oil. The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 29 04 STRATEGY ENERGY ON TRACK TO DELIVER 2020 GOAL We continue to make progress to reduce our OUR PROGRESS energy use during this goal period. Based on our current data, we’ve now cut our energy use 2020 GOAL by 17 percent and are on track to achieve our Reduce energy use by 20 percent reduction goal by 2020. Some of the 20% recent reductions in energy use on an intensity basis are due to an increase in product volume per case of product sold and the resulting efficiencies of scale. versus a 2011 calendar year baseline. At this point in our progress, we’ve identified and implemented potential efficiencies in some of RESULTS TO DATE GOAL To meet our our most energy-intensive processes. 10% CY12 17% 10%CY13 6% CY14 14% CY15 2020 goal, we continue to focus on site-specific efficiency improvements 15% LED lighting CY16 4 — such as installing — identified CY17 17%CY20our Energy through 20% Audit Action Plan created a few years ago. ENERGY USE (annual progress versus 2011 base year): CY12 CY13 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 6% 10% 10% CY20 GOAL 14% 15% 17% 20% Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 49-51 for the Review Report. 30 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS AHEAD OF 2020 GOAL We’ve now cut our greenhouse gas emissions by OUR PROGRESS 32 percent, exceeding our 20 percent goal three years 2020 GOAL ahead of plan. Achieving this goal is the result of steady progress throughout the goal period, with the exception Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by of a slight setback in 2014 because of extreme weather 20% that required additional energy use. It also takes into account our restated greenhouse gas emissions.1 per case of product sold versus a 2011 calendar Similar to our energy use, some of the recent reductions year baseline. in greenhouse gas emissions on an intensity basis are due to our increase in product volume and the resulting RESULTS TO DATE efficiencies of scale. Greenhouse gas emissions were 32% also reduced through facility-based initiatives to install energy-efficient LED lighting. Last year we began using some renewable energy, with solar panels activated at our Fairfield, California, plant and our regional distribution center in Aberdeen, Maryland. Both solar panel arrays were built with a third-party provider as power purchase agreements. That means we didn’t spend company money to build these projects, and the facilities buy the solarproduced power from the third party instead of from the utility. In 2017, we changed our methodology for calculating Scope 3 emissions because the U.S. 1 EPA stopped supporting the methodology we had previously adopted. Scope 3 emissions for business travel are calculated using “per vehicle-mile traveled” and “per passenger-mile traveled” emissions factors from the EPA’s Center for Corporate Climate Leadership guidance, published in 2018. Emissions from finished goods transportation are calculated using “per ton-mile” emission factors, according to the same guidance. In prior years, Scope 3 emissions were calculated based on fuel usage using the EPA’s “btu/ton-mile” and “GHG emissions per unit of fuel” emission factors. For the purposes of our 2020 reduction goal, we’ve revised the 2011 GHG baseline to apply the same methodology being adopted in 2017 to the baseline year. This increases our 2011 baseline year emissions from 507,216 metric tons CO2e to 761,980 metric tons CO2e, against which 2017 and future years in our 2020 goal period will be reported. This enables us to accurately compare GHG emissions for 2017 going forward to the 2011 baseline. We haven’t revised GHG emissions for 2012 through 2016. GHG EMISSIONS (annual progress versus 2011 base year) CY12 CY13 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 CY20 GOAL 10% 12% 11% 17% 18% 20% 32% Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 49-51 for the Review Report. CY20 GOAL The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 31 WASTE TO LANDFILL REDUCTIONS SURPASS 2020 GOAL We exceeded our 2020 solid-waste-to-landfill goal just two years into our goal period, but we are still working OUR PROGRESS to build on our progress. In 2017, a major construction project for the new Atlanta West plant and several 2020 GOAL capital equipment projects resulted in an increase in Reduce solidhard-to-recycle construction demolition and debris. waste-to-landfill by 20% Additionally, once-reliable markets for certain plastics recycling dried up, forcing us to send more material to landfill. Despite these temporary setbacks, we remain per case of product sold well ahead of our 20 percent reduction goal. versus a 2011 calendar year baseline.1 As a company, we reused or recycled nearly 90 percent of nonsellable materials in 2017 and are identifying RESULTS TO DATE 33% new opportunities to reduce solid-waste-to-landfill, such as the decision by our manufacturing site and distribution center in Mexico to send certain waste to a co-processing facility. With co-processing, waste is used for energy, and the residual material is used as a raw material for a concrete mix. We also made progress toward our goal of 10 zero-waste-to-landfill sites by 2020, bringing the total number to eight. ZERO-WASTE-TO-LANDFILL SITES (annual progress versus 2011 base year): 1 Calendar year 2011 baseline value for solid-waste-to-landfill has been restated to reflect: 1) the removal from the baseline of waste volumes attributed to the Aplicare business, divested by Clorox in calendar year 2017, and 2) the addition of the previously excluded waste stream, cafeteria waste sludge, to the landfill waste volume at our Lima, Peru, manufacturing facility. RESULTS TO DATE 8 SITES 2020 GOAL 10 SITES SOLID-WASTE-TO-LANDFILL (annual progress versus 2011 base year): CY12 CY13 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 1% CY20 GOAL 20% 30% 25% 34% 33% 41% 32 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report CY20 GOAL WATER REDUCTIONS REMAIN AHEAD OF 2020 GOAL 2020 GOAL OUR PROGRESS Reduce water use by 20% per case of product sold versus a 2011 calendar year baseline. RESULTS TO DATE 22% With steady progress throughout the goal period, we surpassed our 20 percent water reduction goal in 2016, four years early. We continued to reduce overall usage in 2017 but noticed increased water usage for equipment cleaning as our plants strived to reduce water use without compromising quality requirements. Water leaks discovered in underground piping at some of our older plants, which required repairs, also affected our progress. These challenges were offset by our new Atlanta West plant that is designed to generate little wastewater. And we continue to benefit from and implement water-reduction best practices identified through a third-party water audit conducted in 2015 and 2016 for our most resourceintensive plants. These initiatives have enabled us to accelerate our progress from a 14 percent reduction in water use in 2015 to a 22 percent reduction in the current year. Going forward, we believe additional water GOAL 20% savings initiatives reporting across the company have the potential to reduce water use by more than 15 million gallons per year, particularly 5% 8% 11% 14% 21% 22% 7 through efficiency, recycling and reuse. CY12 CY13 CY14 CY15 CY20 CY16 CY17 WATER USE (annual progress versus 2011 base year): CY12 CY13 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 5% 8% CY20 GOAL 11% 14% 20% 21% 22% Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 49-51 for the Review Report. The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 33 2018 SCORECARD SALES BY SEGMENT AND CATEGORY1,2 19% HOME CARE (Clorox | Pine-Sol | Tilex | Formula 409 | Liquid-Plumr) 9% LAUNDRY 34% (Clorox | Clorox 2) 6% PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS $6.1B CLEANING (Clorox Healthcare | Clorox Commercial Solutions) NET SALES 14% BAGS, WRAPS, CONTAINERS (Glad) 9% CHARCOAL 25+ Country/Territory 32% HOUSEHOLD (Kingsford | Match Light) 7% CAT LITTER (Fresh Step | Scoop Away) Operations 2% DIGESTIVE HEALTH (RenewLife) 9% FOOD PRODUCTS 8,700+ (Hidden Valley | Soy Vay | KC Masterpiece) 17% 4% NATURAL PERSONAL CARE EMPLOYEES (Burt’s Bees) 3% WATER FILTRATION LIFESTYLE (Brita) 1% DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS3 100+ (Rainbow Light | Natural Vitality | Neocell) Markets Around 8% LATIN AMERICA 17% the World 4% CANADA 3% REST OF WORLD 2% AUSTRALIA/NEW ZEALAND INTERNATIONAL All brands are registered trademarks of The Clorox Company. 1 All percentages represent rounded numbers. 2 Reflects results following April 2018 Nutranext acquisition. This family of 3 brands is expected to contribute approximately 3 points of sales in FY19. 34 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report OUR GLOBAL FOOTPRINT GLOBAL HEADQUARTERS PLANTS ADMINISTRATIVE/SALES OFFICES NORTH AMERICA JOINT VENTURES R&D FACILITIES United States Canada Mexico Dominican Republic ASIA Puerto Rico Panama Saudi Arabia Costa Rica EUROPE United Arab Emirates United Kingdom China South Korea Hong Kong Philippines Malaysia AFRICA Egypt AUSTRALIA Kenya SOUTH AMERICA South Africa Colombia NEW ZEALAND Ecuador Peru Argentina Chile The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 35 NET SALES PERFORMANCE ($ Millions) $5,761 $5,973 $6,124 Achieving financial success while investing for the long term. FY16 FY17 FY18 EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS EBIT MARGIN1 ECONOMIC PROFIT2 ($ Millions) (as a % of Net Sales) (non-GAAP) (non-GAAP) ($ Millions) $823 18.5% 18.7% 18.5% $624 $648 $703 $490 $525 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY16 FY17 FY18 DILUTED NET EARNINGS PER SHARE FROM NET CASH PROVIDED BY CONTINUING OPERATIONS CONTINUING OPERATIONS FREE CASH FLOW3 ($ Millions) ($ Millions) (non-GAAP) ($ Millions) $6.26 $871 $974 $780 $5.35 $768 $640 $4.92 $596 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY16 FY17 FY18 GOAL PRODUCT 50% BY 2020 Innovating and making responsible products responsibly. 3% INCREMENTAL SALES FROM 49% PRODUCT INNOVATION PRODUCT PORTFOLIO WITH SUSTAINABILITY IMPROVEMENTS1 Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 49-51 for the Review Report. The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 36 PEOPLE BEST-IN-CLASS EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT1 WORLD-CLASS WORKPLACE SAFETY2 Promoting diversity, opportunity and respectful treatment for all people 88% EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 0.82 RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE who touch our business. (vs. 81% for Consumer Goods (vs. World-Class Level <1.0) Companies, 86% for Global High-Performance Companies) DIVERSITY AS A BUSINESS STRENGTH IN THE WORKFORCE ETHNIC MINORITIES (U.S.) WOMEN (GLOBAL) 28% NONPRODUCTION MANAGERS 43% NONPRODUCTION MANAGERS (vs. 30% U.S. Census Bureau)3 32% NONPRODUCTION EMPLOYEES 51% NONPRODUCTION EMPLOYEES (vs. 33% U.S. Census Bureau)3 DIVERSITY AS A BUSINESS STRENGTH IN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 33% MINORITY BOARD MEMBERS 33% FEMALE BOARD MEMBERS 33% FEMALE CLOROX EXECUTIVE (vs. 14% Fortune 500 Average)4 (vs. 20% Fortune 500 Average)4 COMMITTEE MEMBERS Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 49-51 for the Review Report. The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 37 COMMUNITY Safeguarding families through initiatives that promote health, $2.5M 1 education and safety. Or 101,170 EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEER HOURS in CY 2017 $4.6M FOUNDATION AND $14.4M $673K $19.7M CORPORATE COMMUNITY U.S. CORPORATE PRODUCT DONATIONS U.S. CAUSE-MARKETING CONTRIBUTIONS TOTAL CASH GRANTS2 IMPACT PLANET OPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT GOAL Shrinking our environmental 20% REDUCTION footprint while we grow. (CY 2017 vs CY 2011 per case of product sold) BY 2020 32% GREENHOUSE GAS 17% ENERGY CONSUMPTION 22% WATER CONSUMPTION 33% SOLID-WASTE-TOEMISSIONS1 LANDFILL2 Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 49-51 for the Review Report. The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 38 FOOTNOTES See footnotes below for descriptions of these non-generally accepted accounting principles, or nonbusiness performance and allocate resources, and is a component in determining employee GAAP measures, the reasons management believes they are useful to investors, and reconciliations incentive compensation. The Company’s management believes EP provides additional perspective to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. to investors about financial returns generated by the business and represents profit generated GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for over and above the cost of capital used by the business to generate that profit. the comparable GAAP measures and should be read in connection with the company’s consolidated (ii) The tax rate applied is the effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations, which financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP. was 21.8%, 31.9% and 34.1% in fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 1. EBIT represents earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, interest income and (iii) Total capital employed represents total assets less non-interest bearing liabilities. Adjusted interest expense. EBIT margin is the ratio of EBIT to net sales. The company’s management capital employed represents total capital employed adjusted to add back current year after tax believes these measures provide useful additional information to investors about trends in the noncash U.S. GAAP restructuring and intangible asset impairment charges. Average capital company’s operations and are useful for period-over-period comparisons. employed is the average of adjusted capital employed for the current year and total capital employed for the prior year, based on year-end balances. See below for details of the average Reconciliation of EBIT capital employed calculation: Dollars in millions FY18 FY17 FY16 Dollars in millions FY18 FY17 FY16 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes $1,054 $1,033 $ 983 Total assets(v) $5,060 $4,573 $4,510 Interest income -6 -4 -5 Interest expense 85 88 88 Less: Accounts payable and accrued liabilities(vi) 1,000 1,002 1,032 EBIT — non-GAAP $1,133 $1,117 $1,066 Income taxes payable — — — EBIT margin — non-GAAP 18.5% 18.7% 18.5% Other liabilities(vi) 778 770 784 Net sales $6,124 $5,973 $5,761 Deferred income taxes 72 61 82 Non-interest bearing liabilities 1,850 1,833 1,898 Total capital employed 3,210 2,740 2,612 2. Reconciliation of Economic Profit (i) After tax noncash U.S. GAAP restructuring and intangible asset impairment charges — 2 6 Dollars in millions and all calculations Adjusted capital employed $3,211 $2,742 $2,618 based on rounded numbers FY18 FY17 FY16 Average capital employed $2,977 $2,680 $2,463 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes $1,054 $1,033 $ 983 Add back: Noncash U.S. GAAP restructuring and (iv) Capital charge represents average capital employed multiplied by a cost of capital, which intangible asset impairment costs 2 4 9 was 9% for all fiscal years presented. The calculation of capital charge includes the impact Interest expense 85 88 88 of rounding numbers. Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, (v) Amount for the year ended June 30, 2016 has been retrospectively adjusted to conform to the noncash U.S. GAAP restructuring and intangible asset current year presentation of debt issuance costs required by ASU No 2015-03, “Simplifying the impairment charges, and interest expense $1,141 $1,125 $1,080 Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs.” Less: Income taxes on earnings from continuing operations (vi) Accounts payable and accrued liabilities and Other Liabilities are adjusted to exclude before income taxes, noncash U.S. GAAP restructuring and interest-bearing liabilities. intangible asset impairment charges and interest expense (ii) 249 359 368 3. Free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by continuing operations less capital Adjusted after-tax profit $ 892 $ 766 $ 712 expenditures and was $780 million, $640 million and $596 million for fiscal years 2018, 2017 and Average capital employed (iii) $2,977 $2,680 $2,463 2016, respectively. For fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, net cash provided by continuing operations was $974 million, $871 million and $768 million, respectively, and capital expenditures were Less: Capital charge (iv) $ 268 $ 241 $ 222 $194 million, $231 million and $172 million, respectively. The company’s management uses Economic profit (i) (adjusted after-tax profit free cash flow and free cash flow as a percent of sales to help assess the cash generation ability less capital charge) $ 624 $ 525 $ 490 of the business and funds available for investing activities, such as acquisitions, investing in the business to drive growth, and financing activities, including debt payments, dividend pay(i) E  conomic profit (EP) is defined by the Company as earnings from continuing operations before ments and share repurchases. Free cash flow does not represent cash available only for disincome taxes, excluding noncash U.S. GAAP restructuring and intangible asset impairment cretionary expenditures, since the Company has mandatory debt service requirements and charges, and interest expense; less income taxes (calculated utilizing the Company’s effective other contractual and non-discretionary expenditures. In addition, free cash flow may not be tax rate), and less a capital charge (calculated as average capital employed multiplied by a cost the same as similar measures provided by other companies due to potential differences in methods of calculation and items being excluded. of capital rate). EP is a key financial metric that the Company’s management uses to evaluate PRODUCT FOOTNOTES 1 For the calendar year ended Dec. 31, 2017. All sustainability metrics represent cumulative progress per-consumer-use basis; 2) an environmentally beneficial change to 10 percent or more of against CY 2011 baseline, with percentage based on net fiscal year customer sales. There are four packaging or active ingredients on a per-consumer-use basis; 3) a 10 percent reduction in required types of sustainability improvement criteria that can be met either by fully meeting one or partially usage of water or energy by consumer; or 4) an environmentally beneficial sourcing change to meeting two or more: 1) a 5 percent or greater reduction in product or packaging materials on a 20 percent or more of active ingredients or packaging on a per-consumer-use basis. PEOPLE FOOTNOTES 1 The FY18 engagement survey was open for three weeks, during which time 83 percent of eligible less than one reportable incident during the past year. According to the latest available data from Clorox employees completed the survey (6,350 of 7,611). The Willis Towers Watson Global Highthe U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average RIR for goods-producing manufacturing Performance Norm is based on responses from 409,521 employees (weighted N-size of 140,136) companies is 3.6. The criteria used to determine RIR follows the U.S. Department of Labor’s at 24 companies. Companies qualify for the norm by meeting two criteria: 1) superior financial Occupational Safety and Health Administration guidelines and is applied globally. performance, defined by a net profit margin and/or return on invested capital that exceeds industry 3 U.S. Census Bureau benchmark metrics are based on the U.S. Census Bureau’s Equal Employment averages; and 2) superior human resources practices, defined by employee opinion scores near the Opportunity (EEO) Tabulation 2006-2010, American Community Survey 5-year dataset. The benchmarks top among the most financially successful companies surveyed by Willis Towers Watson. The Willis are modeled using Clorox’s workforce as of June 30, 2018. The calculations utilize weighted averages by Towers Watson Global Fast-Moving Consumer Goods Norm is comprised of employee survey results U.S. Census job code and apply approximate workforce location assumptions based on Clorox’s from a cross-section of organizations that produce fast-moving consumer goods, based on responses historical workforce locations and headcount trends. from 823,964 employees (weighted N-size of 146,652) at 68 companies. 4 “Missing Pieces Report: The 2016 Board Diversity Census of Women and Minorities on Fortune 500 2 Based on corporate benchmarking by Clorox, we consider a recordable incident rate of 1.0 or less Boards,” Deloitte and the Alliance for Board Diversity, 2017. to be world-class. Our FY18 RIR of 0.82 means that for every 100 Clorox employees, we averaged COMMUNITY FOOTNOTES 1F  inancial equivalent of 101,170 volunteer hours, calculated at $24.69 per hour, based on the 2017 2 This metric is based on an updated methodology to better reflect the amount directly benefiting U.S. value of volunteer time from IndependentSector.org. Less than 5 percent of these hours are by community organizations we support. employees outside the U.S., but all are calculated using the U.S. average rate. PLANET FOOTNOTES 1 In 2017, we changed our methodology for calculating Scope 3 emissions because the U.S. EPA year emissions from 507,216 metric tons CO2e to 761,980 metric tons CO2e, against which 2017 stopped supporting the methodology we had previously adopted. Scope 3 emissions for business and future years in our 2020 goal period will be reported. This enables us to accurately compare travel are calculated using “per vehicle-mile traveled” and “per passenger-mile traveled” emisGHG emissions for 2017 going forward to the 2011 baseline. We have not revised GHG emissions sions factors from the EPA’s Center for Corporate Climate Leadership guidance, published in for 2012 through 2016. 2018. Emissions from finished goods transportation are calculated using “per ton-mile” emission 2 Calendar year 2011 baseline value for solid waste-to-landfill has been restated to reflect: 1) the factors, according to the same guidance. In prior years, Scope 3 emissions were calculated based removal from the baseline of waste volumes attributed to the Aplicare business, divested by Clorox on fuel usage using the EPA’s “btu/ton-mile” and “GHG emissions per unit of fuel” emission in calendar year 2017, and 2) the addition of the previously excluded waste stream, cafeteria waste factors. For the purposes of our 2020 reduction goal, we’ve revised the 2011 GHG baseline to apply sludge, to the landfill waste volume at our Lima, Peru, manufacturing facility. the same methodology being adopted in 2017 to the baseline year. This increases our 2011 baseline The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 39 COMPANY RECOGNITIONS No. 15 The company brand was broadly Ranking recognized for its business and corporate responsibility achievements in fiscal year 2018. 2018 No. 15 BEST OF THE BEST LIST OF TOP EMPLOYERS U.S. REPTRACK® TOP 100 LIST —Hispanic Network Magazine ICA’S MO ER AM ST No. 77 WORLD’S MOST CO M PA N I E S INNOVATIVE COMPANIES PERFECT (among 100 ranked companies) SCORES 2017 SINCE 2006 No. 36 —Forbes Ranking (among top 100 of 1,000 companies analyzed) 40 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 2017 THOMSON REUTERS DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION INDEX: No. 28 No. 9 Ranking (among top 100 most diverse and inclusive organizations globally) No. 207 CLEAN INDUSTRY 2017 GLOBAL 2000: CERTIFICATION Top Regarded Companies (Clorox Mexico) —PROFEPA (Mexican (among 250 ranked global public companies) Environmental Authority) —Forbes No. 178 2017 GLOBAL 2000: World’s Best Employers No. 20 Ranking (among 500 ranked global public companies) —Forbes 100 BEST CORPORATE CITIZENS 2018 50 OUT FRONT LIST —CR Magazine No. 5 Ranking 2017 SILVER LEVEL AND PLATINUM LEVEL PROCESS SAFETY PERFORMANCE BEST PLACES FOR WOMEN (Caguas, Puerto Rico, Plant) AND DIVERSE MANAGERS —The Chlorine Institute TO WORK —Diversity MBA Magazine The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 41 BRAND RECOGNITIONS CLOROX Cannes Bronze Lion for Brand Because of our value, innovation Experience and Activation and leadership, our brands were (Clorox® Concentrated Bleach, recognized around the globe for their Puerto Rico) products and marketing campaigns. BURT’S BEES CLOROX PROFESSIONAL CLOROX Winner 2017 ISSA Innovation No. 2 Ranking Champion for of the Year Award Sustainability Digital Genius, (Clorox® Total 360® 2018 L2 Digital 2018, Vogue Beauty System) Report Awards (U.K.) POETT BRITA Lápiz de Oro 2017, GLAD 2018 Leveraging Editorial Dossier Digital Marketing Cannes Bronze Lion (Poett® Fraganza, Team for Brand Experience Argentina) Large Company and Activation Winner, Marketers (Glad Forceflex Plus That Matter Awards Advanced Protection) 42 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report CLOROX AYUDIN Good Housekeeping YouTube TOP 3 Research Institute Leaderboard, 2018 April 2018 (Clorox Scentiva (Floor Cloth Ayudin, Multi-Surface Spray) Argentina) GLAD BURT’S BEES National Leading No. 1 Brand in U.S. Enterprise in Quality of 2018 Union for Ethical RENEWLIFE Household Products, BioTrade Biodiversity 2018 Vity Award, 2015-18 Barometer Vitamin Retailer (Mainland China) Award is based on a survey of U.S. consumers (RenewLife 3-Day Cleanse) conducted by IPSOS on behalf of UEBT. It is not an opinion of or based on an assessment by UEBT. RENEWLIFE BURT’S BEES 2017 WWD 2018 Rated No.1 Probiotic Prestige Brand in Consumer Product of the Year Satisfaction (Burt’s Bees Beauty) ConsumerLab.com BRITA Outstanding Merchandising Achievement Award General Merchandise — Semipermanent — Gold Award, 2018 Shop! Association (Brita Stream Target End Cap) The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 43 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings Years ended June 30 Dollars in millions, except share and per share data 2018 2017 2016 Net sales $ 6,124 $ 5,973 $ 5,761 Cost of products sold 3,449 3,302 3,163 Gross profit 2,675 2,671 2,598 Selling and administrative expenses 837 810 806 Advertising costs 570 599 587 Research and development costs 132 135 141 Interest expense 85 88 88 Other (income) expense, net (3) 6 (7) Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes 1,054 1,033 983 Income taxes on continuing operations 231 330 335 Earnings from continuing operations 823 703 648 Losses from discontinued operations, net of tax — (2) — Net earnings $ 823 $ 701 $ 648 Net earnings (losses) per share Basic Continuing operations $ 6.37 $ 5.45 $ 5.01 Discontinued operations — (0.02) — Basic net earnings per share $ 6.37 $ 5.43 $ 5.01 Diluted Continuing operations $ 6.26 $ 5.35 $ 4.92 Discontinued operations — (0.02) — Diluted net earnings per share $ 6.26 $ 5.33 $ 4.92 Weighted average shares outstanding (in thousands) Basic 129,293 128,953 129,472 Diluted 131,581 131,566 131,717 44 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Years ended June 30 Dollars in millions 2018 2017 2016 Earnings from continuing operations $ 823 $ 703 $ 648 Losses from discontinued operations, net of tax — (2) — Net earnings 823 701 648 Other comprehensive income (losses): Foreign currency adjustments, net of tax (28) (3) (53) Net unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives, net of tax 12 7 9 Pension and postretirement benefit adjustments, net of tax 12 23 (24) Total other comprehensive income (losses), net of tax (4) 27 (68) Comprehensive income $ 819 $ 728 $ 580 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 45 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets As of June 30 Dollars in millions, except share and per share data 2018 2017 ASSETS Current assets Cash and cash equivalents $ 131 $ 418 Receivables, net 600 565 Inventories, net 506 459 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 74 72 Total current assets 1,311 1,514 Property, plant and equipment, net 996 931 Goodwill 1,602 1,196 Trademarks, net 795 654 Other intangible assets, net 134 68 Other assets 222 210 Total assets $ 5,060 $ 4,573 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities Notes and loans payable $ 199 $ 404 Current maturities of long-term debt — 400 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 1,001 1,005 Total current liabilities 1,200 1,809 Long-term debt 2,284 1,391 Other liabilities 778 770 Deferred income taxes 72 61 Total liabilities 4,334 4,031 Commitments and contingencies Stockholders’ equity Preferred stock: $1.00 par value; 5,000,000 shares authorized; none issued or outstanding — — Common stock: $1.00 par value; 750,000,000 shares authorized; 158,741,461 shares issued as of June 30, 2018 and 2017; and 127,982,767 and 129,014,172 shares outstanding as of June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively 159 159 Additional paid-in capital 975 928 Retained earnings 2,797 2,440 Treasury shares, at cost: 30,758,694 and 29,727,289 shares as of June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively (2,658) (2,442) Accumulated other comprehensive net (losses) income (547) (543) Stockholders’ equity 726 542 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 5,060 $ 4,573 46 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity Accumulated Other Common Stock Additional Treasury Shares Comprehensive Shares Paid-in Retained Shares Net (Losses) Dollars in millions (in thousands) Amount Capital Earnings (in thousands) Amount Income Total Balance as of June 30, 2015 158,741 $159 $775 $1,923 (30,127) $(2,237) $(502) $118 Net earnings 648 648 Other comprehensive income (loss) (68) (68) Accrued dividends (406) (406) Stock-based compensation 45 45 Other employee stock plan activities 48 (2) 2,892 168 214 Treasury stock purchased (2,151) (254) (254) Balance as of June 30, 2016 158,741 159 868 2,163 (29,386) (2,323) (570) 297 Net earnings 701 701 Other comprehensive income (loss) 27 27 Accrued dividends (421) (421) Stock-based compensation 51 51 Other employee stock plan activities 9 (3) 1,164 70 76 Treasury stock purchased (1,505) (189) (189) Balance as of June 30, 2017 158,741 159 928 2,440 (29,727) (2,442) (543) 542 Net earnings 823 823 Other comprehensive income (loss) (4) (4) Accrued dividends (467) (467) Stock-based compensation 53 53 Other employee stock plan activities (6) 1 1,139 56 51 Treasury stock purchased (2,171) (272) (272) Balance as of June 30, 2018 158,741 $159 $975 $2,797 (30,759) $(2,658) $(547) $726 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 47 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Years ended June 30 Dollars in millions 2018 2017 2016 Operating activities: Net earnings $ 823 $ 701 $ 648 Deduct: Losses from discontinued operations, net of tax — (2) — Earnings from continuing operations 823 703 648 Adjustments to reconcile earnings from continuing operations to net cash provided by continuing operations: Depreciation and amortization 166 163 165 Stock-based compensation 53 51 45 Deferred income taxes (23) (35) 5 Other 43 36 1 Changes in: Receivables, net (24) (1) (52) Inventories, net (21) (19) (45) Prepaid expenses and other current assets 3 (5) 6 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (47) (34) 57 Income taxes payable 1 12 (62) Net cash provided by continuing operations 974 871 768 Net cash (used for) provided by discontinued operations — (3) 10 Net cash provided by operations 974 868 778 Investing activities: Capital expenditures (194) (231) (172) Businesses acquired, net of cash acquired (681) — (290) Other 16 26 32 Net cash used for investing activities (859) (205) (430) Financing activities: Notes and loans payable, net (214) (125) 426 Long-term debt borrowings, net of issuance costs 891 — — Long-term debt repayments (400) — (300) Treasury stock purchased (271) (183) (254) Cash dividends paid (450) (412) (398) Issuance of common stock for employee stock plans and other 45 75 210 Net cash used for financing activities (399) (645) (316) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (3) (1) (13) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (287) 17 19 Cash and cash equivalents: Beginning of year 418 401 382 End of year $ 131 $ 418 $ 401 Supplemental cash flow information: Interest paid $ 75 $ 78 $ 79 Income taxes paid, net of refunds 245 347 323 Non-cash financing activities: Cash dividends declared and accrued, but not paid 123 108 104 48 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS OF THE CLOROX COMPANY We have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of The Clorox Company as of June 30, 2018 and 2017, the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2018, the related notes and the financial statement schedule in Exhibit 99.2 (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”) (not presented separately herein) and in our report dated August 14, 2018, we expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2018 and 2017 and for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2018 (presented on pages 49 through 51) is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated financial statements from which it has been derived. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of The Clorox Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework), and our report dated August 14, 2018 (not presented separately herein) expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. San Francisco, CA August 14, 2018 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 49 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON REVIEW OF NONFINANCIAL INFORMATION THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS OF THE CLOROX COMPANY We have reviewed selected quantitative performance indicators (the “Subject Matter”) included in Exhibit A and as identified by the “ ” symbol presented in The Clorox Company’s (“Clorox” or “the Company”) Annual Report for the year ended June 30, 2018, or otherwise noted, in accordance with the criteria also set forth in Exhibit A (the “Criteria”). The Clorox Company’s management is responsible for the Subject Matter included in Exhibit A, in accordance with the Criteria. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Subject Matter based on our review. Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) in AT-C section 105, Concepts Common to All Attestation Engagements, and AT-C section 210, Review Engagements. Those standards require that we plan and perform our review to obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made to the Subject Matter in order for it to be in accordance with the Criteria. A review consists principally of applying analytical procedures, making inquiries of persons responsible for the subject matter, obtaining an understanding of the data management systems and processes used to generate, aggregate and report the Subject Matter and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. A review is substantially less in scope than an examination, the objective of which is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Subject Matter is in accordance with the Criteria, in all material respects, in order to express an opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. A review also does not provide assurance that we became aware of all significant matters that would be disclosed in an examination. We believe that our review provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion. In performing our review, we have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Professional Conduct issued by the AICPA. We applied the Statements on Quality Control Standards established by the AICPA and, accordingly, maintain a comprehensive system of quality control. As described in Exhibit A, the Subject Matter is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the selected quantitative performance indicators for the year ended June 30, 2018, or otherwise noted, in order for it to be in accordance with the Criteria. San Francisco, CA September 21, 2018 50 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report EXHIBIT A: SCHEDULE OF SELECTED QUANTITATIVE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Indicator Name Scope Unit Value 1 Criteria Scope 1, 2, and 3 Global Percentage reduction of tCO2e per stat case sold over -32% The World Resources Institute (“WRI”) / World Business Council for Sustainable greenhouse gas (GHG) baseline year (2011)7 Development’s (“WBCSD”) Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) Protocol Corporate emissions2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Accounting and Reporting Standard, the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance and the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard Energy consumption, Global Percentage reduction of MWh per stat case sold over -17% WRI/WBCSD’s GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, the Scope 1 and 22, 3, 4, 5 baseline year (2011)7 GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance Water Global Percentage reduction of gallons of water consumed -22% Management’s criteria as follows: Water consumption includes water at all global consumption2, 4 per stat case sold over baseline year (2011)7 manufacturing sites, offices and research development centers used in 1) products sold to customers 2) the manufacturing process 3) irrigation and 4) water consumed by employees during office hours for personal needs (i.e. restrooms, break rooms). Water sources include city/municipal, well, lake, river and storm water. Sustainability Global Percentage of product portfolio 49% Management’s criteria as follows: There are four types of sustainability improvements to improvement criteria that can be met either by fully meeting one or by partially product portfolio meeting two or more: 1) a 5 percent or more reduction in product or packaging since January 20128 materials on a per-consumer-use basis; 2) an environmentally beneficial change to 10 percent or more of packaging or active ingredients on a per-consumer-use basis; 3) a 10 percent reduction in required usage of water or energy by consumer; or 4) an environmentally beneficial sourcing change to 20 percent or more of active ingredients or packaging on a per-consumer-use basis. Workforce See Percentage minority nonproduction employees in U.S. 32% OSHA Regulation 1920.2(d) defines “Employee” as an individual who is employed in a demographics/ right business of his employer which affects commerce. The Equal Employment Opportunity diversity metrics9 for Percentage minority nonproduction managers in U.S. 28% Commission defines “Minority” as any race that is not white (Asian; Black; Latino; metric Native American; Native Hawaiian; or Two or More). scope Percentage female nonproduction employees globally 51% Management’s criteria as follows: “Manager” is defined as an “employee” at Grade 27 Percentage female nonproduction managers globally 43% or above for U.S. employees and Grade 26 or above for international employees with regards to Clorox’s Human Resources (HR) compensation structure. “Production Employee” is defined as an employee at Grade 19 or below with regards to Clorox’s Percentage female Board of Directors 33% HR compensation structure (international and U.S.). “Non-Production Employee” is defined as an employee at Grade 20 or above with regards to Clorox’s HR compensaPercentage minority Board of Directors 33% tion structure (international and U.S.). In certain circumstances, nonproduction employees may be classified below Grade 20 based on type of work performed. Percentage female Executive Committee members 33% U.S. Census Bureau benchmark metrics are based on the U.S. Census Bureau’s U.S. Census Bureau benchmark percentage for 30% Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Tabulation 2006-2010, American Community minority non-production managers in the U.S. Survey 5-year dataset. The benchmarks are modeled using Clorox’s workforce as of June 30, 2018. The calculations utilize weighted averages by U.S. Census job code and U.S. Census Bureau benchmark percentage for 33% apply approximate workforce location assumptions based on Clorox’s historical minority non-production employees in the U.S. workforce locations and headcount trends. U.S. product U.S. Fair market value of products donated in U.S. dollars $14.4 Management’s criteria as follows: U.S. product donations refer to those donadonations9,10 only million tions used to aid in disaster relief or to support schools, food banks, and other non-profit organizations. Fair Market Value is derived from current year average truckload price of the product donated. Truckload prices are based on volume ordered and shipped. Total recordable Global Recordable incident rate (RIR) 0.82 Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) Regulation (Standards – incident rate11 29 CFR) Part 1904 “Recording and Reporting Occupational Injuries and Illness” Employee Global Percentage of employee engagement 88% Management’s criteria as follows: Engagement is defined as the intensity of engagement score12 employees’ connection to Clorox, marked by committed effort to achieve work goals (‘being engaged’) in environments that support productivity (‘being enabled’) and maintain personal well-being (‘feeling energized’). Note 1: Non-financial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. 1 All percentages are rounded to the nearest whole number in the Annual Report. United States, United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Chile, Mexico, Peru and Canada. In 2017, the company 2 For all locations where Clorox maintains operational control and for the calendar year ended changed its calculation methodology for Scope 3 emissions as the U.S. EPA guidance stopped Dec. 31, 2017. supporting the methodology the company previously adopted. In the current year, Scope 3 emissions for business travel are calculated using ‘per vehicle-mile traveled’ and ‘per passenger-mile 3 Scope 1 emissions include direct energy used by Clorox in its operations, categorized by traveled’ emissions factors from the EPA’s Center for Corporate Climate Leadership guidance, stationary combustion, mobile combustion, refrigerant use, direct VOC loss and direct wood published in 2018. Emissions from finished goods transportation are calculated using ‘per pyrolysis. The last two sources relate mainly to Clorox’s Kingsford business unit, and wood ton-mile’ emission factors, from the same guidance. In prior years, Scope 3 emissions were pyrolysis is considered to be a mostly carbon neutral process; therefore CO2 emissions from calculated based on fuel usage, using the EPA’s ‘btu/ton-mile’ and ‘GHG emissions per unit of wood pyrolysis are not included in total tCO2e, but CO2 equivalent emissions from CH4 and fuel’ emission factors. As these factors are no longer being provided by the EPA, Clorox calculated N2O are included. Natural gas emissions, the largest Scope 1 emission source, are calculated Scope 3 emissions using the revised approach in the current year, and also updated its 2011 using factors from EPA Mandatory GHG Reporting for Stationary Fuel Sources (June 2017) and baseline in order to accurately compare GHG emissions overtime. Global Warming Potential (GWP) rates from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report. 7 A stat case is the number of cases sold or produced multiplied by a stat factor which normalizes case value between brands and provides a common denominator of the revenue generated by 4 Clorox’s natural gas, electricity and municipal water consumption data for U.S. sites are tracked by cases across various brands. Clorox’s third-party utility management company. Other sources of energy and water consumption in the U.S. are tracked manually on a site by site basis and reported to Clorox’s corporate team 8 Once a product meets the sustainability improvement criteria, it is reported to the Clorox Eco Team on an annual basis. For international sites, all energy and water consumption data is tracked by each business unit and the sustainability improvement percentage is calculated for that product manually and reported annually to Clorox’s corporate team. using its fiscal year net customer sales as a percentage of Clorox’s total fiscal year net customer sales. The total sustainability improvements percentage represents the summation of all 5 Scope 2 includes indirect emissions resulting from Clorox’s purchased electricity use and is sustainability improvement percentages for products that met the criteria between Jan. 1, calculated using the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) 2016 eGRID emission factors for 2012 and Dec. 31, 2017. U.S. locations and the Energy Information Administration’s (EIA) Foreign Electricity Emission Factors published in 2007 for international locations. Clorox applies GWPs from the IPCC’s Fourth 9 For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. Assessment Report. For the Scope 2 market-based-method, Clorox contacted its largest utility 10 U.S. product donations include donations made by any U.S. business unit. suppliers, however was unable to obtain supplier specific emission factors. Clorox does not 11 Recordable incident rate was determined as of July 9, 2018, for the fiscal year ended June 30, purchase any renewable energy certificates or other contractual instruments and residual mix 2018. The recordable incident rate includes all reportable incidents that occurred at Clorox factors are not currently available in the locations in which Clorox operates. Due to the lack of facilities globally. It does not include remote Clorox facilities that have fewer than 30 employees. market-based data available, Clorox’s market-based emissions were calculated following the same process as the location-based-method emissions. 12 Clorox adopts Willis Towers Watson’s definition of employee engagement in terms of ‘sustainable’ engagement. Employee engagement is measured by a survey administered March 12, 2018 6 Scope 3 includes finished goods transportation in the U.S. only and global employee business through March 30, 2018. 6,350 Clorox employees responded to the survey. travel. Employee business travel includes emissions from commercial air flights and rental car use by Clorox’s employees. Commercial air flights are limited to business travel booked in the The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 51 CORPORATE Steps taken by the board in fiscal year 2018 reinforced a culture of independence and our leadership in adopting best practices. GOVERNANCE • Shareholder Engagement As part of stockholder engagement on environmental, social and governance issues, the board, represented by its independent lead director, collaborated with Clorox remains at the senior management to meet with significant institutional investors and highlight our progress in areas such as forefront of good governance, diversity and environmental sustainability, which play a strategic role in long-term growth. continually assessing our • Expansion of Board Oversight existing framework to identify The board took a number of steps in recognition new opportunities to of the importance of greater oversight for certain critical issues: deliver Good Growth and o T  he newly renamed Nominating, Governance and provide long-term Corporate Responsibility Committee now formally includes corporate responsibility matters. The shareholder value. o official change is detailed in the committee charter.  onsistent with best practices, the board amended C guidelines to oversee decisions about the company’s political contributions. o  tanding cybersecurity updates are now part of the S agenda at every meeting of the Audit Committee. • Implementation of Individual Director and Peer Assessments It’s important for the board to include directors who have the right skill sets to meet our evolving business needs, can offer a variety of experiences and backgrounds, and can bring fresh perspectives. o Individual director and peer assessments, considered a best practice, are now used by the board to help identify areas of opportunity that would make the board composition even stronger. These assessments also support overall board effectiveness and serve to complement the annual board and committee evaluations that were already in place to enhance the performance of these bodies, as well as overall governance practices. 52 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report BOARD OF DIRECTORS Benno Dorer Chair and Chief Executive Officer, The Clorox Company Pamela Thomas-Graham Lead Independent Director Amy Banse Richard H. Carmona, Spencer C. Fleischer Managing Director and Head M.D., M.P.H., F.A.C.S. Managing Partner, of Funds, Comcast Ventures Chief of Health Innovations, FFL Partners Canyon Ranch; former U.S. Surgeon General Esther Lee A.D. David Mackay Robert W. Matschullat Executive Vice President — Retired President and Retired Vice Chairman Global Chief Marketing Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer, Officer, MetLife Inc. Kellogg Company The Seagram Company Ltd. Jeffrey Noddle Matthew J. Shattock Carolyn M. Ticknor Retired Executive Chairman and CEO, Retired President, Chairman, SuperValu Inc. Beam Suntory Inc. Imaging & Printing Systems, Mr. Noddle will retire from the board of directors Mr. Shattock joined the board of directors Hewlett-Packard Company effective November 2018. Aug. 1, 2018. Russell J. Weiner Christopher J. Williams Chief Operating Officer and Chairman and Chief Executive President of the Americas, Officer, The Williams Capital Domino’s Inc. Group L.P. and Williams Capital Management LLC G4-34, G4-35, G4-36, G4-39, G4-SO4 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 53 CLOROX EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The composition of the Clorox Executive Committee changed in fiscal year 2018 primarily as the result of retirements and business expansion from our Nutranext acquisition. Thanks to strong succession planning, five individuals were tapped from within the organization to lead Finance, International, Product Supply, our Nutranext and RenewLife businesses, and Information Technology. Additionally, two existing CEC members were elevated to executive vice president, with Jon Balousek assuming additional responsibility for Corporate Development and Linda Rendle assuming additional responsibility for Corporate Strategy. With the CEC’s expansion to 15 members, women now make up one-third of the senior leadership team at Clorox, with roles overseeing company operations; Legal and Corporate Affairs; Research & Development; Human Resources; and the Cleaning Division, our largest business. Seated from left to right: Diego Barral Benno Dorer Michael Costello Senior Vice President and Chair and Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President and Andy Mowery General Manager — General Manager — Senior Vice President and Chief International Division Eric Reynolds Nutranext and RenewLife Product Supply Officer Senior Vice President Standing from left to right: and Chief Marketing Officer Jon Balousek Laura Stein Executive Vice President — Executive Vice President — Bill Bailey Linda Rendle Specialty and Corporate General Counsel and Senior Vice President — Development Executive Vice President — Corporate Affairs Corporate Business Development Cleaning and Strategy Matt Laszlo Dawn Willoughby Kevin Jacobsen Jay McNulty Senior Vice President Executive Vice President Senior Vice President and Senior Vice President and and Chief Customer Officer and Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Information Officer Denise Garner Kirsten Marriner Senior Vice President Senior Vice President and Chief Innovation Officer and Chief People Officer 54 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES PRIORITIES AND MATRIX We believe that building trust among our stakeholders is important to building successful brands. That’s why we conducted a materiality exercise1 to identify our corporate responsibility priorities.2 These focus areas and corresponding matrix, developed with guidance from a third party, capture the company’s highest corporate responsibility priorities and, therefore, those areas where we should be placing the greatest emphasis. They are based on a review of the company’s 2020 Strategy, as well as feedback from Clorox employees and external stakeholders. The matrix below shows our top 17 corporate responsibility priorities presented in relative importance to each other. HIGHEST CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES2 Risk and Resilience Governance and Accountability EXTREMELY HIGH Water Transparency Importance to Stakeholders (external perspective) Supplier Operations Product Impacts Product Innovation Packaging Stakeholder Engagement Operational Envornmental Impact Inclusion and Diversity Material Sourcing Employee Well Being and Development Product Benefits Responsible Marketing and Consumer VERY HIGH Engagement Climate Change Philanthropy/Cause Programs HIGH HIGH VERY HIGH EXTREMELY HIGH Importance to Clorox (internal perspective) 1 Based on assessment conducted in 2016. 2 “Corporate responsibility priorities” is used to avoid confusion with the financial meaning of the term “materiality.” The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 55 ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES USING THE GLOBAL REPORTING The Clorox Company’s integrated annual report INITIATIVE FRAMEWORK presents the company’s financial and corporate This year’s report has been developed in accordance with responsibility performance for fiscal year 2018, as the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting well as our goals for 2020. It highlights fiscal year Standards, which represent a global best practice for financial performance in accordance with generally reporting on a range of economic, environmental and accepted accounting principles in the U.S., which social impacts. More information on the GRI standards include principles for determining materiality related is available at globalreporting.org. A full list of our GRI to financial reporting. Also presented in this report disclosures can be found on pages 57-72 of this report and is information about performance related to the on our website at annualreport.TheCloroxCompany.com. company’s corporate responsibility priorities. Key corporate responsibility priorities may include, but REPORTING AGAINST THE UNGC PRINCIPLES are not limited to, topics that could have a significant Incorporated into the GRI Sustainability Reporting financial impact on the organization. Standards Index is the Communication on Progress, which describes the company’s actions in implementing VOLUNTARY ASSURANCE OF the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. NONFINANCIAL INFORMATION We believe voluntary assurance strengthens our REPORTING PERIOD AND BOUNDARY reporting process and enhances the credibility of our Most data in this report covers wholly and majority-owned nonfinancial information. We engage a third party to operations for July 1, 2017, through June 30, 2018. In review the following nonfinancial key performance some instances, we have included data for a multiyear indicators: U.S. greenhouse gas emissions, U.S. energy period to show year-over-year comparisons. Data consumption, global water consumption, product in this report for environmental sustainability and sustainability improvements, workforce demographics, volunteer hours is for the period of Jan. 1, 2017, through recordable incident rate, employee engagement and Dec. 31, 2017, and is global unless otherwise stated. U.S. product donations. Items undergoing assurance are indicated with an throughout the report. We continue to look for opportunities to provide external review of metrics that provide further insight into how we create value for all our stakeholders. 56 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report GRI CONTENT INDEX General Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization The Clorox Company CEO Letter reinforces Clorox's commitment to the UN Global Compact Ten Principles. 102-2 Activities, brands, 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 products, and services 2020 Strategy Overview and Progress 10-K: Item: Overview of Business, pages 1-5 102-3 Location of headquarters 2018 Scorecard, page 35, back cover 102-4 Location of operations 2018 Scorecard, page 35 102-5 Ownership and legal form 10-K: Cover page (The Clorox Company; state or other jurisdiction of incorporation of organization: Delaware) 102-6 Markets served 2018 Scorecard, page 35 10-K: page 3 102-7 Scale of the organization 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-35 102-8 Information on employees Strategy 1, pages 12-15 and other workers 2018 Scorecard, page 34, (People section) Clorox Website: Our People 102-9 Supply chain Clorox’s supply chain reflects the company as a UNGC Ten Principles — The Clorox formulator (not a chemical company) with a broad Company Business Partner Code of portfolio of products for consumers and professionals. Conduct includes our expectations of Raw material inputs are varied. suppliers on business ethics, human Clorox Website: Corporate Responsiblity: Supply Chain rights, labor and environmental compliance and sustainability. 102-10 Significant changes to Clorox made the following changes to its organization, the organization and which also impacted its supply chain: August 2017 its supply chain divestiture of the Aplicare business, including manufacturing; April 2018 acquisition of the Nutranext business, which added a manufacturing facility in Sunrise, FL. 102-11 Precautionary Principle Clorox Website: Brands — What We're Made Of Principle 7 or approach 102-12 External initiatives CDP, UNGC — See CEO Letter, pages 5-9 UNGC Ten Principles IIRC and GRI, About This Report, page 56 Clorox Website: AIM Progress Industry Collaboration 102-13 Membership of Clorox Website: Stakeholder Engagement UNGC Principles 7-9 (See Responsible associations Sourcing Information) STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior CEO Letter, pages 5-9 decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks, 2020 Strategy Overview and Progress, pages 10-33 and opportunities 10-K: Item 1.A. Risk Factors, pages 6-18 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 57 GRI CONTENT INDEX DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Clorox Website: Mission and Values Principle 10 and norms of behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Clorox Website: Clorox Code of Conduct and Clorox Principle 10 concerns about ethics Business Partner Code of Conduct GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance, pages 52-53 UNGC Ten Principles Clorox Website: Corporate Governance Clorox Website: Governance Guidelines 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance, pages 52-54 Principles 7-9 Clorox Website: Corporate Governance Clorox Website: Eco Governance 102-20 Executive-level responsibility Corporate Governance, pages 52-54 for economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on Corporate Governance, page 52 economic, environmental, and Clorox Website: Board of Directors social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest Corporate Governance, pages 53-54 governance body and its comClorox Website: Corporate Governance mittees 102-23 Chair of the highest Corporate Governance, page 53 governance body Clorox Website: Corporate Governance 102-24 Nominating and selecting the Clorox Website: Corporate Governance highest governance body Committee Charters 102-25 Conflicts of interest Clorox Website: Clorox Code of Conduct Principle 10 102-26 Role of highest governance Clorox Website: Governance Guidelines UNGC Ten Principles body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of Clorox Website: Clorox Board of Directors UNGC Ten Principles highest governance body 102-28 Evaluating the highest Clorox Website: Corporate Governance UNGC Ten Principles governance body’s Committee Charters performance 102-29 Identifying and managing Clorox Website: Governance Guidelines UNGC Ten Principles economic, environmental, and social impacts 58 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report GRI CONTENT INDEX DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Clorox Website: Governance Guidelines UNGC Ten Principles management processes 102-31 Review of economic, The Clorox board of directors meets at least quarterly UNGC Ten Principles environmental, and to review key issues/opportunities impacting the company. social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s Clorox's CEO, CFO and general counsel approve our role in sustainability reporting integrated report. 102-33 Communicating critical Clorox Website: Communicating with Clorox concerns Board of Directors 102-34 Nature and total number The Clorox board of directors regularly review and of critical concerns address a variety of key issues/opportunities through quarterly updates, strategy meetings and separate committee meetings. The company does not disclose the total number of concerns. 102-35 Remuneration policies Clorox Website: SEC Filings 2018 Clorox Proxy — See Compensation Discussion and Analysis, pages 34-62 102-36 Process for determining Clorox Website: SEC Filings 2018 Clorox Proxy — See remuneration Compensation Discussion and Analysis, pages 34-62 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement Clorox Website: SEC Filings 2018 Clorox Proxy — See in remuneration Compensation Discussion and Analysis, pages 34-62 102-38 Annual total Clorox does not disclose, although the company does compensation ratio point to CEO median pay ratio. 102-39 Percentage increase in annual Clorox does not disclose. total compensation ratio STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Corporate Governance, page 52 2020 Strategy, Our Relationships, page 11 Clorox Website: Stakeholder Engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining U.S.: 1.90%, International: 23.43%, Principle 3 agreements Total Company: 8.97% 102-42 Identifying and selecting Clorox Website: Stakeholder Engagement stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Clorox Website: Stakeholder Engagement engagement 102-44 Key topics and Corporate Responsibility Priorities, page 55 concerns raised Clorox Website: Stakeholder Engagement The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 59 GRI CONTENT INDEX DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the 10-K: Financial Information About Foreign and consolidated financial Domestic Operations — Notes to Consolidated statements Financial Statements in Exhibit 99.1 102-46 Defining report content and About This Report, page 56 topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Corporate Responsibility Priorities, page 55 UNGC Principles 1-10 Clorox Website: Stakeholder Engagement 102-48 Restatements of information 10-K: Five-Year Financial Summary, page 66 102-49 Changes in reporting About This Report, page 56 102-50 Reporting period About This Report, page 56 102-51 Date of most recent report About This Report, page 56 102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report, page 56 102-53 Contact point for questions corporate.communications@clorox.com regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in About This Report, page 56 accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index About This Report, page 56 102-56 External assurance About This Report, page 56 Report of Independent Registered Accounting Firm, pages 49-51 60 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report GRI CONTENT INDEX Topic-Specific Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 200: ECONOMIC GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 103-1 Explanation of the material CEO Letter, pages 5-9 topic and its Boundary 2020 Strategy, pages 10-11 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 Corporate Responsibility Priorities, page 51 103-2 The management approach CEO Letter, pages 5-9 and its components 2020 Strategy, pages 10-11 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 10-K: Part I, Item 1 — Overview of Business, page 1; Part II, Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, page 24 103-3 Evaluation of the management CEO Letter, pages 5-9 approach 2020 Strategy, pages 10-11 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 10-K: Part II, Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 201-1 Direct economic value 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 Principles 7-9 generated and distributed 201-2 Financial implications and Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — other risks and opportunities Message from the CEO due to climate change 10-K: Risk Factors, pages 6-19 201-3 Defined benefit plan Clorox Website: Working at Clorox — Benefits & Perks obligations and other retirement plans GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Clorox and Business Partner Principle 10 topic and its Boundary Codes of Conduct 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Clorox and Business Partner Principle 10 and its components Codes of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the management Clorox Website: Clorox and Business Partner Principle 10 approach Codes of Conduct 205-2 Communication and training 100 percent of the company’s leaders and employees Principle 10 about anti-corruption policies must go through anti-corruption training. 100 percent and procedures of the company’s suppliers must adhere to the Business Partner Code of Conduct, which addresses ethical business practices. Clorox Website: Clorox and Business Partner Codes of Conduct The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 61 GRI CONTENT INDEX DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL GRI 301: MATERIALS 103-1 Explanation of the material 2020 Strategy Overview, pages 10-11 topic and its Boundary Strategy 4, Fund Growth, CR Highlights — Shrink our environmental footprint while we grow, pages 28-29 Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message from the CEO 103-2 The management approach 2020 Strategy Overview (Good Growth), pages 10-11 and its components Strategy 4, Fund Growth, CR Highlights — Shrink our environmental footprint while we grow, pages 28-29 Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message from the CEO 103-3 Evaluation of the management 2020 Strategy Overview (Good Growth), pages 10-11 approach Strategy 4, Fund Growth, CR Highlights — Shrink our environmental footprint while we grow, pages 28-29 Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message from the CEO 301-2 Recycled input We do not currently report a total percentage of materials Principles 7-9 materials used used that are recycled input materials. GRI 302: ENERGY 103-1 Explanation of the material Strategy 4, Fund Growth, CR Highlights — Shrink our topic and its Boundary environmental footprint while we grow, page 30 Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message from the CEO 103-2 The management approach Strategy 4, Fund Growth, CR Highlights — Shrink our and its components environmental footprint while we grow, page 29 Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message from the CEO 103-3 Evaluation of the Strategy 4, Fund Growth, CR Highlights — Shrink our management approach environmental footprint while we grow, page 29 Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message from the CEO 302-4 Reduction of energy 2020 Strategy Overview (Good Growth), pages 10-11 consumption Strategy 4, Fund Growth, CR Highlights — Shrink our environmental footprint while we grow, pages 29-30 Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Facilities — Energy 62 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report GRI CONTENT INDEX DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 303: WATER 103-1 Explanation of the material Water, page 33 Principles 7-9 topic and its Boundary Clorox Website: Sustainability in our Facilities — Water 103-2 The management approach Water, page 33 Principles 7-9 and its components Clorox Website: Sustainability in our Facilities — Water 103-3 Evaluation of the Water, page 33 Principles 7-9 management approach Clorox Website: Sustainability in our Facilities — Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Clorox Website: Sustainability in our Facilities — Water GRI 305: EMISSIONS 103-1 Explanation of the material Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 31 topic and its Boundary Clorox Website: Sustainability in our Facilities — GHG Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message from the CEO 103-2 The management approach Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 31 and its components Clorox Website: Sustainability in our Facilities — GHG Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message from the CEO 103-3 Evaluation of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 31 management approach Clorox Website: Sustainability in our Facilities — GHG Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message from the CEO 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Clorox Website: Sustainability in our Facilities — GHG emissions Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message from the CEO 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GHG Emissions, page 31 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 Clorox Website: Sustainability in our Facilities — GHG The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 63 GRI CONTENT INDEX DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 103-1 Explanation of the material Waste, page 32 topic and its Boundary Clorox Website: Sustainability in our Facilities — Waste 103-2 The management approach Waste, page 32 and its components Clorox Website: Sustainability in our Facilities — Waste Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message from the CEO 103-3 Waste by type and disposal Waste, page 32 method Clorox Website: Sustainability in our Facilities — Waste Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message from the CEO 306-2 Waste by type and Waste, page 32 disposal method 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 Clorox Website: Footprint Reduction Summary — Waste We report solid waste disposal, not hazardous waste disposal. The waste disposal method has been determined based on information provided by the waste disposal contractor. Each site reports its annual reuse, recycling, and disposal tonnages using information obtained from its recycling or waste disposal contractor to our corporate office, where it is reviewed and compiled. Materials (tons) Reuse 41,719 Recycle 24,711 Compost 395 Energy Recovery 494 Incineration — Deep Well — Landfill 8,111 On-Site Storage — Other — 64 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report GRI CONTENT INDEX DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 103-1 Explanation of the material 10-K: Risk Factors, pages 6-19 topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Environmental Sustainability and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management Clorox Website: Environmental Sustainability approach 307-1 Non-compliance with Clorox Website: Clorox and Business Partner environmental laws Codes of Conduct and regulations GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Supply Chain — Responsible Sourcing Principles 7-9 topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Supply Chain — Responsible Sourcing Principles 7-9 and its components Clorox Website: Clorox Business Partner Codes of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the management Clorox Website: Supply Chain — Responsible Sourcing Principles 7-9 approach Clorox Website: Clorox Business Partner Codes of Conduct 308-1 New suppliers that were Clorox does not track percentage of new suppliers screened using screened using environmental data. The vast majority environmental criteria of new suppliers are informed/expected to adhere to our environmental commitments/practices in our Business Partner Code of Conduct. Clorox has a scorecard tracking the environmental practices of our top 100 suppliers (by spend). 308-2 Negative environmental The company assesses the sustainability performance impacts in the supply chain of its top 100 suppliers, which represent the majority and actions taken of supplier spend. 100 percent of suppliers, including new suppliers, must adhere to the company’s Business Partner Code of Conduct, which addresses sustainability expectations. Clorox Website: Supply Chain — Supplier Environmental Footprint Score Card The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 65 GRI CONTENT INDEX DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 400: SOCIAL GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material Engage Our People, pages 12-16 topic and its Boundary Clorox Website: Our People Clorox Website: Careers 103-2 The management approach Engage Our People, pages 12-16 and its components Clorox Website: Our People Clorox Website: Clorox Code of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the management Engage Our People, pages 12-16 approach Clorox Website: Our People 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time Clorox Website: Working at Clorox — Benefits & Perks employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1 Explanation of the material Engage Our People — Workplace Safety, page 14 topic and its Boundary 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 Clorox Website: Workplace Safety 103-2 The management approach Engage Our People — Workplace Safety, page 14 and its components 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 Clorox Website: Workplace Safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management Engage Our People — Workplace Safety, page 14 approach 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 Clorox Website: Workplace Safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of Workplace Safety, pages 34-39 injury, occupational diseases, Clorox Website: Workplace Safety lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related We track the RIR and LTIR* (lost-time incident rate) fatalities for Clorox employees plus supervised workers. LTIR is reported internally on a monthly basis. We follow OSHA 1904 Rules for defining injuries as “reportable” and labor hours to track. The rate calculation is that used by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and OSHA for comparison across industries. 66 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report GRI CONTENT INDEX DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Our People topic and its Boundary Clorox Website: Clorox Code of Conduct 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Our People and its components Clorox Website: Clorox Code of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the management Clorox Website: Our People approach Clorox Website: Clorox Code of Conduct 404-2 Programs for upgrading CEO Letter, pages 5-9 employee skills and transition Engage Our People, pages 12-15 assistance programs The company’s MyLearning program offers extensive internal and external courses to support professional development and capabilityand leadership-building needs. GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 103-1 Explanation of the material Engage Our People — Diversity, pages 12-15 Principle 6 topic and its Boundary 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 Clorox Website: Inclusion & Diversity 103-2 The management approach Engage Our People — Diversity, pages 12-15 and its components 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 Clorox Website: Inclusion & Diversity 103-3 Evaluation of the management Engage Our People — Diversity, pages 12-15 approach 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 Clorox Website: Inclusion & Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 bodies and employees Clorox Website: Inclusion & Diversity GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Inclusion & Diversity Principle 6 topic and its Boundary Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Inclusion & Diversity and its components Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the manageClorox Website: Inclusion & Diversity ment approach Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct 406-1 Incidents of discrimination Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct and corrective actions taken The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 67 GRI CONTENT INDEX DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 408: CHILD LABOR 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct Principles 1-5 topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct Principles 1-6 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct Principles 1-7 approach 408-1 Operations and suppliers at Suppliers must comply with Clorox’s policy on Principles 1-8 significant risk for incidents employment of young people where the minimum of child labor age of employment shall not be less than the greater of (a) the age of completion of compulsory schooling or (b) 15 years of age (or 14, where the local law of the country permits). Additionally, workers under age 18 should not perform any hazardous work. GRI 409: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct approach 409-1 Operations and suppliers at Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct significant risk for incidents Adherence to our Business Partner Code of Conduct of forced or compulsory labor — which articulates our expectations regarding human rights and labor, health and safety, the environment, and business conduct and ethics — is required of our suppliers, with certification taking place on a regular basis. This code precludes the use of forced, bonded, or indentured labor or prison labor. As an additional safeguard, the company’s Global Strategic Sourcing organization implemented a monitoring program last year using web-crawl technology to monitor all global direct material suppliers for any activities or incidents that would pose risk to the Clorox supply chain. Through an alert system, buyers are notified of any significant findings for appropriate action and/or follow-up. GSS also began annual risk assessments of global suppliers this year based on location, scale, industry and audit history to determine those suppliers at highest risk for social compliance issues, including forced labor and human trafficking. The risk assessment allows us to determine which suppliers should be selected for third-party audits to verify compliance with all principles and standards of the Clorox Business Partner Code of Conduct. 68 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report GRI CONTENT INDEX DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct approach 412-1 Operations that have been None of our operations has been subject to human subject to human rights rights reviews/assessments. reviews or impact assessments GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 103-1 Explanation of the material Strategy 3, pages 24-25 topic and its Boundary 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 Clorox Website: Social Impact 103-2 The management approach Strategy 3, pages 24-25 and its components 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 Corporate Responsibility Priorities, page 51 Clorox Website: Social Impact 103-3 Evaluation of the management Strategy 3, Safeguard Families Through Initiatives that approach Promote Health, Education and Safety — Community Support, pages 24-25 2018 Scorecard, pages 34-39 Corporate Responsibility Priorities, page 51 Clorox Website: Social Impact 413-1 Operations with local Strategy 3: Safeguard Families Through Initiatives that community engagement, Promote Health, Education and Safety impact assessments, and Community Support, pages 24-25 development programs Clorox Website: Social Impact GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Supply Chain Principles 1-6 topic and its Boundary Clorox Website: Business Partner Code of Conduct 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Supply Chain Principles 1-6 and its components Clorox Website: Business Partner Code of Conduct The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 69 GRI CONTENT INDEX DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES 103-3 Evaluation of the management Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Supply Chain Principles 1-6 approach Clorox Website: Business Partner Code of Conduct 414-1 New suppliers that were 100 percent of all suppliers, including new suppliers, screened using social criteria must adhere to our Business Partner Code of Conduct, which addresses labor practices. We do not track percentage of new suppliers screened using labor practices criteria. The vast majority of new suppliers are informed and expected to adhere to our human rights and labor commitments through contract language requiring adherence to our Business Partner Code of Conduct. In the absence of a contract, there are other mechanisms to ensure compliance with labor practices criteria for significant purchases. GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: What We’re Made Of Principles 7-9 topic and its Boundary Clorox Website: Social Impact 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: What We’re Made Of Principles 7-9 and its components Clorox Website: Social Impact 103-3 Evaluation of the management Clorox Website: What We’re Made Of Principles 7-9 approach Clorox Website: Social Impact 416-1 Assessment of the health and Clorox Website: What We’re Made of Principles 7-9 safety impacts of product and The company assesses 100 percent of its products for service categories human and environmental safety. GRI 417: MARKETING AND LABELING 103-1 Explanation of the material Marketing Our Products Responsibly topic and its Boundary We remain committed to providing information about our brands and products in a responsible and truthful manner, adhering to all laws and guidelines of the Federal Trade Commission and other relevant governing bodies. That means communicating the benefits, performance, and attributes of our products accurately and directly, with claims that are substantiated. It’s also our policy to create and purchase advertising so we reach our target audiences with maximum efficiency, using advertisements and media that are consistent with the character and values of our company, while upholding relevant local laws and consumer privacy guidelines like the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). All company products have the required labeling for safety and usage. Clorox was also the first major CPG company to voluntarily disclose the product ingredients used in our cleaning and disinfecting products in the U.S. and Canada: www.IngredientsInside.com. Clorox Website: All About Innovation 70 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report GRI CONTENT INDEX DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Marketing our Products Responsibility and its components Clorox Website: Ingredients Inside 103-3 Evaluation of the management Clorox Website: Marketing our Products Responsibility approach Clorox Website: Ingredients Inside 417-1 Requirements for product 100 percent of our products adhere to the appropriate and service information regulations related to safety, caution and usage labeling. and labeling Clorox Website: What We’re Made Of 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance We did not have any incidents of noncompliance with concerning marketing regulations or voluntary codes with respect to marketing communications communications. GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Privacy Policy topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Privacy Policy and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management Clorox Website: Privacy Policy approach 418-1 Substantiated complaints The company has not identified any complaints Principles 7-9 concerning breaches of related to this matter. customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Clorox Codes of Conduct topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Clorox Codes of Conduct and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management Clorox Website: Clorox Codes of Conduct approach 419-1 Non-compliance with laws Clorox has been compliant with all social and and regulations in the social economic regulations. and economic area The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report 71 STOCKHOLDER INFORMATION STOCK LISTING AND NUMBER OF RECORD HOLDERS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The Clorox Company’s common stock is listed on the New York Except for historical information, matters discussed in the Stock Exchange, identified by the symbol CLX. As of July 27, 2018, annual report are forward-looking statements and are based on the number of record holders of Clorox’s common stock was 10,422 management’s estimates, assumptions and projections. Actual based on information provided by the company’s transfer agent. results could vary materially. Please review the “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial TRANSFER AGENT, REGISTRAR AND DIVIDEND Condition and Results of Operations” sections in the company’s DISBURSING AGENT annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, Inquiries relating to stockholder records, change of ownership, 2018, and subsequent SEC filings, for factors that could affect the change of address and the dividend reinvestment/direct stock company’s performance and cause results to differ materially purchase plan should be sent to: from management’s expectations. The information in this report reflected management’s estimates, assumptions and projections Computershare as of Aug.14, 2018. Clorox has not made updates since then and P.O. Box 30170 makes no representation, express or implied, that the information College Station, TX 77842-3170 is still current or complete. The company is under no obligation to Overnight correspondence should be sent to: update any part of this document. Computershare 211 Quality Circle, Suite 210 COMPARATIVE STOCK PERFORMANCE College Station, TX 77845 The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return 877-373-6374 or 781-575-2726 of the Common Stock for the last five fiscal years with the cumulative TDD 800-952-9245 or 312-588-4110 for hearing impaired total return of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index and a composite computershare.com/investor index composed of the Standard & Poor’s Household Products Index and the Standard & Poor’s Housewares & Specialties Index (referred STOCKHOLDER INFORMATION SERVICE to below as the Peer Group) for a five-year period ending June 30, 2018. The latest company news is available at TheCloroxCompany.com. The composite index is weighted based on market capitalization as of the end of each quarter during each of the last five years. The DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT/ graph lines merely connect the prices on the dates indicated and DIRECT STOCK PURCHASE PLAN do not reflect fluctuations between those dates. Clorox has authorized Computershare to offer a dividend reinvestment/direct stock purchase plan. Registered stockholders can purchase additional shares. Nonstockholders may join the COMPARISON OF FIVE-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* plan with an initial investment, lump sum or bank debit. Most Among The Clorox Company, the S&P 500 Index and a Peer Group fees are paid by Clorox. For more information or plan materials, visit TheCloroxCompany.com Clorox: $186.93 250 > Investors > Investor Resources > Online Document Library or S&P 500: $187.70 contact Computershare (see above). Peer Group: $123.87 200 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON INTERNAL 150 CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Clorox management, under the supervision and with the participation of the chief executive officer and chief financial 100 officer, has assessed the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2018, and concluded 50 that it is effective. For more information, see Item 9.A. of the company’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 FINANCIAL INFORMATION *$100 invested on 6/30/13 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Full financial statements are provided in the company’s 2018 proxy Fiscal year ending June 30. statement. Detailed financial information is available without Copyright© 2018 Standard & Poor’s, a division of S&P Global. charge through the following sources: All rights reserved. • The company’s proxy statement is available at TheCloroxCompany.com and through the SEC’s EDGAR database. • The company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, is available at TheCloroxCompany.com and through the SEC’s EDGAR database. 72 The Clorox Company 2018 Integrated Annual Report The Clorox Company 1221 Broadway, Oakland, CA 94612 thecloroxcompany.com View the multimedia 2018 Integrated Annual Report: annualreport.thecloroxcompany.com
