Corporate Global Marketing and Communications Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2017 fiveyearsout.com About Arrow “At Arrow, we guide today’s innovators Arrow Electronics is a global provider of products, services and solutions to forward to a better tomorrow. We industrial and commercial users of electronic components and enterprise started more than 80 years ago computing solutions. Arrow serves as a supply channel partner for more than as a supplier to the emerging radio 125,000 original equipment manufacturers, contract manufacturers and industry in Lower Manhattan. In the commercial customers through a global network of more than 465 locations 21st century, Arrow is an integrated serving over 90 countries. technology solutions provider in more Learn more at fiveyearsout.com. than 90 countries. We apply the same values to our role as a corporate citizen. We partner with innovators and help them navigate a About This Report complex world, developing practical This report provides an overview of Arrow’s social, environmental and solutions that make people’s lives economic impacts, highlighting initiatives in fiscal year 2017 — January 1 more fulfilling and productive. through December 31. This is the third consecutive year we have published the Arrow Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability report. Our report is In doing so, we do more than extend informed by the guidelines of several voluntary international corporate reporting technology’s influence. We become organizations, including the Global Reporting Initiative. part of the humanitarian solution. In 2017, an independent third party conducted Arrow’s first materiality Our CSR and Sustainability programs assessment. They interviewed key internal and external stakeholders to show what’s possible when together identify material issues for Arrow, including sustainable procurement, fair labor we think Five Years Out.” practices and human rights, ethical business practices, as well as economic and Mike Long environmental impact. Recognizing the role we play in the communities where Chairman, CEO and President we live and work, we look to measure our baseline performance as well as set Arrow Electronics, Inc. goals for future performance. ABOUT THE COVER: Paralympian Oksana Masters is one of five athletes known as the “Arrow Quintum.” They demonstrated elite outdoor sports skills and mentored girls with disabilities in a new Arrow Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program. 5 THE ARROW 7 THE DIGITRUCK 13 THE ARROW 16 THE QUINTUM SAM CAR bridges the digital FIVE YEARS PROJECT advances technology divide in Africa. OUT ART inspires five and mobility for CHALLENGE Paralympians to test people with physical guides innovators to their limits and disabilities. a better tomorrow. mentor the next Whats Inside generation. What’s Inside Letter from Mike Long......................................... Inside Front Cover About Arrow............................................................. Inside Front Cover About This Report................................................. Inside Front Cover Arrow CSR and Community Impact Impact Data Graphics................................................................... 1 Social Mission Statement.......................................................................... 3 The Arrow CSR Approach............................................................ 3 CSR Metrics and Scoring Process............................................ 4 Application and Giving Guidelines ............................................ 4 Innovating Lives (Health, Lifestyle, Mobility) ......................... 5 Innovating Tomorrow (Education) ............................................. 9 Innovating Talent (in the Workplace)...................................... 11 Innovating Culture ....................................................................... 13 Innovating Community ............................................................... 16 Environment Operational Measures ............................................................... 18 Highlight on Global HQ ............................................................. 20 Sustainable Technology Solutions ....................................... 22 Governance United Nations Global Compact............................................. 24 Human Right and Conflict Minerals ...................................... 24 Arrow in the Supply Chain......................................................... 25 Certifications ................................................................................ 26 Hazardous Substances.............................................................. 26 Are You Five Years Out?..................................................Back cover “I want to be able to return the favor and make sure the generation after me has the same chance I did.” — Arrow Quintum athlete, Stephanie Jallen Arrow 2017 Global Impact CSR Awards Fortune — Arrow Electronics named to the Hong Kong Council of Social Services “World’s Most Admired Company” list for the — Arrow Asia Pac Ltd. named 5 Years Plus 17th year, including #1 in CSR Caring Company PR Daily CSR Awards — Best Education Colorado Department of Public Health Program and Best CSR Report and Environment — Environmental Leadership Program “Gold Leader” The American Society of Professional Communicators — Best CSR Report Photography and Design 24 This year Arrow supported 24 programs and projects directly impacting 313,422 individuals 8.3 MILLION PEOPLE This Year Arrow Supported Arrow CSR partner organizations supported over 8.3 30 events, with total attendance million people in 62 countries on 6 continents this year of 677,281 1,815 7,432 Arrow’s supported programs This year Arrow supported programs offering 1,815 various scholarships 8,100 impacted 7,432 schools and Of our monetary donations, Provided 8,100 HIV screenings in 243,032 students; 54% of the organizations we supported have a focus on education 27% included an in-kind contribution and another 57% engaged employees $ Ugandan communities; 43% of the organizations we supported have a focus on health and human services 6,284,366 used IT devices processed in 2017 TEN THOUSAND 5,111 600,000 E-waste diverted from landfills: volunteer students gained access to an e-textiles refurbished computers donated hours donated curriculum through to schools and nonprofits since 2003 with Close the Gap 49,156 tons by Arrow employees the Mouse Sewable Tech program 1 CSR Report 2017 | Social Trondheim Frankfurt Beijing Denver Brooklyn Athens Las Vegas Washington, D.C. Kathmandu Hong Kong Uganda Nairobi Bangalore Moshi NORTH AMERICA EUROPE ASIA AFRICA » Brooklyn, NY » Trondheim, Norway » Bangalore, India » Moshi, Tanzania Mouse e-textile program Formula Student race car Digital Equalizer IT training DigiTruck and online national launch at with Norwegian University program in 13 schools education for St. Joseph’s Academy of Science and Technology Tuleeni Orphanage » Kathmandu, Nepal » Washington, D.C. » Athens, Greece Arrow laptops for » Nairobi, Kenya Arrow Innovation Award Arrow IT education centers earthquake-damaged DigiTruck for IT with National Inventors for five group homes for schools education and enterprise Hall of Fame refugee youth development » Beijing, China » Denver, CO » Frankfurt, Germany Team of 35 in the 24-Hour » Uganda Arrow CSR HQ Thirty employees partner City Relay Race for charity Three iKnow Concerts for with Neu-Isenberg mayor to public health awareness » Las Vegas, NV » Hong Kong, China support local food bank SAM car sets 190 mph “5 Years Plus Caring speed record at Aviation Company” award by the Nation to mark 70th Hong Kong Council of anniversary of U.S. Social Service Air Force fiveyearsout.com | 303 824 4000 2 Social Mission Statement Arrow Electronics’ corporate social responsibility (CSR) program guides today’s innovators to a better tomorrow. With our help, our partners will transform their ideas into real and influential achievements that will help people and the communities in which Arrow works. The Arrow CSR Approach: Technology to Benefit Humanity Our CSR approach is a business strategy that creates competitive advantages by establishing partnerships around shared values and pursuing innovations that strengthen Arrow’s reputation as an industry leader. The Colorado Ballet choreographed an original dance to Arrow’s signature music. See page 15 3 CSR Report 2017 | Social CSR Metrics and Scoring Our Progress Arrow has developed an engagement rating system by which we evaluate CSR partners and projects. The Arrow Balanced Scorecard includes elements from similar evaluation tools used by the Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship, a leading CSR think tank, and the National Conference on Citizenship, a nonprofit chartered by Congress in 1953 to enhance civic participation. Arrow CSR Scorecard Ten Categories of Engagement Brand Business Arrow Arrow V Innovation Elevation Development Potential Location Alignment 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 CSR Category Social Executive Stature Employee Alignment Impact Support Engagement Applications and Guidelines How to Apply Arrow Does Not Support Arrow reviews proposals for CSR partnerships and projects once a year. Our deadline > Non-501(c)(3) charities or organizations for submission is September 15 for the following calendar year. > Political candidates, campaigns or PACs Proposals should be brief — a short document or a few slides. Links to video and > Individuals other supporting information are acceptable, but should be limited as well. > Sectarian or denominational religious Proposals should include commitments to a specific innovation, goals, deliverables, a organizations timeline and progress reports. You also must commit to completing our annual Arrow > Organizations that limit membership CSR impact survey. based on race, gender or sexual As you develop your proposal, please reflect on our program’s mission, innovation, orientation branding, CSR scorecard and giving guidelines in your submission. > Fraternal or labor organizations > Sporting events or teams Our program is limited to a few new initiatives every year. So, while every proposal is considered, we will select only a small number of transformative ideas that tightly > Unrestricted gifts align with our program’s criteria. > Capital campaigns > Travel and tours Send requests to: Alex West > Basic research Global CSR Manager AWest@arrow.com fiveyearsout.com | 303 824 4000 4 Social INNOVATING LIVES 1 1 2 1 Sam and his children celebrate street driving. 2 Racing legend Mario Andretti congratulates Sam following their head-to-head race. 3 Sam visited the FDR Memorial in Washington, D.C. 4 For the first time since his injury, Sam Schmidt drove his family on vacation – in Washington, D.C. 3 Arrow SAM Car Racetrack speeds. Head-to-head competition. At the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, Schmidt Perhaps the SAM Project’s most remarkable Voice commands and razor-sharp controls. returned to competition in a charity race for moment occurred at low speed on congested the nonprofit Conquer Paralysis Now. Dueling city streets. For the first time since his injury, In 2017, the Arrow Semi-Autonomous racing legend Mario Andretti, Schmidt drove Schmidt drove his children on vacation. Motorcar Car (SAM) Project smashed barriers the Z06 for four laps on a 2.4 mile course at Their destination? Washington, D.C., America’s to mobility for the disabled community. 140 mph. Andretti drove the original 2014 symbolic center of freedom, where rights to With improved technology and more SAM Corvette Stingray. access and mobility were affirmed, and where horsepower, driver Sam Schmidt set a new Paralyzed from the shoulders down since a millions gather at monuments to America’s project top speed of 190 mph driving the 2016 racing accident in 2000, Schmidt thought he founding principles. SAM Corvette Z06 at Nellis Air Force Base. would never drive again. Beginning in 2014, Their leisurely drive around the nation’s capital The Veterans Day demonstration at the Aviation Arrow engineers modified the Corvettes with was a defining moment for the Schmidt family – Nation air show paid tribute to the work of electronics that Schmidt operates using only and for the disabled community. Paralyzed Veterans of America and marked the his head. 70th anniversary of the U.S. Air Force. 5 CSR Report 2017 | Social “Like every father, it was my dream to teach my kids how to drive. Arrow’s effort to help me do something as normal as driving again with my family has extended my mobility, and will help people with disabilities be active members of society.” – Sam Schmidt 4 GOAL In 2018, we will extend SAM driving opportunities to disabled veterans. Five Years Out with the Arrow SAM Car June: Pikes Peak International Hill Climb. 2013 2015 Top speed: 80 mph July: Conceptual engineering begins. April: First road course drive at Long Beach Grand Prix. Top speed: 50 mph September: Driver’s license and SAM car 2014 registration, Las Vegas, NV. June: Road course laps at Circuit January: Purchase 2014 Corvette of the Americas, Austin, TX. Stingray; SAM modifications begin. Top speed: 105 mph 2017 May: Sam “races” Mario Andretti at the April: Sam Schmidt’s first test drive. July: SAM Car displayed at the Indy Grand Prix. Top speed: 142 mph Top speed: 40 mph Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. September: Sam drives his family in May: Demo laps at the Indy 500. Washington, D.C. and San Francisco, CA. Top speed: 107 mph 2016 January: Purchase 2016 Corvette Z06; November: Demo at USAF Aviation Nation November: “Handling” laps at Bosch new modifications begin. in Las Vegas, NV. Top speed: 190 mph Proving Grounds, Boxberg, Germany. Top speed: 30 mph May: Demo laps at the Indy 500. Top speed: 152 mph fiveyearsout.com | 303 824 4000 6 Social INNOVATING LIVES Nairobi schoolgirls enjoy popsicles before resuming their studies in an IT lab with computers refurbished by Arrow. INSET: An IT lab with computers refurbished by Arrow can serve 200 students per day. » DigiTruck Half the world’s population earns less than $3 U.S. per In Nairobi, Kenya’s sprawling slums, Arrow and GOAL: day. In the poorest nations, fewer than 10 percent of Close the Gap have launched a new DigiTruck to schools have power for lights, computers, Internet and provide IT and enterprise training for students and In 2018, the Nairobi other modern essentials. adults. Local partners include the nonprofits Waste DigiTruck will provide Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Centre, To address this “digital divide,” Arrow and the nonprofit, Schools for Kenya and Timeless Women of Wonder. IT and enterprise Close the Gap, developed the DigiTruck — a mobile, green classroom and enterprise incubator that Arrow and Close the Gap continue to facilitate the training for 100 operates off the grid. It is made from a retired cargo donation of refurnished computers, tablets and phones new innovators. container and equipped with solar panels, batteries, to schools and organizations — now 600,000 total LED lights and refurbished computers. devices shared by more than 1.6 million people worldwide. In 2017, the DigiTruck fleet expanded to six units in Europe and Africa. DigiTruck received the PR Daily’s 2017 Global CSR Awards for best education program and In Tanzania, Arrow and Neema International continue the 2016 PR 360 Global Award for Corporate to operate a DigiTruck at the Tuleeni Orphanage on the Social Responsibility. slopes of Mount Kilimanjaro. Arrow also provides online access and educational programming for 200 Tuleeni students and more than 1,000 lessons per week. Arrow employees provided scholarships to support five Tuleeni students for five years. 7 CSR Report 2017 | Social STEMosaur In a commercial venture, Arrow flash-funded CogniToys, the innovators behind the STEMosaur. STEMosaur is a smart, educational toy that engages children in interactive play while building their coding and engineering skills. Children assemble the toy, which comes equipped with an easy-to-use panel that teaches coding basics. Once assembled, the STEMosaur can hold a conversation, tell jokes and play games with its young programmer. In addition to providing critical seed money as part of an Indiegogo crowdsourcing campaign on National S.T.E.M./S.T.E.A.M. Day, Arrow certified the technology for the toy design and provided a reliable supply of components for its production. ABOVE: STEMosaur is a smart, educational toy that combines play with coding and engineering skills. Solar Suitcase More than 200,000 health facilities around the world lack reliable electricity, and more than 300,000 women die annually from complications during pregnancy and childbirth. Our nonprofit partner, We Care Solar, has distributed 2,500 portable power units called the Solar GOAL: Suitcase to bring renewable electricity to remote health clinics and improve medical care. In 2018, Arrow and We Care Arrow is developing a next-generation Solar Suitcase that is less expensive and more powerful in hopes of doubling the number of units in use. The solar suitcase combines solar Solar will test the “next-gen panels, batteries, LED lights, a charger and other features in a hard-shell case. It powers a Solar Suitcase” in select villages medical clinic overnight. globally, as well as at natural disaster locations where the “Saving the life of a mother has a multiplier effect. It increases her power grid has been damaged baby’s chance of surviving infancy and eventually attending school, and medical care is compromised. which benefits the community.” – Laura Satchel, MD, We Care Solar founder fiveyearsout.com | 303 824 4000 8 Social INNOVATING TOMORROW At Arrow, we believe the world should not wait for the next Da Vinci or Edison to appear. Innovation is a skill set that can be taught, and innovators have common traits that can be cultivated. Our education programming reflects our commitment to develop a new generation of innovators and guide them to a better tomorrow. Mouse Sewable Tech Course Mouse is a U.S.-based nonprofit that encourages youth to create with technologies that make meaningful change in our world. In a unique partnership with Arrow and CBS EcoMedia, Mouse helps middle and high school innovators create fabrics infused with technology. Using fabric, circuit boards, conductive thread and LED lights, students create working circuit boards and learn the fundamentals of electronics. Sewable circuitry (also known as e-textiles) encourages youth to pursue technology studies and careers. The course was piloted in Brooklyn, NY before being rolled out to over 10,000 students across the U.S. this fall. Students in the Mouse program combine technology with crafting at “Maker Night” in New York City. 9 CSR Report 2017 | Social Collegiate Inventors Arrow launched the Arrow Innovation Prize as a feature of the 2017 Collegiate Inventors Competition. Run by the National Inventors Hall of Fame, in partnership with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the annual contest in Washington, D.C. showcases America’s brightest young innovators and emerging technologies with significant commercial potential. Arrow judges selected a student team, advancing them to the final round of judging. SwineTech, the University of Iowa team, won both the Arrow Innovation Prize and the competition’s undergraduate grand prize. SwineTech’s SmartGuard® invention sends a vibration to a wearable patch on the mother when a piglet is in distress. Junior Achievement Business Week Arrow is the presenting sponsor for this unique residential program, this year providing 176 diverse, business-minded high school innovators from 69 Colorado schools with an in-depth opportunity to create business strategies and launch enterprises. Arrow partnered to develop a new curriculum that examines Cardboard Challenge the complex electronics supply chain and encourages business For the fifth year, Arrow was the presenting sponsor of the Cherry solutions to make the industry more environmentally sustainable. Creek School District’s Cardboard Challenge. This Imagination Foundation event recruits over 600 students to showcase their creations. Nearly 30 Arrow employees participated as judges and Formula Student volunteers in the annual STEM education event, which challenges K-12 students to bring creative ideas to life using cardboard, In Europe, Arrow supported Formula Student, a global recycled materials and their imaginations automotive engineering competition where student teams design, build and race small-scale Formula-style racers. Arrow Norway is partnering with Revolve NTNU, which represents the Norwegian University of Science and Technology. In Germany, Refurbished Computers Arrow is part of GreenTeam Uni Stuttgart. Arrow donates refurbished computers to select schools that innovate under extraordinary circumstances. Schools damaged in the 2014 Nepal earthquake received 200 laptops. In Athens, Arrow established IT learning centers in five group homes for Digital Equalizer – India 125 refugee youth who lost their families to war and terrorism, India has the world’s sixth largest economy, but its schools and emigrated alone to the West. lag behind most nations. Arrow has launched a three-year partnership with the America India Foundation to provide 13 secondary schools in Bangalore with computers, curriculum and IT training. GOAL: In 2018, Arrow looks to launch a series of Innovation in FIRST Robotics Education grants supporting underserved communities. Arrow sponsored the FIRST Robotics regional competition at the University of Denver. More than 500 student innovators from 48 high schools in 11 western states and Mexico competed with robots they built in just 10 weeks. fiveyearsout.com | 303 824 4000 10 Social INNOVATING TALENT At Arrow, our people are the momentum behind all that we do. We’re a community of designers, engineers, builders and visionaries who navigate the path between possibility and practicality, across the lifecycle of electronics. We recruit and develop innovative employees from diverse backgrounds and cultures, and address workplace issues that commonly affect our industry and communities. Diversity and Inclusion Arrow Work(place) Forward is an initiative to GOAL: create an inclusive workplace with a range of diversity events and activities from onboarding In 2018, track enterprise-wide initiatives to forums, lunch and learns and workforce composition metrics Women in events focused on women in STEM careers. and improve the representation In addition, Arrow hosted 60 ethnic minority, of women, racial minorities and Technology first-generation college, LGBTQ, veteran and disabled students from five Colorado-area the multi-generational workforce For the second year, Arrow was the title universities at our 4th Annual Diversity Day and blend by 5 percent in the U.S. at sponsor of the Colorado Technology again participated in the 43rd Annual National the director level and above. Association’s Women in Technology Society of Black Engineers Conference. Conference. The annual, day-long retreat for 700 executives featured Mike Long, Arrow CEO, and Meg Whitman, former Women’s Foundation of Colorado CEO of Hewlett Packard Enterprise. Arrow helped start the foundation’s STEM Coalition in 2015 to improve gender equity in science Arrow also participated in Women in and technology education. The coalition has produced the Gender Equity in Colorado’s STEM the Workplace 2017, a comprehensive Industries report, contributed to the Colorado STEM Education Roadmap and invested in STEM study of the state of women in corporate learning and career opportunities for girls and women. America. The study gives organizations the information they need to promote women’s leadership and foster gender equality. Arrow Interns In 2017, Arrow hired 157 interns in 12 locations across the U.S., representing 59 universities. In addition to their work assignments, interns participate in a summer-long competition to creatively “It is my firm belief that if we’re address a company challenge. In 2017, the intern competition focused on sustainability. The interns also volunteered to build 32 wheelchairs for disabled veterans. ever going to have a chance at partnering to solve the world’s problems, we’re going to need broader diversity than ever Global Arrow Leadership Academy (GALA) Arrow is committed to developing its leadership pipeline around the globe. Since 2012, before. That means we need 29 percent of Arrow directors and vice presidents have completed the program, and 45 percent Collegiate more Inventors women in technology. of graduates were promoted or received wider duties. That starts here, and it starts now.” – Mike Long, Arrow CEO 11 CSR Report 2017 | Social Arrow Finance employees gave Denver’s College View Elementary School a makeover. Arrow Charitable Arrow Charitable U.S. & Canada The Arrow Charitable portal supports our employees and their passion for making the world a better place. Beginning in 2017 in the U.S. and Canada, Arrow Charitable matches the donation of employees’ time to nonprofit organizations through our Dollars for Doers program. Arrow also matches employee financial contributions in select campaigns. 18% Employees supporting Worldwide Employee Engagement 185 charities > Arrow Dubai ran the 3rd Annual Emirates NBD Unity Run Marathon to support local charities > Arrow Essex (UK) partnered with Mill Race IT to assist training people with special needs $45,000 > Arrow Global Business Operations built 25 bikes for low-income children Total donations > Arrow and Salesforce prepared 27 tons of food for relief agencies > Arrow Finance refreshed a Denver school with new paint, landscaping and 75 refurbished tablets 570 Volunteer events GOAL: In 2018, expand access to the Arrow Charitable portal and create volunteering task forces internationally. 5,111 Volunteer hours fiveyearsout.com | 303 824 4000 12 Social INNOVATING CULTURE Arrow believes the creative process in the arts and innovation in technology spring from the same source and should be nurtured together. Every year, we engage in cultural initiatives because art and technology can address social concerns in new ways, while inspiring people to be more creative and productive in their own lives. WINNER: Peter Clouse, Ferndale, MI Not Ashamed, Mixed Medium “I see potential and beauty in materials that others have discarded. I am passionate about consumption and how it leads to the disposal of goods. It is now my responsibility to put these materials back into production.” — Peter Clouse, 2017 Five Years Out Art Challenge Winner Arrow Five Years Out Art Challenge Edrex Fontanilla, For the fifth year, Arrow and the Cherry Creek Arts Festival collaborated to present the Cranston, RI Arrow Five Years Out Art Challenge. This juried international art contest inspires artists The Ethical Viewer: from around the world to explore the notion of innovation and express what Five Years Out Perceptual Fog, looks like through their medium. Interactive Sculpture In 2017, 126 artists from 11 countries submitted their concepts for consideration by a panel of art professionals and Arrow executives. Seven works were chosen as finalists for display before joining Arrow’s permanent art collection. Sharon Brush, Peter Clouse of Ferndale, MI was selected as the 2017 grand prize winner for his mixed Santa Fe, NM media entry Not Ashamed. Clouse received $10,000 and a jury-exempt invitation to exhibit Safe Passage, at the 2018 Cherry Creek Arts Festival. Ceramic Sculpture In addition to a feminist theme, his work especially reflects the innovative view of what can be reborn from discarded materials, including electronic waste. Addressing the world’s escalating e-waste burden is one of Arrow’s priorities, so his message and materials specifically resonated with the judges. 13 CSR Report 2017 | Social In 2017, Arrow expanded its festival programming with an extravagant, comic sci-fi production by Handsome Little Devils, including a retro rocketship, quirky kinetic sculptures, and jaw-dropping costumes. This year they were joined in the street performance by Big Nazo, the larger-than-life, mutant puppet troupe. The three-day festival attracted 328,000 visitors. Arrow was honored for its continuing patronage with a commissioned collage, Summer in Denver, Modified by digital artist Darryl Thetford of Chattanooga, TN. Dan Stiles, Portland, OR Reaching Forward, Reaching Back, Digital Art Aaron Hequembourg, Monticello, GA Always A Driver, Engraved Assemblage on Wood and Aluminum Amenda Tate Corso, Des Moines, IA Manibus, Mixed Medium on Paper and Wood Amy Leigh Carstensen, Tampa, FL Zen and the Art of Technology, Mixed Medium fiveyearsout.com | 303 824 4000 14 Social INNOVATING CULTURE iKnow Concerts Uganda is a snapshot of Africa’s vast potential – and challenge. awareness and extend testing and treatment. The annual iKnow Nine of 10 people are literate and half of the country uses mobile Concert Series attracts large crowds with entertainment by phones. But HIV infection is pervasive – 7.2 percent of the popular Ugandan and U.S. musicians, but also provides extensive population tests positive. Conventional prevention programs lag, health education, testing and support. and millions who need help are discouraged by access to care, In 2017, 44,000 people attended three concerts; 8,089 people cultural attitudes and national policy. received a free HIV test and counseling. Medical workers The nonprofit Global Livingston Institute, with Arrow’s help, distributed 230,000 condoms and collected more than has launched an innovative public health campaign to increase 300 units of blood. African and U.S. musicians performed at the iKnow Concerts in Uganda. INSET: The iKnow concerts included free HIV testing. » Colorado Ballet In 2017, Arrow and the Colorado Ballet launched a partnership exploring how innovation can be expressed in human motion. The Ballet choreographed an original dance to Arrow’s signature music ­— an overture composed and originally performed by the Colorado Symphony. In 2018, Arrow will support the Ballet’s new Black Box Theater, a space for new creation. GOAL: Colorado Symphony In 2018, Arrow and Baycat, a San Arrow again was the presenting sponsor for the Colorado Symphony, one of the leading regional Francisco nonprofit, are developing orchestras in the U.S. The Symphony continues to innovate in its Very Young Composers program, a Five Years Out Video Challenge for in which inner city students in grades 3-5 learn to compose music without prior musical training. young filmmakers. 15 CSR Report 2017 | Social Five Paralympians, known as the Arrow Quintum, demonstrated elite outdoor INNOVATING COMMUNITY Social sports skills and mentored five girls. Arrow shares resources and expertise with a variety of organizations to guide innovation and foster opportunity locally where we live and work. Combined, we engage and help more than 8.3 million people annually. The Arrow Quintum The Arrow Quintum is a demonstration team of five Paralympians with a “I look at what I’m doing now, and I say to myself, common purpose — pushing their limits to inspire the next generation. ‘I want to be able to return that favor and make These medal-winning athletes compete with disabling conditions ranging from missing limbs to blindness and paralysis. In this initiative, sure the generation after me has the same they tackled a series of outdoor sports in the backcountry of Colorado, chance I did.’ Five years from now, I can’t wait to including mountain biking, climbing, rappelling, horseback riding and see how these young girls are living their lives to whitewater kayaking. the fullest.” We paired the Quintum with five girls, ages 11-16, enrolled with the Denver-based National Sports Center for the Disabled (NSCD), one – Stephanie Jallen, Quintum member and of the largest outdoor therapeutic recreation and adaptive sports 2014 Paralympics medalist programs in the world. Under NSCD’s direction, the Arrow Quintum and their young mentees tackled each physical challenge, supporting one another every step of the way. A story of inspiration leading to innovation as we all look forward to what is next. fiveyearsout.com | 303 824 4000 16 Social INNOVATING COMMUNITY Arrow Community Partners All for One – One for All Foundation Girl Scouts of America American Red Cross Global Livingston Institute Anschutz University of Colorado Habitat for Humanity Women’s Health Research* The Home Project Boys Scouts of America Helen and Arthur E. Johnson Baycat Depression Center Biennial of the Americas Junior Achievement* Denver Zoo Center for Work Education and Employment (CWEE) Metro Volunteers Mile High United Way The Denver Zoo is Colorado’s most Centennial Rotary National Inventors Hall of Fame popular cultural institution, serving more Center of Hope (Haiti)* National Sports Center than 2 million visitors annually. Arrow Cherry Arts* for the Disabled* sponsors programming at the Zoo as well Cherry Creek Schools Foundation Neema International as more than 100 recycling stations on Close the Gap Nepali Youth Foundation the 80-acre grounds. Colorado Ballet No Barriers Colorado Business Committee Paralyzed Veterans of America Habitat for Humanity for the Arts Project Pave* Colorado State University* Rider Relief Fund Arrow partners with Habitat for Humanity Colorado Symphony* Rose Andom Center* of Metro Denver on volunteer homebuilding Colorado Technology Association* STEMIE Coalition projects in the Denver area. In 2017, we Conquer Paralysis Now United Nations Global Compact selected suppliers and the nonprofit began Denver Academy Urban Peak planning an innovative new ‘smart home’ Denver Metro Chamber Leadership Volunteers of America design that provides Habitat families with Foundation We Care Solar technology architecture for 21st century Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce* Women’s Corporate Director work, school and entertainment. Aspects Denver Scholarship Foundation* Foundation of the new smart home design will include Denver Zoo* Women’s Foundation of Colorado improved and affordable connectivity, Drivers Skills Institute Wonderbound* security and energy efficiency. FIRST Robotics *Indicates executive board service 17 CSR Report 2017 | Social Social Environment Arrow’s approach to environmental sustainability focuses on the operation of our business. We strive for efficiency in offices, facilities and distribution centers. We distinguish ourselves by providing specialized services and expertise across the product life cycle. As we sit in the middle of the supply chain, we seek to Community provide our suppliers and customers with solutions designed to be inherently more sustainable. Participation As a global provider of products, services and solutions to industrial and commercial users of electronic components and enterprise computing solutions, we seek to ensure that our products comply with all applicable laws, regulations and approval standards to protect the environment. We strive to handle Organizations distribution products in oursupported bynetwork andinprovide 2016: value-added services in a responsible way. This means Arrow CSR the use of environmentally friendly technologies, avoidance of emissions and waste and the use of energysaving solutions. Operational Measures Arrow is committed to reducing its manner, including reducing energy and water for sale and providing employees with environmental footprint. We are operating use, choosing virtual meetings more often options for mobility, remote work, recycling our locations in an increasingly sustainable than travel, offering refurbished electronics and electric vehicle charging. E-waste is the world’s fastest growing waste stream. fiveyearsout.com | 303 824 4000 18 Environment OPERATIONAL MEASURES Doing Our Part Arrow’s largest source of carbon emissions is travel. Global efforts have been made to begin calculating our travel carbon output. Currently, the Americas and Europe use carbon calculator software to estimate the pounds of CO2 emitted per flight. Arrow is installing LED lighting in all new company construction. In 2017, we installed LED lighting in another major components distribution warehouse, bringing our total of LED-illuminated warehouses in North America to four. This is estimated to reduce our energy usage by 2,275,538 kWh yearly, and helps avoid emittance of an estimated 2,733,030 lbs. of GHG emissions. LED conversion of a fifth major warehouse in Reno, NV will be completed in early 2018. Arrow’s “Green Fleet” program, started in 2014, is successfully identifying ways to improve our environmental impact through vehicle modification and driver behavior. Fleet managers are challenged to pursue hybrids and electric vehicles where appropriate, with the hopes of turning over at least 10 percent of the fleet in the next two years. Arrow annually submits to Carbon Disclosure Project. Arrow worldwide is increasing efforts to track utilities usage and looks to set baseline goals on emission and establish reduction goals in years to come. We utilize “telepresence” technology in strategic locations to reduce business travel. In 2017, Arrow launched global Skype capabilities, logging over 4 million minutes of call time per month. All of which, in turn, reduces the company’s carbon footprint. All primary component warehouses have in-house recycling programs in place to minimize landfill impact. Seventeen percent of the products we order from our largest furniture vendor contains post-consumer content. In 2017, we ordered 19,534 yards of recycled carpet. Using this product prevented 106,500 lbs. of carpet from being discarded. The carpet contains an average of 36 percent recycled content and is 100 percent recyclable. 19 CSR Report 2017 | Environment Arrow’s Dry Creek building on the global headquarter campus, located directly across from the new Panorama complex. Highlight on Global Headquarters Arrow is installing LED lighting in all new company construction. This decision is expected to reduce overall energy consumption by 10 percent. Environmental In 2017, Arrow opened the 446,000 square foot Panorama complex as part of Arrow’s headquarters campus in Centennial, CO. During construction, we worked with our local Impact of Electric utility on energy conservation measures to reduce consumption by 1,677,337 kWh, or Vehicle Charging 41.2 percent annually. Stations in 2017 Today, 29 percent of Arrow’s headquarters campus is powered by a renewable energy. We look to increase this percentage in the future. Charging Stations: 15 Total fuel displaced: 3,542 gallons HQ ENERGY GOAL: (+1,482 gallons over 2016) In 2018, achieve Panorama building and headquarters complex annual energy goal of less than 3 million kWh, as Arrow moves towards tracking Total CO2 offset: baseline energy use. 68,724 lbs. (+28,754 lbs. over 2016) fiveyearsout.com | 303 824 4000 20 Environment ENVIRONMENTAL HIGHLIGHTS Students in Tanzania learn IT skills on computers refurbished by Arrow, reducing the global e-waste stream. INSET: The world's e-waste burden is increasing 5 percent annually. » Refurbishing the Future: 600,000 Donated Computers Achievement by the Numbers Arrow and nonprofit partner Close the Gap celebrated an important milestone: Since 7 million 2003, we have refurbished 600,000 electronic assets that customers designate for Number of used devices processed by Arrow in 2017. humanitarian donation, including computers, storage, servers and mobile devices. 2.74 million By finding new life for these renewed assets, Arrow and Close the Gap have diverted Number of devices that found new and extended life nearly 600 tons of used electronics from landfills in 2017. through Arrow. Arrow Sustainable Technology Solutions refurbishes the assets, including rigorous 49,156 tons data-erasure and the replacement of worn and outdated parts, including processors, Amount of used electronics kept out of landfills by screens and keyboards. Arrow efforts. Close the Gap distributes the renewed devices to schools, clinics and enterprise incubators in developing nations. More than 1.6 million people on four continents Zero Achieved zero IT waste to landfill in Europe and now have used the donated equipment for computer training, online learning and North America, with 100 percent re-use, recycling or microenterprise management. recovery of IT assets in those locations. 21 CSR Report 2017 | Environment Arrow Sustainable Technology Solutions Electronic waste is the fastest growing waste stream. Most electronics contain hazardous materials, and their mishandling has resulted in some of the most toxic spots on the planet. In 2017, Arrow re-launched its former Global Reverse Logistics business, Arrow Value Recovery, as Sustainable Technology Solutions to provide customers with complete lifecycle services for electronics in a seamless, sensor-to-sunset experience. Arrow now provides a portfolio of services to address electronics sustainability, including sustainable device design, IT asset disposition, data center decommissioning, managed deployment, reverse supply chain logistics, equipment refurbishment and enterprise device lifecycle management. Arrow takes a “reuse first” approach, which gives the best return on the energy and materials embedded in the assets we process. That reuse could take the form of assets being redeployed back into an organization, sold or donated. If the device cannot be reused, its usable parts are harvested. In addition, Arrow does not export non-functioning equipment, and we process all of the assets we receive with rigorous attention to worker safety and environmental stewardship. Arrow has six Sustainable A worker in Nairobi’s e-waste market Technology Solutions locations in the United States, prepares a used nine locations in Europe and a location in Singapore. device for resale. E-Waste is the world’s fastest E-Waste winds up illegally in Approximately 42 million toxic growing waste stream. Africa, where scrap dealers burn tons of e-waste is generated each it to obtain precious metals. year, growing 5 percent annually. fiveyearsout.com | 303 824 4000 22 Environment ENVIRONMENTAL HIGHLIGHTS Environmental Scorecard for Customers Arrow Sustainable Technology Solutions launched a customer portal for North American operations this year designed to showcase environmental impacts and savings gleaned by working with Arrow. Within the portal, the environmental scorecard measures the diversion rates from the most common electronic assets processed. Customers can understand their impact, calculate savings and grow their IT asset disposition programs —­ a powerful tool in the fight against e-waste. Arrow customers have the ability to track: • Diversion Rates or how much material was kept Recovered Materials Recovered Materials out of landfill ­— recycled or refurbished. Aluminum, Copper, Ferrous by Community Total Aluminum, Copper, Ferrous • Greenhouse Gas Emissions Savings (CO2eq) Aluminum Copper Ferrous associated with refurbishing and recycling IT assets 140 120 at the end of their useful lives instead of landfilling them. 100 80 • Hazardous Wastes Avoided by processing assets 60 through Arrow. 40 20 0 • The amount of Materials Recovered through r u te ook nit or r i to . uip i ve er int r r ve he r te b on Eq Dr Ot recycling processes that can go into new products. mp Mo rd Pr Se Co No el TM ing Ha PC an CR o rk tP tw Fl a Ne This information is used to inform materials management — Units — programs, product development, supply chain risk Lbs Kgs Tons management, corporate responsibility, environmental sustainability and reporting and compliance efforts worldwide. Diverting Waste Globally Diversion Rate Greenhouse Gas Hazardous Materials 6,284,366 electronic Emissions Savings Waste Avoided Recovered devices processed 375,761 tons of CO2eq 9,507 tons 6,535 tons (US only) GOAL: In 2018, Arrow Sustainable Technology Solutions will expand the Environmental Scorecard tool to our global customers. 23 CSR Report 2017 | Environment Governance With our emphasis on sustainability and responsible business practices, our intent is to advance innovation within our sphere of influence. As part of our commitment, Arrow voluntarily reports to several organizations that encourage transparency and public accountability in business operations and CSR. United Nations Global Compact Slavery and Human Arrow supports the 10 principles of Trafficking Statement the United Nations Global Compact Arrow complies with all applicable laws and regulations, in the areas of human rights, labor, including the Modern Slavery Act of 2015. Arrow maintains environment and anti-corruption. effective business controls as well as a robust compliance An active and accountable program designed to detect and prevent slavery, human signatory since 2011, Arrow’s trafficking, forced or compulsory labor or any form of servitude intent is to transparently advance in our supply chain or in any part of our business. Anti-slavery those principles within our sphere practices are embedded within the company’s various policies. of influence. Each year we submit Our employees are provided with resources and training a Communication on Progress report demonstrating how our annually to help them meet Arrow’s ethical and legal obligations. strategies and operations align with this important initiative. Our slavery and human trafficking statement is available at arrow.com/en/about-arrow/overview. Human Rights Arrow is committed to upholding Conflict Minerals the dignity of all people. We Electronic components and other respect all international human Arrow products contain various rights standards throughout our minerals, including tin, tantalum, global operations in the more tungsten and gold (“3TG”). than 90 nations in which we do “Conflict minerals” are 3TGs business. Human rights practices sourced from the Democratic are embedded within the company’s various policies, including the Republic of Congo and the Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the “Code”). Our surrounding countries. As a employees are required to review and certify their understanding downstream purchaser, Arrow is committed to avoiding the use of and compliance on an annual basis. The Code covers all regions conflict minerals in the manufacturing of products. Arrow does not and business units. It is also posted on the company’s external directly purchase any conflict minerals from any source and does website, arrow.com/en/about-arrow/overview. not knowingly procure any product containing conflict minerals. Arrow’s Conflict Minerals Statement is available on our website, and annually, we file a Conflict Minerals Report with the U.S. Securities Human Rights Campaign and Exchange Commission. Our conflict minerals policy and report As the largest national LGBTQ civil rights organization, HRC are available at arrow.com/en/about-arrow/overview. envisions a world where LGBTQ people are ensured of their basic equal rights, and can be open, honest and safe at home, at work and in the community. Arrow received an 80 percent score for 2017 and now is ranked in the HRC “Green” rating zone. Our goal is a 100 percent rating. fiveyearsout.com | 303 824 4000 24 Governance SUPPLY CHAIN Arrow in the Supply Chain Arrow brings technology solutions to a breadth of markets, including Arrow’s corporate responsibility and sustainable procurement telecommunications, information systems, transportation, medical, practices are audited annually. The two primary, independent industrial and consumer electronics. Arrow serves as a supply auditors are EcoVadis and Gartner. channel partner for over 125,000 original equipment manufacturers EcoVadis is a global benchmarking service that rates CSR and commercial customers. performance over 21 criteria in four categories: environment, labor practices, fair business practices and sustainable procurement. Arrow received an honorable mention Arrow maintains a rating status at the Silver level on the EcoVadis scorecard, ranking in the top 18 percent of our category. in the Gartner Supply Chain High Tech Top 10 rankings. Arrow received an honorable mention in the Gartner Supply Chain High Tech Top 10 rankings, a prominent assessment of global technology supply chain leaders. Gartner documents and ranks the Arrow’s business partners are provided with Arrow’s Business best practices of companies across sectors, and specifically high Partner Code of Conduct and must conduct business with and on tech distributors and electronics manufacturing service providers. behalf of Arrow in accordance with its provisions. Arrow requires all business partners to review and agree to comply with it. 25 CSR Report 2017 | Governance Certifications Twenty-nine of our warehouses and other locations are certified as management system as a platform, and integrates environmental, ISO 14001 compliant. The ISO 14000 environmental management health and safety management, media sanitization, export standards exist to help organizations: and disposal restrictions, chain-of-custody accountability and transportation controls. > Minimize how their operations (processes, etc.) negatively affect the environment (i.e., cause adverse changes to air, water or land). > Comply with applicable laws, regulations and other Twenty-nine of our warehouses and environmentally oriented requirements. other locations are certified as ISO > Continually improve on the above. 14001 compliant. Eighteen of our warehouses and other locations are certified Four of our warehouses and other locations are certified as Recycling as OHSAS 18001 compliant. OHSAS 18001 is an international Industry Operating Standard (RIOS) compliant. RIOS provides a occupational health and safety management system specification. framework for a comprehensive, integrated management system Fourteen of our warehouses and other locations are certified that includes key operational and continual improvement elements as R2 compliant for responsible recycling. The R2 standard is a for quality, environmental health and safety (QEH&S) performance voluntary, market-based mechanism for ensuring best practices, for the recycling industry. We measure and track compliance with which also provides essential information/assurance to prospective numerous quality and regulatory standards at our 46 warehouse and customers. The standard builds on an ISO-style, Plan-Do-Check-Act processing locations. Hazardous Substances Arrow is committed to working to eliminate hazardous substances in > All primary distribution centers have in-house recycling programs our business operations, and recognizes the importance of providing in place to minimize landfill impact. Consideration of recycled hazardous substance information to our customers. content is given when purchasing commodities to be used within these facilities. Additionally, new equipment is assessed for energy efficiency. All primary distribution centers have > Arrow has developed a range of solutions that are intended to in-house recycling programs in place support compliance efforts. In all cases, our suppliers are the to minimize landfill impact. original source of hazardous substance information. To address these issues, Arrow has approached its suppliers to request that they provide us with a method of identifying the RoHS status of products, China RoHS labeling information, REACH and other relevant hazardous substance information. fiveyearsout.com | 303 824 4000 26 In 2017, the Arrow SAM car drove in San Francisco and other U.S. cities to demonstrate how technology can enhance mobility and freedom. 27 CSR Report 2017 Are You Five Years Out? Most people live in the present. The world of now. But a handful of us work in a unique world that doesn’t quite exist yet — the world of Five Years Out. Five Years Out is the tangible future. And the people who live and work there know that new technologies, new materials, new ideas and new electronics will make life not only different, but better. Not just cheaper, but smarter. Not just easier, but more inspired. Five Years Out is an exciting place to be. So exciting that, once you’ve been there, it’s hard to get excited about the present. Because we know what’s coming is going to be so much better. Five Years Out is a community of builders, designers, engineers and imaginers who navigate the path between possibility and practicality. Creating the future of everything from cars to coffeemakers. Are you one of them? Then you’re probably working with us. Via Email Alex West Global CSR Manager Arrow Electronics, Inc. AWest@arrow.com Corporate 9201 E. Dry Creek Road Online Centennial, CO 80112, USA fiveyearsout.com 2018
