Network Switzerland WE SUPPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 ENGAGE ENGAGE ENABLE ENABLE SUSTAIN SUSTAIN COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 2 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 1. DECLARATION OF SUPPORT BY GROUP MANAGEMENT Interroll is setting new global standards with its mateJoining the UN Global Compact in November 2016 rial flow solutions. We are responsibly shaping new underscored our global commitment to these aims and connections between the physical and digital worlds. committed us to documenting that progress trans­­Our principles make it easier for our customers and parently. employees to act responsibly every day in a complex environment. We combine economic success with susOur first progress report on financial year 2017 pretainable, ecological awareness and social responsibility sents key measures and achievements related to our – both in the short and long term. commitment to comply with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. We thus emphasise social Principles for sustainability responsibility’s relevance to our business activities. –– We act sustainably and focus on long-term business success. We strive for an appropriate balance At the same time, we renew our commitment as a between ecological action, social responsibility member of the UN Global Compact for another year. and economic success. –– We oblige business partners and suppliers to 28 February 2018 ­comply with minimum principles. –– We commit our managers and employees to our Interroll Holding AG Code of Conduct. Our strategies and activities are grounded in universal principles of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. Paul Zumbühl Daniel Bättig We also strive to advance societal objectives. CEO CFO COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 3 2. PRESENTATION OF PRACTICAL ACTIONS AND ­OUTCOME ­MEASUREMENT IN 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Principle 2 Support and respect international human rights Ensure that your own company does not commit in your own sphere of influence. human rights violations. Voluntary commitment Outcome measure “Interroll does not tolerate discrimination, harassment On 1: When selecting new suppliers, the obligation to or unfair treatment based on gender, race, disability, adhere to our principles is a prerequisite for a business ethnic or cultural origin, religion, belief, age or sexual relationship. The goal is also to oblige the most impororientation.” This sentence from the Interroll Code of tant existing suppliers to comply with the Supplier Conduct commits the company and its employees to Code of Conduct. By the end of 2017, 80 % of all supupholding human rights and respecting related laws. pliers of German companies had already been Interroll’s good reputation and the trust of customers, included. For 2018, we are planning the global rollout suppliers, business partners, shareholders and the for all our companies. public in Interroll significantly depend on the responsible behaviour of all employees. On 2: In order to ensure that our Code of Conduct continues to be practiced, the management of the GerInterroll expects all suppliers and subcontractors man companies were trained on the Code of Conduct to adhere to these principles in accordance with and Compliance Rules in 2017. In 2018, this is planned ­Interroll’s corporate values. They represent an imporfor our Chinese, American, Danish and French sites. tant part of supplier selection and evaluation. We also expect our suppliers to adhere to these standards On 3: The Interroll Group’s Compliance Management throughout the supply chain. System (CMS) is structured according to the recommendations of the international standard ISO 19600 The guidelines set out in the Supplier Code of Conduct Compliance Management Systems. This risk-based are designed to ensure compliance with all applicable approach is intended to weigh the severity of any laws, regulations and ordinances and to ensure that the potential violations of laws and obligations in terms of processes along the Interroll supply chain meet social, achieving business goals and the negative impact on environmental and economic requirements. the reputation of the Group, and to set appropriate action priorities. Actions in 2017 1. Introduction of a Supplier Code of Conduct On 4: All employees have the right to report violations 2. Prevention through training of the Code of Conduct, a law or an obligation to their 3. Introduction of the Compliance supervisors. If necessary, an anonymous report within Management System the whistleblower principle can be made to the Inter4. Introduction of the positions of Chief C ­ ompliance roll Group’s Chief Compliance Officer (in the initial Officer and Local Officers phase, this is the CFO of the Interroll Group). COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 4 LABOUR NORMS Principle 3 Principle 4 Principle 5 Principle 6 Maintain freedom Work to eliminate Work to abolish Work to eliminate of association and all forms of forced child labour. discrimination in effective recognition labour. hiring and employ­­of the right to ment. collective bargaining. Voluntary commitment Outcome measurement Interroll’s global Codes of Conduct include basic interOn 1 to 4: Cf. section on human rights. nationally recognised labour standards such as freedom of association, the exclusion of forced labour and On 5: There were no reported forms of forced labour child labour and a work environment free from disor child labour at Interroll or in the supply chain in the crimination. Interroll and its suppliers do not tolerate year under review. any discrimination of employees based on gender, race, disability, ethnic or cultural origin, religion, On 6: A second Group-wide Employee Engagement belief, age or sexual orientation. Survey yielded very satisfying results. Interroll has a dedicated workforce ready to go the extra mile for the Actions in 2017 company. Employees also clearly confirmed the qual1. Introduction of a Supplier Code of Conduct ity and customer orientation within the Group. Also 2. Prevention through training see the press release dated 11 September 2017 on the 3. Introduction of the Compliance results of the second Global Employee Survey at the Management System Interroll Group. 4. Introduction of the positions of Chief Compliance ­­ Officer and Local Officers On 7: The Interroll Academy is the driving force 5. Introduction of Key Performance Indicators (KPI) behind the knowledge transfer on material flow. Our 6. Employee integration strong commitment to continuing education and 7. Training of employees employee training as well as the exchange of expertise 8. Working conditions with customers and partners make important contributions to the company’s success and to the further development of our industry. We are convinced that proper training leads to motivated employees. We offer training with the aim of providing our employees the expertise they need to offer valuable support to our customers. Our participants, who come from all areas of the company, familiarise themselves not only with Interroll products during training, but also with our customers’ applications and challenges. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 5 CEO Paul Zumbühl (2nd from right) together with the successful participants in the management training course in Baal. Thanks to our many training and continuing educaInterroll and its suppliers ensure the safety of all tion programs, all employees can optimally develop employees in the workplace and a working environand use their talents. A blended learning combination ment that promotes health, supports accident prevenof classroom teaching and modern, Internet-based tion and exposes employees to as few health risks as training methods (e-learning) overcomes internal possible. obstacles and also reaches inquisitive employees who are not on-site. Interroll has an appropriate health and safety system. Employees are adequately trained in their native lanOn 8: Interroll and its suppliers comply with all appliguage on occupational health and safety issues. Health cable laws and regulations relating to working hours and safety information must be clearly displayed in all and breaks. Overtime is only ever offered voluntarily. facilities. Interroll also expects this from its suppliers. All employees receive adequate remuneration and the applicable national minimum legal wage. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 6 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Support a precautionary Take initiatives to create Promote the development approach to dealing a greater sense of environ­ and distribution of with environmental issues. mental responsibility. ­environmentally friendly technologies. Voluntary commitment Actions in 2017 The responsible use of resources and the protection of 1. Introduction of a Supplier Code of Conduct the environment and climate are key concerns of social 2. Prevention through training responsibility and therefore also central pillars of the 3. Introduction of the Compliance Interroll strategy. Management System 4. Introduction of the positions of Chief C ­ ­ompliance Our basic principle “Inspired by Efficiency” refers to Officer and Local Officers more than just the advantages our customers can 5. Introduction of KPIs expect from Interroll solutions. Interroll products and solutions enable companies to increase their profits. Outcome measurement They reduce their ecological footprint and ensure susOn 1 to 4: Cf. section on human rights. tainable growth. Interroll also attaches great importance to its own resource efficiency. Using resources On 5: Target values for 2018 have been set after initial appropriately is the most important element to mainKPIs were recorded in 2017. For instance, a 10 % taining our technological and innovative market leadreduction in Group-wide paper consumption has been ership position. It also benefits our customers. targeted. Customers can increase their profits with Interroll products and solutions. They reduce their ecological footprint and ensure sustainable growth. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 7 CORRUPTION PREVENTION Principle 10 Work against all types of corruption, including blackmail and bribery. Voluntary commitment Bribery is understood as offering, promising, granting, Through prevention and the sensitisation of our accepting or promoting an advantage in return for an employees, we want to actively counteract potential unlawful act or infidelity. This includes accepting benrule violations in advance. Our employees are trained efits of material value in exchange for a trade, contract, with a focus on “Antitrust Law” and “Gifts and Invitaregulatory or personal benefit. We conduct our busitions, Conflicts of Interest” in extensive presence and ness honestly and ethically, in accordance with our e-learning trainings. Code of Conduct. The anti-bribery guidelines introduced in 2016 are We have a zero-tolerance policy when it comes to bribdesigned to establish control mechanisms to ensure ery and corruption. We are committed to acting procompliance with all applicable anti-bribery and corfessionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business ruption regulations and to ensure that the company relationships and to introducing, applying and enforcconducts its business in a socially responsible manner. ing effective anti-bribery mechanisms. Actions in 2017 1. Introduction of a Supplier Code of Conduct 2. Prevention through training 3. Introduction of the Compliance Management System 4. Introduction of the positions of Chief C ­ ompliance Officer and Local Officers 5. Introduction of anti-bribery guidelines Outcome measurement On 1 to 4: Cf. section on human rights. On 5: There were no reported forms of corruption, blackmail or bribery at Interroll or in the supply chain in the year under review. We seek to actively counteract potential rule violations in advance through prevention and the sensitisation of our employees. Interroll Holding Ltd. Via Gorelle 3 | 6592 Sant᾽Antonino | Switzerland www.interroll.com © Interroll Holding AG
