BEHIND THE SMILES ENHANCING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE THROUGH INNOVATION INTEGRATED REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 Behind My Smile... Is knowing that after my graduation my expenses as I look for a job or plan to set up a business are taken care of. Baada Ya Campo Life Insurance Policy by Jubilee Insurance. Angela Ngamau University Student TABLE OF CONTENTS Financial Highlights 4 Group Information 5 Notice of the Annual General Meeting 8 Chairman’s Statement 11 Board of Directors 16 Corporate Governance Statement 20 Director’s Remuneration 26 Sustainability Journey 27 Principal Shareholders and Share Distribution 29 Report of the Directors 32 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 36 Independent Auditor’s Report 37 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 42 Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income 42 Company Statement of Profit or Loss 43 Company Statement of Other Comprehensive Income 43 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 44 Company Statement of Financial Position 45 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 46 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 47 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 48 Company Statement of Cash Flows 49 Notes to the Financial Statements 50 Supplementary Information 109 Awards 112 Corporate Social Responsibility 113 Advertisements 119 Regional Offices and Branches 122 Notes 124 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 1 Behind My Smile... Is leading a passionate, highly motivated and innovative team who make a difference in the region by putting our customers first and providing world class insurance solutions. Dr. Julius Kipng’etich Regional CEO 2 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS & GROUP INFORMATION Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 3 FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Gross Written Premiums and Deposit Earnings per Share (KShs per Share) Administration Contributions (KShs Billion) 54.26 33.81 33.94 29.47 30.16 45.49 39.73 38.83 23.42 31.12 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Gross Written Premiums and Deposit Administration Earnings per share rose by 19% to KShs 54.26 from Contributions remained at KShs 34 billion in 2017 KShs 45.49. compared to 2016. While short-term premiums dropped by 11%, long-term business recorded a 22% growth mainly in the individual life and annuity classes which grew by 11% and 585% respectively. Profit Before Tax (KShs Billion) Total Assets (KShs Billion) 5.16 104.97 4.56 90.57 4.15 3.95 82.38 74.51 3.15 61.16 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Profit before tax grew by 13% to KShs 5.16 billion in Total assets grew by 16% to KShs 104.97 billion mainly 2017 attributed to higher short-term underwriting results as a result of increased funds generated by the business and investment income. and growth in investments. 4 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 GROUP INFORMATION 2017 2016 Capital and reserves KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 Authorised Capital 450,000 350,000 Issued Capital 362,365 329,423 Paid-up Capital 362,365 329,423 Retained Earnings 19,512,980 16,352,839 Registered Office Jubilee Insurance House Wabera Street P O Box 30376–00100 GPO Nairobi, Kenya Telephone: 3281000 Telefax: 3281150 E-mail: jic@jubileekenya.com; Website: www.jubileeinsurance.com Subsidiaries The Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited (100%) The Jubilee Insurance Company of Uganda Limited (65%) Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Uganda Limited (65%) The Jubilee Insurance Company of Tanzania Limited (51%) Jubilee Life Insurance Corporation of Tanzania Limited (51%) The Jubilee Insurance Company of Burundi S.A. (70%) Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Burundi S.A (70%) Jubilee Insurance (Mauritius) Limited (80%) Jubilee Financial Services Limited (100%) Jubilee Investments Company Limited (Uganda) (100%) Jubilee Investments Tanzania Limited (100%) Jubilee Investments Burundi S.U. (100%) Jubilee Center Burundi S.P.R.L. (80%) Associates PDM (Holdings) Limited (37.1%) IPS Cable Systems Limited (33.3%) FCL Holdings Limited (30.0%) IPS Power Investment Limited (27.0%) Bujagali Holding Power Company Limited (25.0%) Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers CPA PwC Tower Waiyaki Way/Chiromo Road Westlands P. O. Box 43963 -00100 Nairobi Corporate Lawyers Daly & Inamdar Advocates ABC Towers, 6th Floor ABC Place, Waiyaki Way P.O. Box 40034 00100 Nairobi Share Registrar Jubilee Holdings Limited Principal Bankers Diamond Trust Bank Kenya Limited Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited Citibank N.A. Diamond Trust Bank Uganda Limited Diamond Trust Bank Tanzania Limited Diamond Trust Bank Burundi Limited Habib Bank Limited Barclays Bank PLC Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 5 Behind My Smile... Is the comfort that we are protected by Jubilee Insurance’s J-CARE, the best health insurance cover. Bernadette Muithya Customer 6 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTICE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 7 NOTICE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the 80th Annual General Meeting of the shareholders will be held at the Nairobi Serena, Kenyatta Avenue, on Thursday 31 May 2018 at 11:00 a.m. to conduct the following business: 1. To consider and, if thought fit, to adopt the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December, 2017 together with the reports of the Chairman, Directors and Auditor thereon. 2. To confirm the payment of the interim dividend of Kshs.1.00 per share made on 6 October 2017 and approve the payment of a final dividend of Kshs. 8.00 per share to be paid on or about 25 July, 2018 to Shareholders registered as at 31 May 2018. 3. To elect the following Directors who retire by rotation in accordance with Article 86 of the Company’s Articles of Association and who being eligible, offer themselves for re-election: a. Mr. John Metcalf b. Mr. Zul Abdul c. Mr. Lutaf Kassam 4. In Accordance with the provisions of Section 769 of the Companies Act, 2015, the following Directors being members of the Board Audit & Compliance Committee be confirmed to continue to serve as members of the said Committee: a. Mr. Zul Abdul b. Mr. Juma Kisaame c. Mr. John Metcalf 5. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report and remuneration paid to the Directors in the year ended 31 December 2017 and authorize the Board to set the Directors’ remuneration. 6. To appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers as the Auditors of the Company until the end of the next Annual General Meeting in accordance with Section 721(4) of the Companies Act, 2015 and to authorise the Directors to set their remuneration. By Order of the Board: Margaret Muhuni-Kipchumba Company Secretary 13 April 2018 Notes: a. A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his/her behalf and such proxy need not be a member of the Company. The proxy form can be downloaded from the Company’s website www.jubileeinsurance.com or obtained from the Registered Office of the Company at Jubilee Insurance House, 5th Floor, Wabera Street, Nairobi. b. To be valid, a proxy form must be duly completed by a member and should be returned to the Company by hand delivery or by post to P.O. Box 30376 00100 Nairobi to arrive no later than 48 hours before the meeting. 8 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 CHAPTER HEADER CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Jubilee Jubilee Holdings Holdings AnnualReport Integrated Report&&Financial FinancialStatements Statements2017 2017 9 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, I am pleased to introduce Jubilee Holding Limited’s (“JHL”/”Jubilee”) 2017 Integrated report and financial statements. Jubilee Holdings marked its 80th Anniversary on August 3rd 2017, having been founded as the first locally incorporated insurance company in Kenya in 1937. To celebrate this milestone, a number of activities were undertaken by Jubilee employees across all our markets, as outlined in more detail in the Corporate Social Responsibility section. A major initiative in 2017 was Jubilee’s active support of “The Blue Company” concept, a voluntary initiative aimed at encouraging a corruption free environment in the work place. Going forward, as news of this initiative spreads more accredited “Blue” companies will continue to join this project with the long-term aspiration of working principally with such organizations that believe in the same set of values as Jubilee and other members. During 2017, Jubilee pursued parallel strategies to develop its franchise, increase insurance penetration and build sustainable profitability in an increasingly competitive and corrupt business environment. In the short-term business segments (General and Medical insurance) the focus was on building sustainable underwriting profitability; initiatives based on improved risk selection and pricing, coupled with investment in systems and control enhancements, allowed short-term underwriting profits to increase by 83% to KShs. 1.4 billion in 2017, despite a small decline in premium levels, as steps to improve the quality of the portfolio became effective. In the Long-Term (Life insurance and Pension business) the focus was on growth and overall premiums and contributions increased by 22% in 2017 as efforts to extend distribution reach in Uganda and Tanzania and improve productivity in Kenya were executed. Reflecting these strategies, JHL’s overall Gross Written Premium, including Deposit Administration contributions, increased marginally to KShs 33.9 billion, whilst pre-tax profit grew by 13% to KShs 5.2 billion (2016 – KShs. 4.6 billion), supported by a 35% increase in insurance results to KShs. 2.7 billion (2016 – KShs. 1.97 billion), and the Group’s Profit after Tax grew by 15% to KShs 4.23 billion (2016KShs. 3.68 billion). As a result, Jubilee has maintained its position as the largest composite insurer in East Africa for the ninth consecutive year and retained the No.1 position in the short-term business in Kenya, and overall No.1 position in Uganda and in Tanzania. Jubilee continues to dominate the medical insurance platform as the largest and most efficient in the healthcare sector in East Africa. The excellent bottom line results were achieved against the backdrop of a difficult year for the insurance industry. The protracted uncertainty linked to the political process in Kenya led to a slowdown in the economy in the second half of the year and delayed new investments in infrastructure and other major projects, and was compounded by unclear Government policy in other parts of the region, weak agriculture output due to drought, and accompanied by tightening private sector credit conditions. A significant drop in the yield curves across the region led to lower returns on fixed income securities and higher long-term insurance contract liabilities computed at a lower discount rate. Appropriate pricing of risk by industry participants continues to be weak, and the drive to gain market share by a number of competitors resulted in severe rate cutting and subsequent significant underwriting losses. Many intermediaries continue to push for higher commissions at the expense of both the insurance companies and their clients who ultimately pay for these higher costs. Jubilee has chosen to take a leadership role in the industry by ensuring realistic pricing, which resulted in your Company deciding to exit a number of major schemes, but which helped to improve the bottom line substantially. The Group’s total assets increased by 16% from KShs 90.6 billion to KShs 105 billion, reaching the US$ 1 billion mark for the first time in the history of the Group. Total shareholders’ equity and reserves increased 19% from KShs 19.9 billion to KShs 23.6 billion. On the investment front, the NSE 20 turned around in the year and grew by 16.5%, resulting in significant fair value gains for the majority of insurance companies. Jubilee participated in these gains as it continues to hold quoted securities in a broadly diversified and conservative portfolio of investments which also includes government bonds, real estate, unquoted securities and projects that generate US dollar returns. EAST AFRICA’S ECONOMY The East African regional economy grew unevenly in 2017. In Q3 2017, GDP growth in Kenya slowed to 4.4% whilst at the same time showed stronger growth in Uganda of 7.5%, Tanzania’s official growth rate was 6.8%. However there appears to be poor business sentiment, an overall decline in the insurance and real estate sectors and increasing non-performing loan ratios reported by the banking sector. In this context, all countries were able to bring down inflation and central bank lending rates that led to significantly lower interest rates and investment returns from both Government bonds and bank fixed deposits. INSURANCE INDUSTRY Preliminary data shows that the insurance industry in Kenya grew by 2% in non-life (short-term business) and 14% in life (long-term) business. Uganda recorded much stronger growth of 11% for non-life and 28% in life, while Tanzania’s non-life sector may have declined by as much as 10%, although life grew by 7%. While the regional market continues to have great growth potential, particularly Tanzania and Uganda with a current insurance penetration of less than 1% each, the market continues to face numerous challenges including a highly fragmented distribution system, high levels of risk and unprecedented incidence of fraud, scarcity of qualified human resources and increasing competition in already crowded markets. These challenges are partly mitigated as insurance regulators continue to work with the industry to introduce regulations that allow greater clarity in areas such a credit control, reinsurance, Bancassurance and capital adequacy supervision. Bancassurance, already well established in Kenya, continues to be a significant growth area for JHL across East Africa as regulations are developed where Jubilee has relations with some of the strongest banks in the region. Minimum Capital requirements are expected to increase as Risk Based Capital (RBC) supervision, introduced in Kenya in 2015, is being considered in other jurisdictions in the region. Jubilee is well positioned to meet the requirements of increasingly strict solvency regimes across East Africa, which will be positive for both the industry and policyholder protection. Whilst the RBC requirements in Kenya were relaxed in 2016 to accommodate weaker companies, the Regulator has indicated a commitment to the development of the risk based framework to lead to a higher level of stability and consumer protection in the industry. All the Group’s insurance subsidiaries across the region are well capitalized and the Kenyan company continues to be fully compliant with the Risk Based Capital framework with some of the highest Capital Adequacy Ratio’s in the industry. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 11 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) DIVIDEND I am pleased to report that the Jubilee Holdings Board has recommended a cash dividend of 180% for the year 2017 (2016: 170%), on the share capital of KShs 362.4 million. An interim dividend of 20% (KShs 1.00 per share) was paid on 6th October 2017, and the Board is seeking approval for a final cash dividend of KShs 8.00 per share. Jubilee share price closed 2017 at KShs 499, appreciating slightly in the year, showing the investor confidence that JHL continues to enjoy. Since listing in 1984, JHL has always declared dividends and has never declared a lower dividend than the previous year. FINANCIAL RESULTS The Gross Written Premium, including Deposit Administration contributions, grew slightly to KShs 33.94 billion, and Pre-tax profit grew by 13.1% to KShs 5.16 billion, supported by a 34.8% increase in insurance results to KShs. 2.68 billion, and the Group’s Profit after Tax grew by 15.1% to KShs 4.23 billion. Earnings per Share grew 19.3% to KShs 54.26 per share from KShs 45.49 in 2016. MEDICAL INSURANCE Medical insurance business premiums declined 17% to KShs 9.6 billion (2016 – KShs 11.6 billion) as the Kenyan company took an active decision to drop or re-price loss making schemes at renewal. This, together with a focus on several initiatives to reduce costs and improve efficiency, resulted in underwriting profit increasing by 478% to KShs 878 million (2016 – KShs 152 million). These initiatives included a comprehensive review of systems and operations led by the Jubilee Process Excellence Team, implementing enhanced IT controls to reduce fraud, re-engaging with all our key provider partners to find new and innovative ways to better manage pharmaceutical costs, consulting fees, lab test fees and bed charges, etc. which continue to be driven by increasing medical inflation. Jubilee also led the industry and made substantial investments in the development of the transmission of claims electronically from the providers to the insurance companies, wider use of biometric identification cards, and enhanced customer service through digital access to information for corporate clients and their employees through the “JubiCare” mobile App. These initiatives will be further developed in 2018 and rolled out to benefit our clients and growing medical business in Uganda and Tanzania. We also continue to educate both medical practitioners and members to substantially increase the use of affordable, high quality and equally effective generic drugs as opposed to branded versions which unnecessarily consumes a very large portion of the medical budget. In many developed countries, generic drugs represent over 80% (USA 87%) of the cost of drugs dispensed whereas in Kenya, where the ratio should be considerably higher, the ratio is estimated to be astoundingly at best at around 50%. GENERAL INSURANCE General insurance premiums declined by 3% in 2017 to reach KShs 10.7 billion (2016 11 billion), largely due to the weak economic environment cited earlier, particularly in Tanzania, where growth was also hit by regulations making it compulsory for Government entities to insure with the State insurance company. In addition, there were delays in the launch of several large infrastructure projects throughout the region. Against this background, Jubilee was able to report an underwriting profit at KShs 534 million (2016 – KShs 618 million) and a combined ratio at 91%, despite several large claims during the year and continued pressure on rates from our competitors, which are unsustainable and over time will result in deterioration of the quality and provision of adequate service. LIFE INSURANCE AND PENSION Life insurance business Gross Written Premium and Deposit Administration inflows registered a growth of 22% to KShs 13.7 billion (2016 – KShs 11.2 billion) supported by growth in individual life and pensions across the region resulting from continued efforts to build stronger distribution channels led by premium growth of 26% in Tanzania and 47% in Uganda. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY During the year under review, Jubilee Insurance celebrated its 80th year, and continued to commit increased resources towards key Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives that go towards supporting critical needs of the local communities, in supporting those challenged in hearing, sight or use of limbs through partnerships with like-minded organizations, as well as implementing its trademark CSR projects. Jubilee Insurance continued the partnership of its staff participating in key impacting projects including the Jubilee Insurance Children’s Fund. Jubilee Holdings celebrated its 80th Anniversary through a number of activities undertaken by the staff including the Live Free painting competition which resulted in the awarding of full secondary school scholarships to 33 pupils and sports equipment and a range of books were presented to their schools. The painting competition targeted primary school children aged from 6-14 years with the aim to providing these pupils an opportunity to share their vision on what living free meant to them in the form of art. Over 270 schools in 39 Counties participated in the project in Kenya which was replicated in various forms across Uganda, Tanzania and Mauritius. We also partnered with private and public institutions for medical initiatives set to impact needy children and young adults. In conjunction with the Kenya Society for the Blind, we facilitated free eye screening, medication and spectacles and will further enable corrective surgery to children with visual impairment in public schools. We also collaborated with Operation Ear Drop Kenya to provide free ear surgeries to patients with auditory complications with a bias towards children. In partnership with the Jaipur Foot Trust we provided prosthetic limbs to under-privileged children and young adults living with disabilities. At the heart of this effort is Jubilee’s vision and belief that our success over the past 80 years has been tied to our relentless efforts to give back to the community to which we belong. We recognize that success not only involves improving ourselves, but also the lives of other people, which is why we undertake these initiatives and partner with institutions to impact the community positively. 12 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) SIGNATORY TO THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT During 2017, JHL enlisted as a signatory to the UN Global Compact. I am pleased to confirm that Jubilee reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Within this Integrated report we highlight some of the actions we have taken to integrate these principles within our organization. MARKET PRESENCE AND RECOGNITION Jubilee Insurance Kenya met the requirements for recertification under the ISO 9001:2015 standard marking a transition from the former ISO 9001:2008 standard that the company had maintained for over a decade. The company is among the first insurance companies in Kenya to transition to this latest ISO global standard which provides confidence to all stakeholders on the quality of its management systems. Jubilee was very pleased to be recognized by the business community and insurance industry for the excellence of our business practices by winning several awards. During the year 2017, Jubilee scooped 18 awards in total. Our major awards are listed on page 112 of this Integrated Report. OUTLOOK Economic prospects for 2018 remain strong with a settled political environment, recovery in the agriculture sector, and improved visibility in the timing of investments in the oil sector and major infrastructure projects. The regional economy is expected to grow at around 6% in 2018, however, in the medium to long term there remains uncertainty due to growing concerns around the rapid rate of borrowing by the national governments, increasing annual debt service burden, and the crowding out of private sector borrowing resulting in reduced availability of credit to SMEs that are the driving force of economic growth and employment in both the formal and informal sectors and important growth areas for the insurance industry. We continue to be optimistic as we focus on our strategic goals to ensure that Jubilee continues to perform strongly in 2018 and generate sustainable and stable returns for our shareholders. We will continue to focus on appropriate risk selection and best management practices so as to balance our entrepreneurial approach to business opportunities whilst protecting profitability. Key strategic initiatives for 2018 include completion of enhanced IT infrastructure and systems, increased presence in the emerging digital economy, deployment of sustainable medical insurance model and processes across the region, holistic operational and process reengineering, product innovation and continued development of agency and Bancassurance networks to drive our revenue. BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Directors who held office in 2017 are listed on pages 16 to 18 of this report. As we continue to expand our horizons, the Board continues to reflect your Company’s regional and growth related outlook, while drawing from the Company’s Vision, Mission and Values which continue to steer your Company. APPRECIATION The contributions of Jubilee’s various stakeholders have ensured that continued strong performance is achieved. These are none other than our business partners, intermediaries and customers. I would like to thank you for your continued support and loyalty, which have been instrumental in reinforcing Jubilee’s position as the invincible market leader in Kenya and in East Africa. I also thank all our staff across the region who continue to show dedication and provide superior service to our customers. I would also like to acknowledge with appreciation my colleagues in the Board and those on the Boards of the subsidiaries for their diligence, guidance and support that has ensured that we achieve superior and excellent results during the year. It is this dedicated and loyal support that has enabled the company to become the largest insurance Group in East Africa, whose sustained growth over the decades and reputation as the most trusted insurer in the region has been built on our solid values and unyielding ethical practices, a strong and growing balance sheet and a commitment to fair settlement of claims. We are indeed very proud of these accomplishments and strive to continue to build on this solid foundation. Nizar Juma Chairman 13 April 2018 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 13 Behind My Smile... Is working for and with the great brand that is Jubilee Insurance, knowing that our customers trust us and we always deliver on our promise to them. Denis Huyberechts CEO Jubilee Insurance Burundi 14 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 15 BOARD OF DIRECTORS John Metcalf Jane Mwangi Lutaf Kassam Sultan Allana Nizar Juma CHAIRMAN Board Audit and Compliance Committee Board Finance Committee Board Nominating and Human Resource Committee 16 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Juma Kisaame Shabir Abji Margaret Kipchumba Zul Abdul Moez Jamal COMPANY SECRETARY Board IT Committee Board Property Committee Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 17 BOARD OF DIRECTORS (CONTINUED) Mr. Nizar Juma (74) Chairman Egypt. Mr. Metcalf is a Fellow of the Chartered Insurance Institute and holds a BA (Hons) in Banking Insurance & Finance from Sheffield Mr. Juma is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Jubilee Hallam University. Mr. Metcalf is a member of the Board Finance Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries having been first appointed in Committee, Board Audit & Compliance Committee, Board Nominating 2004. He is also the regional Chairman of the Industrial Promotion & HR committee and Board IT Committee. Services group of companies and is a Chairman and Director in various other private entities in the industrial and commercial sectors. Mr. Juma Kisaame (54) Non-Executive Director Mr. Juma holds a BSc. (Econ) Joint Hons in Economics, Law & Accountancy from the University of Wales – Cardiff. He is a recipient Mr. Kisaame is currently the Managing Director of DFCU Bank Uganda of a number of national awards including the Award of the Silver Star and has over twenty years experience in the financial sector. He is a of Kenya by H.E. The President of Kenya for outstanding member of the Board Audit and Compliance Committee and Board service to the nation (1982) and was awarded The Life Time IT Committee. He holds a Bachelors of Commerce degree majoring Achievement Award in the 2011 Insurance Industry Awards. in Accounting from Makerere University and is an Alumni of the Advanced Management program at INSEAD, France. He has been Mr. Sultan Ali Allana (58) Non-Executive Director a Director of Uganda Revenue Authority and Chairman of Uganda Investment Authority. Mr. Kisaame is a member of the Board Audit & Mr. Sultan Ali Allana is a Director of the Aga Khan Fund for Economic Compliance Committee as well as the Board IT Committee. Development (AKFED) and has the oversight responsibilities for AKFED’s investments in Banking, Insurance and Aviation. Mr. Allana Mr. Shabir Abji (59) Non-Executive & Independent is a career banking professional with over 32 years of experience Director in retail, corporate and investment banking. Mr. Allana is also the Chairman of Habib Bank Limited, which is the largest bank in Pakistan Mr Abji assisted in the running of the family business, and in1984 set with over 1,700 branches and with presence in over 20 countries up the company operations in Uganda. As the Group Director, he was around the world. Since 1997, Mr. Allana has also been serving as a instrumental in setting up Uganda Oxygen, Twiga Chemical Industries Director of the Tourism Promotion Services Pakistan Limited, the owners Uganda, Service and Computer Industries Uganda (Formerly NCR) and the operators of the Serena Hotels in Pakistan. Mr. Allana holds and American Communication and Technologies. Mr Abji has Undergraduate and Post Graduate degrees from McGill University served as the Chairman of Aga Khan Health Services, Tanzania, a and the University of Wisconsin in Engineering and Management. Councilor of the Confederation of Tanzania Industries and currently is the Chairman of Dar es Salaam Tourism Executive Board. He is Mr. Lutaf Kassam (64) Non-Executive Director also the Chairman of the Tanzania Asian Development Association in formation and has been involved in fund raising activities for various Mr. Kassam joined the Board in April 2006 and chairs its Finance causes and is a member of the FAO sponsored Telefood Committee. Committee. Mr. Kassam, a member of the AKFED Executive Mr. Abji is the Chairman of the Board IT Committee and is a member Committee, is responsible for AKFED’s global portfolio on Industry and of the Board Finance Committee. Infrastructure. He is also a Director on the Board of Kenya Association of Manufacturers, the East African Business Council (EABC), and a Mrs. Margaret Kipchumba (44) Company Secretary Member of the Presidential Investors’ Round Table (Advisory Board to President Museveni), an advisory Board Member of the Sustainable Mrs. Kipchumba was appointed Company Secretary of Jubilee Energy for All (SE4ALL) initiative under The UN Secretary-General Holdings Limited in June 2014 and also serves on the Boards of its and the World Bank Group, past First Vice Chairman of the Nairobi subsidiaries in this capacity. She is an Advocate of the High Court of Stock Exchange (NSE) and a member of the National Economic and Kenya and a Certified Public Secretary. She is a Member of the Law Social Council (NESC) in Kenya. Mr. Kassam is the Chairman of Society of Kenya, the Institute of Certified Public Secretaries of Kenya the Board Finance Committee and a member of the Board Property and the Institute of Directors, Kenya. Committee. Mr. Zul Abdul (65) Non-Executive & Independent Director Mrs. Jane Mwangi (54) Non-Executive & Independent Mr. Abdul is the CEO, Trans-Orbit Kenya Limited. He has previously Director. held key leadership voluntary positions having served as the President Mrs. Mwangi is the Managing Partner at Robson Harris & Co. of Aga Khan National Council in Kenya, the Chairman of Aga Khan Advocates. She has previously worked at the Central Bank of Kenya, Education Services, Chairman of the Jubilee Fund Limited, director Deposit Protection Fund Board and the United Nations, Department of Anfield Holdings Ltd, a Property Development company and of Oversight Services (OIOS). She is an Advocate of the High Court Executive Director of Wiggins Teape Ltd, an international company of Kenya with over twenty (20) years experience, a Notary Public, a manufacturing and trading in paper. Mr. Abdul is the Chairman of the Commissioner for Oaths and a member of the Chartered Institute of Board Audit & Compliance Committee and is on the Board Property Arbitrators. She is an accredited Governance Auditor and a Certified Committee. Public Secretary. She holds a Master Degree in Business Law from the University of Nairobi and University of Hull, UK. Mrs. Mwangi Mr. Moez Jamal (62) Non Executive & Independent is the Chairperson of the Board Nominating & Human Resources Director Committee. Mr. Jamal has had many years of experience at Senior Executive level at various financial institutions including Credit Suisse. He is also a Mr. John Metcalf (58) Non-Executive Director Member of the Board of the Diamond Trust Bank (K) Limited, Habib Mr. Metcalf was appointed to the Board in November 2006. He has Bank Limited Pakistan and Marcuard Family Office, Zurich. He holds a extensive international experience in the insurance industry and is Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics, B.A. (Econ) from the University currently the Head of Insurance for the Aga Khan Fund for Economic of Manchester, England and a Masters in Business Administration, Development. He is a Director on the Boards of the Company’s Finance (MBA Finance) from the New York University. Mr. Jamal is a insurance subsidiaries. Before joining the Company, he was the member of the Board Finance Committee. Executive Chairman of the Allianz Group Insurance subsidiaries in 18 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Jubilee Jubilee Holdings Holdings AnnualReport Integrated Report&&Financial FinancialStatements Statements2017 2017 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Company views the application of good corporate governance practices as fundamentally key to achieving a healthy and sustainable return on investment for its shareholders while fulfilling its social mandate to improve the quality of life for all stakeholders. The Directors therefore remain committed to maintaining the highest standards of good corporate governance in all jurisdictions the Company operates in for the benefit of all stakeholders. The Company has adopted the Capital Markets Authority Code of Corporate Governance Practices for Issuers of Securities to the Public, 2015 (“Code”). The Code sets out the principles and specific recommendations on structures and processes which companies should implement in making good corporate governance an integral part of their business dealings and culture. In keeping with the Code, a governance audit for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 was undertaken by an independent accredited Governance Auditor to assess the level of application of good governance practices in the Company. The reporting template for disclosing the extent to which the Company has implemented the Code is available on the Company’s website www.jubileeinsurance.com. The Board is working towards full application of the Code and this forms part of the efforts to continually improve governance practices. Based on the overall performance of the Company and from an aggregate perspective, it is the view of the Governance Auditor that the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s policies, systems, practices and processes were within the legal and regulatory framework and in line with global best practices on corporate governance. In recognition of the Group’s commitment to financial and corporate governance reporting, the Group’s insurance subsidiaries in Kenya and Uganda were awarded the Winners and 1st Runners Up positions (Insurance Category) in the 2017 Fire Awards in Kenya and Uganda respectively, while the Tanzanian insurance subsidiary was awarded the Insurance Company of the Year in the 2017 Tanzania Leadership Awards. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Composition of the Board The Company is led by an effective Board that provides strategic direction and oversight over Management and ensures that Management is creating value for stakeholders. The Board currently comprises nine (9) Directors all of whom are non-executive. Four (4) Directors are independent. In determining the independence status of a Director, the Company has used the criteria set out in the Code. Each Director’s profile is given on page 18 of this Integrated Report and highlights, amongst others, the Directors’ qualifications, other key board memberships and their independence status. Notwithstanding a Director’s non-executive and/or independence status on the Board, all Directors recognize that they are collectively responsible to the shareholders and stakeholders for the viable long-term sustainability of the Company. There are no alternate or shadow Directors on the Board. Appointments to the Board All new appointments to the Board are coordinated by the Board Nominating and Human Resource Committee (BNHRC) which is mandated to evaluate all candidates nominated for directorship and make recommendations to the Board. In accordance with the Articles of Association, any new Directors appointed by the Board are required to retire at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment and are eligible to offer themselves for re-election by shareholders. Also, in accordance with the Articles of Association, at the Annual General Meeting in every year, at least one third of the Directors retire by rotation and are eligible to seek re-election. In determining the Directors retiring by rotation, consideration is given to those who have been in office longest since their last election. The Directors retiring by rotation are listed in the Notice of the AGM on page 8. No new Directors were appointed during the year under review. Induction of New Board Members Newly appointed directors undergo a comprehensive, formal and tailor made induction programme to ensure their effective contribution on the Board and Committees. The induction amongst others, covers the nature of the Group’s business, Group organizational structure, Board and Committee mandates, financial performance review over the previous financial periods as well as the role, duties and responsibilities expected of the Directors. The Directors receive an induction pack which comprises the Memorandum and Articles of Association, Board Charter and Directors’ Code of Ethics, Committee Terms of Reference and minutes from previous Board meetings. The induction process is coordinated by the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary. All Directors are required to receive continuing training to add to their effectiveness in the discharge of their responsibilities on the Board. Role of the Board The Board’s primary responsibility is that of fostering the long-term business of the Company consistent with its fiduciary responsibility to the shareholders. The responsibilities of the Board are articulated in the Board Charter while the conduct of Board members is governed by the Directors’ Code of Ethics and Conduct. Both documents are available on the Company’s website, www.jubileeinsurance.com. The responsibilities imposed by these documents are in addition to those imposed by legislation and regulations applicable to the Company. 20 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED) During the year under review the Board met in each quarter to monitor business performance and agree the budget for the current year. Four (4) Board meetings were held during the year and the record of attendance is set out below: Name March May August November Nizar Juma √ √ √ √ Sultan Allana A √ √ A Lutaf Kassam √ √ √ A Juma Kisaame √ √ √ √ John Metcalf √ √ √ √ Shabir Abji √ √ √ √ Jane Mwangi A √ √ √ Moez Jamal √ √ √ √ Zul Abdul √ √ A √ *Key: √ Present A Absent with apologies Senior Management including the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Officer and any other officer as may be required, attend Board Meetings by invitation to ensure informed and efficient decision-making by the Board of Directors. In addition, the Board invites independent professionals to attend meetings and provide opinions and advice as necessary. SEPARATION OF THE ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN AND GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (GCEO) The Board Charter stipulates a clear separation of the role and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO). The Chairman is an non-executive Director and his primary role is to direct the Board’s business and act as its facilitator and guide, ensuring the Board is effective in its task of setting and implementing the Company’s direction and strategy. The GCEO is responsible for the day-to-day leadership of the Company’s business affairs and ensures the execution of strategy set by the Board. The separation of powers is to promote accountability and facilitate division of responsibilities as well as to ensure a balance of power and authority such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision making. BOARD COMMITTEES In order to effectively carry out its governance responsibilities, the Board has established five standing Committees as listed below and delegated specific mandates to them. These committees operate under clearly articulated terms of reference which clarify their responsibilities and scope of authority. The Committees have unrestricted access to any information within the Company and are authorized by the Board to obtain independent professional advice to enable them effectively discharge their functions. All Committees report to the Board at each meeting highlighting matters discussed at their respective meetings and recommended actions for Board approval in appropriate cases. Notwithstanding the delegated authority to these committees, the Board remains fully responsible for the activities of the Committees. The mandates of the Committees and their membership are summarized as follows: Board Audit & Compliance Committee: The mandate of the BACC is, broadly speaking, in the following five areas where the key responsibilities include the following: Financial Reporting & Financial Control External Auditors & External Audit • To be informed, vigilant and effective overseers of the financial • To consider the appointment of the Company’s external reporting process, governance process, internal controls, auditors, the audit fee and any questions on resignation or compliance and risk management issues in the Group; dismissal of such external auditors; • To ensure that the Company’s financial statements comply with • To discuss with the external auditor before the audit commences applicable financial reporting standards; the nature and scope of the audit, and ensure co-ordination • To review the quarterly, half-yearly and year-end financial where more than one audit firm is involved; statements of the Company focusing on: • To discuss problems and reservations arising from the interim, final and any other special audits within the Group, and (i) Any changes in accounting policies and practices; any matters the external auditors may wish to discuss (in the (ii) Significant adjustments arising from the audit; absence of management where necessary); (iii) The going concern assumption; and • To review the external auditors’ Management Letters and (iv) Compliance with IAS and other legal requirements. management’s responses and review Representational Letters; • To evaluate any factors related to the independence of the Company’s external auditors and assist the external auditors in preserving their independence. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED) Internal Audit Risk Management • Review of the adequacy, scope, functions and resources of the • To review any risk management issues within the Group; internal audit function, and ensure that it has the necessary • To monitor matters relating to frauds, conflict of interests, abuse independence and authority to carry out its work; of office, receive and address any whistle blowing reports • Review the internal audit program and results of the internal within the Group and ensure controls are implemented to audit process and where necessary ensure that appropriate minimize fraud instance. action is taken on the recommendations of the internal audit function; • Review any appraisal or assessment of the performance of members of the internal audit function; Compliance • Approve any appointment or termination of senior staff members of the internal audit function; • Monitor compliance with all legal, regulatory and policy • Ensure that the internal audit function is independent of the requirements relating to the Company and recommend activities of the Company and is performed with impartiality, necessary action to address cases of non-compliance. proficiency and due professional care; • Review and make recommendations on management programs • Determine the effectiveness of the internal audit function; established to monitor compliance with the code of conduct. • Be informed of resignations of internal audit staff and provide the resigning staff members an opportunity to submit reasons for resigning; • Review the work and reports of the internal audit function and report to the Board on the co-ordination between the internal and external auditors, staffing of the function, its programme of work, its reporting procedures, the implementation of its recommendations and its standing within the Group; • Consider major findings of internal investigations and management’s responses; and • Review and approve on an annual basis the Internal Audit Work Plan and budget to ensure independence of the internal audit function. The Members of the Committee are Mr. Zul Abdul (Chairman), Mr. Juma Kisaame and Mr. John Metcalf. Their profiles are highlighted on page 18. Board Nominating and Human Resource Committee: This Committee reviews all new nominees to the Board and is mandated to assess the performance and effectiveness of Directors. The Committee also reviews and approves the HR strategy in the Company. The members are Mrs. Jane Mwangi (Chairperson), Mr. Nizar Juma and Mr. John Metcalf. Their profiles are highlighted on page 18. Board Finance Committee: The Committee reviews the financial and investment business of the Company, and provides guidelines and limits for investment of the Company’s funds. The members are Mr. Lutaf Kassam (Chairman); Mr. John Metcalf, Mr. Shabir Abji and Mr. Moez Jamal. Their profiles are highlighted on page 18. Board Information Technology Committee: The Committee is responsible to oversee and monitor the IT strategy and roadmap formulation, IT investment proposals and review IT investments such as new systems recommendations from a technical and operational perspective. The members are Mr. Shabir Abji (Chairman), Mr. John Metcalf and Mr. Juma Kisaame. Their profiles are highlighted on page 18. Board Property Committee: The Committee deals with the Company’s property portfolio and makes recommendations to the Board. The members are Mr. Nizar Juma (Chairman), Mr. Lutaf Kassam and Mr. Zul Abdul. Their profiles are highlighted on page 18. 22 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED) REMUNERATION POLICIES Directors: The particulars of the Directors’ remuneration are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 26. Senior Management: The Board Nominating & Human Resources Committee is mandated to review and determine the Company’s policy on remuneration and advise on the specific remuneration packages for senior managers so as to ensure that they are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to the Company’s overall performance. All employees in the Company are eligible for an annual bonus which is determined by the overall performance of the Company and the individual’s performance against a pre agreed Balanced Scorecard. The Company does not have any share options schemes for senior executives. CONFLICT OF INTEREST The Group ensures that the governance framework not only monitors compliance with legislation and regulations but also monitors the ethical climate within the organization. Towards this end, all employees’ upon joining the Company and on an annual basis are required to sign up to the Code of Conduct and Ethics which aims to encourage honest and ethical business conduct. The Board has also adopted a Directors’ Code of Ethics and Conduct. One of the key principles underlying ethical business conduct is the avoidance and disclosure of conflict of interest. Conflict of interest refers to a situation where an employee’s or Director’s private interest or that of a family member or associated institution interferes or appears to interfere with the interests of the Company. Directors are under statutory obligation to avoid a situation in which the Director has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests of the Company. Where the conflict is inevitable, an employee is required to notify the Chief Executive Officer while a Director is required to notify the Chairman of the Board as promptly as practicable and absent himself/herself from any discussion or decision by the Board that relates to the matter giving rise to the conflict. INSIDER TRADING POLICY The Capital Markets Authority Act has prescribed certain regulations that expressly prohibit the use of unpublished insider information. Insider information is generally information that: • relates to the Company and the Company’s securities; • has not been made public; • if it were made public, is likely to have a material effect on the price of the securities. The Company has also adopted an Insider Trading Policy with the objective of promoting transparency and accountability by Directors, employees, officers and members of their families including spouses, children, parents and siblings (“Insiders”). The Company’s Insider Trading Policy prohibits Insiders from trading in the securities of the Company at any time they are in possession of Insider Information. The policy also prescribes a trading window during which Insiders can trade in the securities of the Company. The trading window opens twenty-four (24) hours after the release of any material or price sensitive information (including the interim and final financial results) and closes fourteen (14) calendar days later. FRAUD AWARENESS & WHISTLE BLOWING POLICY The Company has a zero tolerance approach to fraud and corruption and has put in place proactive and reactive measures to address both. Employees are continuously sensitized on fraud awareness and their role in identifying, preventing and reporting fraudulent and corrupt behaviour. To encourage employee partnership in the fight against fraud and corruption, the Company has adopted a Whistle Blowing Policy that aims to have an effective internal mechanism that enables employees to freely, voluntarily, in good faith and without fear of victimization come forward and share any information they may have regarding any financial misconduct, misuse of Company resources, unethical or dishonest behavior by co-workers (at all levels), service providers, suppliers or other stakeholders dealing with the Company. This policy is available on the Company’s Website at www.jubileeinsurance.com. Towards this end and to facilitate reporting, the Company has signed up for an external and internationally accredited whistle blowing facility which enables employees and other stakeholders to make reports via multiple reporting channels including telephone (toll-free or call back facility), email and web. This facility guarantees anonymity and enhances the Company’s compliance with legislation on the protection of whistle blowers. All reports are forwarded directly from the reporting center to the Chairman of the Board Audit & Compliance Committee for appropriate action. All reported fraud is investigated and appropriate action taken against any employee involved directly or indirectly. A summary of all reports and investigations are reported to the Board on a quarterly basis. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT The Company realizes the need for continuous professional development of staff members. To this end, the Board in each year approves a training budget to enable the team regularly up-skill and keep with the times in the dynamic environment. BOARD EVALUATION There are plans to subject the Board to an independent Board evaluation during the year 2018 in accordance to the requirements of the Code. This exercise will help to identify the areas of development to equip the Board and enable it to better steer the Company. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 23 Behind My Smile... As a member of the board of directors is seeing Jubilee Insurance making great strides by disrupting what has been the norm in the insurance industry and cementing its place as East Africa’s number one insurer. Jane Mwangi Board Member and Advocate of the High Court of Kenya 24 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT, PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS AND SHARE DISTRIBUTION & SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 25 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT We are pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 which is in line with the Companies Act, 2015 and the Code of Corporate Governance Practices for Issuers of Securities to the Public 2015, issued by the Capital Markets Authority. Director Remuneration Policy The Board has established a policy to ensure that the remuneration of Directors is formal, transparent and approved by Shareholders in a General Meeting. The Board has mandated the Board Nominating & Human Resource Committee (BNHRC) to, inter alia, review the remuneration of non-executive Directors and recommend changes from time to time. In considering the remuneration of non-executive Directors, the BNHRC considers amongst others, the business strategy and long-term objectives of the Company. During the year under review, all Directors served on a non-executive basis. In recognition of their service to the Company, the non-executive Directors are paid fees and sitting allowances for attending Board and Committee meetings. Both the fees and sitting allowances are paid on a quarterly basis. The non-executive Directors are not covered by the Company’s incentive programmes nor do they receive performancebased remuneration. No pension contributions are payable on their fees and no Director is entitled to any compensation at the end of their tenure. The Company reimburses travel and accommodation expenses related to attendance at Board and Committee meetings. During the year under review, no loans were advanced to any of the Directors. The aggregate amount of emoluments received by the Directors during the year under review was KShs. 3,745,000 (2016: KShs. 3,490,622) and is shown on page 69 under note 10 (iii). The fees and sitting allowance paid to the each Director for the year ended 31 December 2017 together with the comparative figures for 2016 are given in the following tables. Directors Sitting Expense Year ended 31 December 2017 Fees Allowance Bonuses allowances Total KShs. 000 KShs. 000 KShs. 000 KShs. 000 KShs. 000 Mr. Nizar Juma* Mr. Sultan Allana* Mr. Lutaf Kassam** 540,000 120,000 660,000 Mr. Juma Kisaame 540,000 140,000 680,000 Mr. John Metcalf* Mr. Shabir Abji 540,000 180,000 720,000 Mrs. Jane Mwangi 360,000 120,000 480,000 Mr. Moez Jamal 360,000 160,000 520,000 Mr. Zul Abdul 585,000 100,000 685,000 2,925,000 820,000 3,745,000 * Fees Waived ** Fees paid to his employer Directors Sitting Expense Year ended 31 December 2016 Fees Allowance Bonuses allowances Total KShs. 000 KShs. 000 KShs. 000 KShs. 000 KShs. 000 Mr. Nizar Juma* Mr. Sultan Allana* Mr. Lutaf Kassam** 540,000 160,000 700,000 Mr. Juma Kisaame 540,000 200,000 740,000 Mr. John Metcalf* Mr. Shabir Abji 285,622 80,000 365,622 Mrs. Jane Mwangi 360,000 80,000 440,000 Mr. Moez Jamal 360,000 140,000 500,000 Mr. Zul Abdul 360,000 160,000 520,000 Dr. Ramadhani Dau*** 45,000 45,000 Mr. Sultan Khimji *** 180,000 180,000 2,670,622 820,000 3,490,622 * Fees Waived ** Fees paid to his employer *** Dr. Dau & Mr. Khimji retired from the Board on 30th May 2016 Jane Mwangi Chairperson of the BNHRC 26 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND PROFILE Jubilee Holdings aims to build strong partnerships and relationships with its stakeholders and the community through engaging in sustainable business activities and its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programs. “The sustainability development goals are categorized under the three pillars of Economic Development, Energy Performance and Social Responsibility.” UNITED NATIONS (UN) SDG’s ECONOMY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT ENERGY PERFORMANCE Jubilee Insurance reduced its power consumption in its Kenya facilities by about 72,358 kWh within the year 2017 which resulted in a 7% saving in our energy cost and the resultant saving in cash was KShs. 5.4 million. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 27 SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY (CONTINUED) ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 45% TOTAL STAFF Hi I am JULIE. COUNT Jubilee Insurance 1,017 ARE WOMEN Live Intelligent Expert, the first ever Chat bot in the Insurance 6,600 Industry in East Africa. OVER INTERMEDIARIES, AGENTS, SUPPLIERS, LAWYERS, DOCTORS, GARAGES, ASSESSORS, SURVEYORS Offering key benefits: Instant Response to customer queries, 68% Improved User Experience in sales and NUMBER OF LIVES service online. INSURED ARE OVER 1.9M BEING LONG TERM CLIENTS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Jubilee Insurance’s CSR initiatives are guided by our CSR Pillars which are; Education, Health and Social Action. The CSR program strengthens the social and economic status of the society and communities in which we operate. EDUCATION HEALTH SOCIAL ACTION • Live Free Painting Primary School • Freedom to focus: Over 2,000 • Renovation of classrooms and Competition ( KE, UG, TZ) 33 Primary School children screened in 10 cloak rooms in 5 schools in Pupils awarded secondary school counties; 1,574 beneficiaries treated in Tanzania; Morogoro, Dodoma, scholarships. different ways. Dar es Salaam, Zanzibar and Mbeya. • Promoting quality education through • Breaking the Silence: We’ve the Aga Khan Education Services facilitated ear surgeries for 25 • Provision of 2 houses for teachers academic scholarships. beneficiaries. The project is still on in a school in Bukoba Town, going. Tanzania. • Freedom to be independent: We have so far facilitated the fitting of 54 limbs enabling beneficiaries live free of stigma. 28 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS AND SHARE DISTRIBUTION Distribution of Shareholders as at 31 December 2017 Number of shares Number of shareholders Number of shares held % Shareholding Less than 500 shares 1,797 272,857 0.38% 500 – 5,000 shares 3,216 6,518,489 8.99% 5,001 – 10,000 shares 756 5,222,979 7.21% 10,001 – 100,000 shares 572 14,142,539 19.51% 100,001 – 1,000,000 shares 38 7,291,010 10.06% Over 1,000,000 shares 5 39,025,076 53.85% Total 6,384 72,472,950 100.00% List of 10 largest Shareholders as at 31 December 2017 Names Number of shares held % Shareholding 1 Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development 27,528,739 37.98% 2 Pyrus Investments Limited 7,469,980 10.31% 3 Freight Forwarders Kenya Limited 1,416,580 1.95% 4 United Housing Estates Limited 1,314,947 1.81% 5 Adam’s Brown and Co. Limited 1,294,830 1.79% 6 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd KE18972 904,754 1.25% 7 Aunali Fidahussein Rajabali & Sajjad Fidahussein Rajabali 690,000 0.95% 8 Gulshan Noorali Sayani 362,507 0.50% 9 Gulzar Shamshudeen Somji 250,151 0.35% 10 Gulbanu Akbarali Gulamhusein Nanji 237,710 0.33% Total 41,470,198 57.22% Directors’ interest in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2017 Name Number of shares held % Shareholding Mr Nizar Juma 9,446 0.01% Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 29 Behind My Smile... I have just located a Jubilee Insurance medical provider and booked an appointment, viewed my cover online at the touch of a button. Thumbs up to the Jubicare Mobile App. Washington Mbusya Staff, Kenya 30 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 31 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors submit their report together with the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 which disclose the state of affairs of Jubilee Holdings Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiary companies (together the “Group”). BUSINESS REVIEW Country of incorporation The Company is incorporated in the Republic of Kenya under the Companies Act and is domiciled in Kenya. The Company is also registered as a foreign company in the Republic of Uganda and in the United Republic of Tanzania. Principal activities The Company is an investments holding company. The Company, through its subsidiaries, provides a wide range of property, liability, health and life insurance, and retirement products, and related services to customers in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and Mauritius. It also owns investment companies in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Burundi. Results The following is the summary of the results for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 Profit analysis KShs’000 KShs’000 Group profit before income tax 5,160,970 4,562,705 Income tax expense (930,660) (886,758) Group profit after income tax 4,230,310 3,675,947 Non-controlling interest (298,168) (379,322) Profit attributable to equityholders of the company 3,932,142 3,296,625 Additional details of the business overview are captured in the Chairman’s Statement on pages 11 to 13. Risk Management The Group has developed an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework to realize opportunities, while reducing threats to an acceptable level through the implementation of adequate controls. Through the ERM process decision makers, better understand business situations and how the likely outcomes may affect the Group as a whole, enabling them options that are aligned with the Group’s risk appetite or options that can be aligned through implementation of effective controls. Each entity within the Group has risk champions whose mandate is to spearhead the implementation of risk management and reporting on risks. There also exist structures for reporting the risk so that the Group’s Board is given assurance that risks are being defined and managed at acceptable levels. DIVIDEND An interim dividend of KShs 1.00 per share amounting to KShs 72.473 million (2016: KShs 65.885 million) was paid on 6 October 2017. The Directors recommend a final dividend of KShs 8.00 per share amounting to KShs 579.784 million (2016: KShs 494.133 million). The total dividend for the year represents 180% of the issued share capital as at 31 December 2017 (2016: 170%). DIRECTORS The Directors who held office during the year under review and up to the date of this report were: Nizar N Juma (Chairman) Sultan A Allana * Juma Kisaame** Lutaf R Kassam Shabir Abji*** John J Metcalf **** Jane S Mwangi Moez Jamal **** Zul Abdul * Pakistani ** Ugandan ***Tanzanian **** British 32 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS (CONTINUED) AUDITORS Disclosure to Auditors The directors confirm that with respect to each director at the time of approval of this report: • there was, as far as each director is aware, no relevant audit information of which the company’s auditor is unaware; and • each director had taken all steps that ought to have been taken as a director so as to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s auditor is aware of that information Terms of Appointment of Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers were appointed during the year and continue in office in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and Section 721 of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. The directors monitor the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the auditor. This responsibility includes the approval of the audit engagement contract and the associated fees on behalf of the shareholders On behalf of the Board Nizar Juma Chairman 13 April 2018 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 33 Behind My Smile... Is knowing that my dream of owning a house in the next five years will come true. Thanks to the Fanaka Plan by Jubilee Insurance. Neema Mwende Staff 34 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES & AUDITOR’S REPORT Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 35 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES The Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and Company at the end of the financial year and their financial performance for the year then ended. The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Group and Company keep proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the Group and Company; disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company; and that enables them to prepare financial statements of the Group and Company that comply with prescribed financial reporting standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The directors accept responsibility for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. They also accept responsibility for: • Designing, implementing and maintaining internal control as they determine necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error; • selecting suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; and • Making judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances In preparing the financial statements, the directors have assessed the Group and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern and disclosed, as applicable, matters relating to the use of going concern basis of preparation of the financial statements. Nothing has come to the attention of the directors to indicate that the Group and Company will not remain a going concern for at least the next twelve months from the date of this statement. The directors acknowledge that the independent audit of the financial statements does not relieve them of their responsibility. Approved by the Board of Directors on 13 April 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Nizar N Juma Zul Abdul Chairman Director 36 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF JUBILEE HOLDINGS LIMITED Report on the financial statements Opinion We have audited the accompanying separate financial statements of Jubilee Holdings Limited (the Company) and the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (together, the Group) set out on pages 42 to 108, which each comprise a statement of financial position at 31 December 2017 and statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, and notes, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company at 31 December 2017 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Kenya, and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Valuation of insurance contract liabilities We performed, among others, the following procedures: The valuation of insurance contract liabilities involves a high degree • Testing the design and operating effectiveness of the Group’s of subjectivity and complexity. At 31 December 2017 the Group’s controls over the valuation of insurance contract liabilities. insurance contract liabilities were KShs 24,983 million. • Testing the accuracy of the data utilized by the Group’s actuaries in the valuation computations, against information Among the most significant reserving assumptions for the short term contained in the accounting and administration systems business are the determination of the reserve for claims incurred by • Involving PwC’s internal actuarial specialists to perform a not reported (“IBNR”) and the ultimate cost of notified claims. review of the methodology and assumptions used by the Group’s statutory actuaries to compute the reserve for IBNR In the case of the long term business, the Group’s valuation of and the long term insurance contract liabilities. The actuaries liabilities involves the selection of appropriate assumptions with also compared the valuation methods used against generally respect to mortality, morbidity, lapses and interest rates. accepted actuarial practices. • Testing the sufficiency of insurance contract liabilities for the The methodology and methods used can have a material impact on short term business, by performing independent projections of the valuation of insurance contract liabilities. the reserves based on historical trends. The valuation of insurance contract liabilities was considered a key • Comparing for a sample of claims, amounts reported in the audit matter due to the significance of the liabilities to the financial claims systems to source documents. statements and the judgments involved in determining them. • Comparing the claims IBNR reserve and the provision for long term insurance contract liabilities to the reports of the Further details of the liabilities are set out in Notes 4 and 26 to the independent statutory actuary. financial statements. PricewaterhouseCoopers CPA. PwC Tower, Waiyaki Way/Chiromo Road, Westlands P O Box 43963 – 00100 Nairobi, Kenya T: +254 (20)285 5000 F: +254 (20)285 5001 www.pwc.com/ke Partners: A Eriksson E Kerich B Kimacia K Muchiru M Mugasa A Murage F Muriu P Ngahu R Njoroge S N Ochieng’ B Okundi K Saiti Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 37 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF JUBILEE HOLDINGS LIMITED (CONTINUED) Key audit matters (continued) Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Valuation of unquoted investments We performed, among others, the following procedures: The Group has applied valuation techniques to determine the fair • Testing the design and operating effectiveness of the Group’s value of unquoted equity investments. These valuation techniques controls over the valuation of unquoted investments utilize significant unobservable inputs. • Obtained an understanding of valuation techniques used A change to the techniques or assumptions used in the valuation by management and compared them to generally accepted could produce significantly different valuation outcomes. valuation practices Due to their significance to the financial statements and the • Comparing the key inputs and assumptions in the valuation judgments involved, the valuation of unquoted equity investments workings to supporting documentation including independently was considered to be a key audit matter. obtained data. Where inputs included forecast financial Further details on the Group’s unquoted investments are set out in information, we compared the forecasts to historical financial Note 17. information. • Tested the mathematical accuracy of the valuation workings Other information The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the integrated report but does not include the financial statements and auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements The directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 38 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF JUBILEE HOLDINGS LIMITED (CONTINUED) • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the directors. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the Group’s financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the Group’s financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Report on other matters prescribed by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 Report of the directors In our opinion the information given in the directors’ report on pages 32 to 33 is consistent with the financial statements. Directors’ remuneration report In our opinion the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report on page 26 has been properly prepared in accordance with the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. The engagement partner responsible for the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is CPA Bernice Kimacia – Practising Certificate No. 1457. Certified Public Accountants 13 April 2018 Nairobi Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 39 Behind My Smile... Is having total peace of mind knowing that I am covered. Thanks to Jubilee Insurance, I Live Free! Purity Kanario Customer 40 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 FINANCIALS Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 41 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2017 2016 Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Gross Written Premium 26,940,991 27,839,325 Gross earned premium revenue 6 28,328,848 26,907,645 Outward reinsurance 6 (9,134,984) (9,326,416) Net insurance premium revenue 19,193,864 17,581,229 Investment and other income 7 (i) 7,162,008 6,689,192 Net fair value gain/(loss) on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 7 (ii) 2,700,471 (1,612,126) Commission income 8 1,803,453 2,034,115 Fee income 27 413,352 287,579 Total income 31,273,148 24,979,989 Claims and policy holders benefits expense 9 (25,127,276) (20,206,865) Claims recoverable from re-insurers 9 5,473,380 5,965,207 Net insurance benefits and claims (19,653,896) (14,241,658) Operating and other expenses 10 (i) (4,240,091) (4,220,837) Commission expense 8 (3,400,893) (3,385,541) Total expenses and commissions (7,640,984) (7,606,378) Result of operating activities 3,978,268 3,131,953 Share of associates profit 15 (i) 1,182,702 1,430,752 Group profit before income tax 5,160,970 4,562,705 Income tax expense 11 (930,660) (886,758) Profit for the year 4,230,310 3,675,947 Attributable to: Equityholders of the company 3,932,142 3,296,625 Non-controlling interest 15 (iii) 298,168 379,322 Total 4,230,310 3,675,947 Earnings Per Share (KShs) Basic and diluted 12 54.26 45.49 The notes on pages 50 to 108 are an integral part of these financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2017 2016 Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Profit for the year 4,230,310 3,675,947 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Net fair value gain/(loss) on financial assets 7(ii) 292,898 (383,121) Deferred tax on other comprehensive income 16 (87,589) 7,604 Other comprensive income 186 Items that are or/may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Net translation loss 31 (c) & 15 (iii) (468) (497,679) Associate share of other comprehensive income 15 (i) 47,219 (52,888) Total other comprehensive income, net of tax 252,246 (926,084) Total comprehensive income for the year 4,482,556 2,749,863 Attributable to: Equityholders of the Company 4,172,850 2,557,242 Non-controlling interest 15 (iii) 309,706 192,621 Total comprehensive income for the year 4,482,556 2,749,863 The notes on pages 50 to 108 are an integral part of these financial statements. 42 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 COMPANY STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 COMPANY 2017 2016 Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Income Investment and other income 7 (i) 916,600 122,577 Total income 916,600 122,577 Expenses Operating and other expenses 10 1,255 (85,400) Total expenses 1,255 (85,400) Finance costs 35 (2,849) Profit before income tax 915,006 37,177 Income tax expense 11 (3,687) 2,497 Profit for the year 911,319 39,674 The notes on pages 50 to 108 are an integral part of these financial statements. COMPANY STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2017 2016 Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Profit for the year 911,319 39,674 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Net fair value gains on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive 7(ii) 35,014 (148) income Deferred tax on other comprehensive income 16 (10,504) Total other comprehensive income, net of tax 24,510 (148) Total comprehensive income for the year 935,829 39,526 The notes on pages 50 to 108 are an integral part of these financial statements. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 43 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 2017 2016 Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 ASSETS Property and equipment 13 (i) 281,187 217,654 Intangible assets 13 (ii) 158,341 163,425 Investment properties 14 6,270,940 6,011,881 Investment in associates 15 (i) 9,579,327 9,263,205 Deferred tax asset 16 191,273 179,687 Unquoted equity investments at fair value through profit or loss 17 3,157,632 2,805,049 Unquoted equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 17 200,371 104,875 Government securities at armortised cost 18 47,195,222 39,666,112 Commercial bonds at amortised cost 19 904,007 1,423,678 Mortgage loans 20 (i) 109,098 79,869 Loans on life insurance policies 20 (ii) 788,958 716,367 Quoted equity investments at fair value through profit or loss 21 6,853,603 4,644,331 Quoted equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 21 1,276,692 983,598 Receivables arising out of direct insurance arrangements 4 (ii) (c) 4,204,795 4,810,755 Receivables arising out of reinsurance arrangements 4 (ii) (c) 3,071,800 2,805,793 Reinsurers’ share of insurance contract liabilities 22 7,250,563 6,891,960 Deferred acquisition costs 23 147,132 221,842 Other receivables 24 1,080,642 1,241,065 Current income tax asset 11 142,478 124,014 Deposits with financial institutions 25 (i) 10,585,597 7,247,623 Cash and bank balances 25 (i) 1,517,872 964,960 Total assets 104,967,530 90,567,743 LIABILITIES Deferred tax liability 16 199,550 163,189 Insurance contract liabilities 26 24,983,504 20,281,061 Payable under deposit administration contracts 27 42,214,336 35,988,354 Unearned premium revenue 28 7,571,212 8,708,799 Dividends payable 33 (ii) 369,176 325,515 Other payables 29 1,995,468 1,910,747 Current income tax liability 11 70,983 139,133 Creditors arising out of direct insurance arrangements 325,730 293,024 Creditors arising out of reinsurance arrangements 2,006,921 1,336,252 Total liabilities 79,736,880 69,146,074 EQUITY Share capital 30 362,365 329,423 Reserves 31 3,096,997 2,769,487 Retained earnings 32 19,512,980 16,352,839 Proposed dividends 33 (i) 579,784 494,133 Equity attributable to owners of the company 23,552,126 19,945,882 Non-controlling interest 15 (iii) 1,678,524 1,475,787 Total equity 25,230,650 21,421,669 Total liabilities and equity 104,967,530 90,567,743 The financial statements on pages 42 to 108 were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 April 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Nizar N Juma Zul Abdul Chairman Director The notes on pages 50 to 108 are an integral part of these financial statements. 44 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 2017 2016 Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 ASSETS Property and equipment 13 (i) 17,281 22,829 Investment in associates 15 (i) 838,251 838,251 Investment in subsidiaries 15 (ii) 1,874,573 1,850,890 Deferred tax asset 16 4,229 Unquoted equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 17 65,630 27,599 Quoted equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 21 20,270 11,874 Current income tax asset 11 7,661 10,004 Due from related parties 35 105,587 89,452 Other receivables 24 109,916 50,206 Deposits with financial institutions 25 (i) 250,098 12,345 Cash and bank balances 25 (i) 22,898 20,844 Total assets 3,312,165 2,938,523 LIABILITIES Deferred tax liability 16 6,034 Due to related parties 35 158,805 206,459 Dividends payable 33 (ii) 369,176 325,515 Other payables 29 12,985 13,457 Borrowings from related parties 35 630,315 627,465 Total liabilities 1,177,315 1,172,896 EQUITY Share capital 30 362,365 329,423 Reserves 31 101,357 76,847 Retained earnings 32 1,091,344 865,224 Proposed dividends 33 (i) 579,784 494,133 Total equity 2,134,850 1,765,627 Total liabilities and equity 3,312,165 2,938,523 The financial statements on pages 42 to 108 were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 April 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Nizar N Juma Zul Abdul Chairman Director The notes on pages 50 to 108 are an integral part of these financial statements Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 45 46 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 Equity NonShare Fair Value General Translation Contingency Statutory Retained Proposed Attributable Controlling Capital Reserves Reserves Reserves Reserves Reserve Earnings Dividends to Owners Interest Total Equity KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Year ended 31 December 2016 Note At start of year 329,423 528,488 70,000 (240,449) 829,413 3,327,844 13,752,577 494,133 19,091,429 1,283,166 20,374,595 Profit for the year 3,296,625 3,296,625 379,322 3,675,947 Other comprehensive income Other fair value loss on share of associates through OCI 15 (i) (52,888) (52,888) (52,888) Change in fair value of financial assets through OCI (379,322) (379,322) (3,799) (383,121) Deferred tax on other comprehensive income 16 6,464 6,464 1,140 7,604 Transfer to retained earnings on disposal 1,716 (1,716) Net translation loss 31 (c) & 15 (iii) (313,637) (313,637) (184,042) (497,679) Transfer to contingency reserves 31 (d) 134,629 (134,629) Transfer from life fund 31 (e) (1,142,771) (1,142,771) (1,142,771) Total comprehensive income for the year (424,030) (313,637) 134,629 (1,142,771) 3,160,280 1,414,471 192,621 1,607,092 Transactions with owners: Bonus issue Dividends: Final for 2015 paid 33 (ii) (494,133) (494,133) (494,133) Interim for 2016 paid 33 (i) & (ii) (65,885) (65,885) (65,885) Final for 2016 proposed 33 (i) (494,133) 494,133 Total transactions with owners (560,018) (560,018) (560,018) At end of year 329,423 104,458 70,000 (554,086) 964,042 2,185,073 16,352,839 494,133 19,945,882 1,475,787 21,421,669 Year ended 31 December 2017 At start of year 329,423 104,458 70,000 (554,086) 964,042 2,185,073 16,352,839 494,133 19,945,882 1,475,787 21,421,669 Profit for the year 3,932,142 3,932,142 298,168 4,230,310 Other comprehensive income Other fair value gain on share of associates through OCI 15 (i) 47,219 47,219 47,219 Change in fair value of financial assets through OCI 265,419 265,419 27,479 292,898 Deferred tax on other comprehensive income 16 (79,345) (79,345) (8,244) (87,589) Net translation loss 31 (c) & 15 (iii) 7,266 7,266 (7,734) (468) Transfer to contingency reserves 31 (d) 86,951 (86,951) Other comprehensive income 149 149 37 186 Total comprehensive income for the year 233,293 7,266 86,951 3,845,340 4,172,850 309,706 4,482,556 Transactions with owners: Bonus issue 32,942 (32,942) Dividends: Final for 2016 paid 33 (ii) (494,133) (494,133) (494,133) Final for 2016 paid to non-controlling interest (106,969) (106,969) Interim for 2017 paid 33 (i) & (ii) (72,473) (72,473) (72,473) Final for 2017 proposed 33 (i) (579,784) 579,784 Total transactions with owners 32,942 (685,199) 85,651 (566,606) (106,969) (673,575) At end of year 362,365 337,751 70,000 (546,820) 1,050,993 2,185,073 19,512,980 579,784 23,552,126 1,678,524 25,230,650 The notes on pages 50 to 108 are an integral part of these financial statements. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 46 COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 Share Fair Value General Retained Proposed Total Capital Reserves Reserves Earnings Dividends Equity KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Year ended 31 December 2016 Note At start of year 329,423 6,995 70,000 1,385,568 494,133 2,286,119 Profit for the year 39,674 39,674 Other comprehensive Income Change in fair value of financial assets through other comprehensive income 31 (i) (148) (148) Total comprehensive income for the year (148) 39,674 39,526 Transactions with owners: Bonus issue Dividends: Final for 2015 paid 33 (ii) (494,133) (494,133) Interim for 2016 paid 33 (i) & (ii) (65,885) (65,885) Final for 2016 proposed 33 (i) (494,133) 494,133 Total transactions with owners (560,018) (560,018) At end of year 329,423 6,847 70,000 865,224 494,133 1,765,627 Year ended 31 December 2017 At start of year 329,423 6,847 70,000 865,224 494,133 1,765,627 Profit for the year 911,319 911,319 Other comprehensive Income Change in fair value of financial assets through other comprehensive income 31 (i) 35,014 35,014 Deferred tax on other comprehensive income 16 (10,504) (10,504) Total comprehensive income for the year 24,510 911,319 935,829 Transactions with owners: Bonus issue 32,942 (32,942) Dividends: Final for 2016 paid 33 (ii) (494,133) (494,133) Interim for 2017 paid 33 (i) & (ii) (72,473) (72,473) Final for 2017 proposed 33 (i) (579,784) 579,784 Total transactions with owners 32,942 (685,199) 85,651 (566,606) At end of year 362,365 31,357 70,000 1,091,344 579,784 2,134,850 The notes on pages 50 to 108 are an integral part of these financial statement. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 47 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2017 2016 Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Cash flow from operating activities Cash generated from operations 25 (iii) 5,056,388 2,878,508 Income tax paid 11 (1,041,320) (1,203,916) Net cash inflow from operating activities 4,015,068 1,674,592 Cash flow from investing activities Rent, interest and dividend received 6,884,867 6,031,368 Dividends received from associates 15 (i) 338,091 768,750 Proceeds from sale of quoted shares 113,438 158,279 Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 412 1,655 Proceeds from part redemptions of shares in associate 15 (i) 580,554 Purchase of property and equipment and intangible assets 13 (203,956) (219,285) Net additions of investment properties 14 (28,341) (162,731) Purchase of quoted equity investments 21 (106,810) (59,734) Sale of unquoted equity investments 3,497 Mortgage loans advanced 20 (i) (83,175) (22,932) Mortgage loans repaid 20 (i) 52,731 9,799 Loans on life insurance policies advanced 20 (ii) (218,670) (283,342) Loans on life insurance policies repaid 20 (ii) 146,003 61,811 Net purchase of government securities 18 (4,980,609) (10,086,901) Net proceeds of commercial bonds 19 519,671 435,098 Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities 3,014,206 (3,364,668) Cash flow from financing activities Dividends paid (566,606) (560,018) Net cash outflow from financing activities (566,606) (560,018) Decrease in cash and cash equivalents 6,462,668 (2,250,094) Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 8,326,849 10,890,580 Exchange gain on translation of cash and cash equivalents 31 (c) 7,267 (313,637) Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 25 (ii) 14,796,784 8,326,849 The notes on pages 50 to 108 are an integral part of these financial statements. 48 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2017 2016 Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Cash flow from operating activities Profit before income tax 915,006 37,177 Adjustments for: Depreciation 13 (i) 6,146 5,969 Write off of unquoted shares 17 128 Investment income 7 (916,600) (122,577) Operating loss before changes to receivables and payables 4,680 (79,431) Change in receivables (75,845) 20,582 Change in payables (1,618) 454,787 Cash generated from operations (72,783) 395,938 Income tax paid 11 (1,585) (420) Net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities (74,368) 395,518 Cash flow from investing activities Rent, interest and dividend received 7 (i) 13,450 2,119 Dividends received from associates 7 (i) 108,705 48,705 Dividends received from subsidary 7 (i) 798,100 72,509 Purchase of property and equipment and intangible assets 13 (i) (597) (2,174) Purchase of quoted equity investments 21 (11,541) Additional investment in subsidiary 15 (ii) (23,683) (40,263) Net cash inflow from investing activities 884,434 80,896 Cash flow from financing activities Dividends paid (566,606) (560,018) Net cash outflow from financing activities (566,606) (560,018) Increase in cash and cash equivalents 243,460 (83,604) Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 33,189 117,549 Exchange gain on translation of cash and cash equivalents (3,653) (756) Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 25 (ii) 272,996 33,189 The notes on pages 50 to 108 are an integral part of these financial statements. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 49 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. GENERAL INFORMATION Jubilee Holdings Limited is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in Kenya. The address of its registered office is: Jubilee Insurance House, Wabera Street, Nairobi, Kenya. The Company has a primary listing on the Nairobi Securities Exchange and is cross-listed on the Uganda Securities Exchange and Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange. The Company through its subsidiaries and associates (together forming the Group) underwrites Life and non-life insurance risks, such as those associated with death, disability, health, property and liability. The Group also issues a diversified portfolio of investment contracts to provide its customers with asset management solutions for their savings and retirement needs. All these products are offered to both domestic and foreign markets. It has operations in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and Mauritius and employs over 1,017 (2016: 986) people through its subsidiaries. The insurance business of the Group is organized into two main divisions, short-term (general) business and long-term (life) business. Longterm business relates to the underwriting of life risks relating to insured persons, the issue of investment contracts and the administration of pension funds. Short-term business relates to underwriting of property, health and liability insurance business. With a view to diversifying the Group’s income base, the Group has invested in associate companies whose operational activities have been extended to include property development and management, power generation and international fibre optic broadband cable connectivity. Within these financial statements and the notes to the financial statements the words “consolidated” and “Group” have been used interchangeably to mean the Company and its subsidiaries. For purposes of the Kenya Companies Act, 2015 reporting purposes, the balance sheet is represented by statement of financial position while the profit and loss account is represented by the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out in Note 38. These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated. 3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Group makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year. Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Set out below are the areas are the areas that are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions: a) Insurance contract liabilities (i) Short-term business Management applies judgment in the estimation of short-term insurance contract liabilities. The Group uses historical experience to estimate the ultimate cost of claims and the provision for incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims. This involves the analysis of historical claims development factors and the selection of estimated development factors based on this historical pattern. The selected development factors are then applied to claims data for each accident year that is not fully developed to produce an estimated ultimate claims cost for each accident year. The nature of claims is generally high frequency with short reporting periods. The Group estimates claims using projected ultimate loss ratios based on notified claims. (ii) Long-term business The determination of the liabilities under long term insurance contracts is dependent on estimates made by the Group. Assumptions used to compute the liabilities include mortality, persistency and investment returns. The assumptions used also include margin for adverse deviation, for key variables, when considered appropriate. The Group uses standard mortality tables that reflect historical mortality experience. The main source of uncertainty is that future mortality may end up being significantly worse than in the past for the age groups in which the Group has significant exposure to mortality risk. However, continuing improvements in medical care and social conditions could result in improvements in longevity in excess of those allowed for in the estimates used to determine the liability for contracts where the Group is exposed to longevity risk. For contracts without fixed terms, it is assumed that the Group will be able to increase mortality risk charges in future years in line with emerging mortality experience. Estimates are also made as to future investment income arising from the assets backing long-term insurance contracts. These estimates are based on current market returns as well as expectations about future economic and financial developments. 50 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) b) Income tax The Group is subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. c) Valuation of unquoted equity investments The Group estimates the value of unquoted equity investments using techniques that include the use of observable inputs. Changes in these estimates could result in material changes in the fair value of the investment. See further disclosures in Note 17. d) Receivables Critical estimates are made in determining the recoverable amount of impaired receivables. The process is set out in Note 38.10. The carrying amount of the receivables are shown on Note 4 (ii) (c). 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK This section summarises the way the Group manages key risks: (i) Insurance risk The Group uses underwriting guidelines and standards to carefully select risks and maximize underwriting returns. The risk under any one insurance contract is the possibility that the insured event occurs and the uncertainty of the amount of the resulting claim. By the very nature of an insurance contract, this risk is random and therefore unpredictable. Experience shows that the larger the portfolio of similar insurance contracts, the smaller the relative variability about the expected outcome will be. In addition, a more diversified portfolio is less likely to be affected across the board by a change in any subset of the portfolio. The Group has developed its insurance underwriting strategy to diversify the type of insurance risks accepted and within each of these categories to achieve a sufficiently large population of risks to reduce the variability of the expected outcome. With assistance from the Group’s actuarial experts, pricing of insurance contracts is regularly reviewed in line with experience. Factors that aggravate insurance risk include lack of risk diversification in terms of type and amount of risk, geographical location and type of industry covered. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 51 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (i) Insurance risk (continued) The following tables illustrate the Group’s concentration of insurance risk. The tables disclose the range of individual insured risk (sums assured) for the principle classes of business underwritten by the Group. Year ended 31 December 2017 Maximum insured loss Class of business KShs 0m KShs 15m KShs 250m Short-term business KShs 15m KShs 250m KShs 1000m KShs 1000m + Total KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Gross 66,949,365 11,409,947 2,454,553 878,395 81,692,260 Motor Net 36,714,015 10,499,199 1,919,796 6,015 49,139,025 Gross 24,489,849 107,377,330 100,477,110 319,973,471 552,317,760 Fire Net 14,270,286 98,707,603 93,918,378 184,462,539 391,358,806 Gross 2,942,644 47,266,130 9,792,976 421,822 60,423,572 Personal accident Net 2,209,775 42,481,769 9,724,714 39,011 54,455,269 Gross 29,213,302 160,713,719 57,939,804 117,985,923 365,852,748 Medical Net 19,179,127 83,089,712 49,776,535 63,539,553 215,584,927 Gross 70,227,395 259,551,292 111,365,676 786,908,087 1,228,052,450 Other Net 39,424,273 146,084,670 61,103,209 198,488,745 445,100,897 Long-term business Gross 27,611,250 3,584,443 40,120 31,235,813 Ordinary life Net 26,702,685 3,192,508 29,895,193 Gross 1,740,534,690 1,088,530,292 55,660,712 11,390,704 2,896,116,398 Group life Net 919,286,187 344,030,985 24,040,666 7,053,888 1,294,411,726 Gross 6,136,108 2,512,028 8,648,136 Annuity Net 6,136,108 2,512,028 8,648,136 Gross 1,968,104,603 1,680,945,181 337,730,951 1,237,558,402 5,224,339,137 Total Net 1,063,922,456 730,598,474 240,483,298 453,589,751 2,488,593,979 Year ended 31 December 2016 Maximum insured loss Class of business KShs 0m KShs 15m KShs 250m Short-term business KShs 15m KShs 250m KShs 1000m KShs 1000m + Total KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Gross 61,522,395 38,473,895 6,063,844 939,563 106,999,697 Motor Net 38,173,391 28,057,339 5,042,263 47,155 71,320,148 Gross 19,655,146 125,081,591 115,885,004 983,643,136 1,244,264,877 Fire Net 16,421,846 97,963,022 40,909,244 66,188,638 221,482,750 Gross 2,974,117 64,915,712 21,125,520 223,751,737 312,767,086 Personal accident Net 2,137,767 55,155,482 15,124,816 25,727,369 98,145,434 Gross 33,090,654 173,025,562 84,305,682 266,430,038 556,851,936 Medical Net 22,913,816 127,143,189 53,045,216 88,506,605 291,608,826 Gross 54,358,087 210,824,282 86,938,787 727,357,214 1,079,478,370 Other Net 29,335,627 150,343,861 45,715,328 187,329,457 412,724,273 Long-term business Gross 25,290,897 2,543,348 8,230 27,842,475 Ordinary life Net 24,611,174 2,029,890 26,641,064 Gross 1,560,709,310 499,619,988 33,332,338 3,359,138 2,097,020,774 Group life Net 1,030,328,809 185,058,217 5,000 1,215,392,026 Gross 4,235,463 1,435,397 5,670,860 Annuity Net 4,235,463 1,435,397 5,670,860 Gross 1,761,836,069 1,115,919,775 347,659,405 2,205,480,826 5,430,896,075 Total Net 1,168,157,893 647,186,397 159,841,867 367,799,224 2,342,985,381 52 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets, financial liabilities (investment contracts and borrowings), reinsurance assets and insurance liabilities. In particular the key financial risk is that the proceeds from its financial assets are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from its insurance and investment contracts. These risks arise from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and specific market movements. The risks that the Group primarily faces due to the nature of its investments and liabilities are interest rate risk and equity price risk. The Group manages these positions within an asset liability management (ALM) framework that has been developed to achieve long-term investment returns in excess of its obligations under insurance and investment contracts. The principal technique of the Group’s ALM is to match assets to the liabilities arising from insurance and investment contracts by reference to the type of benefits payable to contract holders. For each distinct category of liabilities, a separate portfolio of assets is maintained. The Group has exposure to the following risks arising from financial instruments: (a) Market risk Market risk will apply to quoted equity investments valued through profit or loss as well as those through equity, balances and investments carried in currencies other than reporting currency and investments in associates and investments that are translated to the Group reporting currency. (i) Foreign exchange risk The Group operates regionally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US Dollar, Uganda shilling and Tanzania Shilling. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognized assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations. The Group manages foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognized assets and liabilities by maintaining Dollar currency deposits as hedging instruments. Currency exposure arising from the net assets of foreign operations is managed primarily through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies. The Group had the following significant foreign currency from its Kenyan operations (all amounts expressed in Kenya Shillings thousands): Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi Exchange Risk US Dollar Euro Shillings Shillings Rupees Francs Total As at 31 December 2017: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 ASSETS Receivables arising out of reinsurance arrangements 17,439 4,303 64,844 86,586 Deferred acquisition costs 5,710 722 6,244 12,676 Deposit with financial institutions 392,436 392,436 Cash and bank balances 186,831 4,707 1 191,539 Total assets 579,267 27,856 4,303 723 71,088 683,237 LIABILITIES Provision for unearned premium 18,274 2,206 21,208 41,688 Insurance contract liabilities 32,717 7,124 10,815 21,038 71,694 Creditors arising out of reinsurance arrangements 52,383 8,547 15,364 76,294 Total liabilities 52,383 8,547 50,991 7,124 28,385 42,246 189,676 Net position 526,884 (8,547) (23,135) (2,821) (27,662) 28,842 493,561 Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi US Dollar Euro Shillings Shillings Rupees Francs Total As at 31 December 2016: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 ASSETS Receivables arising out of reinsurance arrangements 3,407 61,452 66,390 131,249 Deferred acquisition costs 16,816 3,198 6,288 26,302 Deposit with financial institutions 569,468 569,468 Cash and bank balances 8,091 4,707 1 12,799 Total assets 577,559 24,930 61,452 3,199 72,678 739,818 LIABILITIES Provision for unearned premium 81,157 9,872 119,511 210,540 Insurance contract liabilities 68,042 14,655 13,173 126,805 222,675 Deferred acquisition costs 5,556 6,478 17,416 7,997 44,926 82,373 Total liabilities 5,556 155,677 32,071 31,042 291,242 515,588 Net position 577,559 (5,556) (130,747) 29,381 (27,843) (218,564) 224,230 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 53 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (a) Market Risk (continued) (i) Foreign exchange risk (continued) At 31 December 2017, if the Kenya Shilling had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held constant, the post-tax profit for the year would have been KShs 23 million (2016: KShs 58 million) higher/lower, mainly as a result of US dollar receivables and bank balances in the Kenyan entity. Company Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi Exchange Risk US Dollar Shillings Shillings Rupees Francs Total As at 31 December 2017: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 ASSETS Due from related parties 860 75,520 76,380 Deposit with financial institutions 2,395 2,395 Cash and bank balances 4,707 1 4,708 Total assets 2,395 4,707 861 75,520 83,483 LIABILITIES Due to related parties 768,231 20,889 789,120 Total liabilities 768,231 20,889 789,120 Net position 2,395 (763,524) (20,889) 861 75,520 (705,637) Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi US Dollar Shillings Shillings Rupees Francs Total As at 31 December 2016: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 ASSETS Due from related parties 2,449 1,597 80,633 84,679 Deposit with financial institutions 2,322 2,322 Cash and bank balances 4,630 1 4,631 Total assets 2,322 4,630 2,449 1,598 80,633 91,632 LIABILITIES Due to related parties 808,191 22,481 830,672 Total liabilities 808,191 22,481 830,672 Net position 2,322 (803,561) (20,032) 1,598 80,633 (739,040) At 31 December 2017, if the Kenya Shilling had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held constant, the post-tax profit for the year would have been KShs 31 thousand (2016: KShs 25 thousand) higher/lower, mainly as a result of US dollar receivables and bank balances in the Kenyan entity. The Group’s exposure to the foreign currency risk of its subsidiaries and associates companies (where the entity’s reporting currency is not Kenya Shilling linked) is summarized in the tables below by country and reporting currency: Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi Exchange Risk US Dollar Shillings Shillings Rupees Francs As at 31 December 2017: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Subsidaries Jubilee Uganda 6,682,652 Jubilee Tanzania 1,184,517 Jubilee Mauritius 281,627 Jubilee Burundi 271,537 Associates Bujagali Holdings Power Company Limited 2,264,303 IPS Cable Systems Limited 2,519,322 IPS Power Investment Limited 98,435 Group gross foreign currency exposure 4,882,060 6,682,652 1,184,517 281,627 271,537 Non-controlling interest foreign currency exposure (973,738) (571,086) (56,325) (77,374) Net gross foreign currency exposure 4,882,060 5,708,914 613,431 225,302 194,163 Exchange Rates Closing rate at 31 December 2017 103.232 35.212 21.699 3.076 17.099 Average rate during the year 2017 103.379 35.243 21.473 2.900 16.714 54 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (iii) Financial risk (continued) (a) Market Risk (continued) (i) Foreign exchange risk (continued) Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi Exchange Risk US Dollar Shillings Shillings Rupees Francs As at 31 December 2016: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Subsidaries Jubilee Uganda 5,559,998 Jubilee Tanzania 1,091,424 Jubilee Mauritius 229,103 Jubilee Burundi 207,603 Associates Bujagali Holdings Power Company Limited 2,282,893 IPS Cable Systems Limited 2,390,684 IPS Power Investment Limited 198,887 Group gross foreign currency exposure 4,872,464 5,559,998 1,091,424 229,103 207,603 Non-controlling interest foreign currency exposure (975,630) (395,786) (45,821) (58,550) Net gross foreign currency exposure 4,872,464 4,584,368 695,638 183,282 149,053 Exchange Rates Closing rate at 31 December 2016 102.486 35.273 21.252 2.724 16.347 Average rate during the year 2016 101.501 34.130 21.182 2.723 15.685 (ii) Price risk The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments in quoted and unquoted shares classified either as financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income or at fair value through profit or loss. The Group is not exposed to commodity price risk. To manage its price risk arising from investments in equity and debt securities, the Group diversifies its portfolio. Diversification of the portfolio is done in accordance with limits set by the Group. All quoted shares held by the Group are traded on the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE), the Uganda Securities Exchange (USE) and Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE). Group At 31 December 2017, if the NSE, indices had increased/decreased by 10% (2016:10%) with all other variables held constant and all the Group’s equity instruments moved according to the historical correlation to the index, the post-tax profit would have been KShs 480 million (2016: KShs 325 million) higher/lower, while post-tax other comprehensive income would have been KShs 76 million (2016: KShs. 60 million). The Group also has investment in the USE and DSE. The change of price in these stock exchanges would not materially affect the Group. Company At 31 December 2017 the Company did not hold any shares in the Nairobi Securities Exchange. If the USE indices had increased/ decreased by 10% with all other variables held constant, all the companies’ equity instruments moved according to the historical correlation to the index, then equity movement would not have been significant. (b) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk Fixed interest rate financial instruments expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. Variable interest rate financial instruments expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. The Group’s fixed interest rate financial instruments are government securities, deposits with financial institutions and corporate bonds. The Group’s variable interest rate financial instruments are call deposits, as the rates may fluctuate based on changes in the market interest rates. The sensitivity analysis for interest rate risk illustrates how changes in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates at the reporting date. At 31 December 2017, if the interest rates applicable to the above mentioned financial instruments had increased/decreased by 10% (2016:10%) with all other variables held constant, the change in the post-tax profit would not have been significant as the call deposits are held in the interim and placed in fixed interest rate instruments. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 55 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (c) Credit risk The Group has exposure to credit risk, which is the risk that a counterparty will be unable to pay amounts in full when due. Key areas where the Group is exposed to credit risk are: • Receivables arising out of direct insurance arrangements; • Receivables arising out of reinsurance arrangements; and • Reinsurers’ share of insurance liabilities. Other areas where credit risk arises include cash and cash equivalents, Government securities, loans on life insurance policies, mortgage loans, corporate bonds and deposits with banks and other receivables. Reinsurance is used to manage insurance risk. This does not, however, discharge the Group’s liability as primary insurer. If a reinsurer fails to pay a claim for any reason, the Group remains liable for the payment to the policyholder. The credit worthiness of reinsurers is considered on an annual basis by reviewing their financial strength prior to finalization of any contract. Management information reported to the Group includes details of provisions for impairment on loans and receivables and subsequent write-offs. Internal audit makes regular reviews to assess the degree of compliance with the Group procedures on credit. Exposures to individual policyholders and groups of policyholders are collected within the ongoing monitoring of the controls associated with regulatory solvency. Where there exists significant exposure to individual policyholders, or homogenous groups of policyholders, a financial analysis equivalent to that conducted for reinsurers is carried out by the Group risk department. Local regulations of Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania require require a minimum investment in the local government securities. As per S&P rating the Government of Kenya and the Government of Uganda which has B+ and B respectively. These ratings are considered when investing in Government securities over and above the regulatory requirements. For investments in corporate bonds and deposits with financial institutions, the stability and reputation of the companies and banks is reviewed regularly. Surrender values of the life insurance policies and title documents are held as collateral for loans on life policies and mortgage loans respectively. All receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are within their approved credit limits, and no receivables have had their terms renegotiated. The group manages credit risk by review of repayment terms and on an ongoing basis monitors all of the above financial assets for default. On default, the assets are then classified as either past due but not impaired or impaired. None of the above assets are past due or impaired except for the following amounts in; • Receivables arising out of direct insurance arrangements (which are due on inception of insurance cover); and • Receivables arising out of reinsurance arrangements. Receivables arising out of direct insurance and re-insurance arrangements are summarized as follows: Direct Insurance Arrangements Reinsurance Arrangements 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Neither past due nor impaired 2,447,810 1,507,064 872,614 419,766 Past due but not impaired 1,756,985 3,303,691 2,199,186 2,386,027 Impaired 675,813 662,330 9,610 9,610 Gross 4,880,608 5,473,085 3,081,410 2,815,403 Less: provision for impairment (675,813) (662,330) (9,610) (9,610) Net 4,204,795 4,810,755 3,071,800 2,805,793 Movements on the provision for impairment of receivables are as follows Direct Insurance Arrangements Reinsurance Arrangements 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 662,330 565,788 9,610 9,610 Increase in the year 117,639 96,542 Write-offs in the year (104,156) At end of year 675,813 662,330 9,610 9,610 56 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (c) Credit risk (continued) Receivables arising out of insurance arrangements past due but not impaired: Direct Insurance Arrangements Reinsurance Arrangements 2017 2016 2017 2016 Past due but not impaired: KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 by up to 30 days 177,214 735,623 172,462 444,020 by 31 to 60 days 340,276 602,506 2,894 32,719 by 61 to 150 days 775,344 1,421,644 56,019 255,197 by 151 to 360 days 464,151 543,918 1,967,811 1,654,091 Total past due but not impaired 1,756,985 3,303,691 2,199,186 2,386,027 All receivables past due by more than 360 days are considered to be impaired, and are carried at their estimated recoverable value. No collateral is held in respect of receivables arising out of direct or reinsurance arrangements. Receivables arising out of direct insurance arrangements individually impaired. Of the total gross amount of impaired receivables, the following amounts have been individually assessed: Direct Insurance Arrangements Reinsurance Arrangements 2017 2016 2017 2016 Individually assessed impaired receivables KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 brokers 417,146 573,331 2,995 2,995 agents 143,432 38,012 insurance companies 16,476 6,615 6,615 direct clients 98,759 50,987 Total 675,813 662,330 9,610 9,610 (d) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its payment obligations associated with its financial liabilities as they fall due and to replace funds when they are withdraw. The Group is exposed to daily calls on its available cash for claims settlement and other administration expenses. The Group does not maintain cash resources to meet all of these needs as experience shows that a minimum level of reinvestment of maturing funds can be predicted with a high level of certainty. The Board sets limits on the minimum level of bank overdraft facilities that should be in place to cover expenditure at unexpected levels of demand. The table below presents the cash flows payable by the Group under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities (other than insurance contract liabilities which are based on expected maturities) at the financial reporting date. The amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 57 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (d) Liquidity risk (continued) GROUP Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 12 Discounting Year ended 31 December 2017 month months months Over 1 year effect Total KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Assets Equity securities 6,853,606 4,634,692 11,488,298 Mortgage loans 26,584 109,740 (27,226) 109,098 Loans on life insurance policies 9,501 18,126 107,056 751,534 (97,259) 788,958 Government securities 102,983 2,670,683 5,077,515 40,752,048 (1,408,007) 47,195,222 Commercial bonds 951,858 (47,851) 904,007 Other receivables 226,232 854,410 1,080,642 Insurance and reinsurance receiveables 2,522,240 1,893,748 1,746,950 1,113,657 7,276,595 Deposits with financial institutions and cash and bank 1,517,872 8,408,173 2,177,424 12,103,469 balances Total assets 4,378,828 13,845,140 15,989,135 48,313,529 (1,580,343) 80,946,289 Liabilities Insurance contract liabilities 1,040,527 5,075,420 3,698,832 25,052,655 (9,883,930) 24,983,504 Payable under deposit administration contracts 401,723 1,336,369 10,054,851 48,387,388 (17,965,995) 42,214,336 Creditors arising out of direct insurance arrangements 51,277 84,530 91,548 98,375 325,730 Creditors arising out of reinsurance arrangements 757,275 522,547 468,470 258,629 2,006,921 Dividend and other payables 924,849 753,225 579,601 106,969 2,364,644 Total liabilities 3,175,651 7,772,091 14,893,302 73,904,016 (27,849,925) 71,895,135 (Shortfall)/excess of assets over liabilities 1,203,177 6,073,049 1,095,833 (25,590,487) 26,269,582 9,051,154 Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 12 Discounting Year ended 31 December 2016 month months months Over 1 year effect Total KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Assets Equity securities 4,644,334 3,893,519 8,537,853 Mortgage loans 107,022 (27,153) 79,869 Loans on life insurance policies 8,810 16,980 45,717 736,463 (91,603) 716,367 Government securities 117,003 5,796,021 34,703,221 (950,133) 39,666,112 Commercial bonds 213,260 1,234,329 (23,911) 1,423,678 Other receivables 329,805 911,260 1,241,065 Insurance and reinsurance receiveables 3,065,588 81,402 1,320,128 3,149,430 7,616,548 Deposits with financial institutions and cash and bank 964,960 4,496,169 2,751,454 8,212,583 balances Total assets 4,369,163 5,622,814 14,770,914 43,823,984 (1,092,800) 67,494,075 Liabilities Insurance contract liabilities 184,818 614,817 4,625,882 22,261,330 (7,405,786) 20,281,061 Payable under deposit administration contracts 11,968 13,569 363,206 56,660,530 (21,060,919) 35,988,354 Creditors arising out of direct insurance arrangements 282,915 10,109 293,024 Creditors arising out of reinsurance arrangements 372,853 17,413 282,392 663,594 1,336,252 Dividend and other payables 1,355,844 15,417 194,392 670,609 2,236,262 Total liabilities 2,208,398 661,216 5,465,872 80,266,172 (28,466,705) 60,134,953 Excess/(shortfall) of assets over liabilities 2,160,765 4,961,598 9,305,042 (36,442,188) 27,373,905 7,359,122 58 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (d) Liquidity risk (continued) COMPANY Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 12 Year ended 31 December 2017 month months months Over 1 years Total KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Assets Equity securities 85,900 85,900 Due from related parties 105,587 105,587 Other receivables 109,916 109,916 Deposits with financial institutions and cash and bank balances 255,496 17,500 272,996 Total assets 361,083 127,416 85,900 574,399 Liabilities Due to related parties 789,120 789,120 Dividend and other payables 369,176 12,985 382,161 Totals 1,158,296 12,985 1,171,281 Excess/(shortfall) of assets over liabilities (797,213) 114,431 85,900 (596,882) Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 12 Year ended 31 December 2016 month months months Over 1 years Total KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Assets Equity securities 39,473 39,473 Due from related parties 89,452 89,452 Other receivables 50,206 50,206 Deposits with financial institutions and cash and bank balances 33,189 33,189 Total assets 122,641 50,206 39,473 212,320 Liabilities Due to related parties 833,924 833,924 Dividend and other payables 325,515 13,457 338,972 Totals 1,159,439 13,457 1,172,896 Excess/(shortfall) of assets over liabilities (1,036,798) 36,749 39,473 (960,576) Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 59 60 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (e) Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the reporting date. A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the group is the current bid price. These instruments are included in level 1. Instruments included in level 1 comprise primarily quoted equity investments classified as fair value through profit or loss and fair value through other comprehensive income. The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined by using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques maximize the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2. If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy. It does not include fair value information for financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value if the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value. GROUP Carrying Amount Fair value heirarchy Designated Designated at fair at fair value value Other through profit Amortised through financial 31 December 2017 or loss cost OCI liabilities Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Financial assets measured at fair value Investment Property 14 6,270,940 6,270,940 6,270,940 6,270,940 Equity securities 17 & 21 10,011,235 1,477,063 11,488,298 8,130,295 3,358,003 11,488,298 Financial assets not measured at fair value Mortgage loans 20 (i) 109,098 109,098 109,098 109,098 Loans on life insurance policies 20 (ii) 788,958 788,958 788,958 788,958 Government securities 18 47,195,222 47,195,222 45,178,932 45,178,932 Commercial bonds 19 904,007 904,007 951,858 951,858 Other receivables 24 1,080,642 1,080,642 1,080,642 1,080,642 Insurance and reinsurance receiveables 4 (ii) (c) 7,276,595 7,276,595 7,276,595 7,276,595 Deposits with financial institutions and cash and bank balances 25 (i) 12,103,469 12,103,469 12,103,469 12,103,469 16,282,175 69,457,991 1,477,063 87,217,229 53,309,227 7,222,798 24,716,765 85,248,790 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Other payables 29 (1,995,468) (1,995,468) (1,995,468) (1,995,468) Dividend payable 33 (ii) (369,176) (369,176) (369,176) (369,176) (2,364,644) (2,364,644) (2,364,644) (2,364,644) Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 60 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (e) Fair value estimation (continued) GROUP Carrying Amount Fair value heirarchy Designated Designated at fair value at fair through value Other profit or Amortised through financial 31 December 2016 loss cost OCI liabilities Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Financial assets measured at fair value Investment Property 14 6,011,881 6,011,881 6,011,881 6,011,881 Equity securities 17 & 21 7,449,380 1,088,473 8,537,853 5,627,929 2,909,924 8,537,853 Financial assets not measured at fair value Mortgage loans 20 (i) 79,869 79,869 79,869 79,869 Loans on life insurance policies 20 (ii) 716,367 716,367 716,367 716,367 Government securities 18 39,666,112 39,666,112 35,822,774 35,822,774 Commercial bonds 19 1,423,678 1,423,678 1,447,590 1,447,590 Other receivables 24 1,241,065 1,241,065 1,241,065 1,241,065 Insurance and reinsurance receiveables 4 (ii) (c) 7,616,548 7,616,548 7,616,548 7,616,548 Deposits with financial institutions and cash and bank balances 25 (i) 8,212,583 8,212,583 8,212,583 8,212,583 13,461,261 58,956,222 1,088,473 73,505,956 41,450,703 7,459,471 20,776,356 69,686,530 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Other payables 29 (1,910,747) (1,910,747) (1,910,747) (1,910,747) Dividend payable 33 (ii) (325,515) (325,515) (325,515) (325,515) (2,236,262) (2,236,262) 2,236,262) (2,236,262) 61 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 61 62 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (e) Fair value estimation (continued) COMPANY Carrying Amount Fair value heirarchy Designated at fair Designated value at fair through value Other profit or Amortised through financial 31 December 2017 loss cost OCI liabilities Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Financial assets measured at fair value Equity securities 17 & 21 85,900 85,900 20,270 65,630 85,900 Financial assets not measured at fair value Other receivables 24 105,587 105,587 105,587 105,587 Deposits with financial institutions and cash and bank balances 25 (i) 272,996 272,996 272,996 272,996 378,583 85,900 464,483 20,270 444,213 464,483 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Other payables 29 (12,985) (12,985) (12,985) (12,985) Dividend payable 33 (ii) (369,176) (369,176) (369,176) (369,176) (382,161) (382,161) (382,161) (382,161) Carrying Amount Fair value heirarchy Designated at fair Designated value at fair through value Other profit or Amortised through financial 31 December 2016 loss cost OCI liabilities Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Financial assets measured at fair value Equity securities 17 & 21 39,473 39,473 11,874 27,599 39,473 Financial assets not measured at fair value Other receivables 24 50,206 50,206 50,206 50,206 Deposits with financial institutions and cash and bank balances 25 (i) 33,189 33,189 33,189 33,189 83,395 39,473 122,868 11,874 110,994 122,868 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Other payables 29 (13,457) (13,457) (13,457) (13,457) Dividend payable 33 (ii) (325,515) (325,515) (325,515) (325,515) (338,972) (338,972) (338,972) (338,972) Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 62 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (e) Fair value estimation (continued) Specific valuation techniques used to value financial and non-financial instruments include: • Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments. • Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments. Note that all of the resulting fair value estimates are included in level 3 investment property, quoted equity investments and commercial bonds. The movement in the assets is shown in the respective notes. (f) Capital risk management The Group’s objectives when managing capital, which is a broader concept than the ‘equity’ on the statement of financial position, are to: • Comply with the capital requirements as set out in the regulations of the jurisdictions in which the Group entities operate; • Comply with regulatory solvency requirements as set out in the Insurance Act; • Safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders; and • Provide an adequate return to shareholders by pricing insurance and investment contracts commensurately with the level of risk. The table below summarises the minimum required capital across the Group and the capital held against each of them as at 31 December 2016 and 2017. These figures are an aggregate number, being the sum of the statutory share capital in each country subject to local regulatory requirements, which may differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. 2017 Kenya Uganda Tanzania Burundi Mauritius Total KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Amount of paid up capital 2,500,000 392,706 214,958 92,969 310,465 3,511,098 Regulatory capital requirements 1,000,000 228,947 117,442 92,969 275,561 1,714,919 2016 Kenya Uganda Tanzania Burundi Mauritius Total KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Amount of paid up capital 2,500,000 392,706 214,958 92,969 310,465 3,511,098 Regulatory capital requirements 1,000,000 228,947 117,442 92,969 275,561 1,714,919 The Group has different requirements depending on the country in which it operates. The three main countries are Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. Kenya In Kenya the Insurance Act requires each insurance Company to hold the minimum level of paid up capital as follows; • Composite insurance companies Shs1billion; • Short term insurance business companies KShs 600 million; and • Long term insurance business companies KShs 400 million Under the Risk Based Solvency requirements, solvency is determined based on the volume of business or implied risk of the asset as determined by the regulator. Insurance companies are required to hold capital equal to 100% of the higher of absolute minimum capital, volume of business or risk based capital minimum. During the year the Company held more than the minimum required capital to stand at 184% (2016:153%) and 147% (2016: 121%) for the short-term and long term business’ respectively. Uganda In Uganda, statutory capital is based on Section 6 of the Insurance Act, 2011. The two insurance companies in Uganda complied with this requirement during the year. The Insurance Act, 2011further requires that 2% of the gross written premium or15% of the net profit, whichever is greater, be transferred to the contingency reserve until it equals the minimum paid up capital or 50% of the current year’s net written premium, whichever is higher Additional, for short-term company, the Insurance Act, 2011 requires that 5% of the net profit for the year be transferred to the capital reserve. The two Ugandan insurance entities were in compliance with the regulatory requirements. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 63 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 4. MANAGEMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK (CONTINUED) (ii) Financial risk (continued) (f) Capital risk management (continued) Tanzania In Tanzania, capital requirement is regulated by regulations 27 (2) (a) of the Insurance Regulations and 27 (2) (b) on contingency reserve. General insurance businesses are required to transfer 20% of their net profit to the capital reserve and 3% on the net premium or 20% of net profit, whichever is higher, to the contingency reserve. Long term insurance businesses are required to transfer 1% on premium to the contingency reserve. The two Tanzanian insurance entities were in compliance with the regulatory requirements. 64 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 5. SEGMENT INFORMATION (i) OPERATING SEGMENTS Management has determined operating segments based on the manner in which the Executive Management team receives reports about business performance and makes strategic decisions. Management classify the business into short-term business and long-term business and investment business. Segment performance is set out in the following tables: GROUP 2017: KShs ‘000 For the year ended 31 December 2017 Short-term Long-term Investments Total Gross written premium and deposit administrtaion 20,238,405 13,701,824 33,940,229 contributions Net insurance premium revenue 12,983,755 6,210,109 19,193,864 Investment and other income 1,699,998 8,325,032 250,801 10,275,831 Share of associates profit 161,836 170,773 850,093 1,182,702 Total income 14,845,589 14,705,914 1,100,894 30,652,397 Net insurance benefits and claims (8,400,889) (11,253,007) (19,653,896) Net commission expense (547,805) (1,049,635) (1,597,440) Operating and other expenses (3,042,833) (1,166,880) (30,378) (4,240,091) Total expenses (11,991,527) (13,469,522) (30,378) (25,491,427) Group profit before income tax 2,854,062 1,236,392 1,070,516 5,160,970 Income tax expense (587,104) (253,613) (89,943) (930,660) Profit for the year 2,266,958 982,779 980,573 4,230,310 KShs ‘000 2016: For the year ended 31 December 2016 Short-term Long-term Investments Total Gross written premium and deposit administrtaion 22,613,845 11,195,936 33,809,781 contributions Net insurance premium revenue 13,131,701 4,725,655 17,857,356 Investment and other income 999,242 3,622,050 467,226 5,088,518 Share of associates profit 180,172 170,101 1,080,479 1,430,752 Total income 14,311,115 8,517,806 1,547,705 24,376,626 Net insurance benefits and claims (8,827,727) (5,413,931) (14,241,658) Net commission expense (606,086) (745,340) (1,351,426) Operating and other expenses (2,935,009) (1,163,828) (122,000) (4,220,837) Total expenses (12,368,822) (7,323,099) (122,000) (19,813,921) Group profit before income tax 1,942,293 1,194,707 1,425,705 4,562,705 Income tax expense (561,221) (271,461) (54,076) (886,758) Profit for the year 1,381,072 923,246 1,371,629 3,675,947 KShs ‘000 2017: As at 31 December 2017 Short-term Long-term Investments Total Total assets 29,873,743 65,676,812 9,416,975 104,967,530 Total liabilites 18,735,936 60,481,515 519,429 79,736,880 Investment in associates 1,789,248 1,861,792 5,928,287 9,579,327 Additions to non-current assets 126,480 76,879 597 203,956 Depreciation 67,201 36,758 6,362 110,321 Amortisation of intangible assets 30,906 3,959 34,865 KShs ‘000 2016: As at 31 December 2016 Short-term Long-term Investments Total Total assets 27,800,317 54,639,742 8,127,684 90,567,743 Total liabilites 19,337,729 49,387,000 421,345 69,146,074 Investment in associates 1,655,602 1,830,934 5,776,669 9,263,205 Additions to non-current assets 159,083 58,001 2,201 219,285 Depreciation 57,841 27,412 6,218 91,471 Amortisation of intangible assets 30,716 3,385 34,101 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 65 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 5. SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED) (ii) GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS The Group’s geographical segments are Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and Mauritius. Kenya is the home country of the parent Company. The Group has investments in these geographical segments. KShs ‘000 2017: For the year ended 31 December 2017 Kenya Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi Total Total income from short-term 10,998,897 2,225,290 2,237,322 790,134 179,915 16,431,558 Total income from long-term 13,657,200 590,820 247,122 95,647 14,590,789 Total income from investments 14,935 224,889 2 10,975 250,801 Share of associates profit 596,667 586,035 1,182,702 Group profit before income tax 2,806,418 2,106,284 131,282 27,189 89,797 5,160,970 Non-current assets 269,732 66,037 75,508 17,636 10,615 439,528 Total assets 83,775,100 13,144,115 5,992,655 982,508 1,073,152 104,967,530 Total liabilities 68,413,594 5,224,700 4,658,612 696,888 743,086 79,736,880 KShs ‘000 2016: For the year ended 31 December 2016 Kenya Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi Total Total income from short-term 10,562,022 2,231,123 2,351,755 613,537 206,529 15,964,966 Total income from long-term 7,808,238 479,504 211,753 48,300 8,547,795 Total income from investments 1,363 452,505 (17) 13,377 467,228 Share of associates profit 762,884 667,868 1,430,752 Group profit before income tax 1,513,244 2,649,145 311,936 17,696 70,684 4,562,705 Non-current assets 256,934 46,100 57,902 10,971 9,172 381,079 Total assets 72,793,020 10,993,796 4,949,449 828,081 1,003,398 90,567,743 Total liabilities 59,813,182 4,210,878 3,792,751 592,717 736,546 69,146,074 6. GROSS EARNED PREMIUM Group Short-term Business Premium earned by principal class of business: 2017 2016 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Motor 4,428,089 (592,202) 3,835,887 4,317,376 (624,967) 3,692,409 Fire 2,717,537 (2,182,629) 534,908 2,689,415 (2,133,393) 556,022 Accident 3,182,441 (1,802,716) 1,379,725 3,376,077 (1,734,374) 1,641,703 Medical 10,636,543 (3,586,979) 7,049,564 10,872,771 (3,859,910) 7,012,861 Other 545,048 (315,115) 229,933 529,771 (301,064) 228,707 Total Short-Term 21,509,658 (8,479,641) 13,030,017 21,785,410 (8,653,708) 13,131,702 Long-term Business Premium earned by principal class of business: 2017 2016 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Ordinary life 3,480,978 (13,107) 3,467,871 3,131,932 (8,027) 3,123,905 Group life 1,558,258 (642,236) 916,022 1,730,288 (664,681) 1,065,607 Pension/annuity 1,779,954 1,779,954 260,015 260,015 Total Long -Term 6,819,190 (655,343) 6,163,847 5,122,235 (672,708) 4,449,527 Total Short-Term and Long Term 28,328,848 (9,134,984) 19,193,864 26,907,645 (9,326,416) 17,581,229 66 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 7. (i) INVESTMENT AND OTHER INCOME Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Government securities interest 5,517,275 4,373,728 Bank deposit interest 688,106 1,041,659 13,006 1,547 Gross rental income from investment properties 516,085 490,275 Management expenses (175,020) (172,929) Net rental income from investment properties 341,065 317,346 Dividends received from equity investments 243,887 224,844 571 574 Fair value gain on investment properties (Note 14) 238,119 413,141 Policy loans interest 76,529 90,168 Other income 47,769 78,511 (129) (2) Mortgage loan interest 6,775 5,592 Exchange gain/(loss) 4,239 102,325 (3,653) (756) Dividends received from associates 108,705 48,705 Dividends received from subsidiaries 798,100 72,509 Realized gains on disposal of quoted equity investments (1,756) 41,878 Total 7,162,008 6,689,192 916,600 122,577 7. (ii) FAIRVALUE MOVEMENTS ON FINANCIAL ASSETS Through profit or loss Group 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Fair value gain/(loss) on quoted equity investments (Note 21) 2,314,846 (1,744,165) Fair value gain on unquoted equity investments (Note 17) 385,625 132,039 Total 2,700,471 (1,612,126) Through other comprehensive income Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Fair value gain/(loss) on quoted equity investments (Note 21) 195,682 (387,155) (3,145) (4,182) Fair value gain on unquoted equity investments (Note 17) 97,216 4,034 38,159 4,034 Total 292,898 (383,121) 35,014 (148) 8. COMISSION EXPENSE AND INCOME Group Comission Payable and Earned Short-term Business Commission expense and income by 2017 2016 principal class of business: Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Motor 480,347 (117,168) 363,179 498,290 (149,690) 348,600 Fire 487,458 (480,118) 7,340 475,434 (460,893) 14,541 Accident 445,096 (400,958) 44,138 485,005 (373,255) 111,750 Medical 808,233 (653,097) 155,136 924,798 (781,067) 143,731 Other 74,475 (96,464) (21,989) 56,582 (69,119) (12,537) Total Short-term 2,295,609 (1,747,805) 547,804 2,440,109 (1,834,024) 606,085 Long-term Business Commission expense and income by 2017 2016 principal class of business: Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Ordinary life 776,409 (2,961) 773,448 751,466 (3,271) 748,195 Group life 240,918 (52,687) 188,231 133,722 (196,820) (63,098) Annuity 87,957 87,957 60,244 60,244 Total Long-term 1,105,284 (55,648) 1,049,636 945,432 (200,091) 745,341 Total Short-term and Long-term 3,400,893 (1,803,453) 1,597,440 3,385,541 (2,034,115) 1,351,426 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 67 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 9. CLAIMS AND POLICY HOLDER BENEFITS EXPENSE Group Claims & Policy Holder Benefits Payable Short-term Business Claims payable by principal class of business 2017 2016 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Motor 2,522,015 (304,759) 2,217,256 2,569,027 (367,364) 2,201,663 Fire 1,175,958 (1,017,488) 158,470 1,412,618 (1,281,292) 131,326 Accident 1,738,409 (1,030,988) 707,421 1,689,569 (935,094) 754,475 Medical 7,585,981 (2,718,733) 4,867,248 8,625,734 (2,946,643) 5,679,091 Other 213,035 (117,059) 95,976 111,853 (50,678) 61,175 Total Short-term 13,235,398 (5,189,027) 8,046,371 14,408,801 (5,581,071) 8,827,730 Long-term Business Claims payable by principal class of business 2017 2016 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Ordinary life 1,227,923 (8,677) 1,219,246 995,644 (17,312) 978,332 Group life 976,490 (275,676) 700,814 1,079,420 (366,824) 712,596 Annuity 758,671 758,671 635,536 635,536 Total Long-term 2,963,084 (284,353) 2,678,731 2,710,600 (384,136) 2,326,464 2017 2016 Increase/(decrease) in policy holders Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net benefits KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Ordinary life 1,936,247 1,936,247 1,130,900 1,130,900 Group life (63,266) (63,266) 287,591 287,591 Annuity 7,055,813 7,055,813 1,668,973 1,668,973 Total Long-term 8,928,794 8,928,794 3,087,464 3,087,464 Total Long-term Claims & policy 11,891,878 (284,353) 11,607,525 5,798,064 (384,136) 5,413,928 holders benefits Total Short-term and Long-term 25,127,276 (5,473,380) 19,653,896 20,206,865 (5,965,207) 14,241,658 10. OPERATING EXPENSES 10. (i) OPERATING AND OTHER EXPENSES The breakdown of operating expenses is given below: Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Employee benefits expense (Note 10 (ii)) 2,116,810 2,090,274 2,060 10,269 Administrative costs 525,065 726,589 3,280 28,525 Premium tax and policy holder compensation fund 234,599 60,509 Impairment charge for doubtful premium receivables (Note 4 (ii) (c)) 117,609 271,534 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 194,575 161,642 (35,184) 18,027 Marketing costs 322,435 219,125 Professional fees 335,266 113,739 9,564 11,115 Depreciation and amortisation (Note 13) 145,186 125,572 6,146 5,969 Travelling costs 103,702 360,692 9,895 5,131 Repairs and maintenance expenditure 54,604 33,944 222 (74) Communication costs 58,989 33,968 487 4,141 Auditors’ remuneration 31,251 23,249 2,275 2,297 Total 4,240,091 4,220,837 (1,255) 85,400 68 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 10. OPERATING EXPENSES (CONTINUED) 10. (ii) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Salaries and wages 1,734,882 1,667,770 (398) 6,841 Social security costs 49,398 46,901 Retirement benefit costs – defined contribution plan 94,205 88,406 Other benefits 238,325 287,197 2,458 3,428 Total 2,116,810 2,090,274 2,060 10,269 * Other benefits include staff training, staff medical cover expenses, club subscriptions, staff relocation and other staff welfare expenses. As at 31 December 2017 a total of 1,017 (2016: 986) and 8 (2016:9) staff were employed within the Group and the Company respectively. 10. (iii) KEY MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION AND DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION Group Company Key management compensation & directors fees 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Salaries and other employment benefits 628,228 440,330 Fees for services as directors 5,550 5,784 3,745 3,491 Total 633,778 446,114 3,745 3,491 There were no loans given to Directors in the year ended 31 December 2017 (2016: Nil). 11. INCOME TAX EXPENSE The tax on the Group’s and Company’s profit before income tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the statutory income tax rate as follows: Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Profit before income tax 5,160,970 4,562,705 915,006 37,177 Tax calculated at the enacted domestic tax rate 30% 1,801,635 1,397,513 274,502 11,153 Tax calculated at the enacted domestic tax rate 15% 4,078 Effect of : Income not subject to income tax (1,072,232) (710,050) (288,396) (41,442) Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 205,237 226,916 17,581 28,768 Prior year over provision (8,058) (27,621) (976) Income tax charge 930,660 886,758 3,687 (2,497) Current income tax 954,706 1,036,680 3,928 (773) Deferred income tax (Note 16) (24,046) (149,922) (241) (1,724) 930,660 886,758 3,687 (2,497) Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 69 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 11. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (CONTINUED) Movement in the net tax payable/(recoverable) account is as follows: Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 15,119 182,355 (10,004) (8,811) Taxation charge 1,006,812 1,008,874 3,928 203 Prior year (over)/under provision (52,106) 27,806 (976) Taxation paid (1,041,320) (1,203,916) (1,585) (420) At end of year (71,495) 15,119 (7,661) (10,004) Disclosed as follows: Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Current income tax asset (142,478) (124,014) (7,661) (10,004) Current income tax liability 70,983 139,133 Total (71,495) 15,119 (7,661) (10,004) 12. EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to Shareholders by the number of shares outstanding at the end of the year. Group 2017 2016 Net profit attributable to Shareholders (KShs’000) 3,932,142 3,296,625 Number of ordinary shares in issue (‘000) 72,473 72,473 Earnings per share (KShs)-Basic and diluted 54.26 45.49 There were no potentially dilutive shares in issue at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016. Diluted earnings per share are therefore the same as basic earnings per share. 70 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 13. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS (i) PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Group Property and Equipment Furniture, fixtures, fittings Computer Motor & office equipment vehicles equipment Total 2017: Year ended 31 December 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Cost At start of year 427,413 68,758 391,977 888,148 Additions 82,027 13,788 78,227 174,042 Disposals (2,009) (2,009) Exchange differences (100) (159) (418) (677) At end of year 509,340 80,378 469,786 1,059,504 Accumulated depreciation At start of year 365,573 46,571 258,350 670,494 Charge for the year 53,952 7,621 48,748 110,321 Disposals (1,856) (1,856) Exchange differences 13 (434) (222) (643) At end of year 419,538 51,902 306,877 778,317 Net book value 89,802 28,476 162,909 281,187 2016: Year ended 31 December 2016 Cost Furniture, fixtures, fittings Computer Motor & office equipment vehicles equipment Total At start of year KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Additions 41,864 4,848 39,940 86,652 Disposals (131) (6,648) (458) (7,237) Exchange differences (3,804) (9,007) (6,001) (18,812) At end of year 427,413 68,758 391,977 888,148 Accumulated depreciation At start of year 327,308 50,945 222,951 601,204 Charge for the year 42,503 10,245 38,723 91,471 On disposals (52) (6,111) (6,163) Exchange differences (4,186) (8,508) (3,324) (16,018) At end of year 365,573 46,571 258,350 670,494 Net book value 61,840 22,187 133,627 217,654 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 71 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 13. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED) (i) PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED) Company Property and Equipment Furniture, fixtures, fittings Computer & office equipment equipment Total 2017: Year ended 31 December 2017 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Cost At start of year 2,350 36,368 38,718 Additions 336 261 597 At end of year 2,686 36,629 39,315 Accumulated depreciation At start of year 978 14,911 15,889 Charge for the year 828 5,317 6,145 At end of year 1,806 20,228 22,034 Net book value 880 16,401 17,281 Furniture, fixtures, fittings Computer & office equipment equipment Total 2016: Year ended 31 December 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Cost At start of year 385 36,159 36,544 Additions 1,965 209 2,174 At end of year 2,350 36,368 38,718 Accumulated depreciation At start of year 262 9,657 9,919 Charge for the year 716 5,254 5,970 At end of year 978 14,911 15,889 Net book value 1,372 21,457 22,829 72 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 13. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED) (ii) INTANGIBLE ASSETS Group Total 2017: KShs ‘000 Year ended 31 December 2017 Cost At start of year 236,645 Additions 29,914 Exchange differences 738 At end of year 267,297 Accumulated amortisation At start of year 73,220 Charge for the year 34,865 Exchange differences 871 At end of year 108,956 Net carrying amount 158,341 Total KShs ‘000 2016: Year ended 31 December 2016 Cost At start of year 104,125 Additions 132,633 Exchange differences (113) At end of year 236,645 Accumulated amortisation At start of year 39,175 Charge for the year 34,101 Exchange differences (56) At end of year 73,220 Net carrying amount 163,425 Intangible assets relates to computer software. 14. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Group 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 6,011,881 5,535,330 Net additions 28,341 162,731 Fair value gains (Note 7) 238,119 413,141 Exchange differences (7,401) (99,321) At end of year 6,270,940 6,011,881 Investment property comprises a number of commercial properties that are leased to third parties. Investment property for the Group was valued by Redfearn International Limited on the basis of open market value. Investment properties include properties situated within Kenya valued at KShs 4,378 million (2016: KShs 4,180 million) and those outside Kenya valued at KShs 1,893 million (2015: KShs 1,832 million). Refer to Note 37 on operating leases for net operating income in profit or loss from investment properties. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 73 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 14. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (CONTINUED) The investment properties are leased to third parties under operating leases and partly occupied by the Group. No contingent rents are charged. There is neither restriction on the realisability of the investment properties nor are there contractual obligations pegged to the investment properties. All investment properties as at the end of the year are measured at fair value. In arriving at the open market value of the lettable properties, the valuer obtains the realised value of recent property sales of similar properties and compares with the carrying value of the investment property. The investment properties are disclosed at level 2 of the fair value measurement hierarchy. Given that the valuer uses actual sales data in performing the valuation, any changes in the market interest rates or rental income would not result in any significant change in the carrying value of investment property. 15. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AND SUBSIDIARIES In determining the Group’s and Company’s significant control over the investments in associates it considered that they have: • power over the associates and subsidiaries based on the shareholding; • exposure, or rights, to variable returns from their involvement with the associates and subsidiaries; and • the ability to use their power over the associates and subsidiaries to affect the amount of the its returns, based on representation with the various entity Boards. (i) INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES The Group has invested in thee associate companies whose information is pending as follows: IPS Power Investment Limited an investment vehicle company, which through its subsidiary has invested in the equity of Tsavo Power Company Limited that generates electricity for sale. Bujagali Holding Power Company Limited an investment vehicle company which through its subsidiary has invested in the equity of Bujagali Energy Limited an electricity generating company in Uganda. PDM (Holding) Limited an investment vehicle company which has invested in the equity of Property Development and Management (K) Limited which conducts property investment, development and management. The Jubilee insurance Company of Kenya owns 37.1% of this Company. FCL Holdings Limited an investment vehicle company which has invested in the equity of Farmers Choice Limited with its main objective being sale of fresh and processed meat products. IPS Cable Systems Limited an investment vehicle company which has invested in the 15,000 km Seacom submarine fiber optic cable project. All of the above entities have been accounted for as associates based on the percentage holding the Group has in the companies that gives the Group control through voting rights and representation in the respective Boards. Movement in Net Assets Group Opening Additions/ Dividends Share of Share of Translation Closing Balance (redemptions) received profit OCI (loss)/gain Balance Year 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 IPS Power Investments Ltd 198,887 (110,696) 10,244 98,435 PDML (Holding) Limited 2,184,599 (9,985) 158,028 75,345 2,407,987 Bujagali Holding Power 2,282,893 (580,554) 586,035 (24,071) 2,264,303 Company Limited FCL Holding Ltd 2,206,143 (217,410) 328,674 (28,126) 2,289,281 IPS Cable Systems Ltd 2,390,683 99,721 28,917 2,519,321 Total 9,263,205 (580,554) (338,091) 1,182,702 47,219 4,846 9,579,327 Opening Additions/ Dividends Share of Share of Translation Closing Balance (redemptions) received profit OCI (loss)/gain Balance Year 2016 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 IPS Power Investments Ltd 210,699 (35,284) 23,472 198,887 PDML (Holding) Limited 2,040,921 (9,903) 175,347 (21,766) 2,184,599 Bujagali Holding Power 2,329,093 (626,108) 667,868 (87,960) 2,282,893 Company Limited FCL Holding Ltd 2,021,438 (97,455) 313,282 (31,122) 2,206,143 IPS Cable Systems Ltd 2,133,829 250,783 6,071 2,390,683 Total 8,735,980 (768,750) 1,430,752 (52,888) (81,889) 9,263,205 Equity accounting has been applied for the associates in these financial statements using results based on audited financial statements as at 31 December 2017. 74 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 15. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED) (i) INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES (CONTINUED) Company Investment at cost 2017 2016 KShs’000 KShs’000 FCL Holding Ltd 484,969 484,969 IPS Cable Systems Ltd 353,282 353,282 Total 838,251 838,251 The following table summarizes the information relating to each of the Group’s associate: Group Bujagali Holding IPS Power PDML Power Farmer’s IPS Cable Investments Holdings Company Choice Systems Limited Limited Limited Limited Limited Total KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Country of incorporation Kenya Kenya Uganda Kenya Mauritius Interest held 27% 37% 25% 30% 33% Year 2017 Non-current assets 1,253,897 8,460,760 8,795,563 3,214,626 9,162,746 30,887,592 Current assets 103,169 1,327,876 332,537 3,592,215 226,940 5,582,737 Non-current liabilities (2,159,546) (803,079) (380,394) (3,343,019) Current liabilities (20,331) (582,666) (64,817) (592,358) (409,525) (1,669,697) Net assets 1,336,735 7,046,424 9,063,283 5,411,404 8,599,767 31,457,613 Revenue 485,683 651,619 2,317,606 9,488,422 403,179 13,346,509 Profit after tax 485,353 468,631 2,348,309 997,135 340,528 4,639,956 Other comprehensive income 169,439 169,439 Cash flows from/(used in) operating 138,955 762,719 46,588 948,193 (8,191) 1,888,264 activities Cash flows from/(used in) investing activities 593,240 (670,995) 91,997 (92,468) 403,178 324,952 Cash flows (used in)/from financing (697,128) 5,389 (1,701,478) (725,000) (821,429) (3,939,646) activities Net increase/(decrease) in cash 35,067 97,113 (1,562,893) 130,725 (426,442) (1,726,430) and cash equivalents Year 2016 Non-current assets 1,347,508 8,203,383 8,935,580 3,304,958 9,054,440 30,845,869 Current assets 185,464 483,418 2,862,329 3,167,960 647,017 7,346,188 Non-current liabilities (1,849,039) (860,268) (758,219) (3,467,526) Current liabilities (272) (399,683) (161,893) (478,536) (782,709) (1,823,093) Net assets 1,532,700 6,438,079 11,636,016 5,134,114 8,160,529 32,901,438 Revenue 449,011 579,918 2,131,243 8,638,577 943,956 12,742,705 Profit after tax 448,666 609,310 2,288,568 916,096 855,997 5,118,637 Other comprehensive income (116,852) 93,751 (23,101) Cash flows (used in)/from operating (130,051) 311,712 (695,549) 527,061 (4,935) 8,238 activities Cash flows from/(used in) investing activities 607,786 (822,014) 2,469,780 (102,393) 943,956 3,097,115 Cash flows (used in)/from financing (424,068) 728,940 (325,000) (834,572) (854,700) activities Net increase in cash and cash 53,667 218,638 1,774,231 99,668 104,449 2,250,653 equivalents Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 75 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 15. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED) (i) INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES (CONTINUED) Company Farmer’s IPS Cable Choice Systems Limited Limited Total KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Country of incorporation Kenya Mauritius Interest held 30% 33% Year 2017 Non-current assets 3,214,626 9,162,746 12,377,372 Current assets 3,592,215 226,940 3,819,155 Non-current liabilities (803,079) (380,394) (1,183,473) Current liabilities (592,358) (409,525) (1,001,883) Net assets 5,411,404 8,599,767 14,011,171 Revenue 9,488,422 403,179 9,891,601 Profit after tax 997,135 340,528 1,337,663 Other comprehensive income Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities 948,193 (8,191) 940,002 Cash flows (used in)/from investing activities (92,468) 403,178 310,710 Cash flows used in financing activities (725,000) (821,429) (1,546,429) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 130,725 (426,442) (295,717) Farmer’s IPS Cable Choice Systems Limited Limited Total KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Year 2016 Non-current assets 3,304,958 9,054,440 12,359,398 Current assets 3,167,960 647,017 3,814,977 Non-current liabilities (860,268) (758,219) (1,618,487) Current liabilities (478,536) (782,709) (1,261,245) Net assets 5,134,114 8,160,529 13,294,643 Revenue 8,638,577 943,956 9,582,533 Profit after tax 916,096 855,997 1,772,093 Other comprehensive income 93,751 93,751 Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities 527,061 (4,935) 522,126 Cash flows (used in)/from investing activities (102,393) 943,956 841,563 Cash flows used in financing activities (325,000) (834,572) (1,159,572) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 99,668 104,449 204,117 76 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 15. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED) (ii) INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES Company Investment Investment at Cost at Cost Equity Held Equity Held 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs’000 KShs’000 % % Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited 450,000 450,000 100% 100% Jubilee Insurance Company of Tanzania Limited 36,456 36,456 51% 51% Jubilee Life Insurance Corporation of Tanzania Limited 36,456 36,455 51% 51% Jubilee Insurance Company of Uganda Limited 12,598 12,598 30% 30% Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Uganda Limited 12,598 12,597 30% 30% Jubilee Insurance (Mauritius) Limited 197,467 197,467 70% 70% Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Uganda) 1,103,707 1,103,707 100% 100% Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Tanzania) 23,981 298 100% 100% Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Burundi) 1,312 1,312 100% 100% Total 1,874,573 1,850,890 The Jubilee Investments Company Limited (Uganda) owns 35% equity of both The Jubilee Insurance Company of Uganda Limited and Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Uganda Limited, and 10% equity of Jubilee Insurance (Mauritius) Ltd. The Group holds 70% of The Jubilee Insurance Company of Burundi S.A. and Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Burundi S.A., through Jubilee Investments Burundi S.U. (33%), Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Uganda) (33%) and Jubilee Investments Tanzania Limited (4%). The Group holds 80% of Jubilee Center Burundi Limited, a property investment company through its subsidiary Jubilee Investments Burundi Limited. The Group holds 100% of Jubilee Financial Services Ltd, a fund management company, through its subsidiary The Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Ltd. (iii) NON CONTROLLING INTEREST(NCI) The following table summarizes the information relating to the Group’s subsidiaries that has NCI: Jubilee Jubilee Jubilee Jubilee Jubilee Year 2017 Insurance Insurance Insurance Insurance Centre Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi Burundi Total KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 NCI percentage 35% 49% 20% 30% 20% Assets 7,932,170 6,008,491 982,508 958,748 127,300 16,009,217 Liabilities (5,150,063) (4,843,010) (700,881) (727,452) (87,373) (11,508,779) Net assets 2,782,107 1,165,481 281,627 231,296 39,927 4,500,438 Carrying amount of NCI 973,738 571,087 56,325 69,389 7,985 1,678,524 Revenue 1,876,845 1,789,178 730,190 139,091 10,975 4,546,279 Profit 578,476 141,857 21,680 67,138 8,576 817,727 OCI 8,391 11,151 30,844 (8,580) (2,289) 39,517 Total comprehensive income 586,867 153,008 52,524 58,558 6,287 857,244 Profit allocated to NCI 202,466 69,510 4,336 20,141 1,715 298,168 OCI allocated to NCI (142,304) 59,017 68,657 26,621 (453) 11,538 Dividends paid to NCI (78,052) (28,917) (106,969) Total allocated to NCI (17,890) 99,610 72,993 46,762 1,262 202,737 Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities 1,152,940 496,227 (16,122) 26,476 (6,051) 1,653,470 Cash flows (used in)/from investing activities (721,894) (433,960) (53,589) (367,072) 10,675 (1,565,840) Cash flows used in financing activities (223,199) (59,015) (282,214) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash 207,847 3,252 (69,711) (340,596) 4,624 (194,584) equivalents Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 77 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 15. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AND SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED) (iii) NON CONTROLLING INTEREST (CONTINUED) Jubilee Jubilee Jubilee Jubilee Jubilee Insurance Insurance Insurance Insurance Centre Year 2016 Uganda Tanzania Mauritius Burundi Burundi Adjustment Total KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 NCI percentage 35% 49% 20% 30% 20% Assets 6,670,773 4,995,890 830,429 898,240 118,321 13,513,653 Liabilities (4,252,529) (3,924,402) (601,326) (725,502) (84,681) (9,588,440) Net assets 2,418,244 1,071,488 229,103 172,738 33,640 3,925,213 Carrying amount of NCI 975,630 395,786 45,821 51,822 6,728 1,475,787 Revenue 1,766,190 1,762,801 522,399 142,892 4,194,282 Profit 744,419 203,950 22,763 41,892 8,590 1,021,614 OCI (210,961) (42,920) 138 (8,053) (3,378) (265,174) Total comprehensive income 533,458 161,030 22,901 33,839 5,212 756,440 Profit allocated to NCI 260,547 99,936 4,553 12,568 1,718 379,322 OCI allocated to NCI (73,836) (21,031) 28 (2,416) (676) (88,770) (186,701) Total allocated to NCI 186,711 78,905 4,581 10,152 1,042 (88,770) 192,621 Cash flows from/(used in) operating 309,951 178,455 20,967 20,872 (2,576) 527,669 activities Cash flows (used in)/from investing (221,384) (148,881) (250) 19,616 3,032 (347,867) activities Cash flows used in financing (71,927) (35,248) (107,175) activities Net increase/(decrease) in 16,640 (5,674) 20,717 40,488 456 72,627 cash and cash equivalents Jubilee Insurance Uganda. Jubilee Insurance Tanzania and Jubilee Insurance Burundi include The Jubilee Insurance Company of Uganda Limited and Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Uganda Limited, The Jubilee Insurance Company of Tanzania Limited and Jubilee Life Insurance Corporation of Tanzania Limited, and, The Jubilee Insurance Company of Burundi S.A. and Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Burundi S.A respectively. Movement in the non-controlling interest is as follows: 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 1,475,787 1,283,166 Share of total comprehensive income for the year 202,737 192,621 At end of year 1,678,524 1,475,787 16. DEFERRED INCOME TAX Deferred income tax is calculated, in full, on all temporary differences using a principal tax rate of 30% (2016: 30%) in all countries save for Mauritius where rate is 17%. The movement in the deferred income tax account is as follows: Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year (16,498) 123,510 (4,229) (2,505) Recognised in profit or loss (24,046) (149,923) (241) (1,724) Recognised in OCI 87,589 (7,604) 10,504 Prior year over provision (38,768) 17,519 At end of year 8,277 (16,498) 6,034 (4,229) Deferred tax asset (191,273) (179,687) (4,229) Deferred tax liability 199,550 163,189 6,034 Net deferred income tax liability/(asset) 8,277 (16,498) 6,034 (4,229) 78 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 16. DEFERRED INCOME TAX (CONTINUED) Deferred income tax assets and liabilities, deferred income tax charge/ (credit) in the profit or loss and to equity is attributable to the following: Group Company KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 1 Charged 31 1 Charged 31 January to profit Charged December January to profit Charged December 2017 or loss to OCI 2017 2017 or loss to OCI 2017 Fair value gains on investment 141,414 (19,431) 78 122,061 properties Accelerated depreciation 27,755 (39,046) (60) (11,351) Impairment provisions (124,150) 27,576 (96,574) Other deductible temporary (61,517) (31,913) 87,571 (5,859) (4,229) (241) 10,504 6,034 differences Net deferred income tax (16,498) (62,814) 87,589 8,277 (4,229) (241) 10,504 6,034 liability/(asset) 1 Charged 31 1 Charged 31 January to profit Charged December January to profit Charged December 2016 or loss to OCI 2016 2016 or loss to OCI 2016 Fair value gains on investment 149,099 (7,685) 141,414 properties Accelerated depreciation 60,512 (32,757) 27,755 Impairment provisions (48,712) (75,438) (124,150) Other deductible temporary (37,389) (16,524) (7,604) (61,517) (2,505) (1,724) (4,229) differences Net deferred income tax 123,510 (132,404) (7,604) (16,498) (2,505) (1,724) (4,229) liability/(asset) 17. UNQUOTED EQUITY INVESTMENTS Group FV FV FV FV Through Through Through Through P/L OCI Total P/L OCI Total 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 At start of year 2,805,049 104,875 2,909,924 2,675,147 104,445 2,779,592 Disposals (33,042) (129) (33,171) (2,137) (1,360) (3,497) Fair value gain through other comprehensive income 97,216 97,216 4,034 4,034 Fair value gain through profit and loss 385,625 385,625 132,039 132,039 Exchange differences (1,591) (1,591) (2,244) (2,244) At end of year 3,157,632 200,371 3,358,003 2,805,049 104,875 2,909,924 Valuation of unquoted shares The Group uses valuation techniques for valuing unquoted shares that are not based on observable market data. The Group reviewed several valuation techniques and selected a value that is based on discounted cash flow. Valuation technique Significant Inter-relationships between unobservable unobservable inputs inputs and fair value measurements Discounted cash flows: 1. Expected growth rate of The estimated fair values would increase/(decrease) if: The valuation model considers the present value of net cash the earnings of 7%. 1. Expected earnings and cash flows growth were flows to be generated by the unquoted entities. The net cash 2. Discount rate used on higher/(lower). flows are discounted using the risk adjusted discount rate. the expected cashflow – 2. Risk-adjusted discount rate was lower/(higher). 14.18% (2016: 12.5%). The growth rate is the projected long-term inflation rate in Kenya while discount rate is based on the risk free rate and a specific margin based in the industry. Has the discount rate increased/decreased by 10% with all other variables held constant, the post-tax profit for the year would have been KShs 161 million (2016: 71 million) higher/lower. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 79 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 17. UNQUOTED EQUITY INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED) Company FV FV Through OCI Through OCI 2017 2016 KShs’000 KShs’000 At start of year 27,599 23,565 Disposals (128) Fair value gain through other comprehensive income 38,159 4,034 At end of year 65,630 27,599 18. GOVERNMENT SECURITIES AT AMORTISED COST Group Movement 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 39,666,112 29,604,698 Additions 9,434,190 14,672,708 Maturities (1,874,532) (4,471,541) Exchange differences (30,548) (139,753) At end of year 47,195,222 39,666,112 Maturity Profile Treasury bills maturing within 91 days after the date of acquisition 2,693,315 114,266 Treasury bills maturing after 91 days after the date of acquisition 339,123 2,142,334 Treasury bonds maturing within 1 year 4,591,298 3,518,101 Treasury bonds maturing in 1-5 years 10,842,382 10,423,510 Treasury bonds maturing after 5 years 28,729,104 23,467,901 Total 47,195,222 39,666,112 Treasury bonds of KShs 3.7 billion (2016: KShs 3.7 billion) are held under lien with the Central Bank of Kenya as security deposit in favor of the Insurance Regulatory Authority as required under the provisions of Section 32 of Kenya Insurance Act, an equivalent of KShs 25.6million (2016: KShs 25.1million) are held under lien with the Bank of Uganda as security deposit in favor of the Insurance Regulatory Authority Uganda as required under the provisions of section 7 (i) of Uganda Insurance Act and an equivalent of KShs 141.2 million (2016: KShs 141.2 million) are held under lien with the Bank of Tanzania as security deposit in favor of the Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority as required under the provisions of Tanzania Insurance Act. In Kenya a further Ksh 200m worth of Treasury Bonds were held under lien with Diamond Trust Bank Limited as security for Bank overdraft facility for Ksh 30 million and Letters of Credit facility for KShs 170m. 19. COMMERCIAL BONDS AT AMORTISED COST Group 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 1,423,678 1,859,070 Additions 20,609 Maturities (540,280) (435,098) Exchange differences (294) At end of year 904,007 1,423,678 Maturity profile Commercial bonds maturing Within 1 year 209,737 In 1-5 years 904,007 1,213,941 Total 904,007 1,423,678 80 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 20. LOANS RECEIVABLE Group i) Mortgage loans 2017 2016 Movement KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 79,869 67,524 Loans advanced 75,974 16,943 Accrued interest and penalties 7,201 5,989 Provision for impairment (540) (619) Loan repayments (52,731) (9,799) Exchange differences (675) (169) At end of year 109,098 79,869 Maturity profile Loans maturing Within 1 year 21,275 In 1-5 years 19,070 5,283 In over 5 years 68,753 74,586 Total 109,098 79,869 Group ii) Loans on life insurance policies 2017 2016 Movement KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 716,367 495,153 Loans advanced 167,638 184,060 Interest 51,032 99,282 Loan repayments (146,003) (61,811) Exchange differences (76) (317) At end of year 788,958 716,367 Maturity profile Loans maturing Within 1 year 119,902 63,400 In 1-5 years 439,185 329,997 In over 5 years 229,871 322,970 Total 788,958 716,367 21. QUOTED EQUITY INVESTMENTS Group FV FV FV FV Through P/L Through OCI Total Through P/L Through OCI Total 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 At start of year 4,644,331 983,598 5,627,929 6,446,523 1,377,303 7,823,826 Additions 9,620 97,190 106,810 58,374 1,360 59,734 Disposals (115,194) (115,194) (116,401) (116,401) Fair value gain/(loss) through other 195,682 195,682 (387,155) (387,155) comprehensive income Fair value gain/(loss) through profit or loss 2,314,846 2,314,846 (1,744,165) (1,744,165) Exchange differences 222 222 (7,910) (7,910) At end of year 6,853,603 1,276,692 8,130,295 4,644,331 983,598 5,627,929 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 81 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 21. QUOTED EQUITY INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED) Company FV FV Through OCI Through OCI 2017 2016 KShs’000 KShs’000 At start of year 11,874 16,056 Additions 11,541 Fair value loss through other comprehensive income (3,145) (4,182) At end of year 20,270 11,874 22. REINSURERS’ SHARE OF INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES Group 2017 2016 Reinsurers’ share of: KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Unearned premium (Note 28) 3,089,500 3,019,300 Notified claims outstanding and IBNR (Note 36) 4,161,063 3,872,660 Total 7,250,563 6,891,960 Amounts due from reinsurers in respect of claims already paid by the Group on contracts that are reinsured are included in receivables arising out of reinsurance arrangements in the statement of financial position. 23. DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS Group 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 221,842 264,081 Net decrease (80,752) (45,665) Exchange differences 6,042 3,426 At end of year 147,132 221,842 24. OTHER RECEIVABLES Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Deposits Office rent and utilities 96,857 112,410 Prepayments 193,116 85,994 1,500 Recoverable advances 7,566 4,844 Dividends receivable 154,083 79,368 108,705 48,706 Advance medical payment 86,725 112,197 Sundry debtors* 542,295 846,252 1,211 Total 1,080,642 1,241,065 109,916 50,206 *Sundry debtors includes staff loans, third party fund recoverable and deposits paid on rental offices among others. 82 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 25. (i) DEPOSITS WITH FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Maturity Profile Deposits maturing within 90 days after balance sheet date 8,408,173 4,496,169 250,098 12,345 Deposits maturing between 3 months to 1 year 2,177,424 2,751,454 Total 10,585,597 7,247,623 250,098 12,345 25. (ii) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS The year-end cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Cash and bank balances 1,517,872 964,960 22,898 20,844 Short-term deposits with banks 10,585,597 7,247,623 250,098 12,345 Treasury bills maturing within 91 days after the date of acquisition 2,693,315 114,266 Total 14,796,784 8,326,849 272,996 33,189 25. (iii) OPERATING CASH FLOW Group 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Cash flow from operating activities Profit before income tax 5,160,970 4,562,705 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 145,186 125,572 Impairment of insurance receivables 271,534 Fair value (gains)/losses on financial assets at fair value through profit and loss (2,700,471) 1,612,126 Fair value gain on investment properties (238,119) (413,141) Net fair value gains/(losses) on disposal 1,756 (41,878) Interest and other income (6,340,693) (5,691,983) Dividend receivable (243,887) (224,844) Fee income (413,352) (287,579) Rental income (341,065) (317,346) Share of result of associates after income tax (1,182,702) (1,430,752) Operating profit before working capital changes (6,152,377) (1,835,586) Receivables arising out of direct insurance arrangements 605,959 (595,805) Receivables arising out of reinsurance arrangements (266,009) (625,945) Reinsurers’ share of insurance contract liabilities (358,603) (250,381) Deferred acquisition costs 74,708 42,239 Other receivables 160,422 (205,469) Insurance contract liabilities 4,702,443 1,529,864 Payable under deposit administration contracts 6,639,336 4,205,646 Unearned premium reserve (1,137,587) 948,138 Creditors arising out of direct insurance arrangements 32,706 155,433 Creditors arising out of reinsurance arrangements 670,669 (113,229) Other payables 84,721 (376,397) Cash generated from operations 5,056,388 2,878,508 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 83 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 26. INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Short-Term insurance contracts Claims reported and claims handling expenses 5,870,122 5,766,775 Claims incurred but not reported (IBNR) 1,902,151 1,675,727 Total Short-Term 7,772,273 7,442,502 Long-Term insurance contracts Claims reported and claims handling expenses 1,007,119 1,054,074 Actuarial value of long term liabilities 16,204,112 11,784,485 Total Long-Term 17,211,231 12,838,559 Total Short-Term and Long-Term 24,983,504 20,281,061 Gross claims reported, claims handling expense liabilities and the liability for claims incurred but not reported are net of expected recoveries from salvage and subrogation. The expected recoveries at the end of 2017 and 2016 are not material. The Group uses chain-ladder techniques to estimate the ultimate cost of claims and the IBNR provision. Chain ladder techniques are used as they are an appropriate technique for mature classes of business that have a relatively stable development pattern. This involves the analysis of historical claims development factors and the selection of estimated development factors based on this historical pattern. The selected development factors are then applied to cumulative claims data for each accident year that is not fully developed to produce an estimated ultimate claims cost for each accident year. Movements in insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets are shown in Note 36. Short –Term Insurance contracts The development of insurance liabilities provides a measure of the Group’s ability to estimate the ultimate value of claims. The table below illustrates how the group’s estimate of total claims liability for each accident year has changed at successive year-ends. Insurance Contract Liabilities Short-term insurance contracts 2013 Accident year 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total and prior KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Estimate of ultimate claims cost At end of accident year 17,998,241 9,381,454 11,321,456 12,518,572 9,841,479 61,061,202 One year later 18,921,599 10,163,139 11,943,671 14,271,233 55,299,642 Two years later 18,058,396 10,105,185 11,908,080 40,071,661 Three years later 18,087,156 10,217,099 28,304,255 Four years later 18,301,522 18,301,522 Incurred per accident year 18,301,522 10,217,099 11,908,080 14,271,233 9,841,479 64,539,413 Less: cumulative payments to date (17,783,189) (9,919,009) (11,483,633) (12,655,148) (6,828,312) (58,669,291) Total gross claims liability included in the statement of 518,333 298,090 424,447 1,616,085 3,013,167 5,870,122 financial position before IBNR Incurred but not reported (IBNR) 1,902,151 1,902,151 Total gross claims liability included in the statement of 518,333 298,090 424,447 1,616,085 4,915,318 7,772,273 financial position 84 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 26. INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES (CONTINUED) Long-term insurance contracts The Group determines its liabilities on long term insurance contracts based on assumptions in relation to future deaths, voluntary terminations, investment returns and administration expenses. The cash flows for each individual policy were projected on monthly intervals, till natural expiry of the policies. A margin for risk and uncertainty is added to these assumptions. The liabilities are determined on the advice of the consulting actuary and actuarial valuations carried out on an annual basis. Valuation assumptions The latest actuarial valuation for the long-term business was carried out as at 31 December 2017 by Actuarial Partners Consultants. Two valuation methods were applied; the Net Premium Value (NPV) for entities outside Kenya and the Gross Premium Valuation (GPV), for The Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited long-term fund valuation. The change in valuation method in Kenya from NPV to GPV was in compliance with the directive given by the Kenyan Insurance Regulator, and was effected for in the 2015 valuations and the period thereafter. The Gross Premium Valuation (GPV) is accepted in the actuarial industry as an appropriate method to place a realistic value (with an appropriate allowance for margins) on the liabilities of a life insurance company. This method is based on a discounted cash flow approach taking into account the expected cash flows from existing in-force business. By setting appropriate assumptions this method determines liabilities which are consistent with the value of assets included in the accounts. The more significant valuation assumptions are summarised below. The assumptions used for the previous year-end valuation are shown in brackets: a) Mortality – The Company used KE 07-10 as a base table of standard mortality for ordinary life and KE 01-03 for annuity life. Statistical methods are used to adjust the rates reflected in the table based on the Company’s experience for ordinary life and annuity life (2016: KE 07-10 for Ordinary Life and KE 01-03 for Annuity Life). b) Persistency –The persistency rates used in the valuation were set according to the experience observed (by the actuary) in the Company’s data. c) Discount Rates As per the valuation guideline, the expected future cash flows shall be discounted using the relevant risk-free interest rate. The risk free interest rate is determined using the Nairobi Securities Exchange yield curve as at December 2017 and has been converted to zero coupon yield which ranged from 11.2% to 13.4%. d) Expenses, tax and inflation – The current level of renewal expenses were taken based on the current expense position of the company. Expense inflation is assumed to be 5.8% p.a. (2016:6.2% p.a.). It has been assumed that the current tax legislation and rates continue unaltered. Sensitivity analysis The following table presents the sensitivity of the value of long term insurance liabilities to movements in key assumptions used in the estimation process. For liabilities under insurance contracts with fixed and guaranteed terms, key assumptions are unchanged for the duration of the contract. For long term insurance contracts without fixed terms and with discretionary participation in profits, the liability is set approximately equal to the value of the underlying asset of the contract. Hence, there is no sensitivity analysis for these types of contracts. The following table presents the sensitivity of these contracts to movements in key assumptions used in the estimation of liabilities: Increase in Increase in Liability Liability 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Variables: Worsening of mortality +20% 280,411 165,319 Lowering of investment returns p.a. -1% 829,335 546,286 Worsening of expense inflation rate +1% 56,680 39,137 Worsening of lapse rate +5% (23,437) 1,127 We have not included the valuation assumptions nor performed a sensitivity analysis for the non-Kenyan entities as the change within the long-term liabilities would not be material. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 85 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 27. PAYABLE UNDER DEPOSIT ADMINISTRATION CONTRACTS Group 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 35,988,354 30,958,100 Pension fund deposits received 6,882,633 6,068,759 Surrenders and annuities paid (4,806,355) (3,893,477) Fee income charged (413,352) (287,579) Net benefits accrued 4,580,458 3,174,888 Exchange differences (17,402) (32,337) At end of year 42,214,336 35,988,354 Deposit administration contracts are recorded at amortized cost. Movements in amounts payable under deposit administration contracts during the year are as shown above. The liabilities are shown inclusive of interest accumulated to 31 December 2017 and 2016. 28. UNEARNED PREMIUM REVENUE Group These provisions represent the liability for short-term business contracts where the Group’s obligations are not expired at the year-end. Movements are shown below: 2017 2016 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 At start of year 8,708,799 (3,019,300) 5,689,499 7,760,661 (3,002,842) 4,757,819 Increase in the period (net) (1,114,822) (113,857) (1,228,679) 1,057,914 (82,454) 975,460 Exchange differences (22,765) 43,657 20,892 (109,776) 65,996 (43,780) At end of year 7,571,212 (3,089,500) 4,481,712 8,708,799 (3,019,300) 5,689,499 29. OTHER PAYABLES Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Payroll liabilities 37,333 658 Value added tax payable 351,407 284,199 Withholding taxes payable 127,234 69,739 Other liabilities* 725,495 873,044 1,774 1,769 Leave pay accrual 59,567 87,067 8,615 10,272 Accrued expenses 429,066 335,490 2,596 1,416 Premium deposits 157,872 160,660 Rental deposits 107,494 99,890 Total 1,995,468 1,910,747 12,985 13,457 *Other liabilities includes deferred rental income and valuations fees among others. 86 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 30. SHARE CAPITAL The total authorized number of ordinary shares is 90,000,000 (2016: 70,000,000) with a par value of KShs 5 per share. As at 31 December 2017 72,472,950 ordinary shares were in issued (2016: 65,884,500 ordinary shares). All issued shares are fully paid. Within the year the authorized share capital was increased to KShs 450,000,000. Also effected within the year was the bonus issue approved at the last AGM of 1:10. Group and Company Share Capital Share Capital Number of Number of shares shares 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 Authorised 450,000 350,000 90,000 70,000 Issued and fully paid: At start of year 329,423 329,4235 65,885 65,885 Bonus issue of shares 32,942 6,588 At end of year 362,365 329,423 72,473 65,885 All shares rank equally with regard to the company residual assets. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. 31. RESERVES The breakdown of reserves is as follows: Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Fair value reserves 337,751 104,458 31,357 6,847 General reserves 70,000 70,000 70,000 70,000 Translation reserves (546,820) (554,086) Contingency reserves 1,050,993 964,042 Statutory and other reserves 2,185,073 2,185,073 Total 3,096,997 2,769,487 101,357 76,847 The movement in the reserves during the year is given below: a) Fair value reserves Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 104,458 528,488 6,847 6,995 Associate share of other comprehensive income 47,219 (52,888) Fair value gain/(loss) through other comprehensive income (net) 186,074 (372,858) 24,510 (148) Transfer to retained earnings on disposal 1,716 At end of year 337,751 104,458 31,357 6,847 The fair value reserve relates to unrealized gains or losses on the Group’s equity investments that are carried at fair value through other comprehensive income. It also include the Group’s share of other comprehensive income in associates. The fair value reserve is nondistributable. b) General reserves Group and Company 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start and end of year 70,000 70,000 The general reserves were an appropriation of retained earnings in 1992, and are distributable. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 87 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 31. RESERVES (CONTINUED) c) Translation reserve (Group) 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year (554,086) (240,449) Movement for the year 7,266 (313,637) At end of year (546,820) (554,086) The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations. d) Contingency reserve (Group) 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 964,042 829,413 Transfer from retained earnings 86,951 134,629 At end of year 1,050,993 964,042 The contingency reserve is in line with the provisions of the Insurance Act in Tanzania and Uganda which require an annual transfer to the contingency reserve of between 1% 3% of the gross premium. These reserves are non-distributable. e) Statutory and other reserves (Group) 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 2,185,073 3,327,844 To the long-term business (1,142,771) At end of year 2,185,073 2,185,073 The statutory reserve represents the actuarial surplus of the Kenyan long-term business after distribution of profits to the shareholders, bonuses to policy holders and interest to deposit administration. These reserves are distributable to policyholders and deposit administration holders subject to the requirement of regulation. 32. RETAINED EARNINGS Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 16,352,839 13,752,577 865,224 1,385,568 Profit for the year 3,932,142 3,296,625 911,319 39,674 Other movements 149 (1,716) Transfer to contingency reserve (86,951) (134,629) Bonus issue (32,942) (32,942) Interim dividend (72,473) (65,885) (72,473) (65,885) Proposed dividend (579,784) (494,133) (579,784) (494,133) At end of year 19,512,980 16,352,839 1,091,344 865,224 33. DIVIDENDS (i) PROPOSED DIVIDEND Proposed dividend is accounted for as a separate component of equity until ratified at an Annual General Meeting. During the year, an interim dividend of KShs 72.473 million was paid (2016: KShs 65.885 million) or KShs 1.00 per share (2016: KShs 1.00 per share). At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 31 May 2018, a final dividend of KShs 579.784 million (2016: KShs 494.133 million) is to be proposed, which is KShs 8.00 per share (2016: KShs 7.50 per share). The total dividend for the year 2017 is therefore KShs 652.257 million (2016: KShs 560.018 million) or KShs 9.00 per share (2016: KShs 8.50 per share). 88 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 33. DIVIDENDS (CONTINUED) (i) PROPOSED DIVIDEND (CONTINUED) Payment of dividend is subject to withholding tax at the rate of either 0%, 5% or 10%, depending on the percentage shareholding and/or residential status of the respective shareholders. (ii) DIVIDENDS PAYABLE 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 At start of year 325,515 269,627 Dividends declared within the year 566,606 560,018 Dividend paid within the year (522,945) (504,130) At end of year 369,176 325,515 34. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES, COMMITMENTS AND OFF BALANCE SHEET ITEMS The Group’s companies are subject to litigation arising in the normal course of business. The Directors are of the opinion that these litigations will not have a material effect on the financial position or profits of the Group. The Group does not have any material outstanding commitments. The Group engages various service providers for purchase of capital items. The engagement is normally contractual either through Purchase Orders or Service Level Agreements. The Group did not have any contractual commitments as the end of the year (2016: nil). 35. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The largest shareholder of the Group is the Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development S.A., a company incorporated in Switzerland. There are various other companies related to Jubilee Holdings Limited through common shareholdings or common directorships. In the normal course of business, insurance policies are sold to related parties at terms and conditions similar to those offered to major clients. Related parties rendered various services to the Group during the year. (i) Transactions with related parties (Group) 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Gross premium: Diamond Trust Bank Limited 370,003 349,766 Industrial Promotion Services (Kenya) Limited 128,788 152,201 TPS Eastern Africa Limited 238,059 56,592 Property Development and Management Limited 33,573 25,298 Nation Media Group 148,837 180,182 Total 919,260 764,039 Net claims incurred: Diamond Trust Bank Limited 216,983 109,834 Industrial Promotion Services (Kenya) Limited 53,318 116,556 TPS Eastern Africa Limited 4,164 10,113 Property Development and Management Limited 4,041 8,052 Nation Media Group 143,678 146,858 Total 422,184 391,413 Services received from: Industrial Promotion Services (Kenya) Limited 53 134 TPS Eastern Africa Limited 2,690 2,346 Nation Media Group 11,466 13,114 Total 14,209 15,594 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 89 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 35. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED) (ii) Balances with related parties (Group) 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Outstanding premium: Diamond Trust Bank Limited 66,326 74,417 Industrial Promotion Services (Kenya) Limited 10,521 4,477 TPS Eastern Africa Limited 700 (2,282) Property Development and Management Limited 3,628 171 Nation Media Group 9,118 13,900 Total 90,293 90,683 Outstanding claims: Diamond Trust Bank Limited 12,530 12,203 Industrial Promotion Services (Kenya) Limited 19,158 43,295 TPS Eastern Africa Limited 256 4,340 Property Development and Management Limited 1,555 450 Nation Media Group 46,802 55,678 Total 80,301 115,966 Deposits with financial institutions: Diamond Trust Bank Limited 6,027,433 4,702,249 Total 6,027,433 4,702,249 Interest received from financial institutions: Diamond Trust Bank Limited 298,327 408,499 Total 140,214 281,107 Outstanding premium and claims balances arose out of the normal course of business and are payable within one year. 90 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 35. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED) (i) Balances with related parties (Company) 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Due from related parties: Jubilee Center Burundi 554 Jubilee Insurance (Mauritius) Limited 860 1,597 Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Tanzania) 2,449 Jubilee Insurance Company of Burundi Limited 20,917 17,342 Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited 23,190 Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Burundi) 60,620 67,510 Total 105,587 89,452 Due to related parties Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited 3,252 Jubilee Insurance Company of Tanzania Limited 200 22,372 Jubilee Life Insurance Corporation of Tanzania Limited 109 Jubilee Insurance Company of Uganda Limited 7,197 Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Uganda Limited 640 Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Tanzania) 20,689 Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Uganda) 137,916 172,889 Total 158,805 206,459 Net owing (53,218) (117,007) (ii) Borrowings from related parties (Company) 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Uganda) 630,315 627,465 Jubilee Investment Company Limited (Uganda) loaned USD 6.125 million to Jubilee Holdings Limited at the end of 2016, to settle intercompany balances owed to The Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited. The loan attracts an interest of 0.45% per annum. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 91 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 36. MOVEMENTS IN INSURANCE LIABILITIES AND REINSURANCE ASSETS Group (i) Short-term insurance business 2017 2016 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs ‘000 KShs’000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs’000 KShs ‘000 Notified claims 5,766,775 (2,846,851) 2,919,924 5,784,740 (2,875,521) 2,909,219 Incurred but not reported 1,675,727 (701,204) 974,523 1,545,468 (581,263) 964,205 Total at start of year 7,442,502 (3,548,055) 3,894,447 7,330,208 (3,456,784) 3,873,424 Cash paid for claims settled during the (12,698,614) 4,833,470 (7,865,144) (14,437,907) 5,952,216 (8,485,691) year Increase in liabilities: Arising from current year claims 8,090,988 (2,973,447) 5,117,541 9,245,378 (3,687,990) 5,557,388 Arising from prior year claims 4,937,397 (2,199,220) 2,738,177 5,304,823 (2,355,497) 2,949,326 Total at end of year 7,772,273 (3,887,252) 3,885,021 7,442,502 (3,548,055) 3,894,447 Notified claims 5,870,122 (3,065,612) 2,804,510 5,766,775 (2,846,851) 2,919,924 Incurred but not reported 1,902,151 (821,640) 1,080,511 1,675,727 (701,204) 974,523 Total at end of year 7,772,273 (3,887,252) 3,885,021 7,442,502 (3,548,055) 3,894,447 (ii) Long-term insurance business 2017 2016 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net KShs ‘000 KShs’000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs’000 KShs ‘000 Notified claims 1,054,076 (324,605) 729,471 556,755 (181,953) 374,802 Total at start of year 1,054,076 (324,605) 729,471 556,755 (181,953) 374,802 Cash paid for claims settled during the (1,613,043) 177,269 (1,435,774) (1,145,415) 148,174 (997,241) year Increase in liabilities: Arising from current year claims 371,715 (6,327) 365,388 510,842 (119,744) 391,098 Arising from prior year claims 1,194,371 (120,148) 1,074,223 1,131,894 (171,082) 960,812 Total at end of year 1,007,119 (273,811) 733,308 1,054,076 (324,605) 729,471 Notified claims 1,007,119 (273,811) 733,308 1,054,076 (324,605) 729,471 Actuarial value of policy holders benefits 16,204,112 16,204,112 11,784,483 11,784,483 Total at end of year 17,211,231 (273,811) 16,937,420 12,838,559 (324,605) 12,513,954 Total at end of year Short-term 24,983,504 (4,161,063) 20,822,441 20,281,061 (3,872,660) 16,408,401 and Long-term 37. OPERATING LEASES Group (i) Lease as lessee The Group leases offices for some of its branches and agency operations under operating lease agreements which run for a period of two to six years with an option of renewal after expiry. The Group is restricted from entering into any sublease arrangements. At 31 December 2017, the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases were payable as follows: 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Within one year 34,505 52,994 Later than one year and not later than five years 55,903 123,804 Amount payable later than five years 43,562 46,426 133,970 223,224 During the year ended 31 December 2017, KShs 194 million (2016: KShs 162 million) was recognized as rent expense in profit or loss. 92 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 37. OPERATING LEASES (CONTINUED) Group (ii) Lease as lessor The Group leases out its investment property (Note 14) to various tenants under operating lease agreements which run for a period of two to six years with the option to renew after expiry. The Group does not enter into any sublease arrangements. At 31 December 2017, the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases were receivable as follows: 2017 2016 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Within one year 244,658 368,002 Later than one year and not later than five years 1,173,383 1,730,998 Amount payable later than five years 7,538 165,148 1,425,579 2,264,148 During the year ended 31 December 2017, KShs 341 million (2016: KShs 317 million) was recognized as rental income in profit or loss in respect of the investment property, after netting of management expenses of KShs 175 million (2016: KShs 173 million). See Note 38.11 for the accounting policy in leases. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 93 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 38.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION The financial statements are prepared in compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. The measurement basis applied is the historical cost basis, except where otherwise stated in the accounting policies below. The financial statements and have been prepared on a going concern basis and are presented in Kenya Shillings (KShs), rounded to the nearest thousand, unless otherwise indicated. New Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are effective and adopted in the 2017 Integrated financial statements The Group has adopted the following new standards and amendments during the period/year ended 31 December 2017, including consequential amendments to other standards with the date of initial application by the Group being 1 January 2017. The nature and effects of the changes are explained below: Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to IAS 7) The amendments in Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to IAS 7) come with the objective that entities shall provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities. The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) requires that the following changes in liabilities arising from financing activities are disclosed (to the extent necessary): (i) changes from financing cash flows; (ii) changes arising from obtaining or losing control of subsidiaries or other businesses; (iii) the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates; (iv) changes in fair values; and (v) other changes. The IASB defines liabilities arising from financing activities as liabilities “for which cash flows were, or future cash flows will be, classified in the statement of cash flows as cash flows from financing activities”. It also stresses that the new disclosure requirements also relate to changes in financial assets if they meet the same definition. The amendments state that one way to fulfil the new disclosure requirement is to provide a reconciliation between the opening and closing balances in the statement of financial position for liabilities arising from financing activities. Finally, the amendments state that changes in liabilities arising from financing activities must be disclosed separately from changes in other assets and liabilities. This amendment has had no impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements as there has been no changes in liabilities arising from financing activities. Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses (Amendments to IAS 12) The amendments in Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses clarify the following aspects: • Unrealised losses on debt instruments measured at fair value and measured at cost for tax purposes give rise to a deductible temporary difference regardless of whether the debt instrument’s holder expects to recover the carrying amount of the debt instrument by sale or by use. • The carrying amount of an asset does not limit the estimation of probable future taxable profits. • Estimates for future taxable profits exclude tax deductions resulting from the reversal of deductible temporary differences. • An entity assesses a deferred tax asset in combination with other deferred tax assets. Where tax law restricts the utilisation of tax losses, an entity would assess a deferred tax asset in combination with other deferred tax assets of the same type. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with early application permitted. As transition relief, an entity may recognise the change in the opening equity of the earliest comparative period in opening retained earnings on initial application without allocating the change between opening retained earnings and other components of equity. The Board has not added additional transition relief for first-time adopters. The application of this amendment has had no impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements as the Group already assesses the sufficiency of future taxable profits in a way that is consistent with these amendments. 94 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED) New Standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2017 and have not been early adopted by the Group A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2017, and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements. The Group does not plan to adopt these standards early. These are summarised below; New standard or amendments Effective for annual periods beginning on or after IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (2014) 1 January 2018 with earlier application permitted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 with earlier application permitted Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions 1 January 2018 with earlier application permitted (Amendments to IFRS 2) Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 1 January 2018 with earlier application permitted Insurance Contracts (Amendments to IFRS 4) Amendment to IAS 40 Investment property 1 January 2018 with earlier application permitted Amendments to IFRS – Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2014-2016 Cycle 1 January 2018 with earlier application permitted IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 with earlier application permitted IFRS 17 – Insurance Contracts 1 January 2021 IFRS 9: Financial Instruments (2014) On 24 July 2014 the IASB issued the final IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Standard, which replaces earlier versions of IFRS 9 and completes the IASB’s project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. All recognized financial assets that are within the scope of IFRS 9 are required to be subsequently measured at amortized cost or fair value. Specifically, debt investments that are held within a business model whose objective is to collect the contractual cash flows, and that have contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal outstanding are generally measured at amortized cost at the end of subsequent accounting periods. Debt instruments that are held within a business model whose objective is achieved both by collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets, and that have contractual terms that give rise on specific dates to cash flows that are solely. All other debt investments and equity investments are measured at their fair value at the end of subsequent accounting periods. In addition, under IFRS 9, entities may make an irrevocable election to present subsequent changes in the fair value of an equity investment (that is not held for trading nor contingent consideration recognized by an acquirer in a business combination) in other comprehensive income, with only dividend income generally recognized in profit or loss. With regard to the measurement of financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss. IFRS 9 requires that the amount of change in the fair value of a financial liability that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability is presented in other comprehensive income, unless the recognition of such changes in other comprehensive income would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss. Changes in fair value attributable to a financial liability’s credit risk are not subsequently reclassified to profit or loss. Under IAS 39, the entire amount of the change in the fair value of the financial liability designated as fair value through profit or loss is presented as profit or loss. In relation to the impairment of financial assets, IFRS 9 requires an expected credit loss model, as opposed to an incurred credit loss model under IAS 39, the expected credit loss model requires an entity to account for expected credit losses and changes in those expected credit losses at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition. In other words, it is no longer necessary for a credit event to have occurred before credit losses are recognized. The Group early adopted the classification & measurement of financial instruments in IFRS 9 (2009). Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 95 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED) New Standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2017 and have not been early adopted by the Group (continued) IFRS 9: Financial Instruments (2014) (continued) Based on an initial analysis of the Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 December 2017, the directors of the Company have made an initial assessment of the impact of IFRS 9 to the Company’s financial statements as follows: Classification and measurement The debt instruments and equities which were classified and measured at amortized cost and Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income respectively were reviewed using the business model assessment to ensure that the valuation is not inconsistent with business operations, eliminates accounting mismatches, regulatory requirements and best proactive on fair value of assets backing actuarial liabilities. The board has made a decision that beginning 2018; • Debt instruments supporting life business actuarial liabilities will be classified and measured using the Fair Value Through Profit & Loss to align the assets valuation with the actuarial liabilities valuation at fair value. Short-term business debt instruments will continue to be classified and measured using the amortized cost approach using the effective interest rate method. • All equities shall now be classified and measured at Fair Value Through Profit & Loss. Impairment Mortgage loans and Policy loans are in scope of IFRS 9 and impact of expected credit loss model is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the business as both of these facilities are fully secured by a physical asset and cash surrender value respectively. Disclosures The disclosures have been done in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 9. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers This standard replaces IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS 18 Revenue, IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes, IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers and SIC-31 Revenue – Barter of Transactions Involving Advertising Services. The standard contains a single model that applies to contracts with customers and two approaches to recognising revenue: at a point in time or over time. The standard specifies how and when an IFRS reporter will recognise revenue as well as requiring such entities to provide users of financial statements with more informative, relevant disclosures. The standard provides a single, principles based five-step model to be applied to all contracts with customers in recognising revenue being: identify the contract(s) with a customer; identify the performance obligations in the contract; determine the transaction price; allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and recognise revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. IFRS 15 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Group has assessed the potential impact on its financial statements resulting from the application of IFRS 15 and concluded that there will be no significant change. Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts (Amendments to IFRS 4) The amendments in applying IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ with IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’ (Amendments to IFRS 4) provide two options for entities that issue insurance contracts within the scope of IFRS 4: • an option that permits entities to reclassify, from profit or loss to other comprehensive income, some of the income or expenses arising from designated financial assets; this is the so-called overlay approach; • an optional temporary exemption from applying IFRS 9 for entities whose predominant activity is issuing contracts within the scope of IFRS 4; this is the so-called deferral approach. The application of both approaches is optional and an entity is permitted to stop applying them before the new insurance contracts standard is applied. 96 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED) New Standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2017 and have not been early adopted by the Group (continued) Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts (Amendments to IFRS 4) (continued) An entity applies the overlay approach retrospectively to qualifying financial assets when it first applies IFRS 9. Application of the overlay approach requires disclosure of sufficient information to enable users of financial statements to understand how the amount reclassified in the reporting period is calculated and the effect of that reclassification on the financial statements. An entity applies the deferral approach for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Predominance is assessed at the reporting entity level at the annual reporting date that immediately precedes 1 April 2016. Application of the deferral approach needs to be disclosed together with information that enables users of financial statements to understand how the insurer qualified for the temporary exemption and to compare insurers applying the temporary exemption with entities applying IFRS 9. The deferral can only be made use of for the three years following 1 January 2018. Predominance is only reassessed if there is a change in the entity’s activities. The Group finds that the potential impact on its financial statements resulting from the application of these amendments is significant and is looking to match it assets and liability to ensure the changes are captured within the profit and loss or other comprehensive income. Amendments to IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property The amendments clarify that a transfer to, or from, investment property necessitates an assessment of whether a property meets, or has ceased to meet, the definition of investment property, supported by observable evidence that a change in use has occurred. The amendments further clarify that situations other than the ones listed in IAS 40 may evidence a change in use, and that a change in use is possible for properties under construction (i.e. a change in use is not limited to completed properties). The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with earlier application permitted. Entities can apply the amendments either retrospectively (if this is possible without the use of hindsight) or prospectively. Specific transition provisions apply. The directors of the Group anticipate that the application of these amendments may have an impact on the Group’s financial statements in future periods should there be a change in use of any of its properties. Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014 – 2016 Cycle The Annual Improvements include amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 28 which are not yet mandatorily effective for the Group. The package also includes amendments to IFRS 12 which is mandatorily effective for the Group in the current year. The amendments to IAS 28 clarify that the option for a venture capital organisation and other similar entities to measure investments in associates and joint ventures at FVTPL is available separately for each associate or joint venture, and that election should be made at initial recognition of the associate or joint venture. In respect of the option for an entity that is not an investment entity (IE) to retain the fair value measurement applied by its associates and joint ventures that are IEs when applying the equity method, the amendments make a similar clarification that this choice is available for each IE associate or IE joint venture. The amendments apply retrospectively with earlier application permitted. Both the amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 28 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The directors of the Group do not anticipate that the application of the amendments in the future will have any impact on the Group’s financial statements as the Group is neither a first-time adopter of IFRS nor a venture capital organisation. IFRS 16: Leases On 13 January 2016 the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases, completing the IASB’s project to improve the financial reporting of leases. IFRS 16 replaces the previous leases standard, IAS 17 Leases, and related interpretations. IFRS 16 sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract, i.e. the customer (‘lessee’) and the supplier (‘lessor’). The standard defines a lease as a contract that conveys to the customer (‘lessee’) the right to use an asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. A company assesses whether a contract contains a lease on the basis of whether the customer has the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time. The standard eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases for a lessee and introduces a single lessee accounting model. All leases are treated in a similar way to finance leases. Applying that model significantly affects the accounting and presentation of leases and consequently, the lessee is required to recognise: • assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value. A company recognises the present value of the unavoidable lease payments and shows them either as lease assets (right-of-use assets) or together with property, plant and equipment. If lease payments are made over time, a company also recognises a financial liability representing its obligation to make future lease payments. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 97 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED) New Standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2017 and have not been early adopted by the Group (continued) IFRS 16: Leases (continued) • depreciation of lease assets and interest on lease liabilities in profit or loss over the lease term; and • separate the total amount of cash paid into a principal portion (presented within financing activities) and interest (typically presented within either operating or financing activities) in the statement of cash flows. IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17. Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating leases or finance leases, and to account for those two types of leases differently. However, compared to IAS 17, IFRS 16 requires a lessor to disclose additional information about how it manages the risks related to its residual interest in assets subject to leases. The standard does not require a company to recognise assets and liabilities for: • short-term leases (i.e. leases of 12 months or less) and; • leases of low-value assets. The new Standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Early application is permitted insofar as the recently issued revenue Standard, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is also applied. The Group is assessing the potential impact on its financial statements resulting from the application of IFRS 16. IFRS 17-Insurance Contracts The IASB issued IFRS 17, ‘Insurance Contracts’, and thereby started a new epoch of accounting for insurers. Whereas the current standard IFRS 4, allows insurers to use their local GAAP, IFRS 17 defines clear and consistent rules that will significantly increase the comparability of financial statements. For insurers, the transition to IFRS 17 will have an impact on financial statements and on key performance indicators. Under IFRS 17, the general model requires entities to measure an insurance contract at initial recognition at the total of the fulfilment cash flows (comprising the estimated future cash flows, an adjustment to reflect the time value of money and an explicit risk adjustment for nonfinancial risk) and the contractual service margin. The fulfilment cash flows are re-measured on a current basis each reporting period. The unearned profit (contractual service margin) is recognized over the coverage period. Aside from this general model, the standard provides, as a simplification, the premium allocation approach. This simplified approach is applicable for certain types of contract, including those with a coverage period of one year or less. For insurance contracts with direct participation features, the variable fee approach applies. The variable fee approach is a variation on the general model. When applying the variable fee approach, the entity’s share of the fair value changes of the underlying items is included in the contractual service margin. As a consequence, the fair value changes are not recognized in profit or loss in the period in which they occur but over the remaining life in the contract. The directors anticipate that the application of IFRS 17 will have a significant impact on the financial position and/or financial performance of the Group and are in the process of assessing the impact of its application. Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture (Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28) The amendments require the full gain to be recognised when assets transferred between an investor and its associate or joint venture meet the definition of a ‘business’ under IFRS 3 Business Combinations. Where the assets transferred do not meet the definition of a business, a partial gain to the extent of unrelated investors’ interests in the associate or joint venture is recognised. The definition of a business is key to determining the extent of the gain to be recognised. The effective date for these changes has now been postponed until the completion of a broader review. The Group is assessing the potential impact on its financial statements resulting from the application of these amendments. 98 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.2. CONSOLIDATION a) Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control commences until the date on which control ceases. The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. The excess of the consideration transferred the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value over any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognized directly in profit or loss. Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealized gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less impairment. Cost is adjusted to reflect changes in consideration arising from contingent consideration amendments. Cost also includes direct attributable costs of investment. b) Investment in Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence, but not control, or joint control over the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investments in associates include goodwill identified on acquisition net of all accumulated impaired losses. The Group’s share of its associates’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the profit or loss, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in other comprehensive income. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associates. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. Dilution of gains and losses arising from investment in associates are recognised in the profit or loss. c) Foreign currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in Kenya Shillings, which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency. (i) Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency of the respective entity using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in profit or loss. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate when the fair value was determined. (ii) Consolidation of group entities The results and financial position of all the group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: • Assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position presented are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date; • Income and expenses for each profit or loss are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions); and • All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component in other comprehensive income. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 99 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.2. CONSOLIDATION (CONTINUED) (ii) Consolidation of group entities (Continued) On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are recognized in the statement of other comprehensive income and accumulated in shareholders’ equity (translation reserve). When a foreign operation is disposed of in its entirety or partially such that control or significant influence is lost, the cumulative amount in the translation reserve related to that foreign operation is reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal. If the Group disposes of part of its investment in a subsidiary but retains control, then the relative proportion of the cumulative reserve is re attributed to NCI. When the Group disposes of only part of an associate while retaining significant influence, the relative proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. 38.3. SEGMENT INFORMATION An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenue and incur expenses including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components, whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the Group chief strategy & administration officer, to make decisions about resources allocated to each segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete information is available. Group costs are allocated to segments on a reasonable and consistent basis. Transactions between segments are generally accounted for in accordance with Group policies as if the segment were a stand-alone business with intra segment revenue and cost being eliminated in head office. The Chief Operating Decision Maker within the Group is the Jubilee Holdings Limited Board of Directors. The group results are analyzed across 9 operating segments based on a combination of geographical areas and products and services. There are five geographical segments: Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and Mauritius within which there are three segments classified according to products and services: Short-term business, which includes General and Medical, Long-term business, which includes Individual Life, Group Life and Pension, and Investments. This is consistent with the way the Group manages the business. General insurance business of any class or classes not being long-term insurance business. Classes of short-term insurance include, Engineering insurance, Fire insurance domestic risks, Fire insurance industrial and commercial risks, Liability insurance, Marine insurance, Motor insurance private vehicles , Motor insurance commercial vehicles, Personal accident insurance, Theft insurance ,Workmen’s Compensation and Employer’s Liability insurance and Miscellaneous insurance (i.e. class of business not included under those listed above). Medical insurance means the business of affecting and carrying out contracts of insurance against costs of otherwise non-recoverable medical and surgical expenses necessarily and reasonably incurred by a member as a direct result of sustaining accidental bodily injury and/or illness and/or disease within the period of insurance subject to the policy provisions/ terms, exclusions and conditions. Medical and general have been aggregated as the Group does not hold the assets and liabilities separately. Ordinary & Group Life: Includes insurance business of all or any of the following classes, namely, life assurance business, superannuation business and business incidental to any such class of business; Life assurance business means the business of, or in relation to, the issuing of, or the undertaking of liability to pay money on death (not being death by accident or in specified sickness only) or on the happening of any contingency dependent on the termination or continuance of human life (either with or without provision for a benefit under a continuous disability insurance contract), and include a contract which is subject to the payment of premiums for term dependent on the termination or continuance of human life and any contract securing the grant of an annuity for a term dependent upon human life; Superannuation business means life assurance business, being business of, or in relation to, the issuing of or the undertaking of liability under superannuation, group life and permanent health insurance policy. The segments are individually considered by management when making decisions and they are the basis for resource allocation and performance measurement by the Board of Directors. There are no reconciling differences between the primary financial statements of the Group and the reported segmental information. The Group accounts for inter-segmental transactions as if the transactions were to third parties. Any outstanding amounts owing within the Group companies most of which constitutes dividends payable are included under group eliminations. Results of activities considered incidental to Jubilee Holdings main operations as well as unallocated revenues and expenses, liabilities and assets have been categorized under investments segment. There are no reconciling differences between the primary financial statements of the Group and the reported segmental information. The Group has a widely diversified policy holder base and is therefore not reliant on any individual major customers. 38.4 INSURANCE CONTRACTS a) Classification The Group issues contracts that transfer insurance risk or financial risk or both. Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance risk. Such contracts may also transfer financial risk. As a general guideline, the Group defines as significant insurance risk, the possibility of having to pay benefits on the occurrence of an insured event that are at least 10% more than the benefits payable if the insured event did not occur. Investment contracts are those contracts that transfer financial risk with no significant insurance risk. See accounting policy for these contracts under 38.5. Insurance contracts and investment contracts are classified into two main categories, depending on the duration of risk and as per the provisions of the Insurance Act. 100 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.4 INSURANCE CONTRACTS (CONTINUED) a) Classification (continued) (i) Long-term insurance business Includes insurance business of all or any of the following classes, namely, life assurance business, superannuation business and business incidental to any such class of business; Life assurance business means the business of, or in relation to, the issuing of, or the undertaking of liability to pay money on death (not being death by accident or in specified sickness only) or on the happening of any contingency dependent on the termination or continuance of human life (either with or without provision for a benefit under a continuous disability insurance contract), and include a contract which is subject to the payment of premiums for term dependent on the termination or continuance of human life and any contract securing the grant of an annuity for a term dependent upon human life; Superannuation business means life assurance business, being business of, or in relation to, the issuing of or the undertaking of liability under superannuation, group life and permanent health insurance policy. (ii) Short-term insurance business Short-term insurance business means insurance business of any class or classes not being long term insurance business. Classes of General Insurance Include, Engineering insurance, Fire insurance domestic risks, Fire insurance industrial and commercial risks, Liability insurance, Marine insurance, Motor insurance private vehicles , Motor insurance commercial vehicles, Personal accident insurance, Theft insurance ,Workmen’s Compensation and Employer’s Liability insurance and Miscellaneous insurance (i.e. class of business not included under those listed above) Motor insurance business means the business of affecting and carrying out contracts of insurance against loss of, or damage to, or arising out of or in connection with the use of, motor vehicles, inclusive of third party risks but exclusive of transit risks. Personal Accident insurance business means the business of affecting and carrying out contracts of insurance against risks of the persons insured sustaining injury as the result of an accident or of an accident of a specified class or dying as the result of an accident or of an accident of a specified class or becoming incapacitated in consequence of disease or of disease of a specified class. Fire insurance business means the business of affecting and carrying out contracts of insurance, otherwise than incidental to some other class of insurance business against loss or damage to property due to fire, explosion, storm and other occurrences customarily included among the risks insured against in the fire insurance business. Medical insurance means the business of affecting and carrying out contracts of insurance against costs of otherwise non-recoverable medical and surgical expenses necessarily and reasonably incurred by a member as a direct result of sustaining accidental bodily injury and/or illness and/or disease within the period of insurance subject to the policy provisions/ terms, exclusions and conditions Marine insurance business means the business of affecting and carrying out contracts of insurance against loss of consignment of goods during transit. Burglary insurance business relates to contracts of insurance against loss due to theft involving actual break in or break out. b) Recognition and measurement (i) Premium income For long term insurance business, premiums are recognized as revenue when they become payable by the contract holder. Premiums are shown before deduction of commission. For short-term insurance business, Premium income is recognized on assumption of risks, and includes estimates of premiums due but not yet received, less an allowance for cancellations, and less unearned premium. Unearned premiums represent the proportion of the premiums written in periods up to the accounting date that relates to the unexpired terms of policies in force at the reporting date. Whilst all other subsidiaries computed the reserve based on the 24ths method, The Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited revised the method of computing the unearned premiums to the 1/365th method with effect from 1 January 2014. Premiums are shown before deduction of commission and are gross of any taxes or duties levied on premiums. (ii) Claims and policy holders benefits payable For long term insurance business, benefits are recorded as an expense when they are incurred. Claims arising on maturing policies are recognized when the claim becomes due for payment. Death claims are accounted for on notification. Surrenders are accounted for on payment. A liability for contractual benefits that are expected to be incurred in the future is recorded when the premiums are recognized. The liability is determined as the sum of the expected discounted value of the benefit payments and the future administration expenses that are directly related to the contract, less the expected discounted value of the theoretical premiums that would be required to meet the benefits and administration expenses based on the valuation assumptions used (the valuation premiums). The liability is based on assumptions as to mortality, persistency, maintenance expenses and investment income that are established at the time the contract is issued. A margin for adverse deviations is included in the assumptions. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 101 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.4 INSURANCE CONTRACTS (CONTINUED) b) Recognition and measurement (continued) (ii) Claims and policy holders benefits payable (continued) Where insurance contracts have a single premium or a limited number of premium payments due over a significantly shorter period than the period during which benefits are provided, the excess of the premiums payable over the valuation premiums is deferred and recognized as income in line with the decrease of unexpired insurance risk of the contracts in-force or, for annuities in force, in line with the decrease of the amount of future benefits expected to be paid. The liabilities are recalculated at each reporting date using the assumptions established at inception of the contracts. For short-term insurance business, claims incurred comprise claims paid in the year and changes in the provision for outstanding claims. Claims paid represent all payments made during the year, whether arising from events during that or earlier years. Outstanding claims represent the estimated ultimate cost of settling all claims arising from incidents occurring prior to the reporting date, but not settled at that date. Outstanding claims are computed on the basis of the best information available at the time the records for the year are closed, and include provisions for claims incurred but not reported (“IBNR”). Outstanding claims are not discounted. (iii) Commissions and deferred acquisition costs (“DAC”) Commissions earned and payable are recognized in the period in which relevant premiums are written. A proportion of commission payable is deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premium is earned. Deferred acquisition costs represent a proportion of acquisition costs that relate to policies that are in force at the year end. (iv) Liability adequacy test At each reporting date, liability adequacy tests are performed to ensure the adequacy of the contract liabilities net of related DAC. In performing these tests, current best estimates of future contractual cash flows and claims handling and administration expenses, as well as investment income from the assets backing such liabilities, are used. Any deficiency is immediately charged to profit or loss initially by writing off DAC and by subsequently establishing a provision for losses arising from liability adequacy tests (the unexpired risk provision). As set out in Note 38.4(a) above, long-term insurance contracts are measured based on assumptions set out at the inception of the contract. When the liability adequacy test requires the adoption of new best estimate assumptions, such assumptions (without margins for adverse deviation) are used for the subsequent measurement of these liabilities. (v) Reinsurance contracts held Contracts entered into by the Group with reinsurers under which the Group is compensated for losses on one or more contracts issued by the Company and that meet the classification requirements for insurance contracts are classified as reinsurance contracts held. Contracts that do not meet these classification requirements are classified as financial assets. Insurance contracts entered into by the Group under which the contract holder is another insurer (inwards reinsurance) are included with insurance contracts. The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts held are recognized as reinsurance assets. These assets consist of short-term balances due from reinsurers, as well as longer term receivables that are dependent on the expected claims and benefits arising under the related reinsured insurance contracts. Amounts recoverable from or due to reinsurers are measured consistently with the amounts associated with the reinsured insurance contracts and in accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract. Reinsurance liabilities are primarily premiums payable for reinsurance contracts and are recognized as an expense when due. The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment on a quarterly basis. If there is objective evidence that the reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount of the reinsurance asset to its recoverable amount and recognizes that impairment loss in the profit or loss. The Group gathers the objective evidence that a reinsurance asset is impaired using the same process adopted for financial assets held at amortized cost. The impairment loss is also calculated following the same method used for these financial assets. (vi) Receivables and payables related to insurance contracts and investment contracts Receivables and payables are recognized when due. These include amounts due to and from agents, brokers and insurance contract holders. If there is objective evidence that the insurance receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount of the insurance receivable accordingly and recognizes that impairment loss in profit or loss. The Group gathers the objective evidence that an insurance receivable is impaired using the same process adopted for loans and receivables. The impairment loss is also calculated under the same method used for these financial assets. (vii) Salvage and subrogation reimbursements Some insurance contracts permit the Group to sell (usually damaged) property acquired in settling a claim (for example, salvage). The Group may also have the right to pursue third parties for payment of some or all costs (for example, subrogation). Estimates of salvage recoveries are included as an allowance in the measurement of the insurance liability for claims, and salvage property is recognized in other assets when the liability is settled. The allowance is the amount that can reasonably be recovered from the disposal of the property. Subrogation reimbursements are also considered as an allowance in the measurement of the insurance liability for claims and are recognized in other assets when the liability is settled. The allowance is the assessment of the amount that can be recovered from the action against the liable third party. 102 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.5 INVESTMENT CONTRACTS The Group issues investment contracts with fixed and guaranteed terms (fixed interest rate). The investment contracts include funds administered for a number of retirement benefit schemes. For investment contracts with fixed and guaranteed terms, the amortized cost basis is used. In this case, the liability is initially measured at its fair value less transaction costs that are incremental and directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the contract. Subsequent measurement of investment contracts at amortized cost uses the effective interest method. This method requires the determination of an interest rate (the effective interest rate) that exactly discounts to the net carrying amount of the financial liability, the estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period if the holder has the option to redeem the instrument earlier than maturity. The Group re-estimates at each reporting date the expected future cash flows and recalculates the carrying amount of the financial liability by computing the present value of estimated future cash flows using the financial liability’s original effective interest rate. Any adjustment is immediately recognized as income or expense in profit or loss. For investment contracts with discretionary participation in profits, the liability is set approximately equal to the value of the underlying asset of the contract. 38.6 REVENUE RECOGNITION (i) Insurance premium revenue The revenue recognition policy relating to insurance contracts is set out under note 38.4 (b) (i). (ii) Non interest income from financial investments The revenue recognition policy for non-interest income from financial investments is disclosed in note 38.10. (iii) Interest income and expenses Interest income and expense for all interest-bearing financial instruments, including financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss, are recognized within ‘investment income’ and ‘finance costs’ in the profit or loss using the effective interest rate method. (iv) Dividend income Dividend income for available-for-sale equities is recognized when the right to receive payment is established – this is the ex-dividend date for equity securities. (v) Rental income from investment properties Rental income is recognised in the period it is earned. (vi) Commission earned The revenue recognition policy on commission is disclosed in note 38.4 (b) (iii). 38.7 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT All categories of property and equipment are initially recorded at cost. Property and equipment are subsequently measured at historical cost less depreciation and impairment losses. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the financial period in which they are incurred. Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight line method to write down their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Computers 3 years Office equipment 4 years Motor vehicles 5 years Furniture, fixtures and fittings 10 years These rates have been applied consistently over the years. The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its estimated recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 103 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.7 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED) Gains and losses on disposal of property and equipment are determined by reference to their carrying amount and are included in profit or loss. 38.8 INVESTMENT PROPERTY Buildings, or part of a building, (freehold or held under a finance lease) and land (freehold or held under an operating lease) held for long term rental yields and/or capital appreciation are classified as investment property. Investment property is measured at cost on initial recognition and subsequently measured at fair value. Directors monitor the investment property market and economic conditions, including general and property inflation, on a regular basis to identify changes in market conditions that may lead to significant change in fair value. Changes in fair values are included in investment income in the profit or loss. On disposal of the investment property, the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount is charged or credited to the statement of profit or loss. 38.9 INTANGIBLE ASSETS (i) Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary/associate at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in investments in associates. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Gains and losses on disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. Each of those cash-generating units represents the Group’s investment in each country of operation by each reporting segment. (ii) Computer software Acquired computer software licenses are capitalized on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. These costs are amortized over their estimated useful lives (three to five years). Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programs are recognized as an expense as incurred. Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognized as intangible assets. Direct costs include the software development, employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads. Computer software development costs recognized as assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives (not exceeding three years). 38.10 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES All financial assets are recognized and derecognized on trade date when the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned. Financial assets are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), which are initially measured at fair value. All recognized financial assets are subsequently measured in their entirety at either amortized cost or fair value. Fair values of quoted investments in active markets are based on quoted bid prices. Fair values for unquoted investments are estimated using valuation techniques. These include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, discounted cash flow analysis and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants. (i) Classification of financial assets For the purposes of classifying financial assets an instrument is an ‘equity instrument’ if it is a non-derivative and meets the definition of ‘equity’ for the issuer (under IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation). All other non-derivative financial assets are ‘debt instruments’. (ii) Debt instruments at amortized cost using the effective interest method Debt instruments are measured at amortized cost if both of the following conditions are met: • The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; and • The contractual terms of the instrument give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. Debt instruments meeting these criteria are measured initially at fair value plus transaction costs, except if they are designated as at FVTPL. They are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method less any impairment, with interest revenue recognized on an effective yield basis in investment revenue. Subsequent to initial recognition, the Group is required to reclassify debt instruments from amortized cost to FVTPL if the objective of the business model changes so that the amortized cost criteria are no longer met. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash receipts (including all fees on points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the debt instrument, or (where appropriate) a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition. 104 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.10 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (CONTINUED) (ii) Debt instruments at amortized cost using the effective interest method (continued) The Group may irrevocably elect at initial recognition to classify a debt instrument that meets the amortized cost criteria above as at FVTPL if that designation eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch had the financial asset been measured at amortized cost. All financial assets are recognized and derecognized on trade date when the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned. Financial assets are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), which are initially measured at fair value. All recognized financial assets are subsequently measured in their entirety at either amortized cost or fair value. Fair values of quoted investments in active markets are based on quoted bid prices. Fair values for unquoted investments are estimated using valuation techniques. These include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, discounted cash flow analysis and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants. (iii) Classification of financial assets For the purposes of classifying financial assets an instrument is an ‘equity instrument’ if it is a non-derivative and meets the definition of ‘equity’ for the issuer (under IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation). All other non-derivative financial assets are ‘debt instruments’. (iv) Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) At initial recognition, the Group can make an irrevocable election (on an instrument-by-instrument basis) to designate investments in equity instruments as at FVTOCI. Designation at FVTOCI is not permitted if the equity investment is held for trading. A financial asset is held for trading if: • It has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling it in the near term; or • On initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has evidence of a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking; or • It is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument or a financial guarantee. Investments in equity instruments at FVTOCI are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs. Subsequently, they are measured at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the fair value reserve. Where the asset is disposed of, the cumulative gain or loss previously accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve is not reclassified to profit or loss, but is reclassified to retained earnings. Dividends on these investments in equity instruments are recognized in profit or loss when the Group’s right to receive the dividends is established in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue, unless the dividends clearly represent a recovery of part of the cost of the investment. Dividends earned are recognized in profit or loss and are included in the ‘investment income’ line item. (v) Financial assets at FVTPL Debt instrument financial assets that do not meet the amortized cost criteria or that meet the criteria but the entity has chosen to designate as at FVTPL at initial recognition, are measured at FVTPL. The Group has not designated a debt instrument financial asset as at FVTPL. Subsequent to initial recognition, the Group is required to reclassify debt instruments from FVTPL to amortized cost if the objective of the business model changes so that the amortized cost criteria starts to be met and the instrument’s contractual cash flows meet the amortized cost criteria. Reclassification of debt instruments designated as at FVTPL at initial recognition is not permitted. Investments in equity instruments are classified as at FVTPL, unless the Group designates an investment that is not held for trading as at FVTOCI at initial recognition. (vi) De-recognition of financial assets The Group derecognizes a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognizes its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognize the financial asset. (vii) Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at ‘FVTPL’ or ‘other financial liabilities’. (viii) Financial liabilities at FVTPL The Group does not have financial liabilities classified as at FVTPL. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 105 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.10 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (CONTINUED) (ix) Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities which includes creditors arising out of reinsurance arrangements and direct insurance arrangement, borrowings and other payable, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognized on an effective yield basis. (x) De-recognition The Group derecognizes financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire. The condition is met when the liability is settled by paying the creditors, or when the Group is released from primary responsibility for the financial liability either by process of law or by creditor. (xi) Impairment of financial assets a) Financial assets carried at amortized cost The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a ‘loss event’) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. Objective evidence that a financial asset or group of assets is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention of the Group about the following events: • significant financial difficulty of the issuer or debtor; • a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in payments; • it becoming probable that the issuer or debtor will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganization; • the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties; or • observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flow from a group of financial assets. since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identified with the individual financial assets in the Group, including: o adverse changes in the payment status of issuers or debtors in the Group; or o National or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the Group. The Group assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets. If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred on investments carried at amortized cost, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with exception of receivables arising out of reinsurance or direct insurance arrangements, where the carrying amount is reduced through an allowance account. The impairment loss is recognized directly through profit or loss. b) Impairment of other non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation, are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation (other than investment property) are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Value in use is based on the estimated future cash flows, discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of the money and the risks specific to the asset or cash generating unit. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cashgenerating units). Non-financial assets that suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation and amortization, if no impairment loss had been recognized. The impairment loss is recognized directly through profit or loss. c) Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position only when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. d) Renegotiated loans Loans that are either subject to collective impairment assessment or individually significant and whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered to be past due but are treated as new loans. In subsequent years, the renegotiated terms apply in determining whether the asset is considered to be past due. 106 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.11 ACCOUNTING FOR LEASES Leases of property and equipment where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalized at the inception of the lease at the lower of their fair value and the estimated present value of the underlying lease payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in noncurrent liabilities. The interest element of the finance charge is charged to profit or loss over the lease period. Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or the estimated useful life of the asset. Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. 38.12 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks, other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. 38.13 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (i) Short-term benefits Short-term employee benefits are expensed as the related service is provided. A liability is recognized for the amount expected to be paid if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably. (ii) Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates defined contribution retirement benefit scheme for its employees. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. The assets of all schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds, which are funded by contributions from both the Group and employees. The Group and all its employees also contribute to the appropriate Social Security Fund, which are defined contribution schemes. The Group’s contributions to the defined contribution schemes are charged to profit or loss in the year to which they relate. (iii) Other entitlements The estimated monetary liability for employees’ accrued annual leave entitlement at the reporting date is recognized as an expense accrual. 38.14 INCOME TAX EXPENSE Income tax expense is the aggregate of the charge to profit or loss in respect of current income tax and deferred income tax. Current income tax is the amount of income tax payable on the taxable profit for the year determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation and any adjustment to tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years. It is measured using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Current tax also includes any tax arising from dividends. Deferred income tax is provided in full on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying values for financial reporting purposes. However, if the deferred income tax arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit nor loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax liability is settled. Deferred income tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilized. Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The measurement of deferred tax reflects the tax consequences that would flow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. For this purpose, the carrying amount of investment property measured at fair value is presumed to be recovered through sale. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only if certain criteria are met. 38.15 DIVIDENDS Dividends payable to the Group’s shareholders are charged to equity in the period in which they are declared. Proposed dividends are shown as a separate component of equity until declared. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 107 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 38. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 38.16 SHARE CAPITAL Shares are classified as equity when there is no obligation to transfer cash or other assets. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of equity instruments are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax. 38.17 COMPARATIVES Where necessary, comparative figures have been adjusted or extended to conform to changes in presentation in the current year. 108 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 Supplementary information 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 GROUP REVIEW TEN YEARS KShs million Shareholders’ Funds 23,552 19,946 19,098 15,439 12,431 8,020 6,154 5,114 3,389 2,871 Share Capital 362 329 329 299 299 299 272 248 225 225 Long-Term Business Funds 59,426 48,827 42,337 38,652 28,743 23,476 18,802 14,637 11,495 11,730 Total Assets 104,968 90,568 82,378 74,506 61,159 47,418 38,040 30,691 23,736 20,203 Profit Before Tax 5,161 4,563 4,145 3,949 3,151 2,693 2,144 2,053 1,116 901 Profit Attributable to Shareholders 3,932 3,297 2,814 2,880 2,255 2,115 1,802 1,756 825 636 Profit Attributable to Non Controlling interest 298 379 307 224 248 169 108 83 89 77 Dividends to Shareholders 652 560 560 509 419 419 299 272 203 191 Dividend Cover Ratio 6.03 5.89 5.03 5.66 5.38 5.05 6.02 6.45 4.07 3.33 Bonus Issue 0:00 1:10 0:00 1:10 0:00 0:00 1:10 1:10 1:10 0:00 *Earnings Per Share (KShs) (par value KShs 5) 54.26 45.49 38.83 39.73 31.12 29.18 24.86 24.23 11.38 8.78 * Earnings per share has been calculated on 72.473 million shares for all the year. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 109 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 109 Behind My Smile... Is knowing that Jubilee Insurance cares for me and has given me the freedom to focus on my studies as a beneficiary of the Eye Project. John Manyange Pupil, Kilimani Primary School 110 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 AWARDS, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY, ADVERTISEMENTS, AND BRANCHES Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 111 112 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROVISION OF ARTIFICIAL LIMBS FREEDOM TO BE INDEPENDENT The target beneficiarIES aRE children and young adults. SO FAR 54 PERSONS HAVE BEEN FITTED WITH LIMBS AND MORE WILL BE FITTED WITHIN THE YEAR. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 113 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EYE CARE FREEDOM TO FOCUS WE ARE GIVING PRIMARY SCHOOL CHILDREN THE FREEDOM TO FOCUS ON THEIR STUDIES. 1,574 PUPILS HAVE SO FAR RECEIVED CORRECTIVE INTERVENTIONS, AND OVER 350 ARE SCHEDULED TO RECEIVE FURTHER ASSISTANCE EITHER THROUGH OPERATIONS, SPECTACLES OR OTHER ASSISTIVE DEVICES, WHICH JUBILEE INSURANCE WILL PAY FOR. 114 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EAR OPERATIONS BREAKING THE SILENCE to date, 34 beneficiaries have had different interventions carrIED OUT AND WITH MORE MEDICAL CAMPS SCHEDULED IN 2018. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 115 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENGAGING THE COMMUNITY THE Jubilee Insurance Mauritius Ltd Team at the Mega Health Day AND WITH THE LESS PRIVILEGED CHILDREN ON A ZOO TRIP. LIVE FREE PAINTING COMPETITION CELEBRATING WITH THE WINNERS OF THE LIVE FREE PAINTING COMPETITION IN UGANDA. 116 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LIVE FREE PAINTING COMPETITION JUBILEE INSURANCE KENYA CEO PATRICK TUMBO WITH MARTIN MWENDA, WHO WON A FULL SECONDARY SCHOOL SCHOLARSHIP FROM JUBILEE INSURANCE, FOR EMERGING TOP IN THE LIVE FREE PAINTING COMPETITION IN 2017. HE JOINED BARICHO BOYS, A NATIONAL SCHOOL IN KIRINYAGA COUNTY. The Live Free Painting Competition Was Conducted In 2017 Across The Region Kenya, Uganda And Tanzania With The Aim Of Giving Pupils An Opportunity To Share Their Vision On What Living Free Means To Them In The Form Of Art. We Rewarded The WINNERS With Full Secondary School Scholarships And TheIR SCHOOLS Received An Assortment Of BOOKS & SPORTS EQUIPMENT. Kenya 25 National Winners, Tanzania 5 National Winners, uGANDA 3 NATIONAL WINNERS. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 117 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY renovation OF cloakroom, classroom and teacher’s houseS MBEYAITIJI PRIMARY SCHOOL CLOAK ROOM (BEFORE) CLOAK ROOM (AFTER) MWEMBESONGO PRIMARY SCHOOL RENOVATIONS (BEFORE) RENOVATIONS (AFTER) MLIMWA”B” PRIMARY SCHOOL TOILET CONSTRUCTION (before/after) JANG’OMBE PRIMARY SCHOOL CLASS RENOVATION (before/after) MADENGA PRIMARY SCHOOL TOILET CONSTRUCTION (before/after) KATERERO PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHERS HOUSES (bEFORE/aFTER) 118 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 ADVERTISEMENTS JUST RELAX! WITH JUBILEE TRAVEL INSURANCE YOU HAVE NOTHING TO WORRY ABOUT Call us today: 0719 222 111 www.jubileeinsurance.com PENAN PLI FORT KI SA! Pou Rs10* par zour, nou assire ou lacaze. PROTèz Ou KONT DIFé VOL CyCLONE INNONDATIONS www.jubileeportal.com Talk to us: +230 202 2200 Jubilee Insurance (Mauritius) Limited is licensed by the Financial Services Commission. *Price based on the value of a house of MUR 3 million that corresponds to our normal risk profile. Acceptance subject to Underwriter’s discretion. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 119 ADVERTISEMENTS LIVE THE DREAM... JUBILEE LIFE INSURANCE FANAKA PLAN: THE FLEXIBLE WAY TO MANAGE YOUR SAVINGS CALL US TODAY: 0700 780780 www.jubileeinsurance.com NOT ALL INSURERS ARE EQUAL JUBILEE INSURANCE HAS OVER 80 YEARS LOCAL EXPERIENCE MOST TRUSTEd FINANCIALLY THE STRONGEST FAST CLAIMS SETTLEMENT COMMITTEd TO CUSTOMER SERVICE MOST AwARdEd Talk to us: 0719 222 111 Find out more: jubileeinsurance.com 120 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 ADVERTISEMENTS Over the years, the shareholders have received dividends consistently and this has never dropped year on year. Additionally, in 2017 we declared a total dividend of Kshs 9.00, 6% higher than the previous year. Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 121 REGIONAL GROUP OFFICES AND BRANCHES KENYA MBALE MWANZA Plot 2, Bugisu Cooperative Union Building, Nyanza Co-operative Union Building Kenyatta road HEAD OFFICE 2nd Floor, Court Road P.O Box 10456, Mwanza Jubilee Insurance House, Wabera St. T: 045-443-123/4 T: +255 28 2500822 P.O. Box 30376 00100 GPO, Nairobi, Kenya E: jicmwz@jubileetanzania.com T: +254 020 328 1000 UGANDA LIFE MBEYA BRANCHES HEAD OFFICE NBC (1997) Ltd Building, Ground Floor, Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Uganda Limited. Karume Avenue BUNGOMA Plot 14, Jubilee Insurance Centre, East Podium, P.O Box 2182, Mbeya HIBHO Plaza, 1st Floor, Moi Avenue Parliament Avenue T: +255 25 2503172 Tel: +254 709 901 515 P.O.Box 7122, Kampala E: jicmby@jubileetanzania.com Tel: 0312-178-800 ELDORET lifeug@jubileeuganda.com ZANZIBAR Imperial Court Eldoret 1st Floor, Nairobi/ Uganda Highway ZSTC Investment Building, Ground Floor Tel: +254 709 901 510 AGENCY OFFICE P.O Box 2344, Zanzibar KAMPALA T: +255 24 2239243 KISII Plot 26, Park Royal building, 4th Floor, E: jicznz@jubileetanzania.com New Sansora Building 1st Floor, Room A4 Buganda Road Town Centre Hospital Road T: 0392 175 438. MOROGORO Tel: +254 058 203 1645 Hood Property Building, 1st Floor, Ngoto Street JINJA P.O Box 190, Morogoro KISUMU Plot 28-30, City Hotel Building, Ground Floor, T: +255 23 2613966 Jubilee Insurance House Clive Road E: jicmor@jubileetanzania.com Oginga Odinga Road, 3rd Floor T: 0393-000-021 P.O. Box 378 Kisumu, ARUSHA T: 0709901700 ARUA NSSF Mafao House, 2nd Floor, Old Moshi Road Plot 19, K.K.T Plaza Building 2nd floor, P.O Box 1836, ARUSHA THIKA Room A006 Duka Road T: +255 27 2520131 Maisha Heights 3rd Floor, Thika Town T: 0393-218-166 E: jicars@jubileetanzania.com Tel: 0709901729 / 0702957979 MBALE DODOMA MERU Plot 18, Miami Plaza, Ground floor Cathedral Road ACT Building, Ground floor, Corner of Hatibu St /7th Road Alexander House, 2nd Floor, Meru Town Moi Avenue T: 0393-000-022 P.O Box 11027, DODOMA Tel: +254 064 643 0722 T: +255 26 2320166 +254 709 901 525 MBARARA E: jicdom@jubileetanzania.com Plot 3B, New Kasaka Building 1st Floor, Stanely road MOMBASA T: 0393-000-023 KAHAMA Jubilee Insurance Building, FINCA Building, 1st Floor, Room No.4 Isaka Road,Kahama 3rd Floor, Moi Avenue, ENTEBBE E: jickhm@jubileetanzania.com P.O. Box 90220 80100, Mombasa Plot 19, Aurthur’s Café Building, 1st Floor Portal road T: 0709901600 T: 0392-178-039 TEGETA, Kibo Commercial Complex Block E 1st Floor, MOMBASA ROAD GULU Old Bagamoyo Road Tulip House Ground Floor Plot 20, Gulu City Mall Building 2nd floor, Gulu Avenue T: +255 22 2926303 Tel: +254 071 554 5419 / Finance +254 071 554 5444 T: 0392-178-048 E: jictgt@tanzania.com NAKURU Pollo Centre, Off Kenyatta Avenue HOIMA MAURITIUS Tel: +254 051 221 1119/ 0702 958 897 Plot 32, Messiah Towers, 1st Floor, HoimaKampala road, T: 0392-178-050 HEAD OFFICE NYERI One Cathedral Square, Mezzanine Floor, Sohan Plaza, 3rd Floor MASAKA Pope Hennessy Street, Port Louis Moi Nyayo Way Plot 27, Brovad Building, Ground Floor, Kampala Road T: 00230 202-2200 Tel: +254 798 449 360 E: info@jubileemauritius.com TANZANIA WESTLANDS BRANCHES Fuji House, 6th Floor wing B, Westlands TANZANIA GENERAL HEAD OFFICE Tel: +254 709 901 520 Jubilee Insurance Company of Tanzania Limited. QUATRE BORNES Amani Place, 6th Floor, Ohio Street Ground floor, France Centre, UGANDA GENERAL P.O Box 20524, Dar es Salaam St Jean Road, Quatre Bornes T: +255 22 2135121-4 T: 00230 202-2200 HEAD OFFICE F: +255 22 2135116 E: enquiry@jubileetanzania.com BEAU BASSIN BRANCH Jubilee Insurance Company of Uganda Limited 178, Royal Road, Beau Bassin Plot 14, Jubilee Insurance Center, 1st Floor TANZANIA LIFE HEAD OFFICE T: 00230 454-5700 Parliament Avenue, Jubilee Life Insurance Company of Tanzania Limited. P.O.Box 10234, Kampala Amani Place, 9th Floor, Ohio Street BURUNDI +256414311701, P.O Box 20524, Dar Es Salaam jicug@jubileeuganda.com T: +255 22 2110176/80 HEAD OFFICE E: life@jubileetanzania.com Jubilee Insurance Company of Burundi AGENCY OFFICES 8, Chaussée du Prince Louis Rwagasore, BRANCHES Boite Postale 2290 Bujumbura MBARARA T: +257 2227 5820/21/22 Plot 4, Mbarara City Mall, 2nd Floor Room 28, Buremba Road QUALITY CENTER jic@jubileeburundi.com T: 0392-175-439 Plot No.25 Nyerere Road T: +255 22 2862124 JINJA E: jicqc@jubileetanzania.com Plot 82, Arcade 82, 1st Floor Room 23, Main Street T: 0430-122-369 122 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 Behind Our Smiles... Knowing that we own a company that is well governed, corruption free and one that Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 cares for the community 123 NOTES 124 Jubilee Holdings Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2017 Behind My Smile... Is knowing that my grand children are covered and are Policy. Thanks to the Jubilee Insurance Pension Plan Betty Temba Customer www.jubileeinsurance.com
