COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT YEAR: 2017/2018 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD Message from our CEO To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd continues to support the implementation and adherence of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This year marks our fourth year as members of the UN Global Compact initiative. We remain committed to entrenching the principles of the United Nations Global Compact in all that we do as a company and ensure we operate in an inclusive and sustainable manner. As we submit our fourth annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Prasanta Das Sarma CEO, Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd 2 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD Company Name: Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Sector: Telecommunication sector Number of employees: 129 UN Global Compact Signatory Since: 7th August 2014 Contact Person: Joy Nyaga Address: Parkside Towers, Mombasa Road, P.O. Box 73146 00200, Nairobi Kenya Email: joy.nyaga@ke.airtel.com Phone: +254 733 750 177 3 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD Who we are We are part of Bharti Airtel Limited, a leading global telecommunications company with operations in 16 countries across Asia and Africa. Headquartered in New Delhi, India, the company ranks amongst the top 3 mobile service providers globally in terms of subscribers. In India, the company’s product offerings include 2G, 3G and 4G wireless services, mobile commerce, fixed line services, high speed home broadband, DTH, enterprise services including national & international long distance services to carriers. In the rest of the geographies, it offers 2G, 3G, 4G wireless services and mobile commerce. Bharti Airtel had over 456 million customers across its operations at the end of June 2018. What we do AAirtel has been operating in Kenya since 2010, going from strength to strength while maintaining and evolving its strong customer values and competitive services. In Kenya, we are the second largest telecommunication operator offering mobile services on 2G, 3G and 4G wireless service, telemedia service, mobile commerce and Airtel business for our enterprise consumers. Some of our products and things we do include •  Bob:  Bob is a new and exciting tariff that offers Airtel’s prepaid customers calls for  shillings per minute across all networks. This new tariff with a  per cent saving from current on-net and off-net calls, without any conditions, allows Airtel customers to enjoy making calls for a longer duration. The pacesetter tariff is set to give Kenyans from all cadres of life, access to affordable communication services and ensure that they are well connected with their families and friends. • Tubonge: In the wake of new technologies making life simpler and much easier, we launched an exciting voice product that is set to simplify the lives of consumers by offering more for less. The new product dubbed ‘Tubonge’ targets Kenyans from all walks of life that rely on making calls as their preferred mode of communication. The launch of Tubonge continues to stamp Airtel’s commitment to offer innovative and value for money products and services to its customers. • Amazing Data Bundles: This is a new data product that allows consumers to enjoy super-fast speeds at affordable rates. The new product offers a wide array of choices such as MB data for Kshs. with validity of hrs and up to Kshs. , for GB data with  days validity. The data bundle offerings are set to cater for the needs of various users from low data users to heavy data users. WACHA NIKUPIGIE NA CALL FOR AIRTEL TUBONGE 2BOB Dial *544# KENYA’S K MOST GET DOUBLE DATA AFFORDABLE A WITH AMAZING NETWORK MONTHLY BUNDLES Dial *544# 4G G PER MINUTE TO FREE ALL NETWORKS NO CONDITIONS. CALLS on Airtel to Airtel &to other 2 BOB networks Existing Airtel customers will dial *544*2# Dial *544# #WachaNikupigie Get personalised 24 hour online support on airtel kenya @airtel_ke Customer Care 100 THE SMARTPHONE NETWORK T & Cs Apply • M-Fanisi: M-Fanisi is a mobile based bank account that is available to Airtel Money registered customers. The product bundles Loans, Savings and Fixed deposit options in the initial offer. ‘M-Fanisi’, targets Kenyans from all walks of life who would like to have quick easy access to loans. This product is set to offer customers the ability to access funds from the convenience of their phones as well as nurture a savings culture that will give them good returns. 4 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD • Unliminet: This is a unique and exciting product that continues to offer our customers the peace of mind and freedom to talk and remain connected to their world through the internet. The product is destined to offer customers the convenience and freedom to make unlimited connections to their professional, family and social networks wherever they are. • Airtel Money: With Airtel Money, the company provides e-commerce solutions including online payments, online banking, utility bill payments for electricity, DSTV, and water. Airtel has continued to increase its Airtel Money Active Agent base in Kenya which stands at , in a bid to enhance customer reach and satisfaction. With the upgraded Airtel Money system customers are able to access real time payments processing services across multiple access channels. • Airtel Money VISA Card: This is a card that has changed how customers shop allowing them to pay for goods and services at all VISA accepted merchants. The card has also allowed customers to withdraw money from their Airtel Money accounts from VISA ATMs instead of joining a queue at the agent’s counter to withdraw their money. • Mobile Virtual Network Operators (MVNO): Airtel continues to host some of the country’s Mobile Virtual Network Operators, (MVNOs) on our network. They include: • Equity Bank, through its subsidiary Finserve Africa Limited (Equitel) This MVNO operates on our network infrastructure to provide mobile phone services to its customers. • Investments in Kenya: Airtel Kenya remains committed to the Kenya market as we continue to deliver quality and affordable products and services, enhancing our network to ensure effective communication is achieved by our customers across the country. Over the past year, Airtel’s investment plan has seen the upgrade of our network with the roll out of G and G sites as well as the launch of our G network. We have also introduced new and exciting voice and data services, expanded our shops distribution across the country, and enhanced our brand equity. We continue to invest greatly in customer service quality improvement, staff training programs and community development programs across the country. 5 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD Our Mission At Airtel, we provide globally admired technology and services to give Africa an easy and dependable way to connect to the world. We bring everything internet to everyone. Our Vision Connected people are inspired people. We connect Africa’s people to each other, empowering them to create opportunities, dream big and live well. Our Values • Alive We act with passion, energy and a can-do attitude. Innovation and an entrepreneurial spirit drives us • Inclusive We champion diversity. We anticipate, adapt and deliver solutions that enrich the lives of the communities we serve. • Respectful We share the joy and pain of our customer. We act with humility and are always open and honest. Scope of this COP This COP report covers our operational internal processes in relation to our customers, our staff, our suppliers and our community in adhering to the four main areas of the UN Global Compact: Human rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption for the financial period 2017-2018. 6 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD Airtel at a glance 100% Staff to receive at least 2 trainings by March 2019 300,000 Students benefitted from our free Airtel internet for schools initiative 7 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD Human Rights Our Commitment Airtel as a company is committed to family-friendly policies that provide employees with a safe and conducive working environment in line with the international human rights as well as adequate resources to perform optimally in their roles. These policies are aligned to the employment act to ensure full compliance with the law. A brief description of our Processes or System • The company has an able HR team which ensures that the rights of its employees and stakeholders are adhered to and none is violated. These policies are made clear to the employees through the company’s handbook. • We have  annual leave days per year to all employees to enable them to have ample rest as required and are approved by respective line manager,  days compassionate leave for employees who are bereaved in their immediate family and those who are planning their wedding • Maternity/paternity leave: We also offer female employees () three months maternity leave with full pay in addition to their annual leave entitlement while male employees are entitled to two () weeks paternity leave • Compassionate leave: Our staff are granted off days when there is a death in the immediate family ( working days) and also when then are getting married ( working days) • We have the role of Head of security, who is in charge of overall security, critical updates to staff, health and safety training and also a security policy that is updated annually and published in public for all staff to see and be informed • All employees who have any physical or hearing disability which could affect either their speed or ease with which they leave the building are aided by other employees • The company also advocates for clean desk policy where all employees are expected to keep their working areas are clean at all times to reduce risk on fire or other safety hazards and also for aesthetic value at the work place. This is governed by our clean desk policy 8 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD • We provide a cafeteria with subsidized meals for staff and lunch space per floor for the employees to enjoy their lunch break. This space is equipped with a fridge and a microwave for their use • We have well-articulated policies that govern the employee employer relationship. These are well within the reach of employees as each is handed a printed copy of the handbook upon joining Activities we implemented in the last year • We implemented the clean desk policy to all staff to ensure that they maintain a clean and environment friendly desk • Repackaged our SIM cards to remove plastic bags in compliance to the new regulation • Published our Security policy on each floor as well as the evacuation plan for employees and public awareness • Installation of intrusion alarm systems in all our Base Transmission Station (BTS) in the fields • Deployment of armed Police officers for employees safety including armed escort into markets or areas where their safety is of concern • Promotion of employees’ expressions and concerns through an online survey to the HR department on a quarterly basis • Compliance and Renewal of work place licenses both internal and external Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company • The Head of Security must submit audited safety reports to the Ministry of labour every two years • At least one fire drill must be executed in a year to inculcate a culture of safety awareness to all employees • Tracking of leave accrual per staff member by HR and ensuring approved annual leave plans are in place so that employees commit to going on leave Activities planned for next year • Launch of a formal sexual harassment policy • Wellness week at least once a year to create awareness on pertinent health issues. • A good medical cover for all staﬀ to ensure they are well catered for 9 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD Labour Rights Our Commitment The company is committed to employee policies that are in adherence to the labour laws of Kenya, International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions and other International Standards, eliminating all forms of labour malpractices and also enforcing a culture of Airtel being an equal opportunity employer in support to a zero tolerance attitude in respect to employment and occupation. This is line with SDG 8 that highlights on decent work and Economic growth. Airtel seeks to protect the labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all its employees. Airtel as a company states clearly that no staff shall be discriminated against due to sex, race, color, political opinion, HIV status and beliefs. The company states clearly that each role will have a job description that outlines the scope and mandate of the role holder. A brief description of our Processes or Systems • One of our core values in Respectful – We share the joy and pain of our customers. We act with humility and are always open and honest • We advocate the standard working hours for Airtel employees to be  hours a week and lunch break of  hour except those working on shift programs • We have transparent disciplinary process that gives either party freedom to air their grievance before a final decision is taken be it a gross misconduct or a general misconduct • The recruitment process is structured and has a documented policy which strives to maintain diversity through gender, skills, race, values, attributes, and characteristics while offering equal opportunity to all potential candidates. We extend the same quality of selection to our vendors and partners 10 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD • We don’t recruit persons under the age of  years since it’s a violation of children rights and we extend it to our vendors and partners and at the same time we strongly advocate for the abolition of child labour • We have zero tolerance on fraud and this is clearly articulated to staff through annual Code of Conduct refresher training • We have a learning and development policy where Airtel recognizes that employees are its most valued asset and commit itself to the best of its ability to provide an opportunity for continuous learning and professional growth towards organizational effectiveness Activities implemented in the last year • Employee Communication Forum – where all employees gathered to reaffirm commitment to the company strategy and set targets • Our commitment of at least  trainings per year per staff which falls under our Learning and Development Policy for the employee which supports growth of high potential employees with the aim of preparing them for senior management jobs in the future • Quarterly staff town halls to keep employees informed on our progress against set targets Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company • Our Senior Management commitment demonstrated in: Rewarding performance and desired behavior in line with re-launched Company values – Launch of the Kudos card which is designed as a tool for giving feedback on employees’ performance as a way of embodying the company’s core values • Continued review of our processes and systems to ensure a conducive working environment Activities planned for next year • Enforcement of rigour and discipline in our work ways • Refresher training for all staff on our E-learning platform • Enforcement on leave management to ensure work life balance 11 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD Environment Our Commitment As a company, we are committed in ensuring that we operate and take initiatives that will promote our company as environmentally responsible and a company that embraces environmentally friendly technologies in its businesses. Activities implemented in the last year • Towards supporting going green (environment), we are no longer doing manual/hard copies of contracting note for approvals documents this has been replaced with online contracting note for approvals documents that are approved online as well by the designated stakeholders • We phased out the traditional tendering process and we are now on e-sourcing for all our sourcing activities. The e-sourcing technology has immensely facilitated the sourcing process • Commitment by our suppliers to annually sign the Bharti Code of conduct • Compliance of statutory requirement Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company • The advanced shipping module in our e-sourcing system has created visibility of the logistics process where clearing documents are processed online, including the amount of duty to be paid. Cost reduction on paying excess demurrage cost due to clearance delays and improve on our clearing turnaround • Operationalizing our supply chain system has promoted efficiency, speed, control and transparency of the process • Employees’ feedback on the safe environment at the working place Activities planned for next year • Continued enhancement of our processes and systems to ensure ease of our engagement with our stakeholders both internal and external that will improve on efficiency and productivity. 12 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD Anti-corruption Our Commitment Airtel Networks Management is committed to ensuring a corruption free environment. Corruption is fought at three levels through: • Nurturing a culture of compliance Through Compliance awareness/training, compliance checks, reporting and corrective action for breaches • Ethics Management setting the tone at the top by driving the ethics message; and • Integrity As embedded in our Code of Conduct and other policies. Policy and Practices Integrity • The Code of Conduct summarizes the key ethics principle that guides our dealings with each other as employees, with vendors and other key stakeholders. • More importantly for the company is the leadership commitment and zero tolerance to the failure to adhere to the policies laid out in the Code of Conduct. The process the Disciplinary Committee follows regarding employee misconduct: • The Reporting manager or accused staff presents their case and a HR representative ensures that due process is followed by all parties. Protection and a fair hearing is accorded to everyone involved. • Representation from the Legal department ensures that the proceedings are well documented and approved by all involved. The accused staff is also allowed representation at the hearing by a fellow staff member to ensure they get a fair and transparent hearing. • An unbiased party is appointed as a Chairperson who moderates and makes the final decision following consultations with all panel members Communication from Senior Management Airtel senior management set the tone at the top through verbal and non-verbal communication to all staff. This is through recognizing employees embodying correct ethical culture. We have embedded an ethics culture by cascading Key Performance Indicator around Compliance for all Managers. This ensures a direct linkage between compliance and compensation and encourages compliance. 13 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD A brief description of our Processes or System In line with the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Framework, our key processes revolve around Prevention, Detection and Response. The tenets of this framework include the below. • Governance Through Internal Audit Committee/ Governance oversight, reporting on initiatives and efforts for adequate fraud/ corruption risk management. • Risk Assessments Having resources and skilled risk assessment champions such as the Compliance Managers to undertake regular assessments to uncover any control gaps. • Policies and procedures Developing and communicating policies that address AntiBribery and Corruption as well as fraud and misconduct. • Communication and Training Ensuring all staff including key vendors and outsourced staff are trained on Code of Conduct and Ethics. Undertaking induction training on all new staff on the key ethics policies and procedures • Response strategy response and investigative procedures Reporting any incidents to Fraud and Investigation teams and instituting relevant procedures for disciplinary in instances where necessary. Activities implemented in the last year w Employee annual code of conduct certification sign off w Implementation of various Governance Workways including roll out of new KYC regulations as per Government directive w Introduction of Compliance KRA’s (Key Result Areas) to be appraised as part of performance, in order to embed compliance in day to day operations w Training of our sales agents and field staff on the various compliance measures instituted w Vendors annual signoff of compliance to code of business w Inclusion of Ethics and Compliance processes in on boarding of all new employees Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company w Reduction in Customer Resolution timelines w Ethics and values measures; the company issued warning letters to employees found in contravention of code of conduct w Increased awareness of compliance as a result of tying Compliance Key Result Areas to Performance appraisals and subsequent compensation benefits Activities planned for next year w Annual Employee Signing of Code of Conduct w Annual Vendor Code of Business Ethics signoff w Continued Governance meetings and Workshops with Vendors 14 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? We intend to communicate to all our stakeholders through: w Upload the COP report on our official Airtel website w Communicate to our customers and media stakeholders through email 15 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD Donations, awards As Airtel Kenya we want to be known and recognized as a socially responsible company a good corporate citizen amongst our stakeholders. We want our employees to be energized and motivated through opportunities to be involved in CSR projects in the community around us. The company through The Airtel Spirit tries as much as possible to impact the community through the following: Education Through our initiatives on education we seek to address SDG Goal 4 on Quality Education that strives to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. Airtel champions adoption of internet use in Kisumu County In its continued show of commitment to enhancing the lives of its customers through technological solutions, Airtel Kenya in partnership with Computers for Schools Kenya and the County government of Kisumu, launched it’s Free Internet for Schools Programme in Kisumu; having provided free internet connectivity to 30 schools. The launch was presided over by the Kisumu County Executive for ICT, Education and Human Resource Development, Dr. Obiero Ogone among other county officials. Officially launched in 2014, this flagship program that seeks to provide internet access to students thus allowing them to gather meaningful information that will aid in their learning, has seen the lives of over 250,000 students over 300 schools in 36 counties in Kenya impacted. The Kisumu launch follows a series of others done in Nairobi, Machakos, Kiambu and Kisii counties. With an intended target of reaching 1 million students across the country, the 30 schools in Kisumu add to the list of over 300 schools and 250,000 students that have been impacted by the Airtel FREE Internet for Schools program in 36 counties in Kenya. Airtel also continues to work with other partners such as The Global Peace Foundation (GPF) to provide free internet connection to over 60 Hubs located in schools around the country. The high speed broadband access for the hubs guarantees teachers and students limitless new educational opportunities. The Hubs in schools serve as ICT Centres for teachers, students and the wider communities around the hubs. From left, Airtel’s Zonal Sales Manager, Richard Onditi, Dr. Obiero Ogone Kisumu County Executive for ICT, Education and HR Development, CFSK’s Miriam Ndavi and Joseph Oliech during the launch 16 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD Airtel partners with Junior Achievement Kenya to empower students during the 2018 Job Shadow Program A group photo of the Kariobangi North Girls School after a successful JA Job Shadow day. Airtel Kenya in its continued partnership with Junior Achievement (JA) Kenya hosted girls from Kariobangi North Secondary School for a day of fun, laughter and learning during the 2018 Junior Achievement Job Shadow Program. The school was represented by students from the form 1, 2 and 3 classes and were keen on learning about Airtel’s operations with a view of choosing the various career options that the company has. Junior Achievement Kenya is the country’s largest and fastest growing non-profit organization with a mission of inspiring and preparing young people to succeed in a global economy. They do this by providing key hands on experiential programs that equip the youth with these skills to succeed in work and life. Through Junior Achievement students across the country are taught on entrepreneurship, financial literacy and work readiness. Airtel has been in partnership with Junior Achievement from 2015 having agreed to offer support for youth inventions and innovations through business and economic education mentorship programs. Through the Job Shadow program, students have an opportunity to have a hands-on experience of their future careers. The students experience a ‘working day’ where they shadow an employee within the firm for the whole day. Job shadow creates a critical link between education and the workplace and inspires the students to want to be successful in work and life. The overall goal is to inspire the students to work hard so as to fulfill their dreams. Employee Volunteerism The Airtel Spirit encourages a selfless giving of time on both an individual and at a corporate level. Airtel employees have taken time oﬀ their busy schedules to attend CSR activities such as Free Internet connection in various schools across the country as well as mentorship programs in some of the schools. Their involvement revolves around identifying schools to be connected to Airtel Free Internet for Schools Program, Network team confirming the availability of network and regional team being involved in the launch as well as follow ups with the schools already connected. 80% of the employees have been involved in various CSR initiatives across the country for the past one year. 17 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD Mentorship Airtel staff address peer pressure during mentorship program. Peer pressure and behavioral change among high school students has been known to have both harmful and effective outcomes depending on the degree of the said influence. It is on this premise that the Airtel staff, as part of their ongoing mentorship program, took time off to interact with the students at St. Michael’s secondary school which is located at the Mukuru Promotion Centre. The staff met with over 100 students in Form one and two to discuss the positive and negative effects of peer pressure as well address other pertinent issues affecting the students such as alcohol and substance abuse, mental health and career choices. Launched in October 2014, the Airtel Mentorship Program continues to achieve its mandate of encouraging and supporting children on their education journey and to help them become better people in the society by offering personal experiences of success and guidance on how to handle various challenges as well as choose careers that they are passionate about. With increased responsibilities for students in high school including studying, taking part in extracurricular activities as well as helping at home, peer pressure can definitely add to this immense load. As a result students tend to feel overwhelmed and highly stressed as they feel that a lot is expected of them. Such stresses have led to young people suffering from depression and anxiety which has resulted in many taking their lives. Statistics from the 2012 World Health Organization report indicate that the average rate of suicide in Kenya stands at 10.8./100,000, with males contributing a higher number than females and the group of people experiencing a rising trend of suicide cases being the police and students. Students tend to commit suicide because of dismal performance in school, relationship troubles, substance abuse and stress. The Airtel team takes a photo with some of the students at There was fun and laughter during the mentorship session at St Michael’s Secondary School following the mentorship program. St. Michael’s Secondary School. During the mentorship session, the students got to learn on the negative and positive impact of peer pressure and how these can affect their behavior. The session also included an opportunity for the students to ask questions on how to excel in their studies, how to handle unfavourable environment at home and how to choose their future careers. The Airtel team was delighted to be able to impact the lives of the students by sharing their experiences, successes and life lessons. The team also encouraged the students to seek out their teachers, counsellors and/or mentors to talk about their feelings and struggles in order to lead healthy lives. Mukuru Promotion Centre is incorporated as a Charitable Trust that started operations in 1985 as a collaborative effort between the Sisters of Mercy, and the Missionaries of Africa in Our lady Queen of Peace Parish, Nairobi South B. The Centre in conjunction with the Mukuru community aims to establish and operate a holistic and sustainable health, educational and social development program which addresses the basic needs of the most vulnerable in the community. The Centre is located near the Mukuru slum which is home to over 600,000 people who live in abject poverty with a majority of the population being uneducated and jobless. Currently the Mukuru Promotion Centre runs various projects including four primary schools for over 5,000 children, a secondary school, a rehabilitation centre for up to 60 street boys, a medical clinic with a HIV/AIDS testing centre attached, a community based health care program, a skills training centre for over 100 students, and a sponsorship programme to secondary schools for more than 200 children. 18 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD Health A healthy Nation is a progressive Nation and Airtel Kenya shares the same belief. Airtel Kenya in its commitment to provide wellness and health care provision to communities has been witnessed by the great eﬀorts exhibited in contributing to this important course of life. Airtel partners with Beyond Zero Initiative to drive attainment of Universal Health Coverage Airtel Kenya has partnered with the Beyond Zero initiative to accelerate achievement of Universal Health Coverage in the country. Airtel donated Kshs. 2.6 million towards the first “Free Medical Safari”, held in Narok County which saw the residents of Narok and its environs access specialized services such as fistula repair surgeries, cancer screening, eye care for the elderly as well as orthopaedic clinic and screening for heart diseases in children. Universal Health Coverage (UHC), according to the World Health Organization is aimed at ensuring that people from all walks of life get to receive the health services they need without suffering financial hardship. Kenya’s UHC programme seeks to focus on preventable and primary health care whilst reducing high out-of-pocket expenditure for Kenyans whilst seeking medical services. Areas of great concern also include reproductive, maternal, neonatal, child and adolescent health care. One of the key issues being addressed at the medical safari is obstetric fistula, which is a medical condition that affects poor rural women and girls across the continent. It presents itself as a hole in the birth canal as a result of childbirth. This can be between vagina and rectum, ureter or bladder, which leads to uncontrolled, continuous leakage of urine and/or faecal matter. It is estimated that there are over 1, 000 new cases of obstetric fistula every year in Kenya whereas there are only 10 health facilities across the country that have the capacity to repair fistula and only 7.5% of women suffering from this scourge that can access treatment for the same. Women who experience fistula are ostracized and disowned by their families and communities. Most of them face shame and isolation and social segregation. Airtel’s contribution was towards the fistula repair surgeries for the women in Narok that was undertaken by AMREF. Airtel also offered free SMS broadcasts that will educate the communities on the causes of fistula, how to prevent it as well as where to seek medical care for the same. The communication campaign also sought to demystify the disease in order to stop the stigmatization of the affected in the community. In 2015, Airtel donated a mobile clinic worth Kshs 10 million to support the Beyond Zero campaign which aims to reduce high rates of maternal and child mortality in Kenya. Airtel has also supported the Beyond Zero Campaign by sponsoring its employees and customers to participate in the First Lady’s half Marathon. Airtel continues to partner with various other partners such as the Kenya Red Cross, Computers for Schools Kenya and Global Peace Foundation to further enhance the lives of the communities which it interacts with through its CSR programs that focus on education, health, environmental conservation and youth empowerment. 19 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD Environment Airtel Kenya is committed in ensuring that it operates and takes initiatives that will promote the company as environmentally responsible and that embraces environmentally friendly technologies in its businesses. These initiatives include: Wildlife Community Conservation Airtel Kenya, donated two water tanks to two schools located around the Tsavo West National Park in Mtito Andei. This was in support of Project Ngulia’s Community Conservation Awareness project that seeks to involve the local community that resides around the Park in conservation awareness to reduce and completely eradicate poaching and illegal activities in the Park. The Airtel team presented the tanks to the schools’ administration during the handing over ceremony held at the two schools namely Matangini and Matulani Primary schools. The tanks are set to address the issue of lack of a sustainable water source and reliable water harvesting resources which have resulted in increased human wildlife conflict. The provision of access to clean water to the schools is also in line with our adherence to SDG Goal 6 that envisions the access of safe and affordable drinking water for all by 2030. In 2014, Airtel partnered with Project Ngulia to offer technological support by providing internet connectivity within the Ngulia Rhino Sanctuary which allows for smooth working of the smartphone based command, control and communications (C3) system that digitizes the workflow of the rangers in Ngulia. Later in 2015, Airtel, in conjunction with Nokia, significantly upgraded The Airtel and KWS team take a group photo with the students and teachers of Matangini primary school where Airtel also donated a water tank to help in addressing the issue of water scarcity in the school the nearest base station, which increased connectivity within the Ngulia Rhino Sanctuary to up to 90% coverage. Project Ngulia is a public-private partnership that develops innovative cost-efficient technology-based solutions, such as mobile apps and web dashboards, to assist Park management and rangers to monitor rhinos and combat poaching. Project Ngulia’s main partners at present are the Kolmården Wildlife Park, Linköping University in Sweden, and the Kenya Wildlife Service Airtel’s Senior Communication and CSR Executive, Marion Wambua with pupils and the head teacher of St. Michael Matulani Primary, Mr. Japheth Kyangu during the donation of water tank at the school in Mtito Andei (KWS) in Kenya. 20 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD Christmas Donations Airtel decks the halls of Angel Centre for Christmas A group photo of the Airtel team and the children and care givers at the Angels Centre for Abandoned Children. As the festive season kicked in, Airtel Kenya staff took time off their busy schedules to share the joy of Christmas with the little angels at the Angel Centre for Abandoned Children. The staff shared foodstuffs, clothing, gifts and lots of cheer with the children at the home. The employees also played with the children and fed the young ones. Angel Centre for Abandoned children is a non-governmental organization located in Waithaka. The home’s main aim is to take care of abandoned and orphaned babies aged 2 years and below. They provide the children with a favorable environment to grow and raising them as their own. The centre also includes finding capable adoption families that can take the children as their own so as to give room to bring in more children. • Airtel staff also visited other homes across the country including; • St. Thomas Barnados Children’s Home, Langata • SOS Children’s Home, Buru • St. Johns Eudes Rehabilitation Centre, Kitui • Mama Fatuma Children’s Home, Eastliegh • Open Gate Academy, Makutano • QK Children’s Home, Nakuru The Aitel team happy to be gifting the children at the Angel Centre for Abandoned Children during the festive season. 21 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD Awards Received Kenya Red Cross Volunteer AwardsHumanitarian/ Corporate Award 2017 Airtel Kenya, one of the leading telecommunications service provider, was awarded as winner in the Humanitarian/ Corporate Award 2017, at the annual Kenya Red Cross Volunteer Awards held at the Boma hotel. Airtel scooped the award for the 2nd year running. The awards are held in recognition of volunteers, institutions, artists, universities, celebrities, youth, the corporate sector and organizations that have shown exemplary service, continued support and contribution to Red Cross’ work of alleviating human suffering. This year’s awards marked the 3rd edition where the humanitarian body sort to appreciate everyone that has in one way or the other taken their time to support and help the vulnerable in the society. Airtel Kenya has over the years worked with the Kenya Red Cross to assist in disaster management. The most notable project that was undertaken by the two organizations was the Trilogy Emergency Response Application (TERA) which was launched in 2015. The first of its kind in Kenya, TERA offers disaster management information on disease outbreaks and other emergencies such as fires, floods and terrorist attacks. The innovative location-targeted SMS system sends texts containing disaster warnings, health advice and updates on emergency preparedness and responses to Airtel customers across the country through their mobile phones Airtel’s Marion Wambua showcasing Airtel’s wins during the at the touch of a button in cases of emergencies Kenya Red Cross Volunteer Awards. or outbreaks. The Annual Changemaker AwardsSpecial Jury Award During the 8th edition of the Changemaker awards held in Delhi India, Airtel Kenya was awarded the Special Jury Award under the ‘Community Transformation Award’. The award was in recognition of Airtel Kenya being the first and main distribution partner of Kukua, which is a start-up company leveraging new media and technology to enhance quality education across Sub-Saharan Africa. Kukua has developed and is now distributing a learning application called Sema Run that teaches children between the ages of 5-10 how to read, write and do basic math. The aim is to improve children literacy skills while playing an interactive mobile game. The project aims at reaching 2 million Airtel subscribers. 22 AIRTEL NETWORKS KENYA LTD 23
