OUR COMPETENCE 3 ABOUT US 3 OUR RESPONSIBILITY 3 CONTACT 3 U Read more Our Commitment about On the surface, there are simply too many signs of a disturbed, unfair Environment and imbalanced world. Looking back at the summer of 2018, it is a Risk, security and safe bet that future historians will point to increased tension and conflict between the mightiest powers. safety By Elisabeth Grieg, Chair of the Board Sustainable business practices They will probably write about the sad and self-centred efforts to Our People dismantle a century of progress toward an exchange of goods, services, culture and knowledge within the framework of shared and trusted global institutions. They are most certainly going to stress the critical Convert w ebpages or entire w ebsites to PDF PDFmyURL! signs of climate change acceleration towards a disastrous tipping-point, and I hope some of them will tell the cruel stories of pain and human suffering amongst vulnerable families running for their lives away from war, poverty and despair. It’s time to mobilize. Find inspiration, like the words of true leaders like President Barak Obama: «We have to get past the charity mindset. We’ve got to bring more resources to the forgotten pockets of the world through investment and Elisabeth Grieg, Chair of the Board at Grieg entrepreneurship, because there Star is talent everywhere in the world if given an opportunity» That’s how he challenged every one of us in his Nelson Mandela Lecture this summer. And I fully agree. It is time that our sound values and good intentions are fueled by wealth, skills and resources in the service every citizen in our common global village call Earth. Not for the sake of our own legacy, but to protect decades of steadfast human progress and to make sure we still can hope for a prosperous and peaceful common future. The private sector should see itself as a strong and obvious partner in this important endeavor. Every serious company knows they do not act in a bubble or a silo. We depend on our suppliers, partners and employees. We depend on our customers and politicians. If something changes how they operate, it will change our business climate. The Earth Convert w ebpages or entire w ebsites to PDF PDFmyURL! is one big ecosystem. Change one thing, and everyone will ultimately feel the change. Global connectivity and interdependence don’t care much about brick walls and isolationism. Some might like to fool themselves -or rather their voters – but the truth is that we’re in this together, no matter language, gender, religion or the colour of our skin. So, we better face the challenges together. In the Grieg Star Group, we have made our choice. Ten years ago, we committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Now it’s time to step up our commitment. We have spent serious time investigating potential connections between societal needs and our businesses. From this year on, we have made the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) a base for our business strategy. The Grieg Star Group shall be more than a supporter and advocate of the SDGs. Through the strengths of our core business and competency, we shall be an engaged and committed enabler of the goals. As a company, we have an obvious obligation to strengthen and grow our business. But our obligation to the larger society and our common future is of no less importance to us. The SDGs provides us with a roadmap. Pointing to the areas where mankind’s needs are most severe, current shortcomings most devastating, and actions most needed. From governments and citizens, but also from goods and services provided by the private sector. They encourage us in the Grieg Star Group to strive harder to save the life below water. To improve every aspect of our operations that could help reduce climate changes. To build a better logistic chain in support of economic and social development worldwide. Convert w ebpages or entire w ebsites to PDF PDFmyURL! (To offer better education to future colleagues and partners.) To never stop asking ourselves if there are inventions to be discovered, changes to be implemented or partnerships to be formed that could help in our joint efforts towards a fair, peaceful and sustainable future. That is our pledge. UN Global Compact Ecovadis Trident Alliance Rightship The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for companies dedicated to sustainable business development. Grieg Star Group committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in 2008, and strives to implement these principles in our strategies and operative work. It is imperative that these principles become embedded in the way we conduct our business and thus our corporate culture. We promote and use our influence to voice UN Global Compact’s principles and ideas, and report on progress by applying the Global Reporting Initiative as our reporting standard. DESIGN AND C OP YRIGHT BY GRIEG STAR USE OF C OOKIES We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By closing this message, you agree to our use of cookies. I accept On our use of cookies Convert w ebpages or entire w ebsites to PDF PDFmyURL! OUR COMPETENCE 3 ABOUT US 3 OUR RESPONSIBILITY 3 CONTACT 3 U Environment Grieg Star envisions a future where we have no harmful emissions to air, sea and land. The path to this future is long, but we are committed to walk the talk. Shipping – which transports about 90% of global goods – is, statistically, the least environmentally damaging mode of transport, taking its productive value into consideration. Still, the emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) from the shipping industry constitutes about 2,5% of global emissions, and shipping emissions are by some predicted to increase between 50% and 250% by 2050 depending on future economic and energy developments. We take this problem seriously, and work towards reducing the emissions from our operations significantly in the years to come. Our vision is to ultimately have no harmful emissions to air, sea and land. It is important to stress that this is not a zero emission vision. A zero emission scenario is not technically possible in the foreseeable future. The world will rely on use of hydrocarbons for years to come, but the level of such usage is possible to lower. Our vision is to not harm the environment in any way in the conduct of our business. Regardless of our strategy and goals, national and international agreements and regulations on environmental issues will be amended and set in force in the years to come. Our goal is to be in accordance with or exceed such regulations before their implementation dates W eb page converted to PDF w ith the PDFmyURL PDF creation API! Brown Boobies. Copyright: WWF Philippines Emissions to air W eb page converted to PDF w ith the PDFmyURL PDF creation API! Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Sulfur oxide (SOx) Nitrogen oxides (NOx) Particular matter When a vessel is burning one ton of fuel, approximately three tons of CO2 is released, due to the chemical reaction of burning. For Grieg Star it is important to reduce the fuel usage of our ships. In 2017 we used 1,420,000 litres of fuel oil, emitting 443,000 tons of CO2. Over the years we have implemented several measures to ensure such reductions, both technical and operational. Even if the 1997 Kyoto Protocol uses 1990 as a base year for CO2 emissions, we are not able to use the same. Our knowledge of our emissions expressed by EEOI (Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator) for 1990 is simply not available. We do, however, have good data from 2007 onwards, and have so far used this as our base year. We have valid reasons to assume that our emissions in the years from 1990 to 2007 did not grow. In that period our fleet changed dramatically in size, and engine and propeller technology as well as ship designs in general improved. We therefore assume that our 2007-levels are comparable or better than the world 1990-levels. Our goals should therefore be comparable or better than those of the various national and international governments and organisations. From 2007 to 2015, we reduced the EEOI by 19%. As the index is based on emissions per transported cargo weight, we saw a worsening of the numbers in 2016 and 2017. The low general market, and the fact that we transported more leigh weight, but volume intense cargo, saw our EEOI return to similar numbers as in 2008. Emissions to water Emissions to land Our vessels travel from one place on the earth to another all the As for most businesses our time. This makes it a possibility for us to take with us organisms operations create waste. from one ocean to another. The organisms may be brought We have, however, good W eb page converted to PDF w ith the PDFmyURL PDF creation API! there through our ballast water system or attached to our routines for handling such vessels’ hull. Such non-indigenous organisms may have harmful waste in a sustainable effects on the eco system in which they are brought into. manner. All waste onboard International bodies work hard to reduce such transferral of our ships is either organisms from one area of the earth to another, and several incinerated in special ovens regulations are or will be set in force. The International onboard, or brought to land Convention for the Control and Management of Ships’ Ballast for proper handling. Water and Sediments (BWM Convention) was adopted by Dunnage is properly sorted consensus at a Diplomatic Conference held at IMO Headquarters and recycled while in port. in London on 13 February 2004. The convention was been We do not use disposable ratified in 2016, and is planned to enter into force in 2017, even dunnage bags, but repair if there are some uncertainties connected to it. and reuse the bags to reduce waste. We have started installing the necessary equipment on our vessels, and aim to be in compliance in due time. Our offices all have proper waste handling, making Consumed fresh water is generally produced onboard or sure we send the waste for purchased where required. Estimated grey water per crew is recycling whenever this is 200 litres per day, approximately 50,000 litres per year. possible. Oil spill Grieg Star had no oil spills in 2017. W eb page converted to PDF w ith the PDFmyURL PDF creation API! Inventory of Hazardous Materials (IHM) Trident Alliance The IMO The Trident Alliance is a coalition of shipping owners and operators Guidelines on Ship Recycling of 2009 who share a common interest in introduced the IHM for ships. It was envisaged robust enforcement of maritime that this document, containing an inventory sulphur regulations and are willing to of all materials used in the construction of a collaborate to help bring it about. The ship that are potentially hazardous to human strengths and attributes of the different health or the environment, would accompany members and partners will be used to drive the ship throughout its working life. the various strategies identified to improve enforcement. All vessels in our fleet have the IHM/Green Passport. Changes of materials onboard listed Grieg Star is a member of the Trident alliance. on the inventory are registered in our Planned The threat of weak enforcement of sulphur Maintenance System (PMS) system. The IHM regulations is escalating. Responsible industry has recently been used when recycling ships, is taking the initiative to mitigate this threat, whereby hazardous materials have been in interest of the environment and human located and handled as specified in “Appendix health, as well as creating a level playing field 3, part 2, of the IMO Guidelines on ship for business. By speaking with a united voice recycling”. we have the greatest chance to bring about change. ISO 14001:2004 Grieg Star is ISO 14001:2004 certified. ISO 14001:2004 sets out the criteria for our environmental management system and maps out a framework that we follow to set up an effective environmental W eb page converted to PDF w ith the PDFmyURL PDF creation API! management system. We have started preparations for certification to ISO14001 – 2015. During 2017 we have carried out internal and external audits to verify compliance with ISM, ISPS, MLC and ISO 14001. All findings from these audits have been closed. DESIGN AND C OP YRIGHT BY GRIEG STAR USE OF C OOKIES We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By closing this message, you agree to our use of cookies. I accept On our use of cookies W eb page converted to PDF w ith the PDFmyURL PDF creation API! OUR COMPETENCE 3 ABOUT US 3 OUR RESPONSIBILITY 3 CONTACT 3 U  Sustainable business practices As a member of the Grieg Group, Grieg Star aims to be recognised by high standards for health and safety, environment and ethics. The objective of the ethical guidelines is to state the requirements for Our ethical principles business practice and personal behaviour. The target group is all 1. We will carry out our employees working for the Grieg Group, including the members of the business fairly, honestly Boards of each company and subsidiary of the Grieg Group. It is the and openly responsibility of all employees to understand and demonstrate these 2. We do not accept any principles. All relevant Norwegian and international laws and regulations form of discrimination of must be carefully observed. Personal and business conduct must be well employees or others within the intentions of the principles outlined below. The management involved in our activities in each of the companies has the overall responsibility to ensure that the 3. We do not accept any guidelines are observed and respected. Violations of the ethical guidelines form of corruption, nor will have consequences, and serious incidents may result in termination will we condone it taking place on our behalf so as of employment. The ethical guidelines are approved by the Board of to influence business. Directors in each company within the Grieg Group and apply from 4. We will avoid doing January 2013. business with others who The values shared by all Grieg Group companies shall be expressed in the do not accept our values W ith PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF! way business is conducted, in interaction with each other, and with and who may harm our reputation. customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. The values are: Open, Solid, 5. We shall be careful Proud and Committed. about giving and If an employee is concerned about a potential breach of any of the Grieg accepting gifts or other Group’s ethical principles, these concerns should be reported services. 6. We will keep clear and immediately. Individuals may report through the regular channels; to updated records of all their superior, or to their superior’s superior. All our employees may also business transactions report directly to the Grieg Group Whistle-blower Channel, a web-based made on behalf of the solution established by EY also covering anonymous reporting options. Grieg Group. The concern may also be raised to any member of the board of directors 7. We will avoid situations in each respective company within the Grieg Group. where personal interests may conflict with the Reporting of potential breaches of the ethical principles is considered interests of the Grieg loyal, and will be treated in a responsible manner. Whoever reports such Group. incidents will not experience any negative consequences. 8. We will treat all information, assets and property of the Grieg Group responsibly and professionally. Anti corruption W ith PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF! With its global presence, the shipping industry operates in environments particularly prone to corruption, countries with poor governance and legal frameworks, and ports in lack of structures and standard operating procedures. Corruption risks may range from small facilitation payments to bribes, extortion and trading in influence. The legal framework on anti-corruption is ever stricter and requires businesses to take action and work systematically to reduce risks. Grieg Star recognises the need to provide employees and third parties with clear ethical guidelines and regular support in tackling these challenges. Our leaders need to set the tone and demonstrate our commitment to high ethical standards. Similarly, our captains and crew need to be supported. They are in the front line when facing the challenge; pay or risk delay. On board our ships we state our no-corruption policy clearly to all visitors and officials. The message is communicated in five languages; English, Mandarin Chinese, Hindu, Arabic and Bahasa Indonesia. This message is also sent out to our agents. All All our vessels have clearly visible reported incidents of corruption are recorded, and whenever signs on board, communicating risk awareness and our strict noappropriate raised with agents and local port offices. corruption policy in five languages. W ith PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF! To fight corruption in the maritime industry, Grieg Star has joined the Maritime AntiCorruption Network (MACN), a global business network working for a maritime industry free of all types of corruption. MACN consists of a member-elected steering committee, several working groups, and the MACN member meetings. Members meet in-person at least twice a year, with more frequent interaction through working groups. Anti-corruption training workshops for the seafarers are conducted at bi-annual officers’ conferences and regularly at our manning office. Suppliers Code of Conduct Making sure vessels are equipped and attended to with all the necessary supplies and services at all times, is a complex task, involving suppliers across the world. With more than 400 suppliers, our main challenge is to influence them effectively. Grieg Stars’ supplier code of conduct was established in 2008, and went through a total revision in Download 2015, ensuring it is aligned with new expectations to businesses Supplier code of conduct and our own strategic approach to the supply chain. It 2017 represents an extension of our values, ethical guidelines and Grieg Star self assessment ISO14001 requirements. Through this code Grieg Star requires supplier W ith PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF! our suppliers and contractors to observe high ethical, Grieg Star self assessment environmental and social standards. supplier short version Grieg Star has a great number of suppliers and the inclusion of our Supplier Code of Conduct is currently focused on suppliers to vessels, which accounts for approximately 80% of our purchases. We have developed a self-assessment checklist to accompany the Supplier Code of Conduct. Suppliers are asked to fill in the self-assessment form, and to provide Grieg Star with feedback on their overall performance within all areas covered by the Supplier Code of Conduct. Human rights issues such as child labour, forced labour, discrimination and freedom of association are included in the assessment. The suppliers are also scrutinised whenever we performs a due diligence as part of our pre-qualification of supplier contracts. No frame agreement with suppliers to our vessels is concluded unless the Supplier Code of Conduct and checklist are completed and agreed upon, or the supplier have it’s own SSC. This is also standard practice within Incentra, a purchasing organisation where Grieg Star is member. DESIGN AND C OP YRIGHT BY GRIEG STAR USE OF C OOKIES We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By closing this message, you agree to our use of cookies. I accept W ith PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF! On our use of cookies W ith PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF! OUR COMPETENCE 3 ABOUT US 3 OUR RESPONSIBILITY 3 CONTACT 3 U Risk, Security and safety Risk Management Business continuity and emergency response Risk management is vital to protect the environment as well as our people, vessels, To be able to continue to conduct our cargo, equipment and business. January 1st operations and business in case of an incident, 2015 our new Quality Management Reporting emergency and business continuity plans are System (QMRS) was put into force. This a vital part of our governing documents. The includes Improvement Reporting and Audits & Emergency Preparedness Team convenes Inspections. whenever an incident occurs, and drills are carried out regularly both onshore and on As of January 1st 2016 the QMRS was board our vessels, to ensure our organisation expanded to include chartering, operation and is fit for purpose. We review the emergency anti-corruption reporting. Our Quality plans continuously, both as result of findings Manager and the QMS Steering Committee during drills and based on new knowledge. head this work. Risk assessments are always performed in accordance with governing documents in our W eb page converted to PDF w ith the PDFmyURL PDF creation API! Quality Management System. Safety The safety on our vessels is of our uttermost concern, and we have an ongoing focus on preparing our seafarers as well as stevedores and Total near miss visitors. reports Sometimes incidents This focus has given results, reducing injuries compared to previous years. happen without resulting The most objective measure of this is the Loss Time Injury Frequency in injuries. We record (LTIF), which measures the number of hours a seafarer is unable to work these as well, defined as due to injuries. Our LTIF went down in 2017, following measures being Near Misses. The Near implemented to avoid further increases after a increase the years before. Miss Reports rose to 192 As in the four previous years, we had no fatal accidents in 2017. Still in 2017 from 144 in accidents do happen, and we repatriated 10 seafarers due to injuries after 2016. Compared to accidents. We have taken measures to reduce this number. 4 seafarers previous years, the were sent home because of illness. number is high (2014: 96, 2013: 82). This is partly because of our focus on encouraging the crew to report. These reports make it easier for us to evaluate our W eb page converted to PDF w ith the PDFmyURL PDF creation API! procedures to prevent dangerous situations in the future. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Port State Control Rightship USCG Qualship 21 Port State Control (PSC) is Grieg Star is a member of The Norwegian Flag the inspection of ships in Rightship Administration (NMA) is at ports by PSC inspectors to (www.rightship.com), who present not in compliance control and verify that the performs Riskand with the USCG Qualship competency of the master Environmental Rating. criteria. The QUALSHIP 21 and officers on board, and Rightship inspects our program require that any the condition of the ship vessels, and report and flag state have a detention and its equipment comply grade our quality based on ratio less than 1.0% over a with the requirements of their findings. In 2016 3 years rolling period. The international conventions, Rightship changed their NOR/NIS fleet had a 3 years W eb page converted to PDF w ith the PDFmyURL PDF creation API! and further that the vessel rating system, making the average detention rate of is manned and operated in numbers for 2016 not 1,09% which disqualified compliance with applicable possible to compare with NIS vessels to apply for international law. previous ratings. Qualship21 renewal until flag state improves the During 2017 Grieg Star had The fleet average Risk detention ratio. Marshall 128 Port State Controls on Rating fell from 4.1 in 2016 Island Flagged Vessels met 33 vessels, showing on to 3.8 in 2017. the QUALSHIP21 average 0.47 deficiencies Our fleet’s emission rating requirements and therefore per inspection. This is down were as follows in 2017: qualified to apply for from 0.8 in 2016. renewal. However, all our We had two Port State vessels that have valid Control Inspection in 2017 Qualship21 certificate are which resulted in a enrolled in the program as detention. The deficiencies long as the certificate is were dealt with valid. immediately, and the shore As of 5th of April 2018 13 of and onboard management our vessels were certified. analysed the deficiencies for preventive measure and fleet experience transfer. DESIGN AND C OP YRIGHT BY GRIEG STAR USE OF C OOKIES W eb page Weconverted to PDF use cookies w ith the to ensure PDFmyURL that we give you creation PDFthe API! best experience on our website. By closing this message, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By closing this message, you agree to our use of cookies. I accept On our use of cookies W eb page converted to PDF w ith the PDFmyURL PDF creation API! OUR COMPETENCE 3 ABOUT US 3 OUR RESPONSIBILITY 3 CONTACT 3 U Read more: Our People Our Employees Grieg Star is a family owned company, with the fifth generation Griegs as Training its owners: Elisabeth Grieg, Camilla Grieg, Per Grieg Jr. and Elna-Kathrine Grieg. Indirectly the Grieg Foundation owns 25% of the shares. Per Grieg Competence, Sr. leads this benevolent foundation . gender and health To secure a continuing sound family owned business, a program to How we ensure the knowledge and commitment of the next generation has been communicate implemented. The Next Generation Program gathers the heirs of the four owners on a regular basis to educate and prepare them for a future shift of generation. Our Employees Our business success relies on the quality of our people and the work they all do. This requires highly specialised skills, dedication and a professional attitude combined with commercial awareness. Being able to build good relations with customers, business partners and colleagues is imperative for success. High-level formal education constitutes the basis for any critical competence in Grieg Star. All areas are manned with people educated at university level, spanning from finance, economy and law to PDFmyURL lets you convert a complete website to PDF automatically! engineers and social sciences. Today we have a good mix of recruits at post-graduate entry level and people with longer professional experience in addition. Other characteristics and personality traits are important above and beyond professional proficiency. In general we always need a sufficient amount of people who have a profound understanding of the nature of our business and our processes, are able to innovate and are open-minded in looking for new solutions, as well as curious and open for change. Krezl Sarigumba became in 2016 our first female officer In 2017 we had 107 employees in the shore organisation, of which 49% are females. 49 are employed at the headquarters in Norway, while the rest are located at the branch offices and our PDFmyURL lets you convert a complete website to PDF automatically! manning office in Manila. As a rule all staff are employed locally and hired on local terms. We have a very competent workforce with long service in the company. 31% of the workforce has been in the company for more than 10 years. The age distribution shows that we have a pool of talents with young people, and a group of people who will retire in the coming years, giving new opportunities for the young generation as people retire. Relying solely on the Philippines as the source for seafaring personnel, all our seafarers are hired through our manning office in Manila or recruited as cadets. The manning office adheres to Percentage of females international ILO conventions as well as the Maritime Labour on shore Convention in all its practices that affect the seafarers. The seafarers are per agreement contractual workers, but we see a lot of advantages by treating them as regular employees and strive to ensure a high retention rate. Ship officers have 6 months contracts, and receive stand by payment while on leave. Ratings apply for sailing periods of 9 months. All crew is voluntarily organised by international seafarers´ associations, and consequently covered by collective bargaining agreements and any other international rules and standards that apply. Retention rate We do not employ any children in our operations, nor accept PDFmyURL lets you convert a complete website to PDF automatically! that our suppliers do so. seafarers The number of sailing personnel is approximately 650 at any given time, of which 12 are female cadets or officers. We had 43 % females in the top management team in 2017. Among all managers 46% were female. The group’s Board of Directors currently consist of 60 % women and 40 % men. DESIGN AND C OP YRIGHT BY GRIEG STAR USE OF C OOKIES We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By closing this message, you agree to our use of cookies. I accept On our use of cookies PDFmyURL lets you convert a complete website to PDF automatically! OUR COMPETENCE 3 ABOUT US 3 OUR RESPONSIBILITY 3 CONTACT 3 U Training Read more: It is our aim to provide a working environment where our people will Our Employees thrive and develop by working together, and have the opportunity to Training combine formal education, on-the-job training and new challenges. We Competence, offer our employees a wide range of learning opportunities, which gender and includes both technical and non-technical skills training. health Managers are responsible for identifying training needs together with How we their employees through daily follow-up and annual employee dialogues. communicate We make use of internal and external classroom training covering a wide range of subjects, which our employees are invited to attend as part of their development. In 2016 we started using e-learning as a platform for self studies within a variety of topics. New employees go through a familiarisation program with introduction to the company and the duties of their position. In addition employees visit a ship and terminal as part of the introduction program to learn how the ships and terminals operate, as well as meeting the crew. As part of the knowledge sharing, we also organise events where employees are invited to attend and take part in discussions on subject PDF created w ith the PDFmyURL web to PDF API! matters of interest. With respect to our seafarers, education and T r ai ni ng par t i ci pant s i n 20 17 certificates are the basic formal requirements. The high level of technological specialisation onboard and the general complexity of ship operations combined with regulatory requirements make the demands on competence levels of crew increase. Grieg Star follows the Q ual i t y assessment s of international convention called Standards of Training, Certification and seafar er s 20 17 Watchkeeping (STCW) as well as other official requirements. In addition we have developed a set of tailor made courses and training programs in order to make sure that all the seafarers are able to handle the equipment they meet onboard our vessels, as well as obtain company specific skills. Competence development and training are vital to ensure operational and situational understanding and to build confidence. In 2017, 751 training participants were recorded. Some courses are mandatory for all seafarers, while others are specific to rank. In addition we have various quality assessments of seafarers. In total 530 seafarers went through such assessments in 2017. PDF created w ith the PDFmyURL web to PDF API! In 2016, much focus has been on leadership, management, communication and teamworking skills where 92 management level officers attended the Maritime Resource Management (MRM) training, a Par t i ci pant s i n MRM t r ai ni ng 20 16 course specifically targeted on how to lead people and manage resources better. The remaining management level officers are expected to take the training in 2017. They will be joined in by the operational level and petty officers, and later, the rest of the ratings. MRM has also been extended to the Technical and Maritime Superintendents (now Vessel Managers) and Grieg Philippines and Grieg Star Philippines employees. Thirteen employees from Bergen and five (5) from Manila have taken the MRM in 2016. More shore employees are targeted in 2017. The goal is to refresh our managers on best leadership and management practices, put everyone involved in ship management on the same page and speak the same language, enhance ship-shore and onboard communication routines, strengthen the organizational safety culture, and eventually PDF created w ith the PDFmyURL web to PDF API! bring down the number accidents and unwanted incidents closer to zero. Before going on board, all our seafarers have to complete the Pre Departure Orientation Seminar (PDOS) held in our offices in Manila. The seminar focuses on health, safety, security, discipline, procedures and regulations. Whenever appropriate this includes Officers’ workshop in the new premises of Grieg Philippines, February 2016 training, and prevention and risk-control regarding diseases. All vessels are conducting Safety Representative Working Environment Committee (SRWEC) meetings once a month. The company requires all officers to attend the NIS required SRWEC/PEC course. PDF created w ith the PDFmyURL web to PDF API! Through the SRWEC meetings the Shipboard Management has the opportunity for to give information to the Officers and Crew and getting feedback and suggestions in return. The SRWEC meetings are important forums where Officers and Crew can freely discuss and gain experience from each other. Areas like safety, security and working environment are in focus and we strongly believe that these meetings are important for rising consciousness with regards to these topics. The HSSEQ department makes monthly summaries based on all vessels inputs/feedback from the SRWEC reports and all Improvement reports that has been received each month. This is being distributed as experience transfer in our Quality Management Reporting System (QMRS). DESIGN AND C OP YRIGHT BY GRIEG STAR USE OF C OOKIES We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By closing this message, you agree to our use of cookies. I accept On our use of cookies PDF created w ith the PDFmyURL web to PDF API! OUR COMPETENCE 3 ABOUT US 3 OUR RESPONSIBILITY 3 CONTACT 3 U Developing competence from within Read more: Academic performance, good communication skills, personal suitability Our Employees and dedication are essential in selecting our future seafarers. Training In preparation for the future need of officers, cadets have been selected Competence, every year through the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association’s (NSA) gender and Philippines Cadet Program. Grieg Star, together with the NSA Philippines health Cadet Program, interviews and selects the students before they begin How we their education at one of the leading maritime universities in the communicate Philippines. For the past years, we have had an average of 75 cadets in our system per year. We also source cadets from our own seafarers, where the children or siblings of our sailing personnel, can apply for seagoing service in order to earn their certificates as licensed officers. One of the most important aspects to evaluate is the cadets’ ability to communicate. Further, we consider the ability to adapt to a life at sea, as well as inquiring about the cadets’ PDF created w ith the PDFmyURL web to PDF API! adaptability to teamwork versus individual work. It is also essential to evaluate the candidate’s level of realistic ambition and determination, in addition to the person’s physique as much of the work onboard can be physically challenging. The Grieg Star Cadets at UCML in Cebu, Philippines, February 2016 To ensure harmonious relations onboard, it is also important that the candidates we choose to embark on a journey with are from provinces all over the Philippines, to ensure a geographical spread of our seafarers onboard. The first years in the company are of great significance to obtain a good understanding of the company culture and operational procedures. An open dialogue to discuss the development of the cadets and the career path ahead of them is important to continuously evaluate the progress made. PDF created w ith the PDFmyURL web to PDF API! Gender and ethnicity equality Grieg Star does not accept discrimination in any form. This ensures all employees the same opportunities to personal and professional development, irrespective of gender, age, ethnical background, nationality or age. Discrimination shall be nonexistent when it comes to recruitment, advancement and remuneration. Our aim is to give all employees the possibility to reach their potential while increasing Grieg Star´s competitive edge and value creation. Si ck l eave on shor e We had no reports of any kind of discrimination in 2017. Health Grieg Star maintains an overview of sick leave in accordance with current laws and regulations. In 2017 the general sick PDF created w ith the PDFmyURL web to PDF API! leave for the global on-shore organisation was 1,6 %, including long and short term absence. Working environment committees oversees the company’s work on health and safety. Sick leave is reported and followed up on a continuous basis by the managers in cooperation with the employee and Human Resources Department. Safety and health video In 2015 Grieg Star took part of an industry-initiated survey, organised by Marine Benefits, called Project Re:fresh, focusing on the health and well-being of Filipino seafarers, in the areas of physical, psychological, social and spiritual well-being. To follow up this, and highlight safety procedures on board, an animated video was produced in 2016, and is now running non stop at our crewing agency’s office in Manila. The video is also used on board our vessels for new seafarers and visitors. The slogan of the video is “Work with safety – come home safely”. Posters stating the same is in process of being produced, and will be placed in common areas on board our vessels. DESIGN AND C OP YRIGHT BY GRIEG STAR USE OF C OOKIES We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By closing this message, you agree to our use of cookies. I accept On our use of cookies PDF created w ith the PDFmyURL web to PDF API! OUR COMPETENCE 3 ABOUT US 3 OUR RESPONSIBILITY 3 CONTACT 3 U Read more: How we communicate Our Employees Good communications is necessary to be able to run a sustainable, Training responsible and profitable company. Over the years Grieg Star has invested in several solutions to ensure good communications internally Competence, and externally. gender and health External communication systems How we Beside active usage of web site and social media, Grieg Star used several communicate digital services to interact with our customers, agents and other stakeholders. Through these systems we improve efficiency and accuracy, and reduce the amount of paper consumed and sent. Internal communication systems Our main service for internal communication is the intranet 130+ and the combined intranet and online portals Crewnet and Vesselnet. All systems provide extensive information and access to a wide variety of systems, reports and tools important in day-to-day operations. We continuously develop these and new systems according to need. W ith PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF! Our Open Meetings for our employees are held in Bergen at least four times a year. The annual Grieg Review, and open meeting for all employees in the Grieg Group is streamed live as well as made available for later viewing. QMRS Our existing Quality Management Reporting System (QMRS) was put into force January 1st 2015. Through this we are able to report and capture vital information regarding safety, quality and environmental matters. Video conferencing With partners and offices in many different countries as well as over 30 owned vessels, good solutions for talking to each other are vital. We have started to work on increasing the usage of electronic communication channels like Skype, Facetime and other video systems. In addition to improving the quality of day-to-day communication our goal is also to reduce travel cost and CO2 footprint, as well as bothersome travel. Vessel Support Centre IN the beginning of march 2018 we opened our Vessel Support Centre. The centre will be manned by three vessel managers, who will W ith PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF! be in direct contact with our masters and chiefs on a day to day basis. They will be able to chat, phone or have video calls with the ship wherever they are in the world. That means the vessels will be able to have a much broader competence base ready to support them if there is an issue onboard. Route planning tools are available for all and are easily The Vessel Support Centre makes it easier for the land organisation to help the discussed and monitored. Masters and crew onboard our vessels, using high end systems and video The centre will make it conferencing. easier to compare and share best practice between ships and people. Dashboards and machine learning make it possible to quickly identify deviations on everything from lube oil usage to valve pressures and fuel consumption. W ith PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF! On board internet access For most seafarers, contact with family and loved ones at home is one of the most important welfare concerns. To ensure such contact, all our ships are equipped with a system that gives our seafarers access to personal e-mail, unlimited SMS text messaging, social networking and browsing the Internet. Through 2017 we finished an upgrade to the internet connection onboard, giving the seafarers an even better access. Mobility To ensure flexibility, most land based employees are equipped with lap tops and mobile phones. This makes it possible for them to work from outside the office if needed, either for private or business reasons. They have access to all the same systems and communication channels when outside the office by using virtual private networks (VPN). DESIGN AND C OP YRIGHT BY GRIEG STAR USE OF C OOKIES We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By closing this message, you agree to our use of cookies. I accept On our use of cookies W ith PDFmyURL anyone can convert entire websites to PDF!
