Sustainable Growth in the Americas Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Our future is looking bright. We are positioned to deliver additional ounces at a competitive cost through organic expansion and there is still plenty more to come. 2017 highlights Adjusted EBITDA EPS of $301m $0.08 (2016: $329m) (2016: $0.11) Final dividend of AISC 1.965 ¢/share $12.3 /oz Ag Eq (2016: 1.38¢/share) (2016: $11.2/oz Ag Eq) Cash balance of Net debt of $257m $103m (31 Dec 2016: $140m) (31 Dec 2016: $187m) Gold production (attrib.) up 4% Silver production (attrib.) up 11% 254,930 oz 19.1 m oz (2016: 246,080oz) (2016: 17.3m oz) 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc Sustainability Our success brings responsibility 2017 was a year of strong performance in terms of community engagement and the environment, and one of a reinforced commitment to safety. 81% Workforce trained Our (2016: 89%) people Page 41 Managing our $5.6m environmental impact Our Safety Pages 38 & 39 Page 43 guiding Amount spent supporting social and community principles welfare activities (2016: $4.4m) Working with our Health & communities Hygiene Page 42 Page 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 37 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Governance of Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) The Board has ultimate responsibility for establishing Group policies relating to sustainability and the CSR Committee has been established with the responsibility of focusing on compliance and ensuring that appropriate systems and practices are in place. What is Hochschild Mining’s approach to sustainability? The Company has adopted a number of policies demonstrating our commitment to: ––a safe and healthy workplace; ––managing and minimising the environmental impact of our operations; and –– encouraging sustainability by respecting the communities of the localities in which we operate; all in compliance with applicable laws, regulation and the Company’s own standards. For further information on how we prioritise our resources and the Committee’s terms of reference, please visit www.hochschildmining.com/en/sustainability. Management of sustainability The Board has ultimate responsibility for establishing Group policies relating to sustainability and ensuring that appropriate standards are met. The CSR Committee has been established as a formal committee of the Board with delegated responsibility for various sustainability issues, focusing on compliance and ensuring that appropriate systems and practices are in place Group-wide to ensure the effective management of sustainability-related risks. As Chairman of the CSR Committee, Graham Birch has Board level responsibility for sustainability issues to whom the Vice President of Operations and the Vice President of Legal and Corporate Affairs report for sustainability issues. The CSR Committee’s work in 2017 During the year, the CSR Committee: ––considered the investigations into the fatal accidents during the year and monitored the implementation of corrective actions; ––approved the 2016 Sustainability Report for inclusion in the 2016 Annual Report; ––monitored the execution of the yearly plan in each of the four key areas of focus including progress updates; ––considered the priorities of the environmental team and their work plan; ––considered the status of the Group’s community initiatives; and ––reviewed the environmental and community relations related risks and related work plans. Given the exposure of the Group’s strategy to Sustainability Risks (comprising Health & Safety, Community Relations and Environmental risks), the full Board received regular presentations on how such risks are managed. Furthermore, the Board received presentations from management on the accidents that resulted in the fatalities during the year. Further details of these accidents can be found in the Safety section of this report. Reporting of targets and indicators As part of the Company’s ongoing strategy to make more information available online, detailed sustainability related performance indicators as well as targets for 2018 are available on the Company’s website. 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc Sustainability continued I am pleased to be able to introduce Hochschild’s Sustainability Report following my appointment as Chairman of the CSR Committee in May 2017.” strategy to meet our Zero Accident target. Corporate Objective (‘ECO’). The ECO Dear Shareholder Further details on the accidents are provided in score for the year, which is explained in the 2017 was a successful year from an the Safety section of this report. Environment section of the Report, was higher operational perspective as well as with than the most stretching target approved by the Our communities regards to the sheer number of Board, demonstrating an environmentally In 2017, we continued to promote community environmental and community initiatives conscious approach across the organisation. projects that fall within our chosen areas of that we were able to pursue. However, it The ECO score was incorporated as one of the focus; Education, Health and Socio-Economic is with great regret that the accident that corporate objectives and therefore eligible Development. These include smaller versions of we announced early last year was followed, employees will, justifiably, see some recognition the Digital Centre that was established in our in July, by a second accident at Arcata, for this impressive achievement. For further flagship Chalhuanca Project, which are being which claimed the lives of two drill workers. details, please see the final page of this report. installed, jointly with other commercial partners, These incidences brought to an end three in rural locations. We also supported schools, by I hope you will find this report informative. If consecutive years without any fatalities. not only facilitating innovative teaching methods you should have any questions or comments, The Company Chairman, in his statement but also by supplying lunch kits. This ensured please do not hesitate to contact me at earlier in this Report, conveyed the Board’s that children benefited from a healthy meal and sustainability@hocplc.com condolences to the families of those involved learnt the benefits of a balanced and nutritious which I wish to reiterate. The Board, and diet. Further details on these initiatives, as well as indeed, the CSR Committee are wholly those of our Argentinian operation, can be found Graham Birch committed to doing all we can to ensure in this report and on our website. Chairman, Corporate Social that safety comes first. For this reason, Responsibility Committee Our environment we wholeheartedly support management With regards to our environmental performance, I in the implementation of the Safety Culture am delighted to report on the success of the Transformation Plan. This is a multi-faceted inaugural year of the use of the Environmental Safety Given the inherently high risk Safety HOC profile of mining, safety is our The Hochschild Safety team has developed a tool highest priority. which compiles all safety findings in a database designed to aid risk management and generate 2017 highlights management reports. The tool has three modules with the planned ––Launch of the Safety Culture Transformation addition of the Accident Investigations and Plan following the fatal accidents during the Management Inspections modules. A version for year (see below for further details) installation as an app on a smartphone is in the ––Development of the internally-developed process of being developed. safety software tool, ‘Safety HOC’ (see opposite) The Hochschild approach to safety Mining has an inherently high risk profile and safety is our highest priority. Ensuring the safety of the Group’s employees is considered crucial in measuring the successful implementation of corporate strategy to which the Board and management are committed. Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 39 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Our achievements in 2017 January 2017: Inmaculada July 2017: Arcata ––Decisive steps taken in response to the fatal Overview: After the blasting of a stope, Overview: Two drill workers were overcome by accidents during the year (see below) contractors were instructed to apply shotcrete carbon monoxide fumes in the process of ––Restructuring of the emergency response to support the area. Inspections of the area were inspecting and clearing a stope. teams; resulting in operating efficiencies carried out some days after the blasting and The resulting investigation prompted the support work commenced. During this process, ––All operating units secured Level 6 certification following actions (among others): the ceiling collapsed, as a result of which two of the rating system issued by Det Norske ––reiterating compliance with the Company’s contractors sustained fatal injuries. Veritas GL (‘DNV’) (7th edition) safety protocols including the need to carry The investigation resulted in a number of actions back-up emergency equipment at all times; Accidents in 2017 being taken, including: After three consecutive years without any ––restructuring the emergency response teams fatalities, it is with regret that there were two ––reiterating compliance with the Company’s by converting the nature of the positions from fatal accidents over the course of 2017 which protocols on stope expansion and geotechnical voluntary to full-time positions; resulted in four fatalities. In this section of the support within prescribed timescales; ––enhancing the provision of detection report, we have summarised the details of each ––engagement of consultants for an immediate equipment; and incident and the remedial actions taken. audit of stopes, and ongoing monitoring; and ––reinforcing various protocols including the ––more frequent mine planning sessions with the mandatory use of air injection paths for access. participation of all technical departments. Response to 2017 Accidents Immediate Action Plan ––Increased safety supervision implemented ––Messaging from senior management on the ––Clinical psychologists recruited at all sites In light of the findings into non-negotiable zero tolerance to accidents the causes of the two serious ––Re-allocation of work between employees ––Safety top management leadership meetings on the basis that ‘expert workers are accidents during the year, a ––World-renowned consultancy, DuPont, safer workers’ programme comprising shortwere engaged to conduct a safety culture term actions and longer-term assessment with the participation of 750 actions, to be implemented over employees. Concluded that HOC had the three years, was put in place. potential to achieve industry-leading status Long-term Action Plan: The Safety Culture Transformation Plan Risk Management System (RMS) Leadership Programme ––Review Hochschild RMS and upgrade ––New safety committee with to latest DNV version 7.0 ISRS senior management involvement in the (International Safety Regulations System) review of potential high impact events ––External audit, by DNV, of RMS across all Lea ––Coaching programme for operations d operations completed in mid-February tem management team led by DuPont ––Review of all HOC protocols and Sys hip ––10-month leadership programme for procedures in process for completion ers mine supervisors by the end of 2018 ––Independent safety promoters have been hired at all mines HOC Plan n atio Tr nin nic mu ai g Co m Mines’ Annual Training Programme Safety Plan communications support ––Redesigned structure and content of ––Activities detailed herein, together weekly training sessions. Training with safety achievements and risks sessions for mine workers comprise communicated to all individuals through 3 modules of c. 5 hours per week in a corporate communication plan the areas of practical safe working, use of technology and safety leadership 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc Sustainability continued Health & Hygiene The work of Health & Hygiene is to provide an integrated approach to Family welfare event employee welfare. The Health & Hygiene team held the inaugural family welfare event in Arequipa aimed at 2017 highlights providing mineworkers’ families with support and advice. ––Participation in the design of the Safety The sessions provided families with the Cultural Transformation Plan opportunity to share their experiences. Medically ––Liaison with mining peers and trained staff gave presentations with advice on governmental authorities on new laws dealing with the pressures of shift-working on affecting health and safety at work family life. ––Holding of the inaugural family welfare event in Arequipa Given the nature of the work and the two-week Our achievements in 2017 ––Doubling the number of occupational shift patterns which result in frequent periods of The Health team, in collaboration with other psychologists to cater for the provision absence from families, the Group recognises the departments, including the Safety team, of counselling importance of ensuring the mental wellbeing of continued to go beyond its traditional area of its employees. For this reason, the Group’s prevention and sought to influence the way that The Hochschild approach Health & Hygiene teams are also trained in employees approach their tasks. to health and hygiene occupational psychology. Underlining the importance we place on our During the year: people and their wellbeing, the Group’s Health & Our Health & Hygiene teams undertake their ––senior members of the team participated Hygiene department is tasked with providing an work in line with the following guiding principles: in discussions with respect to new legal integrated approach to employee welfare. Whilst ––Prevention comes first requirements and provided training to the Health team is focused on ensuring that ––Maximising quality of life team members; employees have access to the relevant services ––a comprehensive programme aimed at ––Adopting measures for the long-term benefit and infrastructure to ensure that treatment can minimising, if not eradicating, exposure to of our people be provided, the Hygiene team looks to reinforce harmful levels of noise was implemented the importance of the quality of life at work ––Proactively identifying and controlling hazards during the year. This involved: through the prevention of occupational illness. at source ––the procurement of specialist monitoring ––Contributing to the continuous improvement equipment to gauge the level of exposure; in the Group’s Health & Safety culture ––the medical examination of workers at all operations; and ––the preparation of informational material highlighting the risks and encouraging the use of protective equipment which is readily available. Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 41 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Our people People indicators Hochschild Mining’s success relies on its people. Gender diversity statistics1 2017 2016 2015 2014 Number of employees 2017 highlights Male 3,849 3,859 3,492 3,468 ––Workforce trained: 81% (2016: 89%) Female 235 222 237 229 ––Workforce from local communities: 21% Number of senior managers2 (2016: 20%) Male 36 35 34 31 Female 1 1 2 2 The Hochschild approach Number of Board members to our people Male 7 8 8 8 Training and development Female 1 1 0 0 The quality of our people is key to the success of the business in achieving its strategic objectives 1 As at 31 December. and our ongoing objective is therefore to attract 2 Defined as those who qualify under the UK statutory definition of ‘senior manager’ as at 31 December. and retain high quality personnel. The Company’s Human Resource team seeks to achieve this by Activities in 2017 providing competitive remuneration, a positive The people-focused initiatives during the year working environment through the promotion of included the following: social and recreational activities, and ongoing professional development. Developing our people In light of the limited budgetary resources, Group values, labour relations training and development programmes were and human rights targeted on key technical areas. In Peru, Amongst the primary responsibilities of the managers from across the mining units Human Resources team is the clear participated in various technical and leadership communication of the Group’s corporate values: based courses. Integrity, Teamwork, Quality and Excellence, Responsibility and Commitment to our People. Managing our talent These values are embodied in our Code of The People Review process was undertaken Conduct which, amongst other things, sets out which maps talent within the organisation and our undertakings to treat all employees fairly and identifies key positions and succession plans. to respect the right to be free of harassment or Creating a better place to work and intimidation in the workplace. We recognise the Enhancing the Working Environment core labour rights principles and, in this respect, The Group continues to make use of an support the right to freedom of association and Organisational Climate Survey which has been collective bargaining. widely acknowledged as a key tool to measure Approximately 58% of our total workforce is levels of satisfaction amongst employees and to represented by a trade union or similar body. As identify opportunities for further development. a signatory of the Global Compact of the United At the end of the year, the Company initiated the Nations, Hochschild Mining respects the human 2017 Climate Survey. Its results will be used to rights of all of the Company’s stakeholders improve conditions in our mining units and including those of our employees, our administrative offices. Results will be reported on contractors and suppliers, as well as the in the 2018 Annual Report. members of our local communities. The Group continually reviews its offering of The importance placed by the Company on non-financial benefits which currently comprise human rights is reflected in the Group’s training flexible working hours for Head Office staff over programme which seeks to ensure that all the summer period and the holding of regular employees are aware of their rights and the social events. Company’s commitments. 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc Sustainability continued Working with our communities 2017 highlights Secondary education Argentina Hochschild has continued to support programmes The Group has also promoted, in conjunction ––Reviewed and updated strategies for that promote personal development and basic with its joint venture partner, a number of Community Relations and social support economic/business awareness to equip those in initiatives at its San Jose operation in Argentina. ––Using the Chalhuanca Project as a secondary education for their early adult years. These have included: blueprint, implemented smaller urban digital centres Over the course of 2017, we have collaborated ––scholarship opportunities; with over 500 secondary students and almost ––the training of students from the town of ––Continued support of causes located close 100 teachers across seven educational to the Group’s Argentinian joint venture Perito Moreno, located close to the mine, in establishments. the areas of drilling and explosives handling and Digital centres who were subsequently employed by the Our view of working with After the success of the Group’s flagship Group; and our communities Chalhuanca Project, Hochschild has worked with ––supporting local cultural causes, Through a long-standing collaboration, we have TECSUP, IDAT and CISCO, to establish digital including funding a local museum and its tailored our approach so that we interact with centres to promote online literacy. A training showcasing of the cave paintings from the each community by respecting their customs programme is being implemented in 2018 to Cueva de los Manos. and social dynamics. By doing so, the Community ensure that full advantage can be taken of the Relations team can focus on prioritising their For further information on the projects equipment provided. specific needs and hence the Group’s efforts and supported by the Group, please visit: its intervention strategies. Health http://www.hochschildmining.com/en/ Medico de Cabecera sustainability/case_studies Our achievements in 2017 (the Travelling Doctor programme) Further details of some of the high impact This programme enables the Group to bring a initiatives pursued during the year are mobile health service to those living in the most provided below. remote locations. Valued by the young and the old, the Travelling Doctor programme brings Education coverage that local state health services cannot Elementary education provide. In 2017 a total of 8,000 medical Contributing to the education of community attendances were facilitated. members living close to our operations has been an established part of our social support. Each Socio-economic development year we evaluate programmes and direct our Business networks efforts to those where we maximise value for This successful programme has seen over 250 students, teachers and parents. agricultural and livestock producers flourish in their trade. Having been established in 2013, In 2017, we decided to support extra-curricular with only 25 beneficiaries, there has been an activities which combined the teaching of impressive level of take-up of the support academic subjects with play. This was provided by the Group. The project was originally complemented by the delivery of lunch kits that set up with community members living close to will not only improve the provision of school the Inmaculada mine and, today, they are lunches but will also facilitate concentration suppliers to the mine’s catering contractors. during school hours and also teach children the importance of a well-balanced, nutritious diet. This year almost 300 students and over 60 teachers were supported across 11 schools. Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 43 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Managing our environmental impact We are committed to becoming Our achievements in 2017 a leader in sourcing minerals ––Year-on-year reductions in the number of Mission of the Environmental Team with the least environmental findings by the Peruvian environmental In order to achieve the Company’s environmental regulator falling steadily from 50 in 2014 mission, the Environmental team is committed to: footprint possible. to 7 in 2017 ––ensuring compliance with all legal and 2017 highlights ––2017 ECO score of 4.75, exceeding the most environmental regulations in place; stretching environmental performance target ––setting an annual environmental performance ––Exceeding target for our in-house designed set by the Board for 2017 of 3.5 (see box goal for all Company employees; corporate objective (see below) below on what this score reflects) ––requiring an efficient use of resources, aiming ––Continued focus on water management ––Launched integrated waste management for savings by implementing the best industrial and treatment across all operations service in collaboration with a specialist and mining practices, modern technologies and contractor which will incorporate the following: solid procedures for environmental The Hochschild approach to »» Integrated waste management plans across management and control; environmental management all operations ––requiring all Company employees to adopt Hochschild Mining is committed to being a »» Waste minimisation an environmentally conscious culture; leading global mining company in environmental »» On-site waste collection ––providing all Company employees with the performance, sourcing minerals with the least necessary resources and training to take »» Disposal of hazardous waste and sale environmental footprint possible. environmentally appropriate decisions; of marketable waste Hochschild recognises that environmental and »» Management of on-site waste facilities ––promoting innovative and forward thinking social responsibility extends beyond the life of our in the development and execution of new ––Overhaul of water treatment plants across all operations and as a result, mine closure plans are in concepts and designs related to environmental Peruvian operations place to restore areas where mining activity has management; and ceased and the Company operates a policy of ––requiring those that perform activities for progressively closing historic mine components. Hochschild Mining to abide by the Corporate During the year, a review of a number of these Environmental Policy. plans was undertaken with the support of internationally recognised consultants. Greenhouse gas emissions data1 (tonnes of CO2e) 2017 2 2016 2 2015 2014 Emissions from combustion of fuel and operation of facilities (tCO2e) 47,305 45,909 46,790 73,244 Emissions from purchased electricity (tCO2e) 94,249 88,646 78,163 69,933 Emissions intensity, per thousand ounces of total silver equivalent produced (CO2e/k oz)3 4.036 4,140 5,531 5,533 1 Method used based on ISO 14064-1 Standard and GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. 2 Includes data for the whole year for Ares, Arcata, Selene, Pallancata, Inmaculada, San Jose and office locations. 3 Total production includes 100% of all production, including that attributable to the joint venture partner at San Jose. Environmental Corporate The ECO score is used in the annual bonus ––Good environmental management measured Objective (‘ECO’ score) scorecard for all eligible employees and is on the basis of: based on measurable and transparent »» Water consumption per worker The ECO score was developed environmental metrics. The scorecard was »» Amount of non-recyclable waste generated in order to align all employees trialled in 2016 to create a baseline, and per worker with one common environmental therefore 2017 was the first year that a »» Proportion of recyclable/industrial waste target ECO score has been implemented. mission, thereby making everyone that is commercialised accountable for their actions. The ECO score is calculated by monitoring »» Corporate Performance Indicator performance across all operations and reflects which tracks the number of compliance each of the following: inspections that are passed with over 95% ––Zero tolerance to non-compliance with These KPIs are reported on a monthly basis by discharge limits and environmental incidents, each mining operation and communicated to all such as spillages Company employees. Through this monthly ––The number of observations received from publication, we try to foster healthy competition the environmental regulator in Peru amongst the mining units, an effort called Green Challenge or ‘Reto Verde’ in Spanish. Hochschild Mining plc 17 Cavendish Square London W1G 0PH United Kingdom +44 (0) 203 709 3260 info@hocplc.com www.hochschildmining.com
