ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Contents 2017 Nobia 2017 1 The year in figures 2 Nobia in brief 4 CEO’s comments Net sales Operating profit 6 Value creation 12,744 1,286 8 Trends 11 Strategy 12 Digital solutions 14 Targets and outcome SEK million SEK million Operations 16 Business overview 18 Nordic region 20 UK region 22 Central Europe region Operating cash flow Return on operating capital 706 31.5 Sustainability 24 A more sustainable life in the kitchen 26 Strategy that looks to the future 28 Our sustainability initiatives 31 Governance 32 Solutions for current and future needs SEK million per cent 33 Sustainabile choice of materials 34 Reduced climate impact 36 Responsible sourcing 37 Our employees 39 Business ethics and transparency Sales per region, % Sales per product, % Board of Director's Report 40 Financial overview Kitchen furnishings, 46 Risks and risk management such as cabinets and Nordic, 51 worktops, 73 Financial statements Other kitchen equip­50 Consolidated income statement, UK, 45 ment, installation and consolidated statement of comprehensive service, 21 income and comments Central Europe, 4 Joinery products, 5 54 Consolidated balance sheet Bathrooms, 1 and comments 56 Change in consolidated shareholders’ equity 57 Consolidated cash-flow statement and comments 58 Parent Company income statement, balance sheet and cash-flow statement 60 Notes Net sales Operating profit and operating margin 90 Reconciliation of alternative performance measures 92 Board of Directors’ assurance 93 Audit report SEK m SEK m % 15,000 1,500 15 Corporate governance and the Nobia share 96 Corporate Governance Report 102 Board of Directors 10,000 1,000 10 104 Group management 106 The Nobia share and shareholders 108 Five-year overview 5,000 500 5 109 Definitions – Key figures 111 Summary – Sustainability indicators 113 Annual General Meeting 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The audited annual report and consolidated financial statement can be found on pages 40–92.The Corporate Governance Report that has been audited by the auditors can be found on pages 96–101.The Sustainability Report that has been reviewed by the auditors can be found on pages 24–39. The kitchen on the front cover is Marbodal Viken. The year in figures 2017 in figures Highlights Net sales amounted to SEK 12,744 million (12,648). The German kitchen company Poggenpohl was Organic growth was 2 per cent (4). divested to the Adcuram Group. Operating profit amounted to SEK 1,286 million Nobia entered into the low-price segment for (1,298). consumers in the Nordic region with a ready-toProfit after tax was SEK 1,015 million (455). assemble product range. Operating cash flow amounted to SEK 706 million A new store concept for a more inspiring purchasing (1,031). experience with more digital content was introduced The Board of Directors proposes an ordinary at four new stores in three countries. dividend of SEK 3.50 per share (3.00) and an extra A new organisation was created to accelerate range dividend of SEK 3.50 per share (–). reductions and efficiency enhancements in production. A sustainability strategy was adopted with four focus areas in which Nobia can help make a positive change. Sigdal HTH Key ratios – Five-year overview 2013 20141) 20152) 2016 2017 Net sales, SEK m 11,773 11,411 12,266 12,648 12,744 Gross profit, SEK m 4,824 4,617 4,906 4,933 5,014 Gross margin, % 41.0 40.5 40.0 39.0 39.3 Operating profit, SEK m 654 878 1,189 1,298 1,286 Operating margin, % 5.6 7.7 9.7 10.3 10.1 Operating capital, SEK m 4,334 4,402 4,596 3,912 4,231 Return on operating capital, % 15.1 23.2 32.2 32.5 31.5 Investments, SEK m 251 316 410 290 319 Operating cash flow, SEK m 601 779 770 1,031 706 Earnings/loss per share after dilution, SEK 2.10 -0.17 4.92 2.70 6.02 Dividend per share, SEK 1.00 1.75 2.50 3.00 7.003) Average number of employees 6,690 6,636 6,473 6,573 6,178 Number of employees at year-end 6,544 6,925 6,539 6,445 6,087 1) After reclassification of Hygena to discontinued operations. 2) After reclassification of Poggenpohl to discontinued operations. 3) Board's proposal. Nobia Annual Report 2017 1 Nobia in brief We are the leading kitchen specialist Nobia is a European kitchen Group. Our customers recognise us under the kitchen brands of Magnet, HTH, Marbodal, Sigdal, Petra, ewe and uno form among others, all of which are known for their excellent design, functionality and service. Thanks to our specialisation and size, we are able to take advantage of shared skills and lead development in our industry. Focus on kitchens Vision Since the company’s founding in 1996, Nobia has focused Our visions is “Inspiring kitchens made easy.” This on kitchens. We have expanded based on our own means that we make it easy for our customers to have strengths and through acquisitions, but always by focusing an inspiring kitchen in their home. We nurture kitchen on kitchens. This specialisation makes it possible to leverdreams and put the customer experience at the foreage joint know-how throughout the entire value chain front. We endeavour to make the purchasing process as – across national boundaries and brands. As a dedicated simple as possible. With our sound know-how and long kitchen Group, we are taking the lead in our industry experience, we create and realise fantastic kitchen soluboth in terms of developing the range and purchasing tions together with our customers. We provide support experience and through our ambition to participate in the in the entire process, from inspiration and concept to a industry’s consolidation. finished, functional and attractive kitchen. Business concept Regions Our business concept is to offer consumers and Nobia is one of the largest kitchen companies in Eucompanies attractive kitchens under our own strong rope. We conduct both manufacturing and sales in six brands and private labels. Sales take place through our countries: the UK, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland own stores, franchise stores or retailers, which include and Austria. We are organised into three regions: the kitchen specialists, furniture stores, DIY stores and Nordic region, the UK and Central Europe. The former builders’ merchants. We deliver both complete kitchen two are the dominant regions. Our production facilities solutions and stand-alone kitchen products, as well as vary in size and have differing levels of specialisation. We such services as advice, customised design and installamanufacture a total of about 135,000 cabinets or around tion. Behind the scenes, we have efficient processes that 10,000 kitchens every week. capitalise on economies of scale. 260 Nobia develops, manufactures 13 production facilities in Around 260 own stores and a About 6,100 employees and sells kitchen solutions six European countries network of retailers 2 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Nobia in brief Inspiring kitchens made easy Magnet Net sales and employees per region Net sales per country1), SEK m Net sales per region, % Percentage of employees per region, % UK Nordic, 51 Nordic, 44 Denmark Sweden UK, 49 UK, 45 Norway Central Finland Central Europe, 6 Austria Europe, 4 Other countries Parent company, 1 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 SEK m 1) Net sales from external customers based on customers' geographic domicile. Nobia Annual Report 2017 3 CEO’s comments A good year for Nobia Our sales grew organically by 2 per cent, primarily driven by higher sales in the Nordic region. Despite persistently strong currency headwinds and a challenging UK market, we delivered an operating margin of more than 10 per cent. Given the company's satisfactory net profit and strong balance sheet, the Board proposes a dividend totalling SEK 7 per share. The operating margin for the Group ble, high-quality kitchens are a smart choice years at Nobia. Reducing the range has amounted to 10.1 percent and would it for these customers. The products are not been as quick as I had hoped and not have been for negative currency effects delivered direct to the customer’s home our work has not been focused enough of SEK 105 million the operating margin from our logistics hub in Tidaholm. in order for us to capitalise on existing would have been closer to 11 per cent. We are also making significant investsynergy opportunities. Our processes can Our Nordic region reported an operating ments to develop sales in all markets. be simplified and specialised. With a new margin of almost 15 per cent – the highest We are creating new, digital solutions for organisation, we are now gearing up to level achieved by this segment. Consida more inspiring purchasing experience. enhance the efficiency of sourcing and ering the fierce UK kitchen market, I am During the year, we opened four new omproduction. also relatively pleased with the earnings nistores, which have more digital options Sustainability is strategically important presented by the UK region. However, the and are smaller than traditional kitchen for Nobia. Our major customers are earnings contribution from Central Europe, stores, allowing them to be located in city setting demands for us and we want to comprising only 4 per cent of the Group, centres or shopping centres. The concept be involved in working towards a more disappointed. In Austria, we experienced has proven to be successful and we are sustainable development. We can inspire production disruptions during the year, but learning from this experience and are and help people to live more sustainably action was taken and the disruptions were continuing to roll out more omnistores and in their kitchens through the products that eliminated. develop existing stores. we sell. We adopted a Group-wide susOur financial position is very solid. The The offering and positioning of the tainability strategy in 2017 and we have a company has no debts apart from pension Magnet kitchen chain was reviewed during sustainability function and a targeted work liabilities and the debt/equity ratio is as low the year, which resulted in a simplified method. Some of the key targets we are as 2 per cent. For this reason, the Board purchasing process and a better defined to achieve are transitioning to renewable has proposed an ordinary dividend of SEK offering focusing on value across the range. energy in our production and to reduce 3.50 per share as well as an extra dividend Magnet’s new positioning was manifested CO2 emissions from transportation. of SEK 3.50 per share. This proposal entails in a new website and the “Magnet – Part a total dividend corresponding to 116 per of the family” campaign launched at the Market view cent of earnings per share after tax for the end of the year. Magnet will celebrate its The kitchen market in Europe is slowly year – clear confirmation of Nobia’s strong 100th anniversary in 2018 and we plan being consolidated and like all other retail performance. to open a number of new Magnet stores sectors the kitchen industry it is being throughout the UK. impacted by digitisation. Today’s consumers Focus on topline Acquisitions are an important compowant to take an active role in kitchen planThe healthy profit generation and our nent of our growth strategy. Our most ning and naturally we want to make it easy strong financial position mean that we recent addition of the UK kitchen suppliers can invest to create growth. The aim is for Commodore and CIE has been successthe company to grow – organically and ful. We want to expand by adding more through acquisitions – with continuously profitable and geographically close kitchen improving profitability. The target is to operations with strong market positions increase sales by an average of five per or strong brands. Over the next few years, cent per year. I hope to present one or two exciting 2017 was the year in which we entered acquisitions that are compatible with our The aim is for the company the low-price segment in the Nordic structure. to grow – organically and region with a ready-to-assemble product range. I believe that the venture in goodSupply chain potential through acquisitions – with value kitchens will be crucial to capturing A large part of the future value creation continuously improving market shares in the Nordic region over at Nobia will derive from efficiency gains profitability. The target is to the next years. An increasing number of in the supply chain. We have only come customers are willing to do much of the to the halfway mark in terms of improveincrease sales by an average work themselves and our ready-to-assemments to the supply chain during my seven of five per cent per year. 4 Nobia Annual Report 2017 CEO’s comments for customers to do some of the work themselves, but renovating a kitchen can require up to around 300 decisions and that is why I am convinced that customers will still want to have meetings with kitchen designers in the future, and offering sound advice will remain important. As a leading kitchen specialist, we have an important role to play both for customers and in the structural change for the industry. At the time of writing, the development of our kitchen markets is deemed to remain unchanged compared with last year. Macroeconomic uncertainty resulting from Brexit will continue to prevail in our single most important market, the UK, in the medium-term. But I would like to be clear in saying that the UK is a well-functioning kitchen market that we believe in for the long term. Market conditions for the Nordic countries and Austria are favourable. In the Nordics, Denmark and Finland could take over the role that Sweden has held as the growth engine of the region. The order intake in our Nordic project business provides an insight into sales for about nine months ahead. It means that we can plan efficiently and adjust our cost level to market trends if necessary. In conclusion Nobia has been consolidated in recent years by divesting parts that have been unprofitable or where there has been limited scope for synergies. We have created the conditions for more large-scale production with by implementing the K20 Group-wide cabinet standard. And we have strengthened our market positions, particularly digitally. I am proud of our performance but can also conclude that much remains to be done and we are constantly facing new challenges. In my work, it is a privilege to work alongside the many highly skilled employees that we have at Nobia. Many thanks to all our employees, and to our customers and shareholders, for your support. Morten Falkenberg President and CEO Nobia Annual Report 2017 5 Value creation How Nobia creates value Our operations cover the entire value chain, from the development and manufacturing of kitchen products to sales and distribution of complete kitchen solutions to end customers. We create value for our customers and other stakeholders, and strive to develop sustainable operations. Our resources Operations Financial capital Produ SEK 4,231 million in operating capital, comprising SEK ling ct d cyc ev 4,154 million in shareholders’ equity and SEK 573 million in Re el interest-bearing liabilities, less SEK 496 million in interestnt me bearing assets. op Use Sourcing Manufactured capital • Production facilities • Stores • Office buildings • Kitchen displays • Machinery and equipment • Vehicles g • Inventories S al ri n es tu ac f nu Intellectual capital Tra Ma ns p o r t ati on • Brands • Management and • Patents business systems • Master data for production • Product development and and logistics management go-to-market process Business model • Programme for operational • Integration of environmental Nobia sells kitchens to consumers and companies and employee development activities in operations primarily in six European countries under its own (Nobia Lean System) • Internal training programmes brands and as contract manufacturer. The operation covers the entire value chain, from product development and sourcing to sales, distribution Human capital and, in certain cases, installation. Sales to consumEmployees possessing expertise • Sourcing, quality, ers are conducted through own and franchise and experience in: environment and stores and through retailers. Sales to professional • Furniture production, surface sustainability customers, which, in turn, sell the kitchens to their treatment and assembly • Kitchen design and sales end customers, take place directly or via the store • Production control and pro• Marketing and digital network. duction planning development • Logistics and transportation • Control, accounting Nobia creates value for its customers by proflows and M&A ducing and delivering complete and attractive • Product and range • Leadership and HR kitchen solutions and kitchen furnishings based on development customer needs with high functionality and excellent design. The company’s strategy is based on Social capital • Supplier relationships its existing strengths and capital, and economies • Network of franchisees • Relationships with of scale across the value chain. To create growth • Relationships with retailers local communities and improved processes Nobia focuses on six • Customer relationships strategic themes: • Omnichannel Natural capital • Water • Economy segment • Wood • Minerals • Product development • Air • Fossil fuels • Production structure • Rock • Sun • People • Metals • Acquisitions 6 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Value creation Social and economic value for our stakeholders Customers Distribution of value generated • Realised kitchen dreams The value added by Nobia during 2017 amounted • Functional, attractive and sustainable kitchens to SEK 4,382 million. This value added comprises • Positive purchasing experiences the Group’s sales less expenses for purchased ma• Satisfied customers terials and services, which totalled SEK 8,362 million and are Nobia’s largest cost type. The level of value added amounted to 34 per cent. Employees • Salaries, pension and benefits Nobia’s stakeholders gained a share in the gene­ • Personal and professional development rated value added; employees received salaries and • Health and safety other benefits, shareholders received dividends • Committment and states and municipalities received tax revenue. Some of the generated value remained within the Owners and lenders company and was used for investment and depreci• Share-price development ation, for example. • Dividends • Interest payment Retained in the Suppliers operations, 16% • Paid goods and services • Jobs • Evaluation according to Nobia guidelines Taxes to states and municipalities, 6% Dividends to Society shareholders, • Jobs 12% • Tax revenue Salaries, social • Infrastructure security con• Sponsoring and charity tributions and pensions, 66% Marbodal Nobia Annual Report 2017 7 Trends Trends affecting our kitchens Kitchen demand is impacted by such factors as population growth, consumer confidence, disposable income, the property market trend and the construction of new housing. Kitchen design and how we purchase kitchens are influenced by demographic, consumption and lifestyle trends. The heart of the home before choosing a design and supplier and ordering a new kitchen. The kitchen is growing in importance in our homes. The kitchen is Kitchen renovations result in labour costs for installation, plumbnot only the centre of the home and the natural place for many ing and electricity, which is why tax deductions on labour, offered different activities. We are spending an increasing amount of our in some countries, could have a positive effect on kitchen sales. time in our kitchens, and consequently costs for furnishing and Some consumers prefer to do some of the work themselves. The equipment are constantly rising. Open-plan solutions between the low-price segment featuring ready-to-assemble products is a large kitchen, dining room and living room are more or less standard and growing segment of many kitchen markets. nowadays. New design and functionality reflect the growing importance of the kitchen and inspire consumers to renovate and The project market invest in their kitchens. Professional customers that renovate housing need to be in a position to offer their customers kitchens with an attractive design Important investments and many optional extras. Sustainability aspects have become For households, a new kitchen is a relatively major and complex important to construction companies’ choices of kitchen suppliinvestment that include the important factors of function, style and ers. For property developers, attractive kitchens are part of the materials. Kitchens are infrequently purchased products associated marketing of new properties. In the UK and the Nordic region, with a high level of customer involvement. On average, consumers kitchens are considered building accessories and included in the purchase new kitchens every 15–20 years and often when they move sale of an apartment or a house. Lead times for a property project into a new home. Consumers usually invest a great deal of time and from construction start to kitchen delivery are about eight to ten energy on seeking out information and comparing various options months. Demographics 2 New ageing The number of people in the world who are over 1 60 years old will double by 2050, which will present both challenges and opportunities. Future pensioners will be a large and affluent customer group, who are Urbanisation generally more active and live longer than previous generations of pensions. It is likely that this trend will Urbanisation has been a trend for many years and since 2017 the affect the physical design of homes and kitchens. majority of the world’s population live in cities. Many people tend to prioritise prime locations rather than large amounts of space. As homes become smaller so does the need for kitchen solutions that optimise the available space, are flexible and are multifunctional. 8 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Trends Lifestyle 4 6 Everything Sustainability online Awareness of environmental More and more products in issues is rising and the young the home are connected and especially expect companies in the Internet of Things smart to assume their responsibil­ objects communicate with ity and contribute to a more each other without human sustainable society. Products 3 5 involvement. Technology can that make it easier to live more now be integrated with masustainably are in demand. terials, for example, surfaces Conscious kitchen consumers The value of time that charge mobile phones and Health and not only want sustainable protablets. Kitchen trends are also well-being duction but also sustainable Despite the efficiency gains of moving towards a higher techsolutions for waste managedigitisation, we consider our nology component whereby Good health is a status symbol ment, food storage and energy time to be increasingly limited. connected products make and today’s consumers not consumption, for example. As we strive to find quality cooking and food storage easionly take care of their physical time, demands are rising for er and smarter. but also their mental well-beservices and goods that save ing. What we eat and drink, time and make everyday life and also how and where we easier, such as food delivery eat and drink, have become services. That means that ways of expressing our idenkitchens of the future need tity. Outdoor activities have to both make everyday life enjoyed a renaissance, which smoother and be easier to buy. has boosted the popularity of outdoor kitchens even in more northerly countries. Consumption 7 The active consumer With greater access to online information, consum8 ers have more power and have become more active and critical. Recommendations in social media, price Focus on experience comparison sites and reviews mean that consumers are well-informed and influence the choice of prodThe consumption of services is on the rise with experiences feauct and brand. A positive experience is increasingly turing more and more in everything from the restaurant and hotel important for both attracting and retaining customindustry to the retail sector. The importance of the purchasing exers. Many consumers also want to be involved in the perience to consumers’ choices of brand, satisfaction and loyalty creative process to design personal kitchen fittings is also increasing. Today’s consumers want an efficient, pleasant and do some of the work themselves. and enjoyable experience in all channels and expect stores, both physical and online, to do more than simply display the products. Kitchen consumers’ expectations are often based on experiences from other product categories. Nobia Annual Report 2017 9 Strategy Marbodal 10 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Strategy Strategy for profitable growth We focus on profitable growth by selling inspiring kitchens and by introducing new concepts and new ways of interacting with our customers. But we also want to grow through acquisitions of kitchen businesses that are compatible with the Group’s existing structure and where synergies can be found. Realising efficiency opportunities is an important part of the strategy. Strategic focus areas Omnichannel Product development People Nobia invests in omnichannel, which As a leading kitchen specialist, The ability to recruit employees and means that the customer experience Nobia’s ambition is to be the first retain and develop skilled colleagues is to be identical regardless of whethto market with new products. Our is vital to delivering results. Accor­ er the customer visits a website or centrally controlled product develdingly, Nobia invests in raising a store. Websites and stores are opment continuously introduces commitment among employees, interlinked and the same level of new kitchen solutions that differendeveloping leadership skills, increasservice should be provided in the tiate our brands from our competiing the company’s attractiveness various channels. With a higher detors. The strategy going forward is to as an employer and strengthengree of digital tools, we can capitalise continue developing new products ing the internal talent supply. A on high customer involvement and according to the latest consumer leadership profile was introduced help them progress smoothly through needs, and also to optimise the to the organisation in 2017 and a the purchasing process. Some of our Group’s total range by reducing the company-wide career website will brands offer e-commerce, and we are number of components. This allows be launched in 2018. continuing to develop digital solutions us to realise additional economies and new store concepts and are thus of scale. at the forefront of omnichannel in our industry. Economy segment Production structure Acquisitions The economy segment is a growing The vast majority of Nobia’s proThe strong financial position creates area of the consumer kitchen duction volumes follow the same many opportunities for growth market where Nobia is focusing standard dimension. The long-term through acquisitions. Nobia’s aim on expanding its market share. trend is towards more large-scale since it was founded has been to Simply Magnet – Magnet’s range and brand-independent production, contribute to the consolidation of ready-to-assemble kitchens which means larger investments are of the European kitchen industry. – has been highly successful in concentrated to fewer production Since 2014, three acquisitions of recent years and the HTH GO facilities. In 2018, the existing UK kitchen companies have helped ready-to-assemble range was production structure of five plants increase sales and resulted in a launched in Denmark in 2017. In in the UK, six in the Nordic region stronger position in the UK kitchen the Nordic region, we also sell and two in Austria will be reviewed. market. The acquisition strategy ready-to-assemble kitchens via the Moving ahead, measures are being targets profitable kitchen compaelectronics chain Power’s store planned to have a system in place nies operating in attractive markets network. Buying our high-quality, with fewer and more specialised and that supplement the Group’s flat-pack kitchens should be easy plants. existing structure. and offer good value. Nobia Annual Report 2017 11 Digital solutions New digital solutions and concept stores More digital tools in our stores means that customers can do more themselves at the same time as they have access to the expertise of kitchen designers and sales assistants. The in-store and online customer journey is interlinked, providing a seamless customer experience. A new store concept is a key part of our omnichannel strategy. New store concept worktop that customers can use to experiment with different Nobia has established and introduced a new store concept with doors, colours and materials. Not only can we display more kitcha high element of digitisation. These stores are far smaller in size en series and combinations, but we can also offer an innovative than normal kitchen stores and are found in prime locations. Some customer experience. of them are in large shopping centres. The concept is based on consumer insight and makes it easy for customers to initiate a Smart solutions kitchen project and choose a floor plan, products and furnishings. Some areas of the concept stores are dedicated to choices of Customers become more involved, the customer experience is materials, design and colours, but smart storage solutions and more inspiring and sales are more efficient. functional accessories are equally as important to ensure that customers are happy with their kitchen for a long time to come. The More inspiration in less space solutions are exhibited in a special display called a “tech lab” which The concept stores offer a creative studio feeling and invite focuses on function, quality and innovation. Here, customers can customers to become involved in and experience the products in test, for example, different types of drawers, the corner solution new and inspiring ways. The physical kitchen displays are fewer in that suits them best and how technology can be integrated into number and smaller in size, but digital tools and touchscreens give the kitchen. customers access to our wide range of kitchen furnishings and accessories, such as appliances, sinks and taps. The stores have plenty Positive results of space for customers and sales assistants to work together and Four test stores with this concept were opened in 2017 under the discuss kitchens. Sigdal brand in Molde and Trondheim in Norway, under Magnet in London and under HTH GO in Copenhagen. The test was a Industry-leading digital tools resounding success, with a positive response from customers and Nobia has created a number of digital tools that offer a unique the stores generating widespread interest in the local area. These in-store experience by making use of high customer engagement stores also proved to be very effective with a higher degree of and helping customers to visualise and plan their kitchens. Planning efficiency and conversion rates from offer to order than compa­ a dream kitchen is both fun and simple, since customers can be rable stores during the same period. involved in designing the construction of their kitchen using blocks of cabinet combinations. 3D glasses allow customers to see alterRoll-out continues native floorplans and designs from different perspectives, making it Nobia plans to open more stores designed with this concept for easier to decide on the optimal floorplan. more brands and at locations where we can find suitable store premises and managers. The separate digital solutions are being Positive customer experience introduced on a broad front in our existing store network in A kitchen configurator allows consumers in stores and online to parallel with the opening of new stores. Nobia is also continuing to try out and visualise different combinations of fronts, worktops develop concepts and digital solutions, with the aim of linking the and handles and gain an idea about price. Certain stores also have in-store customer experience with the digital experience and makan entire display of fronts comprising screens and a projected ing its easier for customers to plan and realise amazing kitchens. 12 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Digital solutions Nobia Annual Report 2017 13 Our targets Targets and outcome Nobia’s operations are geared towards four financial targets that aim to generate favourable returns for shareholders and long-term value growth. Financial targets Target fulfilment Sales growth, % The growth target was not reached in 2017. The organic > 5% growth was 2 per cent and no acquisitions were made. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Organic growth was 8 per cent in the Nordic region, -2 per Organic growth 0 2 6 4 2 cent in the UK and -5 per cent in Central Europe. Currency Acquisitions -2 -1 4 4 – Growth losses impacted total net sales, which amounted to SEK 12,744 Currency effect -3 6 7 -5 -1 Sales are to grow million. In total, net sales grew by 1 per cent year-on-year. organically and through Total growth -5 7 17 3 1 acquisitions by an average of over 5 per cent per year. Target fulfilment Operating margin, % The target of an operating margin of more than 10 per cent > 10% was achieved during the year. Operating profit for 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 amounted to SEK 1,286 million and was negatively impacted Nordic 12.6 12.8 13.3 14.3 14.8 by currency losses totalling some SEK 105 million. Profitability UK 6.0 7.5 9.3 8.9 8.0 Operating margin in the Nordic region improved, while the UK and Central Central Europe -1.7 7.8 3.7 6.8 2.3 The operating margin is to Europe reported a lower operating margin year-on-year. amount to more than 10 Group 5.9 8.5 9.7 10.3 10.1 per cent over a business cycle. Target fulfilment Net debt and net debt/equity ratio, SEK m Nobia has a very strong financial position. The debt/equity ra< 100% tio was 2 per cent and the equity/asset ratio was 58 per cent 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 at year end. The Group’s net debt, defined as interest-bearing Net debt 1,176 1,206 774 493 77 liabilities less interest-bearing assets, amounted to SEK 77 milPension liabilities 654 869 732 9551) 567 Debt/equity ratio lion at 31 December 2017. Pension liabilities were down on Debt/equity ratio, % 37 38 20 14 2 The debt/equity ratio is to the preceding year due to changed auctuarian assumptions. be less than 100 per cent. Equity/asset ratio, % 44 41 47 43 58 A temporary elevation 1) Including Poggenpohl. of the debt/equity ratio is acceptable in conjunction with acquisitions. Target fulfilment Dividends to shareholders, SEK The Board proposes to the Annual General Meeting an 40–60% ordinary dividend of SEK 3.50 per share as well as an extra 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 dividend of SEK 3.50 per share. The ordinary dividend correEarnings per share 2.10 -0.17 4.92 2.70 6.02 sponds to 58 per cent of net profit for the year and is thus Dividend per share 1.00 1.75 2.50 3.00 7.001) Dividend in line with the dividend target. The proposal entails a total Dividend of net profit Dividends to shareholders dividend of approximately SEK 1,180 million or 116 per cent after tax, % 48 n/a 51 111 116 are, on average, to comprise of net profit after tax. The dividend for the 2016 fiscal year 40–60 per cent of net profit was SEK 3.00 per share. 1) Board’s proposal. after tax. 14 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Our targets Norema Net sales Operating profit and operating margin Earnings per share SEK m SEK m % SEK 15,000 1,500 12 6 10,000 1,000 8 4 5,000 500 4 2 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Operating profit Operating margin, % Earnings per share excluding items affecting comparability, SEK Earnings per share including items affecting comparability, SEK Profitability trend Dividend per share Net debt and net debt/ equity ratio % SEK SEK m % 40 7 1,000 20 6 30 750 15 5 4 20 500 10 3 10 2 250 5 1 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 20171) 2015 2016 2017 Return on operating capital, % 1) The Board proposal entails an ordinary dividend of Net debt, SEK m Return on equity, % SEK 3.50 and an extra dividend of SEK 3.50. Debt/equity ratio, % Nobia Annual Report 2017 15 Business overview Business overview Net sales Operating profit Nordic region 51% SEK 6,515 m SEK 963 m HTH UK region 45% SEK 5,710 m SEK 454 m Magnet Central Europe region 4% SEK 519 m SEK 12 m Intuo Group total SEK 12,744 m SEK 1,286 m Explanation of overview Sales for the regions do not include sales to other regions. In addition to the regions’ operating profit, the Group’s operating profit includes operating profit from Group-wide items and eliminations. The Group’s employees also include employees in the Parent Company. 16 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Business overview Number of employees Production units Own stores Operational description In the Nordic region, Nobia sells kitchens to consumers and 6 46 professional customers under eight brands, some of which can be found in several markets. In Sweden, Nobia sells kitch44% ens from Marbodal, HTH and uno form, and in Norway from 2,710 employees Sigdal, Norema, HTH, Marbodal and uno form. In Denmark, Nobia operates under the HTH, Invita and uno form brands and also manufactures laminated worktops. In Finland, Nobia sells kitchens under the A la Carte, Petra and HTH brands. Distribution channels vary between brands, but sales mainly take place directly and via franchise stores and retailers. Nobia’s operations in the UK include the Magnet kitchen 5 218 chain and kitchen suppliers Gower, Rixonway Kitchens, Com49% modore and CIE Kitchens. Magnet is the largest operations 2,955 employees in terms of sales, and through its nationwide store network it sells kitchens primarily to consumers and builders, but also to property developers and housing associations. Gower supplies kitchens under private label to DIY and builders' merchants chains in the UK. Rixonway Kitchens is specialised in kitchen products for social housing, whereas Commodore and CIE Kitchens supply kitchens to private property developers and construction companies. The Central Europe region comprises Nobia’s Austrian oper2 – ations. In Austria, Nobia sell kitchens under the brands ewe, 6% FM and Intuo. Customers mainly comprise Austrian furniture 363 employees chains or independent retailers, some of which are organised via purchasing organisations. There is also an export business to nearby countries. Nobia does not have its own stores in the region. 6,087 13 264 Nobia Annual Report 2017 17 Nordic region Nordic region The past year Organic growth of 8 per cent was The good-value HTH GO range was The partnership with Power, the primarily driven by increased project introduced in Denmark for customers electronics chain, was expanded. The sales in all of the Nordic countries. who want to do some of the work ready-to-assemble range is sold by themselves. more than 50 Power stores in Norway, Denmark and Finland. Percentage of net sales Sales per product, % Sales channels, % 51 Kitchen furnishings, such as Kitchen specialists, own stores cabinets and and franchises, 65 worktops, 75 Construction Other kitchen equipcompanies, 16 ment, installation Builders’ merchants/ and service, 24 DIY chains, 15 Bathrooms, 1 Other retailers, 4 PER CENT Key figures Sales and EBIT margin 2016 2017 Change, % SEK m % Net sales, SEK m 5,988 6,516 9 8,000 16 Gross profit, SEK m 2,402 2,638 10 6,000 12 Gross margin, % 40.1 40.5 – Operating profit, SEK m 856 963 13 4,000 8 Operating margin, % 14.3 14.8 – Operating capital, SEK m 681 713 5 2,000 4 Return on operating capital, % 127 138 – 0 0 Investments, SEK m 116 135 16 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Average number of employees 2,696 2,767 3 Net sales, SEK m Number of employees at year-end 2,633 2,710 3 EBIT margin, % 18 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Nordic region Position and market trend Nobia is a leading kitchen supplier in the Project sales in all of the Nordic countries Nordic region with sales to consumers take place directly and via franchise stores and project customers. Our kitchen brands and retailers. are some of the most well-known in their The total number of franchise stores in respective markets. We compete with both the region is 152 and the number of own local players and large kitchen producers stores is 46, most of which are located in and international furniture companies in all Denmark and Norway. We have a strong of the Nordic countries. position as a supplier to construction comDistribution varies between the brands. panies and private property developers. In Norway, for example, Norema is sold in The Nordic kitchen market continued to own stores and via the electronics chain grow in 2017, mainly driven by increased Power, while Sigdal is sold via franchise new construction in all countries. The stores and independent retailers. HTH has completion of new housing and comboth its own stores and franchise stores, mencement of construction project were whereas Marbodal is primarily a retailer orat historically high levels in both Sweden ganisation. We do not have any own kitchand Norway. Also the Nordic consumer ens stores in Finland but a franchise chain segment grew, albeit with lower growth of A la Carte called Keittiömaailma (Kitchen World). a couple of percentage points. Brands and operations HTH offers complete kitchen solutions Marbodal is a Swedish kitchen brand Sigdal is a Norwegian kitchen brand to both consumers and professional that offers rigid and complete kitchen that offers rigid and complete kitchen customers. HTH kitchens are often solutions. Marbodal products are solutions. Kitchens from Sigdal are sold rigid, but there is also a range of sold to consumers and professional to professional customers and conready-to-assemble kitchens, HTH GO. customers mainly in Sweden but also sumers. Sigdal stores are franchise-run, HTH kitchens are sold in a total of 99 in Norway. The stores are franchise-run along with a large number of indepenstores throughout Denmark, Sweden, and Marbodal also has a large number dent retailers. Norway and Finland, two-thirds of of retailers. which are run as franchises. HTH’s products can also be purchased online. Petra is sold in Finland to professionNorema operates in Norway. Norema al customers and consumers via the kitchens are mainly rigid and sold to building materials trade and Nobia’s consumers and professional customKeittiömaailma franchise chain. Petra Invita mainly operates in Denmark ers. Consumers are offered a range kitchens are in the mid-price segment and sells kitchens with a high design of ready-to-assemble kitchens in the and are mainly sold rigid. content and a high level of service. Kitchens from Invita are in the upperlower price segment. mid-price segment and are primarily sold via franchise stores. uno form offers kitchens with a timeless design that are exclusive and A la Carte offers rigid kitchen solutions expertly handcrafted. The kitchens are in the upper-mid-price segment that in the luxury segment and are sold via are primarily sold via Nobia’s Finnish own stores and franchise-run stores in franchise chain Keittiömaailma. Denmark, Sweden and Norway. uno form Nobia Annual Report 2017 19 UK region UK region The past year The UK kitchen market weakened Project sales increased, mainly as Deliveries of kitchens to the B2B due to Brexit and elevated macroecoa result of large project deliveries via customer Homebase were gradually nomic uncertainty. Commodore and CIE Kitchens. phased out and the Interior Solutions operations were ceased at the end of the year. Percentage of net sales Sales per product, % Sales channels, % 45 Kitchen furnishings, such as Kitchen specialist, cabinets and Retail, 27 worktops, 69 Kitchen specialist, Trade, 23 Other kitchen equipment, installation Builders’ merchants/ and service, 21 DIY chains, 25 PER CENT Joinery products, 10 Project, 25 Key figures Sales and EBIT margin 2016 2017 Change, % SEK m % Net sales, SEK m 6,122 5,710 -7 8 000 10 Gross profit, SEK m 2,323 2,172 -7 8 6 000 Gross margin, % 37.9 38.0 – 6 Operating profit, SEK m 545 454 -17 4 000 Operating margin, % 8.9 8.0 – 4 Operating capital, SEK m 1.623 1,824 12 2 000 2 Return on operating capital, % 33 26 – 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Investments, SEK m 109 116 6 Average number of employees 2,990 2,941 -2 Net sales, SEK m Number of employees at year-end 2,915 2,955 1 EBIT margin, % 20 Nobia Annual Report 2017 UK region Position and market trend Generally speaking, Nobia is a leading Part of the family” campaign were launched player in the UK kitchen market, with at the end of the year. operations in several market segments. The UK kitchen market in 2017 is We target consumers and builders via the deemed to have weakened due to Brexit Magnet kitchen chain – the largest and and elevated macroeconomic uncertainty. oldest kitchen specialist in the UK. We also However, there is still a great need for sell kitchens to companies within property new housing in the UK. The lower price development and residential construction segment in the consumer sector continin the UK, mainly via Commodore and ued to grow at the expense of the higher CIE Kitchens but also Magnet, and suppy price segment. Sales to local builders are kitchens to social housing via Rixonway generally more resistant to economic Kitchens. We also supply kitchens to UK declines than sales to consumers. CompeDIY and construction chains via Gower. tition remained fierce during the year, with The Magnet brand was repositioned some of Nobia's competitors being kitchen during the year. This work resulted in a companies Howdens and Wren, and DIY simplified purchasing process and a clearer chain B&Q. Magnet offering. A new website and the “Magnet – Brands and operations Magnet is a nationwide British kitchen Commodore and CIE sell kitchens to Rixonway is a leading supplier of chain with 216 stores for consumers companies in private development and kitchen solutions to social housand professional builders. Magnet is residential construction, primarily in ing projects in the UK. The kitchen one of the UK’s strongest kitchen London and South East England. The solutions are in the economy segment brands. Its kitchen solutions are in the kitchen solutions supplied by Comand are primarily sold to construction mid-price segment and are delivered modore are self-manufactured and companies and purchasing organisawith a high level of service commitpositioned in the mid-price segment, tions, but also via a large number of ment. Magnet’s core range of rigid while CIE is a kitchen retailer in the builders’ merchant stores. kitchens was supplemented with a luxury segment. range of ready-to-assemble kitchens, Simply Magnet, a few years ago. A range of kitchen products is kept in stock for builders, while a range of doors, windows and joinery products is also offered. Builders have been offered Click & Collect since 2017, which allows them to see prices and stock status and place orders online. Magnet was repositioned at the end of the year, which resulted in a simplified purchasing process, a clearer offering and a new campaign. Gower manufactures and supplies ready-to-assemble kitchens to retailers operating in the UK building materials trade and to DIY chains. Magnet Nobia Annual Report 2017 21 Central Europe region Central Europe region The past year Nobia divested Poggenpohl in the A modernised production line was The ewe brand celebrated its 50th first quarter. The region subsequently installed in the Wels plant, which led anniversary and with this the “ewe50” comprises Nobia’s Austrian operations. to production disruptions. Action was kitchen concept was launched. taken and productivity improved in the second half of the year. Percentage of net sales Sales per product, % Sales channels, % 4 Kitchen furnishings, such as Furniture stores, 56 cabinets and worktops, 96 Independent kitchen Other kitchen specialists, 34 equipment, installation Construction and service, 4 companies, 10 PER CENT Key figures Sales and EBIT margin 2016 2017 Change, % SEK m % Net sales, SEK m 541 521 -4 4,000 10 Gross profit, SEK m 172 152 -12 3,500 8 3,000 6 Gross margin, % 31.8 29.2 – 2,500 4 Operating profit, SEK m 37 12 -68 2,000 2 Operating margin, % 6.8 2.3 – 1,500 0 Operating capital, SEK m 751) 117 56 1,000 -2 500 -4 Return on operating capital, % 39 11 – 0 -6 Investments, SEK m 541) 20 -63 20132) 20141) 2015 2016 2017 Average number of employees 355 409 15 Net sales, SEK m Number of employees at year-end 358 363 1 EBIT margin, % 1) Including the operation in Poggenpohl. 2) Inkcluding the operations in Poggenpohl and Hygena. 22 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Central Europe region Position and market trend Nobia has a very small share of the kitchen The Austrian kitchen market is deemed to market in Central Europe, but is one of have grown in 2017, primarily as a result the leading kitchen companies in Austria. of increased housing construction, but also We have three brands in the mid-price the renovation market is deemed to have and premium segments and our customgrown. The German kitchen Group Alno, ers comprise Austrian furniture chains, with distribution operations in Austria, purchasing organisations and independent went bankrupt during the year. However, kitchen specialists. Some export sales also competition from among others Austrian take place with nearby countries. company DAN Küchen and several German kitchen companies remained intense. Intuo Brands and operations ewe is an Austrian kitchen brand that FM offers rigid kitchens in the midIntuo offers kitchen solutions for qualrepresents modern design in the midprice and premium segments with ity and design-conscious consumers in price and premium segments. The rigid traditional design and a high degree of the premium segment, and are princikitchens are mainly sold through furfunctionality, such as solid-wood doors pally sold through kitchen specialists in niture chains and independent kitchen and height-adjustable cabinets. Sales Austria. specialists in Austria and neighbouring are conducted through furniture chains countries. and kitchen specialists in Austria. ewe Nobia Annual Report 2017 23 Sustainability Report A more sustainable life in the kitchen 2017 has been an eventful year, and Nobia have taken many important steps in continuing to integrate social, economic, and environmental sustainability in its value chain. Some of the most significant events were ity ambassadors in all markets. We also our formalising of a Group function for sustainability, consisting of a Head of Sus­ tainability and a central sustainability team, and establishing a network of sustainabil­ adopted our first Group-wide sustainability strategy, and initiated work on product development and sourcing with a focus on sustainability. 2017An active year Sustainable progress Group-wide sustainability strategy adopted Group-wide environmental and climate policy adopted Group sustainability function established Transition to renewable electricity in Nobia's production facilities 20 per cent reduction in carbon emissions per produced cabinet 5 per cent reduction in emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) Nobia’s Darlington production facility received the RoSPS Gold Award for first-class health and safety work Nobia’s production facilities in Darlington, Dewsbury, Halifax and Morley received five out of five stars in the OHSAS 18001 review Nobia joined the UN Global Compact initiative Nobia identified strategic areas to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals Nobia appointed “prime com­ pany” in sustainability in the oekom Corporate Rating Norema 24 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Sustainability Report Our sustainability initiatives are based on the As Europe’s leading kitchen specialist, we can understanding that every link in the chain is iminspire thousands of people to be more portant, from supplier to employee to customer. sustainable in the kitchen, every day. “We want to be the leading and most successful kitchen specialist “Global warming, deforestation, and overconsumption of natural that inspires people to realise their kitchen dreams, at the same resources are a few of the great challenges of our time. These time as we contribute to sustainable development. This requires challenges can have serious consequences for our lifestyle, our not only sound kitchen expertise but also an understanding of cur­ economies, and the environment we depend on. If we are to be rent and future needs in the kitchen, which in turn requires active able to solve these global challenges effectively, major changes are sustainability initiatives. required in society. Our industry can have a significant effect on Sustainability is a strategically important issue for us. Our sustain­ people and the environment through our value chain, especially ability initiatives are based on the understanding that every link in on issues concerning timber from sustainable forestry, responsible the chain is important, from supplier to employee to customer. This sourcing and product development. is why we have adopted our first Group-wide sustainability strate­ Our impact on people and the environment varies across the gy whose purpose is to contribute to sustainable growth through value chain. As a major player in the kitchen industry, we can con­ our value chain. The strategy is built on four long-term focus areas tribute to promoting more sustainable forestry, respect for people where we see that we can make a difference and contribute to and the environment, and more sustainable use of resources even creating value both for society and for our shareholders.” outside our home markets through our choice of materials, suppli­ er relationships, and product development. Morten Falkenberg, President and CEO As Europe’s leading kitchen specialist, we can inspire thousands of people to be more sustainable in the kitchen, every day. The kitchen is a place where we spend a great deal of time, and where there are major opportunities to live more sustainably. This applies to everything from solutions that reduce water, energy, and food waste, to exciting solutions for urban agriculture. An increasing number of our customers in the construction industry are building homes where the environment is in focus, from the first draft to the completed building. This presents many opportunities for us to contribute to more sustainable develop­ ment over the long and short term.” Amanda Jackson, Head of Group Sustainability Nobia Annual Report 2017 25 Sustainability Report Strategy that looks to the future We are aware of the global challenges society faces. Global warming, deforestation, overconsumption of natural resources and inadequate labour conditions present challenges for large parts of the business sector. These are challenges that require responsible leadership, as well as active and systematic work. Therefore, we have developed a sustainability strategy for 2017–2020. The strategy is built on four long-term focus areas and goals for Goals. Based on our materiality analysis and analysis of the UN the next three years. A sustainability strategy is our mediumto Sustainable Development Goals, we have identified the following long-term itinerary, linking together our core operations with our strategic areas to contribute to the goals and to develop our ambitions to contribute to the UN’s Sustainable Development operations. Sustainable innovations Reduced carbon emissions Vision Vision We develop kitchen solutions that sup­ We promote a value chain with low port people, the planet, and our operations carbon emissions by reducing the carbon through continuously improving the envi­ emissions from our products. Through ronmental and social performance for our a twofold energy strategy, we focus on products, and we enable our customers to energy efficiency and the transition to live more sustainably in their kitchens. renewable sources of energy. Goal 2020 Goal 2020 We have implemented a sustainability scorecard to develop 100 per cent renewable electricity in all our production the sustainability performance of our new kitchen products sites on all markets. We strive to reduce carbon emis­ as regards materials, design, and functionality. sions from transport and operations. Safeguard and protect forests Responsible sourcing Vision Vision We contribute to the elimination of We build relationships with suppliers that deforestation, reducing greenhouse gas are best in class at sustainability. By pro­ emissions, and protecting biodiversity and moting responsibility and transparency in people’s livelihoods by promoting sustain­ our supply chain, we are contributing to a able forestry and the provision of timber more sustainable future. from sustainable sources. Goal 2020 Goal 2020 We have guaranteed a new programme 100 per cent of timber from sustainable for suppliers that includes risk assessment, sources such as wood from forests certi­ an audit programme, and a channel for re­ fied by the FSC or PEFC, recycled wood porting breaches of our Code of Conduct or wood from our preferred suppliers. for Suppliers. We strive to work further down the supply chain. 26 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Sustainability Report Magnet Nobia Annual Report 2017 27 Sustainability Report Our sustainability initiatives Our responsibility runs through the value chain, and our sustainability initiatives are based on the Group’s economic, environmental and social impact. A central strategy containing Group-wide policies and principles has been developed. Materiality analysis and stakeholder dialogue The following important sustainability topics were Understanding the expectations of key stakeholders is crucial raised in the dialogue: for being able to meet current and future customer needs. Nobia meets with stakeholders in various forums during the Stakeholder Material issues How we are year. A systematic stakeholder dialogue is also conducted annu­ working ally to jointly identify essential sustainability aspects that create the basis for a materiality analysis. In 2017, all our employees, Employees Economising resources and Page 34–35, 11 corporate customers, our six largest shareholders, six sup­ secure work environment. 37–38 pliers, employee representatives and professional associations were invited to participate in a stakeholder dialogue survey. Corporate customers Responsible sourcing and Page 34–36 reduced climate impact. The stakeholders were identified based on the groups that our operations affect, and the groups that affect our operations. Shareholders and Reduced climate impact and Page 34–35, 39 Based on the stakeholder dialogue, impact analysis, and internal investors business ethics. workshops, the following material sustainability issues have been identified and prioritised: Suppliers Secure work environment Page 34–35, and economising resources. 37–38 • Developing kitchen solutions for current and future needs • Sustainable choice of materials Employee Secure work environment Page 33, 37–38 representatives and sustainable choice of • Reduced climate impact and economising resources materials. • Responsible sourcing • Secure work environment Civil society and Sustainable materials and Page 33–35 • Business ethics and transparency professional associations economising resources. Petra 28 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Sustainability Report Responsibility in the value chain Our commitment to a sustainable development is both long-term By continually analysing the trends and drivers that affect our and business-oriented and comprises all operations in our value industry, our customers’ industries and our operating environment chain. Our main impact on people and the environment relates to – as well as in dialogue with our stakeholders – we identify sustain­ how the products we sell are manufactured, and how they enable ability-related risks and opportunities. Some of the significant a more sustainable living. sustainability risks for us are: Significant sustainability issues Sustainability risks How we are working Developing kitchen solutions Nobia’s customers either require or will require sustainable production processes and materials Page 32 for future and current needs from sustainable sources. This could entail business-related risks for Nobia of not working to meet existing and anticipated customer requirements. Sustainable choice of materials Wood is the main component of our products. Rapid changes to our environment, and increas­ Page 33 ingly intensive forestry, place new demands on how nature should be conserved. The use of wood from sources that are involved in forest-related conflicts, or wood that comes from illegal felling, would entail major risks for people, the environment, and our credibility. Reduced climate impact and Global warming is a threat to the health of forests in many areas of the world. The risks of dam­ Page 34–35 economising resources age to forests increases with a warmer climate, which also involves risks for more severe storms and more forest fires that could devastate large areas of forest. Since wood is the main compo­ nent of our products, this result in long-term risks regarding materials supply. Responsible sourcing Our supply chain extends across different markets, and entails numerous relationships. This Page 36 brings the risk of deficient supervision of, for example, working conditions at our subcontractors. Secure work environment Work accidents or serious environmental incidents at Nobia’s work sites could have a significant Page 37–38 impact on our employees, the local environment, and our brand. Business ethics and transparency Nobia is active in many markets, and has a broad employee base. This entails a risk of employees Page 39 in Nobia not acting in accordance with the Code of Conduct. uno form Nobia Annual Report 2017 29 Sustainability Report Our value chain Product development Purchasing We wish to contribute to a more sustainable development Our suppliers operate on different markets and can impact by helping our customers lead more sustainable lives both people and the environment where they operate. in the kitchen. Sustainability is thus a key focus within We assess and monitor our suppliers on social, environmental innovation and product development. and ethical issues. Wood is the main component in our prod­ ucts. Our suppliers of wood are mainly in Europe and all must comply with our policies on sustainable forestry. Waste and recycling Manufacturing We strive to minimise all We have 13 production waste from our manufac­ facilities in six European turing. At the same time, countries. In our manufactur­ we endeavour to help our ing we follow a Lean-based customers to reduce their process which includes, environmental impact by among other things, a assuring smart solutions for systematic work on health, food storage and recycling. safety and environmental issues to prevent work relat­ ed accidents, reduce energy consumptions, material use and reduce emissions and waste. We also work actively to create a culture where our vision of zero work related accidents can be realised. Use Sales Transport Our kitchen solutions can enable our cus­ We have extensive experience of designing Effective distribution in the product flow from tomers to live more sustainable lives in the kitchens and helping our customers on the supplier to customer is important to minimise kitchen. To safeguard that our products are journey from inspiration to installation with the environmental impact from transpor­ safe to use and for the environment we carry the aim of ensuring a safe and sustainable tation. Studies and analysis of distribution out tests, both internally and by external kitchen solution for current and future are carried out in close collaboration with experts. We have Eco-labelled products in customer needs. carriers and with help from external experts our assortment. Eco-labelled products have to optimise and find new solutions. been assessed based on how they impact the environment from source to end of life. Environment Social Economy 30 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Sustainability Report Governance Sustainability is an integrated part of our business and all our employees have a responsibility to contribute to our sustainability agenda, which extends beyond our direct business. Our commitment has been implemented in our policy framework and working methods. At Group level, we have a central sustainability function and in each market where we produce our products we have people working with sustainability related issues. Sustainability is an integrated part of our operations and is pur­ sued at various levels, from the Board’s approval of Group-wide policy and principles to operational reviews and goal-oriented work in business units and countries. The Group-wide sustainability strategy and our policy framework govern and guide the work. We monitor compliance with and results of our sustainability Marbodal framework both annually and on a continual basis. Through our annual reporting, we follow up on and communicate the results of our commitments in social, economic, and ecological sustainability. Our policy framework and external We also continuously monitor compliance through our manage­ commitments ment system and reporting of rules violations. Framework • Environment and climate policy • Policy for sustainable forestry • Code of Conduct The UN Sustainable Development Goals and • Supplier Code of Conduct Agenda 2030 • Sustainability strategy In September 2015, Agenda 2030 was adopted and the global External commitments Sustainable Development Goals were adopted. The Sustain­ • CDP Forestry able Development Goals and Agenda 2030 aim at eliminating • CDP Climate change poverty and hunger, realising human rights for all, achieving • Modern Slavery Statement gender equality and empowerment for all women and girls, • The UN initiative Global Compact and ensuring lasting protection for the planet and its natural • The UN Sustainable Development Goals resources. The goals are integrated and indivisible and balance • Sustainability reporting in accordance with the Global the three dimensions of sustainable development: economic, Reporting Initiative (GRI) social, and environment. • The Global Forest and Trade Network, UK (GFTN, UK) Nobia Annual Report 2017 31 Sustainability Report Case Solutions for current and future needs Sustainability is a focus area for Nobia’s product development. This means that the issue of sustainability is important both in our innovation processes and in our product development. Sustainability aspects are also becoming increasingly important for Nobia’s customers. The construction of eco-friendly buildings is increasing, which in turn is increasing demand for eco-labelled kitchens and products that meet eco-building standards. We offer Nordic Eco-labelled products and accordance with the Furniture Industry products that meet eco-building standards Research Association’s (FIRA) furniture such as BREEAM and Nordic Eco-labelled requirements for safety. FIRA is the largest single-family houses, apartment blocks and furniture association in the UK. It is a preschool buildings. Nobia currently has 21 non-profit membership organisation run (16) Nordic Eco-labelled kitchen platforms by the furniture industry. Amanda Jackson in different colours that are sold by Mar­ As a part of the work on implementing bodal, Norema and Sigdal. our sustainability strategy, a project to Nobia is represented in the technical develop a sustainability scorecard was Product sustainability committees of the Swedish Federation of initiated in 2017. The purpose of the work scorecard Wood and Furniture Industry (TMF). TMF is to be able to measure, monitor, and is a member organisation of the Confed­ develop the social and environmental sus­ In 2017, closer collaboration eration of Swedish Enterprise, and the tainability criteria of our products through between the functions for product work of the technical committees includes the development and implementation of a development, sourcing and sustain­ participating in the development of stand­ sustainability scorecard. ability was initiated to strengthen ards governing product safety, resistance the sustainability perspective in and environmental performance as well everything from product innova­ as participation in the EU’s standardisation tion and product development to committees. Nobia’s involvement in TMF is supplier relationships and choice based on a desire to be at the forefront of Consumers are increasingly aware of of materials. The development of product design and products that meet rig­ their impact on the planet and expect a sustainability scorecard was an orous requirements in terms of safety, life companies to take responsibility important part of this collaboration. of products and low environmental impact. throughout the value chain. We want The sustainability scorecard, which Nobia’s products should be safe to our customers to feel proud not only was developed in 2017, is an inter­ use throughout their entire useful life. of our products’ design, function, and nal tool that will enable evaluation Ergonomics are taken into consideration in quality, but also of how it impacts peoof our products based on several all our product development, and relevant ple and the environment. different criteria regarding material, tests are carried out both in-house and by design, and function. In 2018, the accredited testing institutions in line with Amanda Jackson, implementation of the sustainability EU standards before a new product enters Head of Group Sustainability scorecard will be initiated. the production phase. Common tests in­ clude stress and durability tests to minimise the risk of accidents and guarantee a high level of safety and quality. All cabinets and frontals in the UK have been approved in 32 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Sustainability Report Case Sustainable choice of materials Wood and wood products are the main components of our products. Wood is durable, renewable, and recyclable. It is an environmentally smart material, provided that it comes from sustainable forestry or other sustainable sources such as recycled wood. During the year, the amount of wood material used in our production amounted to some 256 thousands of tonnes (245). Our suppliers of wood and wood products In our endeavours to find new sustain­ are mainly based in Europe. All our sup­ able material, we maintain close dialogue pliers of wood and wood products must with our suppliers regarding new inno­ follow Nobia’s policy regarding sustainable vative materials. In 2017, Nobia began forestry and sign our declaration on wood. a partnership project with Swerea-IVF This declaration contains requirements re­ concerning sustainable material, to pursuing lating to: compliance with forest legislation, innovation regarding how textiles can be known origin and details of source, and not used as future materials for furniture and Timber from sustainable illegally harvested timber, not wood from kitchens. The project focuses on recycling forestry intact natural forests or high conservation textiles in the furniture industry, where value forest, not timber from protect­ they can be used as raw materials for pro­ In 2017, we initiated a collaboration ed areas or from plantations in tropical duction of new textiles, plastic, composites project between our Sourcing unit and sub-tropical regions and not wood and unwoven material. and the Sustainability function to from tropical trees except those that are further strengthening our sourcing certified. routines towards purchasing timber Nobia is a member of the Global Forest that comes from more responsible and Trade Network (GFTN) in the UK. and sustainable forestry. With this, GFTN is a part of the World-Wide Fund We want to be part of the future and we want to contribute to balancing for Nature, WWF, and a union of compa­ develop our business relations in a the production of renewable raw nies and organisations that have committed long-term, sustainable direction that forestry material with the protec­ to pursue or support responsible forest benefits our business and our staketion of biological diversity, land and management. GFTN works to coordinate holders. We can do this in many ways. water, cultural environments, and national and regional initiatives to increase For example, by using our opportuother ecosystem services we, as a responsible forest management and its nity to influence the promotion of society, need. members undertake to increase sourcing using wood and raw wood products of wood and wood products from sustain­ from forests that are responsibly and able sources and to disassociate them­ sustainably cultivated. This way, we selves from forest products that are illegal can create change far beyond our own or originate from controversial sources. operations. Nobia strives to increase the share of wood certified by FSC (Forest Stewardship Kevin Gilbert, Acting Director of Sourcing Council), and in 2017 the share of certified wood was approximately 42 per cent (36). Nobia Annual Report 2017 33 Sustainability Report Reduced climate impact and economising resources At every step of the value chain, we strive to find resourceand energy-efficient solutions that help us, our business partners, and our customers to reduce our climate and environmental impact, and to act in a more sustainable manner. Our environmental impact primarily arises Production units ISO 14001 Energy and climate from the manufacturing, surface treatment, Tidaholm, Sweden Yes We strive to find new solutions to reduce installation and transportation of kitchens, the climate impact of our operations. For Ølgod, Denmark Yes in the form of emissions from energy example, we are working to reduce our consumption and transportation of wood, Bjerringbo, Denmark Yes direct greenhouse gas emissions, caused wood products, chemicals, packaging ma­ Farsø, Denmark Yes chiefly by heating, cooling, electricity in con­ terials and waste. Nobia strives to reduce Eggedal, Norway In progress nection with manufacturing, and transpor­ its environmental impact by conserving Nastola, Finland Yes tation. To reduce our environmental impact, resources, introducing more efficient heat­ Darlington, UK Yes Nobia continuously introduces modern ing systems, optimising transportation and Halifax, UK Yes systems for cooling, heat recovery and restricting the use of hazardous chemicals. Morley, UK Yes ventilation into production. Goals and priorities are set at regional level During the year we have transitioned all Dewsbury, UK Yes using the Group-wide sustainability strategy our production sites to renewable electric­ Grays, UK No as a basis. Environmental activities are inte­ ity. As a result, Nobia reduced its carbon grated into the operations of each region Freistadt, Austria Yes emissions per produced cabinet by 20 per and production unit. 11 of 13 production Wels, Austria Yes cent (13) in 2017. facilities are certified in accordance with About 5 per cent (5) of Nobia’s total the ISO 14001 standard for environmental expenses are attributable to transporta­ management. utilisation is achieved through such opti­ tion from factory to customer, making this mised processes, meaning energy, emissions a key focus for resource optimisation to Efficient use of resources and costs can all be reduced. In 2017, we reduce both environmental impact and Continuous efforts are being made in pro­ ran 95 improvement projects (30) under costs. Surveys and analyses of transport duction to optimise the flows using a Leanour Lean system and 64 employees (57) flows are implemented in close cooper­ based programme referred to as Nobia in production were trained in our Nobia ation with logistics companies but also Lean System. More efficient resource Lean System. with the assistance of external experts, Greenhouse gas emissions, heating and Greenhouse gas emissions, transportaEnergy consumption, electricity, GWh manufacturing, thousands of tonnes, CO² tion, thousands of tonnes, CO² 40 40 80 30 30 60 20 20 40 10 10 20 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 34 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Sustainability Report to identify economic and environmental amount of waste – excluding wood waste benefits. Freight load optimisation can help – was about 5 thousands of tonnes (8), Case reduce both costs and carbon emissions. of which some 38 per cent (29) went to During the year we have initiated dialogue external recycling, about 51 per cent (63) with carriers regarding carbon emission to landfill or incineration and about 11 per reduction plans and further optimizations cent (8) comprised hazardous waste. throughout the transportation flow. Nobia has been reporting to CDP since 2007 – an independent organisa­ tion promoting transparency in terms of companies’ carbon emissions and climate strategies. 2017 Nobia was awarded a Köksvägen is a new road built into the rating of “C”, the same as in 2016. production facility in Tidaholm that now re-directs lorry traffic from the Emissions of solvents town centre and reduces transportaThe reduction of solvents is a key issue in tion through our community. Nobia’s environmental work. Emissions of volatile organic compounds were reduced Yamina Helenius Head of Quality and En­ by 5 per cent (11) in 2017. Solvents are vironment at Nobia Production Sweden AB Köksvägen – a project mainly used in surface treatment and when to reduce traffic in cleaning painting facilities. Initiatives to re­ duce the use of solvents include replacing Tidaholm them with water-based and UV-tempered surface coatings and reducing the number In a joint effort with Tidaholm Mu­ of changeovers in production equipment, nicipality we have built Köksvägen which both reduces the amount of (Kitchen Road), into our Swedish cleaning required and raises productivity. production facility in Tidaholm. The In 2017, the percentage of water-based new road re-directs lorry traffic and UV-tempered surface coatings totalled from the town centre and reduces about 60 per cent (58). transportation through the commu­ nity. The road reduces noise from Packaging and waste transportation and improves air Timber pallets, corrugated board, shrink­ quality for residents near the facility. wrap and plastic tape are the main com­ The road was inaugurated at the ponents of the packaging materials used beginning of the year. by Nobia. During the year, wood waste amounted to about 31 thousands of tonnes (29). The Energy consumption, heating, GWh Use of materials, wood and FSC-labelled Emissions of solvents, tonnes wood, thousands of tonnes 80 400 300 250 60 300 200 40 200 150 100 20 100 50 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 ■ FSC-labelled wood and materials ■ Wood and materials Nobia Annual Report 2017 35 Sustainability Report Case Responsible sourcing A sustainable supply chain and good relations with our suppliers are crucial for offering attractive products to our customers. That is why we are continually working on creating open, effective partnerships with responsible suppliers. Tony Brocklehurst Supply chain New supplier audit Nobia has around 560 suppliers (715) in us in our business and operations and programme its supply chain, of which the great majority help our suppliers develop in the field of are based in Europe. The core compo­ sustainability, and thereby support our am­ One important success factor for nents of the products, such as chipboard, bition to promote business ethics, respect us is a sustainable supply chain. It is MDF, paint, hinges, drawer units, edging for human rights, and the environment. especially important for offering our and worktops, are supplied by European A new tool for assessment and risk customers attractive and sustainable companies. Nobia has several suppliers of classification of suppliers based on a products, but it is also an opportu­ appliances for different customer segments number of parameters regarding human nity for us to contribute to more and its ambition is to always be in a posi­ rights, work environment, anti-corruption sustainable development. tion to supply products from the leading and the environment was developed, and We have a team based in the UK appliance companies. Product categories the implementation process was started in and in Asia working on suppli­ manufactured in Asia include screws, some 2017. 48 supplier audits (79) were carried er evaluations. It works in close interior fittings and LED lighting, and these out in total, of which 20 were in-depth collaboration with our purchasers products are purchased principally via audits (32). The number of supplier audits and our sustainability function. Its European wholesalers based on detailed was lower in 2017 than 2016 due to the activities include everything from product descriptions that include EU intensive work on developing the new tool risk assessments and evaluations requirements and local regulations. for supplier assessment. The implementa­ to physical supplier audits covering tion will be performed in 2018. topic such as human rights, health Supplier audits and safety, labour conditions, the Centralised sourcing provides Nobia with environment, business ethics and the opportunity to apply a structured quality. work method in terms of setting require­ To reach further down the supply ments, and monitoring and developing Our new risk assessment tool provides chain, a new tool was developed suppliers’ work. Purchased materials and us with an excellent opportunity to for assessing and risk classifying components are carefully specified and identify suppliers with higher sustainsuppliers’ and subcontractors’ suppliers are risk assessed, inspected and ability risks in new and existing supsustainability performance in 2017. evaluated in accordance with the com­ ply chains so that we can better direct The tool gives us the possibility of pany’s guidelines on the environment, our energies towards necessary audits influencing the supply chain, and work environment, human rights and and streamlining our work, which over the long term contributing to business ethics. There is a department will lead to greater sustainability. a positive effect on people working responsible for supplier evaluations within with and for us as well as for the Nobia’s sourcing organisation. The suppliers Tony Brocklehurst, Senior Quality environment. selected for evaluation and the scope of Engineer, head of Nobia’s supplier audit the audits are determined based on a risk programme assessment. Suppliers considered high-risk are prioritised in this process. Our supply chain extends across differ­ ent markets, and entails numerous relation­ ships. To govern this complex environment, our policy framework and processes guide 36 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Sustainability Report Our employees should have a safe, secure workplace Nobia’s employees are our main asset. Attracting, engaging, and developing our employees is a crucial success factor for our operations. That is why we work purposefully towards creating a safe, secure work environment where our employees’ engagement is utilised and creates, together with good management, a company which you can be proud to work for. Nobia mainly has permanent employees; only approximately one per Near-accidents and accidents are reported to management daily. cent of our employees are limited-term.The workforce can be divid­ Managers and employees are continually trained in health and safety. ed up into employees working in production and logistics, and those 75 operational site related accidents (91), resulting in at least eight working in administration and sales. Nobia principally has employees hours of absence occurred during the year.This corresponded to in six European countries; all our employees are covered by collective 13.04 workplace accidents per million hours worked (16,37).The agreements in each of these countries except the UK. Our employees most common accidents were trips, strains and cuts. All accidents are are represented in a European Work Council (EWC).The EWC is a analysed, and measures are taken to prevent all similar accidents from European information and consultation council. happening again. Nobia defined a Production Site Safety measure in 2016, to report on work-related accidents. From 2017 this measure Safe and secure work environment is used in the sustainability report. Employee safety is our top priority, and Nobia has a vision of zero accidents in the workplace and no work-related injuries. Preventive Employees per country in 2017 Number measures are taken to minimise the risk of accidents, injuries and sick­ UK 2,955 ness absence. 7 of our 13 plants also have OHSAS 18001-certified Denmark 1,333 management systems for work environments. OSHA 18001 is an Sweden 705 internationally acknowledged standard for detecting and preventing Finland 391 risks, and improving the work environment in other ways. Nobia’s Austria 363 Darlington, Dewsbury, Halifax and Morley production facilities received five stars in the 2017 OHSAS 18001 review. Norway 293 Safety initiatives in production have been further intensified, Employees in subsidiaries 6,040 and the production management teams at the facilities have daily Employees of Parent Company (Sweden) 47 follow-up meetings at which safety is at the top of the agenda. Employees in the Group 6,087 Employees by gender, number Employees by function, number Nobia Engagement index 5,000 5,000 100 4,000 4,000 80 3,000 3,000 60 2,000 2,000 40 1,000 1,000 20 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 14 16 lse 1 lse 2 17 20 20 20 Pu Pu yVoi yVoi yVoi ■ Men ■ Women ■ Administration & sales ■ Production and logistic M ce M ce M ce Nobia Annual Report 2017 37 Sustainability Report Employee engagement towards joint visions and goals that are set high. In many cases, Employee engagement is a mainstay of successful operations. employee engagement is a reflection of involved and competent Previously, we measured employee engagement once a year, in the managers. Over the year, several different initiatives were thus annual MyVoice employee survey. In 2017, we began measuring taken to develop managers at Nobia, thereby further increasing engagement more regularly, through quarterly ‘pulse checks’. engagement in the company. Among those initiatives was the The pulse check survey was conducted for the first time in March Nobia Excellent Leader model, in which 40 workshops with 715 2017, with a response frequency of 78 per cent; during the second participants were arranged in 2017. round in June 2017, 88 per cent of our employees responded to the survey. In the larger MyVoice survey conducted in September, Equality and diversity questions were also asked regarding leadership, team effectiveness, Nobia promotes equality, diversity and equal treatment and health, and discrimination. The engagement index in this year’s endeavours to have an even gender balance among employees in MyVoice survey is 77 (75). senior positions. The Code of Conduct maintains that no em­ Employees are informed of the results on various occasions, in ployee should be discriminated against due to age, ethnicity, social group meetings or at larger information meetings. Managers dis­ or national origin, skin colour, gender, sexual orientation, religion, cuss an action plan jointly with their employees to continue work political views, disability or any other reason. on the team’s areas of improvement over the next year. Discrimination issues are a part of our Code of Conduct train­ ing. Equality and diversity are also an integral part of our recruit­ Practice makes perfect ment process, succession planning and leadership development. Over the year, local initiatives were taken to find and help talented We aim to work on creating an inclusive business culture in all students and involved employees develop at Nobia, and thereby parts of our operations, where people can make use of their full meet the company’s future challenges. The Magnet apprenticeship potential. programme is a part of the effort, and the programme was one of The Board of Directors consists of nine elected members, the winners of the North East Regional finals of the 2017 National including the CEO, and four employee representatives. Of the Apprenticeship Award in the UK. elected members of the Board of Directors, 44 per cent are wom­ en and 56 per cent are men. In Group management, the division Leadership between women and men is 17 per cent and 83 per cent, respec­ Leadership is an important cornerstone in our business strategy; tively. In 2017, 23 per cent (21) of the top 100 senior executives in its purpose is to motivate and involve all employees to work the Group were women, and 77 per cent (79) men. Case Good leadership generates the power to grow Over the last few years, we have worked intensively on leader­ ship to create a strong foundation for Nobia, and thereby grow Leadership means someas a company and achieve our vision. thing to everyone. Perhaps With the help of viewpoints from managers from all of Nobia not always the same thing, in combination with analyses of strategy and challenges, we or to the same extent. We have developed a competence model for leadership: “Excellent often have views on what Leader.”The model provides a structure and a common language good leadership is, and to describe, in a specific and useful manner, what leadership what bad leadership is, but Nobia needs. most agree that leadership The first part of implementing the model was carried out by is needed, leadership is introducing it to all the senior managers at Nobia. Questions important. Now, we have such as leadership at Nobia, what it means for us as a company, defined together what and why it is important were studied during a half day group leadership means for us session. at Nobia, and it is time to The next step was that all the managers in Nobia participated make the journey together in local workshops for the purpose of understanding the impor­ to become as good a leader tance of leadership, what it means for every person in their daily as each of us can be. work, and what they as individual leaders need to work on. In total, 40 workshops with 715 participants in all were conducted Lotta Höjman, Director of Talent Management in 2017. 38 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Sustainability Report Business ethics and transparency For Nobia business ethics and transparency are a matter of respecting laws and regulations – as well as human rights – where we operate, paying taxes under applicable rules, and taking a clear stance against all forms of corruption. It is also a matter of ensuring internal governance and monitoring of business ethics issues, and ensuring that sourcing and sales are managed with integrity. Anti-corruption throughout the value chain The Anti-Corruption Code is a mainstay of our Code of Conduct. Our Code of Conduct To ensure compliance with the Code of Conduct, employees are en­ couraged to report any conduct that breaches the Code. An anony­ The Code of Conduct was developed in 2013, and was mous communication channel has been set up for this purpose, but adopted by Nobia’s Board of Directors in February 2014. employees can report any cases outside this channel as well. 59 cases The Code is implemented through repeated workshops and (25) were reported in 2017, of which 14 (5) were reported via the e-learning, as well as in daily work. It is available on the com­ anonymous communication channel.The increase in reported issues pany’s intranet and website, in English, Swedish, Danish, Nor­ may be a result of increased awareness from the Code of Conduct wegian, Finnish, and German. The Code is reviewed annually. implementation and related training.The reported cases and other The Code is based on the UN Universal Declaration of issues relating to the principles in the Code of Conduct have been Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles handled and reported to the Board’s Audit Committee. and Rights at Work and the OECD guidelines for multinational We wish to advocate business ethics, assuming responsibility, enterprises. It indicates the minimum level of acceptable be­ and transparency throughout our entire supply chain. That is why haviour for all employees and collaborating partners. The Code in 2017 we implemented an anonymous communications tool for is based on the following principles. reporting behaviour that violates our Supplier Code of Conduct. Our Code of Conduct for suppliers regulates and governs Nobia’s Fair competition requirements for suppliers about working conditions, human rights, Anti-corruption business ethics, environmental performance, and so on. Our sup­ Impartiality pliers in turn should pass on these expectations to their suppliers, Human rights to ensure observance throughout the entire supply chain. Through Respect for the individual the new communications tool, suppliers can report any irregulari­ Fair labour conditions ties, completely anonymously, and there are internal structures for Respect for the environment managing all cases. To ensure compliance with the Code of Conduct, employees Human rights are encouraged to report any conduct that breaches the Code Respect for human rights, with a starting point in the UN’s guide­ via an anonymous communication channel called “SpeakUp.” lines for companies and human rights as well as local labour legisla­ tion, is an important part of our work and is reflected in both our Auditor´s report on the statutory sustainability report internal guidelines and processes as well as in our requirements for To the general meeting of the shareholders in Nobia AB (publ), corporate identity and monitoring of suppliers. number 556528-2752. Every person who works for Nobia, directly or indirectly, is It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report entitled to have their fundamental human rights met in accordance for the financial year 2017-01-01–2017-12-31 on pages 24–39 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. with the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means • Read more about our work on the Code of Conduct for Suppliers, that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on risk classification and monitoring of our suppliers on page 36. Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the • Read more about our work on creating a safe, secure work envi­ examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. ronment on page 37. A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. • Read more about our work on equality and diversity on page 38. Stockholm, March 20, 2018 Deloitte AB, Daniel de Paula, Authorized Public Accountant Nobia Annual Report 2017 39 :::::::::::::::::: Financial overview Financial overview Operations ing margin (EBIT margin) is to exceed 10 Significant events Nobia AB (Corporate Registration Numper cent over a business cycle. On 31 January, the transaction with the ber 556528-2752) is Europe’s leading Financing: The debt/equity ratio (net German group Adcuram regarding the kitchen specialist. Nobia sells kitchens debt/shareholders’ equity) is not to exdivestment of Poggenpohl was concluded. under some twenty strong brands, and as ceed 100 per cent. A temporary elevation In March 2017, HTH in Denmark a contract manufacturer. The operation of the debt/equity ratio is acceptable in launched the new HTH GO product covers the entire value chain, from develconjunction with acquisitions. range, with kitchen models delivered opment, manufacturing and installation to Dividends: Dividends are, on average, to ready-to-assemble. sales and distribution, as well as associated be within the interval of 40–60 per cent of Tomas Billing was re-elected Chairservice. A kitchen focus makes it possible net profit after tax. When decisions about man of the Board at the Annual General to leverage the joint know-how of the the amount of the dividend are made, the Meeting on 6 April. Jill Little and George business units throughout the entire value company’s capital structure is to be taken Adams were elected new members of chain. into consideration. the Board. Fredrik Palmstierna and Thore Sales to consumers are conducted Ohlsson declined re-election. All other through own and franchise stores and Strategy Board members were re-elected. The through a network of retailers, including Nobia endeavours to create profitable AGM elected Deloitte AB as the com­ furniture stores, builders’ merchants, DIY growth by capitalising on economies of pany’s new auditor, with Daniel de Paula as stores and independent kitchen specialists. scale and synergy effects, and developing Auditor-in-Charge. KPMG had served as The products are also sold to professional the company’s customer offering and sales auditor for ten years. The Annual General construction companies which, in turn, sell channels. The strategy is based on the Meeting appointed a Nomination Comthe kitchens to their end customers. Efficiency and Growth platform, which inmittee comprising Viveca Ax:son Johnson Nobia is organised in three geographic cludes efficiency-enhancing measures and (Chairman) representing Nordstjernan, regions: the UK, Nordic and Central Euactivities to drive increased sales. Torbjörn Magnusson representing If Skarope regions. deförsäkring, Lars Bergqvist representing 2017 Lannebo funds and Arne Lööw representFinancial targets Nobia was further consolidated and profit ing the Fourth Swedish National Pension Nobia’s operations are steered towards after tax improved. Organic sales growth Fund, and adopted the instruction for the three financial targets that aim to generate amounted to 2 per cent (4) and the operNomination Committee. favourable returns for shareholders and ating margin reached 10.1 per cent (10.3). At the end of April, the Board of Nobia long-term value growth. Operating profit for the year declined decided to transfer bought-back shares Growth: Sales are to grow organically and slightly, negatively affected by currency under the Performance Share Plan 2014 through acquisitions by an average of more effects and higher costs, and positively resolved at the 2014 Annual General than 5 per cent per year. affected by higher sales values and lower Meeting, based on the authorisation grantProfitability: The Nobia Group’s operatprices of materials. ed by the 2017 Annual General Meeting. 2016 2017 Change, % Nobia Group summary Net sales, SEK m 12,648 12,744 1 Gross margin, % 39.0 39.3 – Operating margin before depreciation/amortisation 12.5 12.3 – and impairment, % Operating profit (EBIT), SEK m 1,298 1,286 -1 Operating margin (EBIT margin), % 10.3 10.1 – Profit after financial items, SEK m 1,247 1, 250 0 Profit/loss after tax, SEK m 455 1,015 – Earnings/loss per share, after dilution, SEK 2.70 6.02 – Earnings per share after dilution, excl. items affecting 5.36 6.02 12 comparability, SEK Operating cash flow, SEK m 1,031 706 -32 Return on operating capital, % 32.5 31.5 – Return on equity, % 13.0 27.8 – Number of employees at year-end 6,445 6,087 -6 40 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Financial overview :::::::::::::::::: In May, Nobia repaid a bond loan of provement was mainly due to higher sales discontinued operations in accordance SEK 800 million from AB SEK Securities volumes to the project market. Currency with IFRS 5. The period from January to (Swedish Export Credit Corporation). effects had an impact of SEK 0 million (neg: September 2016 has been recalculated In July, Nobia announced the creation 65) on operating profit. as regards income statement, organic of a new organisation in which a Chief In the UK region, operating profit growth, specification of items affecting Product Supply Officer will be given comdeclined to SEK 454 million (545). The comparability, cash-flow analysis and complete responsibility for manufacturing and lower earnings were mainly due to lower parative data per region, and the recalculogistics, sourcing and product developvolumes. Currency effects had a negative lations are presented in an appendix that ment, and sustainability. At the same time, impact of SEK 105 million (neg: 115) on can be found on Nobia’s website under it was announced that Ola Carlsson had operating profit. Investors/Reports and presentations. been appointed Executive Vice President Operating profit in the Central Europe Profit after tax from discontinued operand Chief Product Supply Officer, to take region declined to SEK 12 million (37). The ations for 2017 amounted to SEK 21 million office during the fourth quarter of 2017. lower earnings were mainly due to a lower and pertained to Poggenpohl. During the In July, it was announced that during the gross margin and higher costs. Currency third quarter, a provision of SEK 20 million second quarter of 2017, Nobia had opened effects had an impact of SEK 0 million (0) related to the sale of Poggenpohl was the first two test stores under a new store on operating profit. dissolved. concept that would make customers beGroup-wide items and eliminations Loss after tax from discontinued opcome more involved using digital aids. amounted to an operating loss of SEK erations in 2016 amounted to SEK 523 In October, Nick Corlett, Executive Vice 143 million (loss: 140). Financial items million, of which a loss of SEK 448 million President, Sourcing and Project Manageamounted to an expense of SEK 36 million pertained to impairment of assets attribment, and Niek Visarius, Executive Vice (expense: 51). Net financial items included utable to Poggenpohl, a loss of SEK 73 President, Supply Chain Operations, left the net of return on pension assets and million to Poggenpohl’s current earnings, a Nobia following changes to the organisation. interest expense for pension liabilities corgain of SEK 5 million to the dissolution of a During the year, Nobia’s deliveries to the responding to an expense of SEK 34 milprovision related to the sale of Hygena and smaller B2B customer Homebase in the lion (expense: 34). Net interest expense a loss of SEK 7 million to the stores Nobia UK were phased out; as a result, Interitotalled SEK 2 million (expense: 17). Profit acquired from franchisees with the intenor Solutions operations in Magnet were after financial items improved to SEK 1,250 tion of subsequently selling on. closed down. million (1,247). Tax expense amounted to SEK 256 milItems affecting comparability Consolidated net sales lion (269). Loss after tax from discontinNobia recognises items affecting comNet sales amounted to SEK 12,744 million ued operations amounted to SEK 21 milparability separately to distinguish the (12,648) and were distributed as follows: lion (loss: 523). Profit after tax increased performance of the underlying operations. Nordic region, SEK 6,516 million (5,988); to SEK 1,015 million (455). Items affecting comparability refer to items UK region, SEK 5,710 million (6,122); and Earnings per share for the year after that affect comparisons in so far as they do Central Europe region, SEK 521 million dilution amounted to SEK 6.02 (2.70). not recur with the same regularity as other (541). Sales to other regions are also inEarnings per share for the previous year items. cluded in net sales for the region. after dilution and excluding items affecting No items affecting comparability imThe Group’s organic growth, meaning comparability amounted to SEK 5.36. No pacted operating profit in 2017. Profit the change in net sales for comparable items affecting comparability were recogfrom discontinued operations in 2016 was units and adjusted for currency effects, nised during 2017. affected by negative items affecting comtotalled 2 per cent (4). Organic growth parability of SEK 448 million pertained to in the Nordic region was 8 per cent (6), Earnings from discontinued operations impairment in Poggenpohl, which did not while organic growth was negative 2 per In the third quarter of 2017, Nobia reaffect cash flow. cent (1) in the UK region and negative 5 classified the two stores the company Approved and implemented restrucper cent (pos: 3) in the Central Europe had acquired from franchisees with the turing measures of SEK 0 million (1) from region. intent of selling them on, and which were previous years were charged to cash flow recognised in Discontinued operations in 2017. The Group’s earnings and disposal groups held for sale in the The Group’s operating profit for Contininterim report for the second quarter of Investments, cash flow uing operations amounted to SEK 1,286 2017 in accordance with IFRS 5. These and financial position million (1,298). The operating margin was stores were recognised in Continuing Investments in fixed assets amounted to 10.1 per cent (10.3). Operating profit operations after the reclassification, since SEK 319 million (290), of which SEK 75 declined slightly, negatively affected by Nobia deems they will not be sold within million (69) pertained to investments in higher sales and administrative expenses, the next 12 months. The reclassification the store network. and positively affected by lower prices of impacted Nobia’s operating profit for Operating cash flow amounted to SEK materials and higher sales values. Currency 2017 by a total of SEK 0 million, pertaining 706 million (1,031), negatively affected by a effects had a negative impact of SEK 105 to the stores’ earnings and accumulated change in working capital. million (neg: 180) on operating profit. amortisations. The Group’s capital employed amountIn the Nordic region, operating profit From the fourth quarter of 2016, ed to SEK 4,727 million (5,182) at the rose to SEK 963 million (856). The imPoggenpohl’s operations are reported as end of the period. At year-end, net debt Nobia Annual Report 2017 41 :::::::::::::::::: Financial overview totalled SEK 77 million (493). Provisions strong in 2018 and it is estimated that the Product development for pensions, which are included in net consumer market will increase slightly but All product development for the Groupdebt, amounted to SEK 567 million (955 be on the decrease. Nobia will continwide range is managed centrally. Work on including Poggenpohl) at the end of the ue to focus on increasing efficiency over producing new products is focused on a period. At year-end, the debt/equity ratio time, and taking greater advantage of the number of areas that meet specific cuswas 2 per cent (14). Shareholders’ equity Group’s size, while also making significant tomer requirements. During the course at year-end amounted to SEK 4,154 million investments in order to generate profitaof the process, prototypes are developed (3,419). The equity/assets ratio at yearble growth. that are tested on consumers. end was 58 per cent (43). Nobia’s credit frameworks, which are Personnel Parent Company valid until 2019, amounted to SEK 1.0 In 2017, the average number of employThe Parent Company Nobia AB’s operabillion, excluding overdraft facilities, at ees was 6,178 (6,573). The number of tions comprise Group-wide functions and year-end. In 2017, Nobia repaid a bond employees at year-end was 6,087 (6,445). the ownership of subsidiaries. The limited liloan of SEK 800 million from the SwedThe decrease in the number of employability company is domiciled in Sweden and ish Export Credit Corporation. In 2014, ees was mainly due to the divestment of the head office is located in Stockholm. Nobia agreed on a syndicated loan of SEK Poggenpohl, which had 481 employees at The Parent Company’s profit after net fi1 billion, valid until 2019, with a small group year-end 2016. nancial items amounted to SEK 920 million of banks. At the end of December 2017, (loss: 159) and mainly consisted of Group the entire credit frameworks had been Environment and sustainability contributions received and dividends from unutilised. Nobia conducts activities that require a subsidiaries. permit under the Swedish Environmental Divestments and acquisitions Code through Nobia Production Sweden The share and ownership structure In December 2016, Nobia signed an agreeAB, which includes Nobia’s Swedish operThe Nobia share has been listed on Nasment for the sale of Poggenpohl to the ations in production, logistics and sourcing. daq Stockholm since 2002. Nobia’s share German group Adcuram. The transaction In 2017, the production facility in Tidacapital amounts to SEK 58,430,237, divided was concluded in January 2017. holm affected the external environment between 175,293,458 shares with a quoNo acquisitions were made in 2017. through mainly noise and emissions to air tient value of SEK 0.33. Nobia has only in conjunction with the surface treatment one class of share. Each share, with the Significant events after of wooden items. The County Adminisexception of bought-back treasury shares, the end of the year trative Board of Västra Götaland is the entitles the holder to one vote, and carries In January 2018, Nobia’s Nomination regulatory authority and decision-making the same entitlement to the company’s Committee announced that the Chairman body regarding permit applications. Nobia capital and profits. of the Board, Tomas Billing, had declined Production Sweden AB is certified to the In 2007 and 2008, Nobia bought back re-election. The Nomination CommitISO 14001 environmental management a total of 8,162,300 own shares at a value tee proposes that Hans Eckerström be standard. of SEK 468,056,934 under the authorielected the new Chairman of the Board. All of Nobia’s 13 production units, locatsation mandate granted by the 2007 and His current Board memberships include ed in six European countries, satisfy the 2008 Annual General Meetings. The aim Nordstjernan AB and Thule Group AB. environmental requirements determined was to enable whole or partial acquisition In February 2018 it was communicated by each country and 11 of these have been financing through payment using treasury that Erkka Lumme, Executive Vice Presawarded ISO 14001 certification. shares, but also to adjust the company’s ident and Head of Commercial Finland, Nobia works consistently to reduce capital structure and thereby contribute would leave Nobia in May 2018, and that the Group’s CO 2 emissions. In 2017, the to higher shareholder value. Ralph Kobsik would take office as ExecuGroup’s CO 2 emissions per produced The 2017 Annual General Meeting tive Vice President and Head of Central cabinet declined approximately 20 per authorised the Board to make a decision Europe Region by June 2018 at the latest. cent. In 2016, the Group's CO 2 emissions regarding a buy-back of up to 10 per cent per produced cabinet declined by 13 per of the company’s own shares. No shares Future outlook cent. The Group’s CO 2 emissions fell a were bought back during the year. Demand for kitchens normally follows total of approximately 22 per cent. CO 2 The 2017 Annual General Meeting also the same business cycle as other conemissions decreased 6 per cent in 2016. authorised the Board, for the period until sumer discretionary products. Given the Other key sustainability-related perforthe 2018 Annual General Meeting, to deimproved economic climate in Central mance indicators for Nobia, such as the cide on the transfer of bought-back shares Europe against the macroeconomic unnumber of workplace-related accidents for the purpose of delivering shares under certainty as a result of Brexit in the UK, and number of supplier audits, are prethe Performance Share Plan resolved market conditions and demand trends sented on page 111. Nobia's statutory in 2014. In 2017, Nobia’s Board decided for 2018 are deemed to remain challengSustainability Report can be found on to transfer 110,419 bought-back shares, ing. Demand in the project segment in pages 24-39. comprising 0.06 per cent of the Parent the Nordic region is expected to remain 42 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Financial overview :::::::::::::::::: Company’ share capital, based on this auRemuneration Committee strengthening the performance requirethorisation. At the end of 2017, the numThe Board of Directors appoints a Remument from participants for entitlement to ber of treasury shares after sales amountneration Committee from within its ranks. share allotment. ed to 6,709,571, corresponding to 3.8 per The Committee’s tasks include preparing cent of the total number of shares. These proposals with respect to remuneration Proposal on remuneration guidelines shares were acquired in 2007 and 2008 for the President, and to reach decisions and other employment conditions for for a total amount of SEK 384,696,475. on remuneration proposals for managers Group management 2018 At the end of 2017, the ten largest who report directly to the President. The The Board of Directors of Nobia AB owners held about 61.6 per cent of the Remuneration Committee performs anproposes that the 2018 Annual General shares. The single largest shareholder, nual follow-ups and evaluations of the onMeeting decide on the following guidelines Nordstjernan, represented 21.5 per cent going variable-remuneration programmes, for determining remuneration and emof the shares. If Skadeförsäkring held 10.1 and the programmes completed during ployment conditions for the President and per cent of the shares, the Fourth Swedish the year. The Remuneration Committee other members of Group management. National Pension Fund 6.7 per cent and also monitors and evaluates the appliGroup management, including the PresiLannebo funds 5.8 per cent. cation of the principles resolved by the dent, currently comprises 12 individuals. Nobia’s lenders have the option of Annual General Meeting for remuneration Basing its opinion on, for example, the terminating all loans if the control of the and other employment conditions for follow-up and evaluation performed by company were to be significantly altered. Group management concerning remuthe Remuneration Committee, the Board If any one party, or jointly with other neration structures and remuneration believes that the proposed proposal on reparties (under formal or informal forms) levels, and otherwise considers needs for muneration guidelines and other employgains control of the company, the lenders changes. ment conditions for Group management are entitled to terminate all outstanding Following on from its evaluations, the – which essentially conforms to those loans for payment. The term “control of Remuneration Committee stated that guidelines adopted by the 2017 Annual the company” pertains to control of more remuneration to senior executives in 2017 General Meeting – represents an approthan half of the total number of votes or conformed to the remuneration guidepriate balance between fixed cash salary, capital, or the acquisition of direct and lines resolved at the 2017 Annual General variable cash salary, long-term sharedecisive influence over the appointment Meeting. In the opinion of the Remunerbased remuneration, pension conditions of the Board of Directors or members ation Committee, the guidelines were and other benefits. Nobia’s salary policy of Group management. Control of the appropriate and the application of them stipulates that total remuneration is to company is also deemed to arise if a party, was correct. correspond to market levels. A continuous alone or jointly with other parties, can To strengthen senior executives’ position evaluation is carried out to ensure exercise direct and decisive influence commitment to and ownership in the market levels in each country. over the company’s financial and strategic company, and to attract, motivate and Members of Group management position. If such a situation were to arise retain key employees in the Group, Nobia receive both a fixed and a variable salary whereby the control of the company were has implemented long-term perforportion. The fundamental principle is that to be significantly altered, the lender and mance-based remuneration schemes since the variable salary portion may amount to Nobia shall begin negotiations that shall 2005, following resolutions by each Annual a maximum of 40 per cent of fixed annual last for a maximum of 30 days. The aim of General Meeting. salary. The exception to this principle is the these negotiations is to reach an agreeA resolution was made at the 2012, President, whose variable salary portion ment between the lenders and Nobia. If 2013, 2014 and 2015 Annual General may amount to a maximum of 65 per cent an agreement is not reached, the lender is Meetings to establish a long-term, shareof fixed annual salary. Exceptions may also entitled to terminate all outstanding loans based remuneration scheme based on be made for senior executives following for immediate payment. matching and performance shares (Perdecisions by the Board. As stated in the More information on the share and shareformance Share Plans 2012–2015). The separate proposal for resolution to the holders is presented on pages 106–107. Remuneration Committee’s evaluation Annual General Meeting regarding a longshows that the conditions established for term performance share plan, participaRemuneration guidelines the Performance Share Plans are deemed tion in the plan entails that the maximum and other employment conditions appropriate and relevant and, in the Revariable salary portion is adjusted downfor Group management 2017 muneration Committee’s opinion, there wards for this specific plan participant. The The guidelines for 2017 essentially correis reason to continue with a long-term fixed salary portion for the President for spond with the proposed guidelines for share-based remuneration scheme. The 2018 will remain unchanged as compared 2018. Remuneration Committee believes that with the preceding year. The variable the structure of the Performance Share salary portion is normally divided between Plan can be changed in certain respects, several targets, such as the Group’s earnfor example, for the purpose of further ings, earnings in the business unit for which Nobia Annual Report 2017 43 :::::::::::::::::: Financial overview the manager is responsible and individual/ ownership of invested shares, and to fulfilis adjusted downwards by ten percentage quantitative targets. The variable salary ment of a financial performance target. points (for the President), five percentage portion is based on a period of service of The 2016 Annual General Meeting points (Group management) and three one year. The targets for the President are resolved to introduce a new long-term repercentage points (other senior execudetermined by the Board. The targets for muneration scheme directed to the same tives and managers). The number of share the other senior executives are estabtarget group and with largely the same rights that a participant can be allocatlished by the President following recomstructure as the preceding year’s proed depends on the participant’s annual mendations by the Board’s Remuneration gramme, though without a requirement salary (based on the participant’s monthly Committee. for investment of own shares and without salary in March 2018) and the category to In the event of a maximum outcome, the possibility of receiving “matching which the participant belongs. The Board which presupposes that all bonus-relatshares.” The minimum level adopted by determines an allocation value for each ed targets are fulfilled, the variable salary the Board for allotment of shares under participant relative to the participant’s costs for Group management are estithe Performance Share Plan 2016 was annual salary. The allocation value for the mated to amount to approximately SEK accumulated earnings per share, excludPresident amounts to 50 per cent of an15,200,000 (excluding social security coning items affecting comparability for the nual salary and for the other members of tributions). The calculation is based on the 2016 and 2017 fiscal years, of SEK 11.75. Group management the allocation value is current composition of Group manageThe maximum level was set to SEK 13.75. 30 per cent of annual salary. The allocament and does not take into account any Since the accumulated earnings per share tion value for other managers in senior decreases in the maximum variable salary excluding items affecting comparability positions amounts to 20 per cent of annual portion associated with participation in for the period amounted to SEK 11.69, the salary. The share price forming the basis the long-term performance share plan. Board’s minimum target figure for allotof the calculation of the number of share Members of Group management emment was not achieved and no allotment rights is to correspond to an average volployed in Sweden are entitled to a pension of shares under the Performance Share ume-weighted price paid during a specific under the ITP system or equivalent. The Plan 2016 will take place. time period. This time period is the first age of retirement is 65. In addition to At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, a ten trading days after the day of publicathe ITP plan, following a resolution by decision was taken on a long-term remution of Nobia’s interim report for the first the Board, members of Group manneration scheme with the same structure quarter of 2018. The individual allocation agement are entitled to an increased as the remuneration scheme adopted at value is subsequently divided by the share occupational pension premium on salary the 2016 Annual General Meeting. One of price to obtain the total number of share portions amounting to more than 30 basic the requirements for allotment of shares rights per participant. Allocation of Nobia amounts. under the program is meeting a financial shares shall normally take place within two Employment contracts for Group performance target linked to accumulated weeks after announcement of Nobia’s inmanagement include provisions regulating earnings per share for Nobia during the terim report for the first quarter of 2021. remuneration and termination of em2017–2018 fiscal years. The following conditions apply to ployment. According to these contracts, The Board has again proposed a longshare rights: The share rights are allocatemployment may ordinarily be terminated term performance share plan – the same ed free of charge and to be entitled to upon the employee’s request with a sixas the preceding year’s programme – to receive shares under the share rights, it is month period of notice and at the comthe 2018 Annual General Meeting. Perforrequired, with certain exemptions, that pany’s request with a 12-month period of mance Share Plan 2018 comprises approxthe participant remains employed within notice. imately 100 employees consisting of senior the Nobia Group. In addition, allotment A resolution was made at the 2012, executives and senior managers within the of shares requires that Nobia has fulfilled 2013, 2014 and 2015 Annual General Nobia Group. Participants will be awarded a financial performance target condition. Meetings to establish a long-term, shareperformance-based share rights that carry The participants are not entitled to transbased remuneration scheme based on entitlement to allotment of shares. At the fer, pledge or dispose of the share rights or matching and performance shares. The end of the vesting period, the participants exercise any shareholders’ rights regarding schemes, which encompassed some 100 will be allotted shares in Nobia free of the share rights during the Vesting Period. individuals comprising senior executives charge, provided that certain conditions Nobia will not compensate the particiand senior managers, were based on the are fulfilled. Entitlement to allotment of pants in the plan for standard dividends participants investing in Nobia shares that shares requires that the participant remain made in respect of the shares for which were “locked into” the plan. Each Nobia an employee of the Nobia Group during the respective share right qualifies. share invested in under the framework of the vesting period. Allotment of shares The number of Nobia shares that will be the plan entitled the participant, following also requires that a financial performance awarded on the basis of the share rights a vesting period of about three years and target linked to accumulated earnings per depends on the degree of fulfilment of provided that certain conditions were share for Nobia during the 2018–2019 a range established by the Board of Difulfilled, to allotment (for no considerafiscal years is achieved. rectors in relation to Nobia’s cumulative tion) of matching and performance shares Participation in the Performance Share earnings per share in the 2018 and 2019 in Nobia. The conditions are linked to the Plan 2018 entails that the maximum variafiscal years. The level of fulfilment will be participant’s continued employment and ble remuneration for participants in 2018 measured linearly, whereby 25 per cent 44 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Financial overview :::::::::::::::::: of the share rights will entitle allocation of Proposed appropriation of profits shares if the established minimum level is The following profits in the Parent Comachieved. If the minimum level in the range pany are at the disposition of the Annual is not achieved, the share rights will not General Meeting: give entitlement to any shares and if the maximum level in the range is achieved, Share premium reserve 52,225,486 each share right gives entitlement to one Unappropriated profit Nobia share. brought forward 877,686,872 The share rights cannot be pledged or Net profit for the year 889,324,386 Total SEK 1,819,236,744 transferred to other parties. However, an estimated value for each right can be calculated. The Board has estimated the The Board of Directors proposes that all average value for each share right to be profits at the disposition of the Annual SEK 60.4. The estimate is based on generGeneral Meeting be appropriated as ally accepted valuation models by applying follows: the closing price of the Nobia share on 23 February 2018, with deductions for the Standard dividend of SEK 3.50 per share to be paid to sharepresent value of the estimated dividend holders 590,043,604.50 for the 2018–2020 fiscal years. On the Extra dividend of SEK 3.50 per assumption that all individuals who were share to be paid to shareholders 590,043,604.50 offered participation in the Plan actually To be carried forward 639,149,535 participate, 100 per cent fulfilment of the Total SEK 1,819,236,744 financial performance target and estimates regarding personnel turnover, the total estimated value of the share rights is The Board proposes a dividend of SEK approximately SEK 20.6 million. This value 7.00 per share (3.00) for the 2017 fiscal corresponds to approximately 0.2 per year. The record date to be entitled to recent of Nobia’s market capitalisation as per ceive dividend is proposed as Thursday, 12 23 February 2018. April 2018. If the Annual General Meeting Costs are recognised as employee beneresolves in accordance with the proposal, fits in profit or loss over the vesting period the dividend is expected to be paid on in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Tuesday, 17 April 2018. Payment. Social security contributions will be expensed in profit or loss in accordance with UFR 7 over the vesting period. The amount of these costs will be calculated based on Nobia’s share-price trend over the vesting period and allotment of share rights. Given the aforementioned assumptions, and based on a constant share price during the plan, and a Vesting Period of approximately three years, the cost of Performance Share Plan 2018 including social security contributions is estimated to amount to approximately SEK 26.7 million which, on an annual basis, is approximately 0.3 per cent of Nobia’s total costs for employee benefits during the 2017 fiscal year. The plan has no limitation on maximum profits per share right for the participants and therefore no maximum social security costs can be calculated. The Board is entitled to deviate from the guidelines described above if the Board finds that particular reasons warrant this in a specific case. Nobia Annual Report 2017 45 :::::::::::::::::: Risks and risk management Risks and risk management Nobia is exposed to both commercial and financial risks. Commercial risks can be divided into strategic, business development-related, operating, sustainability-related and political and legal risks. Financial risks are attributable to currencies, interest rates, liquidity, borrowing and credit granting, financial instruments and pensions. All business operations are associated the Board in its Group strategy planning. In with risks. Risks that are well-managed can conjunction with this, Nobia’s business decreate opportunities, whereas risks that velopment is evaluated and discussed based are not managed correctly may lead to on external and internal considerations. damage and losses. The aim of Nobia’s risk management is to create awareness of risks Operating risks and consequently limit, control and manage Market and competition them, while safeguarding business opportuNobia operates in markets exposed to nities and strengthening profitability. competition and mature markets, which Identified materials risks are managed on means that underlying demand in normal an ongoing basis at all levels in Nobia and market circumstances is relatively stable. In in strategic planning. The Board of Directhe UK, uncertainty resulting from Brexit tors is responsible to the shareholders for had a negative impact on demand in 2017. the company’s risk management. Com­ In addition to the uncertain macro-econpany management regularly reports on omy, price competition continued to risk issues to the Board. increase. Nobia’s sales in the UK in 2017 amounted to about 45 per cent of the Strategic risks Group’s total sales. Corporate-governance and policy risks In Austria, the kitchen market is deemed Corporate-governance and policy risks to have grown slightly in 2017. Competiare managed by Nobia continuously develtion remained intense. oping the Group's internal control. In the Nordic region in 2017, completion The internal dissemination of approin the new-build sector further strengthpriate information is ensured through ened Nobia’s project segment. Demand in the company’s management systems and the consumer segment was also positive processes. A more detailed description is in 2017. provided in the Group management secThe company’s cyclical nature does not tion of the Corporate Governance Report deviate from that of other companies in on page 99. the industry. Nobia has a structured and proactive method for following demand Business-development risks fluctuations. Robust measures and cost-savRisks associated with business developing programmes for adjusting capacity have ment, such as acquisitions and major strucproven that Nobia can adjust its cost level tural changes, are managed by the Group’s when demand for the Group’s products M&A department and central programme declines. In 2017, Nobia continued to inoffice and by specific project groups orcrease its average order values, which had a ganised for the various projects. Continupositive impact on net sales and profitability ous follow-ups are carried out compared compared with 2016. with plans and expected outcomes. More Demand for Nobia’s products is influlong-term risks are initially addressed by enced by trends in the housing market, 46 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Risks and risk management :::::::::::::::::: whereby prices, the number of transinstallation of cabinets and doors, together In 2017, Nobia continued to invest in digital actions and access to financing are key with purchased components. aids, such as drawing tools and e-commerce factors. Four-fifths of the European In 2017, Nobia purchased materials and services that allow customers to both kitchen market is estimated to comprise components valued at about SEK 5.5 bildraw and purchase their kitchen online. In purchases for renovation, and one-fifth lion, of which some 20 per cent pertained 2017, Nobia launched a new store concept for new builds. Nobia’s strategy is based to raw materials (such as chipboard and aimed at increasing customer participation, on large-scale product supply, product packaging materials), about 55 per cent improving the customer experience and development and the utilisation of the to components (such as handles, workenhancing sales efficiency. During the year, positioning of the Group’s strong brands tops and hinges) and about 25 per cent four new stores were opened using this in the various markets and sales channels. to goods for resale (such as appliances). concept for three brands in Norway, the Nobia’s various offerings are also based on The underlying raw materials to which UK and Denmark. The strategic direction the strategy of providing added value to the Group is primarily exposed are wood, is described in more detail on page 11. The customers in the form of complete solusteel, aluminium and plastics. Cost varia­ implementation of these plans entails opertions with accessories and installation. tions can be caused by changes in the ating risks, which are addressed every day in prices of raw materials in the global market the ongoing change process. Restructuring Customers or suppliers’ ability to deliver. Nobia’s is a complex process that requires the manKitchens to end customers are sold sourcing organisation works closely with agement of a series of different activities through 264 own stores and a network of its suppliers to ensure efficient flows of and risks. franchise stores, as well as DIY stores, furmaterials. In 2017, market prices increased niture chains and other retailers. Conductfor board material and components, as Human capital risks ing sales through own and franchise stores well as other raw materials, such as metals, Nobia endeavours to be an attractive is a deliberate strategy to achieve greater oil, wood products and packaging mateemployer, which is a key success factor. To influence over the kitchen offering to end rials. Demand for board material is expectensure availability of and skills development customers, which contributes to better ed to increase for reasons including higher for motivated employees, manager sourcco-ordination of the Group’s supply chain. demand from the housing construction ining and managerial development is adminisOwn stores allow the concepts to be produstry, and weak competition and limited tered by a central unit at Nobia. filed with higher added value. A risk is that manufacturing capacity among suppliers. retailers are unable to fulfil their commitThe Group’s sourcing and production Sustainability-related challenges ments under established contracts, which functions are continuously evaluated to and opportunities may have a negative effect on sales. reduce product costs. Nobia’s products are encompassed by inSales to professional customers, also Property risks in the form of loss of ternational and local regulations regarding known as project sales, are conducted diproduction, for example, in the event of a environmental impact and other effects rectly with regional and local construction fire at manufacturing units, are minimised arising in the production and transportacompanies via a specialised sales organisaby Nobia conducting annual technical tion of kitchens, for example, the release tion or directly through the store network. risk inspections jointly with the Group’s of exhaust fumes and emissions, noise, Concentrating on these large separate insurers and the risk consulting firm AON waste and safety. Nobia works contincustomers entails an elevated risk of losing that reports on deviations from Nobia’s uously with its operations to adjust to sales if a large customer is lost as well as “Standard for Loss-Prevention Measures.” the necessary expectations and requireincreased credit risk. Preventive measures are continuously ments. The company is well aware of the implemented to reduce the risk of disrupdemands in these areas for the near future Supply chain tions in the operations. and, provided that they do not significantly Nobia’s cost structure in 2017 comprised change, the current products and ongoing about 60 per cent variable costs (raw maStrategy and restructuring development activities are deemed to be terials, components, accessories), about Nobia’s ability to increase profitability sufficient to meet such requirements. For 30 per cent semi-variable costs (personand returns for shareholders is heavily further information, see the sustainability nel costs, marketing and maintenance) dependent on the Group’s success in desection on pages 24–39 and sustainability and about 10 per cent fixed costs (rents, veloping innovative products, maintaining risks page 29. depreciation, insurance). The division of cost-efficient manufacturing and capitaliscosts is relatively equal between the main ing on synergies. Managing restructuring Political and legal risks markets, except that the UK region has a measures is a key factor in maintaining and Changes in local tax legislation in the counslightly higher percentage of fixed costs enhancing Nobia’s competitiveness. In 2017, tries in which Nobia conducts operations due to its extensive store networks. the Group’s brand portfolio, innovation, may affect demand for the company’s Nobia’s proprietary manufacturing product-range development, production products. Subsidies for new builds and/ mainly comprises the production and and sourcing continued to be co-ordinated. or renovation or changes to the taxation Nobia Annual Report 2017 47 :::::::::::::::::: Risks and risk management of residential properties may influence The Danish unit conducts a significant NOK/SEK demand. Tax deductions on labour for portion of its sales in Norway, but also in home renovations, for example, have had Sweden. A weak DKK against the NOK 1.3 ±5% = ±16 SEK m + a positive effect on demand in several and the SEK is therefore positive for the 1.2 Nordic countries. Group. 1.1 For a more detailed description and a Financial risks sensitivity analysis, refer to Note 2 Finan1.0 In addition to strategic and operating risks, cial risks on pages 67–68. 0.9 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Nobia is exposed to various financial risks. These are mainly attributable to currenChanges in value in balance sheet cies, interest rates, liquidity, borrowing and In addition to the financial risks that are credit granting, financial instruments and regulated in the finance policy adopted by EUR/SEK pensions. All of these risks are managed in the Board, there is also a risk for changes in accordance with the finance policy, which value in the balance sheet. ±5% = ±23 SEK m + 10.5 has been adopted by the Board. A structured work model is applied to 10.0 test the value of assets and liability items in 9.5 Currency exposure the balance sheet. 9.0 Transaction flows have the greatest impact 8.5 on currency – when costs for sourcing or Impairment testing of goodwill 8.0 production are conducted in one currenNobia’s balance sheet includes acquisition 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 cy, and sales are conducted in another. The goodwill totalling SEK 2,361 million Group uses currency derivatives to hedge (2,359). The value of this asset item is a portion of the currency exposure that tested annually and more often if there arises. Currency hedging means that the is any indication of impairment requireEUR/GBP impact of currency movements occurring ment. In 2017, the testing did not indicate today will be delayed to some extent. any impairment requirement. For a more 1.0 ±5% = ±42 SEK m + Nobia is also affected by translation differ­ detailed description, refer to Note 1 ences when consolidated sales and operatSig­nificant accounting policies on pages ing income are translated into SEK. 60–66 and Note 14 Intangible assets on 0.8 pages 76–77. Sensitivity analysis – transaction 0.6 effects of currencies Calculation of pension liabilities 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The diagram shows the major currency Nobia’s balance sheet includes pension pairs and the trend since 2010. The impact liabilities of SEK 567 million (955 including of a weak EUR and DKK, and a strong Poggenpohl) that pertain to defined-bene­ NOK/DKK NOK and GBP, on Nobia’s earnings is genfit pension plans in the UK, Austria and erally favourable. Sweden. All pension plans are calculated 1.1 ±5% = ±21 SEK m + A significant portion of the UK operaevery year by actuaries in accordance with tion’s components are purchased in EUR, IAS 19. 1.0 while finished products are subsequently For a more detailed description, refer to 0.9 sold in GBP. The net effect of this currency Note 1 Significant accounting policies on 0.8 pair means that a strong EUR against the pages 60–66 and Note 25 Provisions for 0.7 GBP is negative for the Group. pensions on pages 82–83. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 A proportion of the Swedish operation’s costs for material purchases are conducted in EUR. A strong SEK against the EUR is therefore positive for the Group. A significant portion of the Swedish production of components and finished products is sold in Norway. A weak SEK against the NOK is therefore positive for the Group. 48 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Financial statements :::::::::::::::::: Financial statements – Group and Parent Company Consolidated income statement 50 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 51 Comments and analysis of income statement 52 Consolidated balance sheet 54 Comments and analysis of balance sheet 55 Change in consolidated shareholders’ equity 56 Consolidated cash-flow statement and comments 57 Parent Company income statement, 58 balance sheet and cash-flow statement Parent Company change in shareholders’ equity 59 Note 1 Significant accounting policies 60 2 Financial risks 67 3 Operating segments 70 4 Costs for employee benefits and remuneration 71 to senior executives 5 Average number of employees 74 6 Remuneration to auditors 75 7 Depreciation and impairment by activity 75 8 Other operating income 75 9 Other operating expenses 75 10 Specification by type of costs 75 11 Operating leases 75 12 Financial income and expenses 75 13 Tax on net profit for the year 76 14 Intangible assets 76 15 Tangible fixed assets 77 16 Financial fixed assets 78 17 Shares and participations in subsidiaries 79 18 Derivative instruments 80 19 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 80 20 Cash and cash equivalents 80 21 Share capital 80 22 Reserves in shareholders’ equity 81 23 Earnings per share 81 24 Appropriation of company’s profit or loss 81 25 Provisions for pensions 82 26 Deferred tax 84 27 Other provisions 85 28 Liabilities to credit institutions 85 29 Accrued expenses and deferred income 85 30 Financial assets and liabilities 85 31 Pledged assets, contingent liabilities and commitments 86 32 Discontinued operations 87 33 Assets held for sale 87 34 Company acquisitions 88 35 Related-party transactions 88 36 Specifications for statement of cash flows 89 37 Events after the closing date 89 Nobia Annual Report 2017 49 :::::::::::::::::: Financial statements Consolidated income statement SEK m Note 2016 2017 Net sales 3 12,648 12,744 Cost of goods sold 4, 7, 10, 11, 25 -7,715 -7,730 Gross profit 4,933 5,014 Selling expenses 4, 7, 10, 11, 25 -2,987 -3,022 Administrative expenses 4, 6, 7, 10, 11, 25 -695 -729 Other operating income 8 156 129 Other operating expenses 9 -109 -106 Operating profit 1,298 1,286 Financial income 12 22 9 Financial expenses 12 -73 -45 Profit after financial items 1,247 1,250 Tax on net profit for the year 13, 26 -269 -256 Net profit for the year from continuing operations 978 994 Profit/loss from discontinued operations, net after tax 32 -523 21 Net profit for the year 455 1,015 Net profit for the year attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 456 1,015 Non-controlling interests -1 0 Net profit for the year 455 1,015 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK1) 23 2.71 6.02 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 1) 23 2.70 6.02 Earnings per share from continuing operations, before dilution, SEK 23 5.81 5.89 Earnings per share from continuing operations, after dilution, SEK 23 5.80 5.89 Number of shares before dilution2) 23 168,473,468 168,583,887 Average number of shares before dilution2) 23 168,425,427 168,547,081 Number of shares after dilution2) 23 168,675,775 168,712,248 Average number of shares after dilution2) 23 168,664,296 168,702,097 1) Earnings/loss per share attributable to Parent Company shareholders. 2) Shares outstanding, less bought-back shares. 50 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Financial statements :::::::::::::::::: Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK m Note 2016 2017 Net profit for the year 455 1,015 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Exchange-rate differences attributable to translation of foreign operations 22 -172 -181) Cash-flow hedges before tax 2) 22 -8 14 Tax attributable to hedging reserve for the period3) 22 2 -3 -178 -7 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined-benefit pension plans 25 -312 277 Tax attributable to remeasurements of defined-benefit pension plans 49 -46 -263 231 Other comprehensive income for the year -441 224 Total comprehensive income for the year 14 1,239 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 15 1,239 Non-controlling interests -1 0 Total comprehensive income for the year 14 1,239 1) Of which a negative SEK 44 million refers to accumulated exchange-rate differences for the Poggenpohl operations. 2) Reversal recognised in profit or loss of SEK 5 million (neg: 3). New provision amounts to SEK 9 million (neg: 5). 3) Reversal recognised in profit or loss of a negative SEK 1 million (pos: 1). New provision amounts to a negative SEK 2 million (pos: 1). Nobia Annual Report 2017 51 :::::::::::::::::: Financial statements Comments and analysis of income statement Net sales rose 1 per cent to SEK 12,744 million (12,648). For comparable units and adjusted for currency effects, the change in net sales was 2 per cent. The relationship is shown in the table below. Analysis of net sales, % I II III IV % SEK m 2016 12,648 Organic growth 10 1 -1 0 2 308 – of which Nordic region1) 16 5 3 6 8 451 – of which UK region1) 6 -2 -4 -8 -2 -115 – of which Central Europe region1) -2 -12 -12 7 -5 -28 Currency effect -3 0 -2 -1 -1 -203 Sales to Hygena 0 0 0 0 0 -9 2017 7 0 -3 -1 1 12,744 1) Organic growth for each organisational region. Net sales and profit by region Nordic UK Central Group-wide and region region Europe region eliminations Group SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Net sales from external customers 5,987 6,515 6,122 5,710 539 519 – – 12,648 12,744 Net sales from other regions 1 1 – – 2 2 -3 -3 – – Total net sales 5,988 6,516 6,122 5,710 541 521 -3 -3 12,648 12,744 Gross profit 2,402 2,638 2,323 2,172 172 152 36 52 4,933 5,014 Gross margin, % 40.1 40.5 37.9 38.0 31.8 29.2 – – 39.0 39.3 Operating profit/loss 856 963 545 454 37 12 -140 -143 1,298 1,286 Operating margin, % 14.3 14.8 8.9 8.0 6.8 2.3 – – 10.3 10.1 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of fixed assets for the year recognised in operating profit amounted to SEK 287 million (287). Impact of exchange rate (Operating profit) Translation effect Transaction effect Total effect 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Nordic region 0 15 -65 -15 -65 0 UK region -60 -25 -55 -80 -115 -105 Central Europe region 0 0 0 0 0 0 Group -60 -10 -120 -95 -180 -105 52 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Financial statements :::::::::::::::::: Quarterly data per region 2016 2017 I II III IV I II III IV Net sales, SEK m Nordic 1,398 1,626 1,355 1,609 1,672 1,756 1,398 1,690 UK 1,578 1,633 1,495 1,416 1,527 1,520 1,377 1,286 Central Europe 117 144 150 130 116 133 131 141 Group-wide and eliminations -2 0 -1 0 0 -1 -1 -1 Group 3,091 3,403 2,999 3,155 3,315 3,408 2,905 3,116 Gross profit, SEK m Nordic 548 673 537 644 671 721 565 681 UK 621 636 573 493 570 588 518 496 Central Europe 36 50 50 36 36 42 41 33 Group-wide and eliminations 10 6 10 10 14 10 17 11 Group 1,215 1,365 1,170 1,183 1,291 1,361 1,141 1,221 Gross margin, % Nordic 39.2 41.4 39.6 40.0 40.1 41.1 40.4 40.3 UK 39.4 38.9 38.3 34.8 37.3 38.7 37.6 38.6 Central Europe 30.8 34.7 33.3 27.7 31.0 31.6 31.3 23.4 Group 39.3 40.1 39.0 37.5 38.9 39.9 39.3 39.2 Operating profit, SEK m Nordic 163 271 185 237 212 297 208 246 UK 111 175 166 93 96 154 137 67 Central Europe 5 13 14 5 4 5 7 -4 Group-wide and eliminations -34 -39 -29 -38 -39 -43 -34 -27 Group 245 420 336 297 273 413 318 282 Operating margin, % Nordic 11.7 16.7 13.7 14.7 12.7 16.9 14.9 14.6 UK 7.0 10.7 11.1 6.6 6.3 10.1 9.9 5.2 Central Europe 4.3 9.0 9.3 3.8 3.4 3.8 5.3 -2.8 Group 7.9 12.3 11.2 9.4 8.2 12.1 10.9 9.1 Nobia Annual Report 2017 53 :::::::::::::::::: Financial statements Consolidated balance sheet 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec SEK m Note 2016 2017 SEK m Note 2016 2017 ASSETS SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Intangible assets 14 AND LIABILITIES Attributable to Parent Company Goodwill 2,359 2,361 shareholders Other intangible assets 126 149 Share capital 21 58 58 2,485 2,510 Other contributed capital 1,481 1,486 Reserves 22 -257 -264 Tangible fixed assets 15 Profit brought forward 2,133 2,874 Land and buildings 586 585 3,415 4,154 Investments in progress and advance payments 151 110 Non-controlling interests 4 – Machinery and other technical equipment 441 440 Total shareholders’ equity 3,419 4,154 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 206 232 Provisions for guarantees 9 8 1,384 1,367 Provisions for pensions (IB) 25 894 567 Deferred tax liabilities 26 84 89 Interest-bearing long-term Other provisions 27 70 32 receivables (IB) 16 3 5 Liabilities to credit institutions (IB) 2, 28 – – Other long-term receivables 16 28 34 Other liabilities (IB) 2 6 5 Deferred tax assets 26 176 118 Total long-term liabilities 1,063 701 Total fixed assets 4,076 4,034 Liabilities to credit institutions (IB) 2, 28 801 1 Inventories Overdraft facilities (IB) 2, 20 – – Raw materials and consumables 231 258 Other liabilities (IB) 2 0 0 Products in progress 71 59 Advance payments from customers 177 132 Finished products 413 475 Accounts payable 2 1,162 1,106 Goods for resale 142 116 Current tax liabilities 121 109 857 908 Derivative instruments 2, 18 12 26 Other liabilities 2 356 378 Current receivables Accrued expenses and Current tax assets 13 5 deferred income 29 565 573 Accounts receivable 2 1,240 1,282 Liabilities attributable to assets Derivative instruments 2.18 9 39 held for sale 33 329 – Interest-bearing current Total current liabilities 3,523 2,325 receivables (IB) 1 18 Total shareholders’ equity and Other receivables 2 7 48 liabilities 8,005 7,180 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 19 291 373 Of which interest-bearing items (IB) 1,701 573 Assets held for sale 33 506 – 2,067 1,765 Information on consolidated pledged assets and contingent liabilities is provided in Note 31 on page 87. Cash and cash equivalents (IB) 20 1,005 473 Total current assets 3,929 3,146 Total assets 8,005 7,180 Of which interest-bearing items (IB) 1,009 496 54 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Financial statements :::::::::::::::::: Comments and analysis of balance sheet Goodwill The components of net debt are shown in the table below. Information on goodwill, including comments, is provided in Note 14 on pages 76–77. Components of net debt Group Financing SEK m 2016 2017 Net debt declined to SEK 77 million (493) at the end of the period. A positive operating cash flow of SEK 706 million and remeasurements of Bank loans, etc. 801 1 defined-benefit pension plans of SEK 277 million reduced net debt. The Provisions for pensions 894 567 increase in net debt derived from divestment of operations, with a total Leasing 6 5 effect of SEK 30 million, change in pension liabilities of SEK 28 million, inCash and cash equivalents -1,005 -473 terest paid of SEK 7 million and dividends of SEK 505 million. The debt/ equity ratio amounted to 2 per cent at the end of the year (14 per cent at Other financial receivables -4 -23 the beginning of the year). The change in net debt is shown in the table Interest-bearing assets recognised on the row below. Assets held for sale -261 – Interest-bearing liabilities recognised on Analysis of net debt the row Liabilities attributable to assets Group held for sale 62 – SEK m 2016 2017 Total 493 77 Opening balance 774 493 Acquisition of operations 0 – Divestment of operations – 30 Translation differences -31 -3 Operating cash flow -1,031 -706 Interest 20 7 Remeasurements of defined-benefit pension plans 312 -277 Change in pension liabilities 28 28 Dividends 421 505 Closing balance 493 77 Nobia Annual Report 2017 55 :::::::::::::::::: Financial statements Change in consolidated shareholders’ equity Attributable to Parent Company shareholders Exchange-rate differences Other attributable Total contribto translaCash-flow Profit shareholdShare uted tion of foreign hedges brought Non-controlers’ SEK m capital capital operations after tax forward Total ling interests equity Opening balance, 1 January 2016 58 1,478 -81 2 2,361 3,818 4 3,822 Net profit for the year – – – – 456 456 -1 455 Other comprehensive income for the year – – -172 -6 -263 -441 0 -441 Total comprehensive income for the year – – -172 -6 193 15 -1 14 Dividends1) – – – – -421 -421 0 -421 Share of Group contributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – – 1 1 Allocation of performance share plan – 3 – – – 3 – 3 Closing balance, 31 December 2016 58 1,481 -253 -4 2,133 3,415 4 3,419 Opening balance, 1 January 2017 58 1,481 -253 -4 2,133 3,415 4 3,419 Net profit for the year – – – – 1,015 1,015 0 1,015 Other comprehensive income for the year – – -18 11 231 224 0 224 Total comprehensive income for the year – – -18 11 1,246 1,239 0 1,239 Dividends2) – – – – -505 -505 – -505 Change in non-controlling interests – – – – – – -4 -4 Allocation of performance share plan – 5 – – – 5 – 5 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 58 1,486 -271 7 2,874 4,154 – 4,154 1) The 2016 Annual General Meeting resolved on dividends of SEK 421 million, corresponding to SEK 2.50 per share. 2) The 2017 Annual General Meeting resolved on dividends of SEK 505 million, corresponding to SEK 3 per share. 56 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Financial statements :::::::::::::::::: Consolidated cash-flow statement and comments SEK m Note 2016 2017 Comments on the cash-flow statement The cash flow from operating activities 36 amounted to SEK 987 million (1,281). WorkOperating activities ing capital reduced cash flow by SEK 328 million Operating profit 1,298 1,286 (neg: 73) and was primarily attributable to higher Operating profit/loss for discontinued operations -466 20 current receivables and lower current liabilities. Adjustments for non-cash items amounted to a Depreciation/amortisation/impairment 657 287 negative SEK 30 million (pos: 95) as specified in Other adjustments for non-cash items 95 -30 the table below. Income tax paid -230 -248 Adjustments for non-cash items Change in inventories -89 -68 SEK m 2016 2017 Change in operating receivables -172 -160 Capital gains/losses on fixed Change in operating liabilities 188 -100 assets -9 -6 Cash flow from operating activities 1,281 987 Provisions 99 -27 Investing activities Other 5 3 Investments in tangible fixed assets -267 -262 Total 95 -30 Investments in intangible assets -23 -57 Investments in fixed assets amounted to SEK 319 Sale of tangible fixed assets 28 43 million (290). Interest received 1 3 Operating cash flow, that is, the cash flow after investments but excluding the acquisitions and diIncrease/decrease in interest-bearing assets 4 -19 vestments of operations, interest and increases/ Other items in investing activities 12 -5 decreases in interest-bearing assets, amounted Acquisition of operations 34 0 – to SEK 706 million (1,031). Divestment of operations – -93 Cash flow from investing activities -245 -390 Operating cash flow before acquisitions/divestments of subsidiaries, interest, increase/decrease in interest-bearing assets 1,031 706 Operating cash flow after acquisitions/divestments of subsidiaries, interest, increase/decrease in interest-bearing assets 1,036 597 Financing activities Interest paid -21 -10 Decrease in interest-bearing liabilities1) 2) -71 -872 Sale of bought-back shares – – Dividends -421 -505 Cash flow from financing activities -513 -1,387 Cash flow for the year excluding exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 523 -790 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 765 1,266 Cash flow for the year 523 -790 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents2) -22 -3 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 1,2663) 473 1) Repayment of loans comprising SEK 800 million (–). The remaining amount mainly consists of pension payments. 2) See Note 1 on page 60. 3) Of which SEK 261 million is recognised on the row Assets held for sale. Nobia Annual Report 2017 57 :::::::::::::::::: Financial statements Parent Company Parent Company income statement Parent Company balance sheet SEK m Note 2016 2017 31 Dec 31 Dec SEK m Note 2016 2017 Net sales 219 224 ASSETS Administrative expenses 4, 6, 11, 25 -301 -267 Fixed assets Other operating income 8 4 5 Financial fixed assets Other operating expenses 9 -4 -9 Shares and participations in Group Operating profit/loss -82 -47 companies 16, 17 1,469 1,379 Deferred tax assets 0 5 Profit/loss from participations in Group companies 12 -76 969 Total fixed assets 1,469 1,384 Financial income 12 21 7 Current assets Financial expenses 12 -22 -9 Current receivables Profit/loss after financial items -159 920 Accounts receivable 1 1 Tax on net profit for the year 13 -20 -31 Receivables from Group companies 2,868 2,839 Net profit/loss for the year -179 889 Other receivables 18 3 44 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 19 47 52 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income Cash and cash equivalents 20 949 334 SEK m Note 2016 2017 Total current assets 3,868 3,270 Net profit/loss for the year -179 889 Total assets 5,337 4,654 Other comprehensive income for the year – – SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY, Comprehensive income for the year -179 889 PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity Parent Company cash-flow statement Restricted shareholders’ equity SEK m Note 2016 2017 Share capital1) 21 58 58 Operating activities Statutory reserve 1,671 1,671 Operating profit/loss -82 -47 1,729 1,729 Adjustments for non-cash items -2 1 Dividends received 12 667 978 Non-restricted shareholders’ equity Interest received 12 21 7 Share premium reserve 52 52 Buy-back of shares -391 -385 Interest paid 12 -22 -9 Profit brought forward 1,948 1,262 Tax paid -19 -4 Net profit/loss for the year -179 889 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 563 926 1,430 1,818 Total shareholders’ equity 3,159 3,547 Change in liabilities 440 -304 Change in receivables -106 -17 Provisions Cash flow from operating activities 897 605 Provisions for pensions 25 16 17 Deferred tax liabilities 0 5 Investing activities Total provisions 16 22 Divestment of subsidiaries – 84 Provisions for pensions 1 1 Current liabilities Cash flow from investing activities 1 85 Liabilities to credit institutions 28 800 – Accounts payable 15 23 Financing activities Liabilities to Group companies 1,276 956 Dividends -421 -505 Current tax liabilities 17 44 Repayment of loan – -800 Other liabilities 18 10 42 Cash flow from financing activities -421 -1,305 Accrued expenses and Cash flow for the year 477 -615 deferred income 29 44 20 Total current liabilities 2,162 1,085 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 472 949 Total shareholders’ equity, Cash flow for the year 477 -615 provisions and liabilities 5,337 4,654 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 949 334 1) The number of shares outstanding was 168,583,887 (168,473,468). 58 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Financial statements :::::::::::::::::: Parent Company change in shareholders’ equity Total Statutory Share premium Buy-back Profit brought shareholders’ SEK m Share capital reserve1) reserve of shares forward equity Opening balance, 1 January 2016 58 1,671 52 -402 2,376 3,755 Net profit/loss for the year – – – – -179 -179 Comprehensive income for the year – – – – -179 -179 Dividend – – – – -421 -421 Treasury shares, reissued – – – 11 -11 – Allocation of performance share plan – – – – 4 4 Shareholders’ equity, 31 December 2016 58 1,671 52 -391 1,769 3,159 Opening balance, 1 January 2017 58 1,671 52 -391 1,769 3,159 Net profit/loss for the year – – – – 889 889 Comprehensive income for the year – – – – 889 889 Dividend – – – – -505 -505 Treasury shares, reissued – – – 6 -6 – Allocation of performance share plan – – – – 4 4 Shareholders’ equity, 31 December 2017 58 1,671 52 -385 2,151 3,547 1) Of the Parent Company statutory reserve, SEK 1,390 million (1,390) comprises contributed shareholders’ equity. Nobia Annual Report 2017 59 :::::::::::::::::: Notes Note 1 Significant accounting policies Compliance with standards and legislation probability of such increases or declines in the value in the balance sheet Nobia’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with during the forthcoming year is not high, although this cannot be ruled out International Financial reporting Standards, IFRS, as published by the Interif conditions in the kitchen markets were to change more than expected. national Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as adopted by the European The Group’s deferred tax assets amounted to SEK 118 million (176) on 31 Union (EU). The Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation December 2017. RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups was also applied. The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the Group – Defined-benefit pensions except in the cases described below under the section entitled “Parent The Group’s defined-benefit pension plans are recognised according to Company accounting policies.” The Annual Report and the consolidated common principles and calculation methods and are calculated by assessing financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors future salary increases and inflation. The Group’s pension liabilities amountand President on 20 March 2018. ed to SEK 567 million (955 including Poggenpohl) on 31 December 2017. Principles applied in the preparation of the financial statements Consolidated cash-flow statement – correction of error Assets and liabilities are recognised at historic acquisition value (cost), exThe January-December 2016 period has been restated to reflect the cept for certain financial assets and liabilities and fixed assets held for sale. discovery of an error in the classification of translation effects of cash and Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value comprise derivative cash equivalents in the cash-flow statement. These translation effects instruments. Fixed assets held for sale are recognised at the lower of the were historically recognised in financing activities on the line “Change in carrying amount and fair value, less selling expenses. interest-bearing liabilities” but have been corrected and are now recogReceivables and liabilities and income and expenses are offset only if nised as “Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents”. Correcrequired or expressly permitted in an accounting recommendation. tions for the January-December 2016 period on the line “Exchange-rate The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), differences in cash and cash equivalents” amount to: which is also the presentation currency for the Parent Company and Group. Accordingly, the financial statements are presented in SEK. All Before adjustment After adjustment Corrections amounts are stated in SEK million (SEK m), unless otherwise stated. SEK 37 million SEK -22 million SEK -59 million The most significant accounting policies stated below are applied consistently to all of the periods presented in the consolidated financial Changed accounting policies statements. The changed accounting policies applied by the Group from 1 January Preparing the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires that 2017 are described below. Other IFRS changes applied from 1 January company management make assessments, estimates and assumptions that 2017 did not have any material effect on the consolidated financial stateaffect the application of accounting policies and the recognised amounts ments. of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. The actual outcome may differ Amended IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows was applied from 2017. from these estimates and assessments. Estimates and assumptions are Disclosures have been added to Note 36 whereby change in liabilities regularly reviewed. Changes to estimates are recognised in the period in attributable to financing activities are reconciled with a specification which the change is made if the change affects only that period, or in the including new loans, amortisation, changes associated with divestments/ period in which the change is made and future periods if the change affects acquisitions of subsidiaries and currency effects. Disclosures are provided both current periods and future periods. Assessments made by company for both changes that affect cash flow and changes that do not affect cash management in the application of IFRS that have a material impact on flow. The amendment is applied prospectively, which is why no disclosures the financial statements and estimates made that may lead to significant are presented for the comparative year. adjustments in the financial statements of future fiscal years are primarily the following: New IFRSs that have not yet been applied A number of new or amended IFRSs will come into effect during the – Impairment testing of goodwill current fiscal year, and have not been applied in advance when preparGoodwill is recognised at cost less any accumulated impairment. The ing these financial statements. There are no plans to apply any new or Group regularly (at least once a year) performs impairment tests of goodamended accounting policies with future application in advance. will in accordance with the accounting policies described under Note 14 Intangible assets on pages 76–77. The assumptions and assessments made IFRS 9 Financial instruments pertaining to expected cash flows and the discount rate in the form of IFRS 9 is intended to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recogniweighted average cost of capital are described under Note 14 Intangible tion and Measurement and contain rules on accounting, recognition and assets. The carrying amount of goodwill amounted to SEK 2,361 million measurement, impairment, derecognition and general rules on hedge (2,359) on 31 December 2017. accounting. Recognition and measurement: Financial assets classified at fair value – Deferred tax assets through profit or loss, amortised cost or fair value through other compreThe Group’s loss carryforwards for which deferred tax assets have been hensive income on initial recognition. capitalised have a carrying amount of SEK 0 million (0). Deferred tax Assessments of the classification of liability instruments are based on assets pertaining to loss carryforwards are capitalised to the extent it two criteria: (a) the company’s business model for holding the financial asis probable that carryforwards can be offset against surpluses in future set and (b) the instrument’s contractual cash flow characteristics. taxation. Particularly high demands are placed on the assessment if the Equity instruments are classified at fair value through profit or loss, excompany, to which the loss carryforwards are attributable, has recognised cept for when the company has decided to present the instruments at fair losses in recent years. The amounts of capitalised and non-capitalised loss value through other comprehensive income. carryforwards in the Group are presented in Note 26 Deferred tax. If The rules on the recognition and measurement of financial liabilities are the probability that non-capitalised loss carryforwards could be utilised in largely unchanged compared with IAS 39. future taxation in future annual accounts is deemed to be high, additional Impairment: the requirement of identifying an occurred loss event amounts may be capitalised, with a corresponding positive amount recoghas been removed and an expected loss impairment model has been nised in profit or loss. The reverse applies if markets were to significantly introduced. For financial assets for which there is no significant increase deteriorate in forthcoming years. The current assessment is that the in credit risk, a credit loss is to be reserved for the loss that is expected to 60 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Notes :::::::::::::::::: Note 1 continued occur within 12 months (“loss allowance”). when control of the goods passes to the customer, and revenue for the Hedge accounting: The rule permit companies to better reflect the installation will be recognised separately when it is completed. Altogether, company’s risk-management activities in the financial statements and inthis will result in revenue attributable to goods of this type of project sales troduce less detailed rules for assessing the efficiency of hedges. being recognised slightly earlier in the future. The time between delivery and installation is very brief, however, since the deliveries are governed Transition by customer orders. Additionally, this type of project sales occurs only by Nobia will begin to apply IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018 and during the curway of exception in the markets where Nobia is active; the effects of the rent year performed a Group-wide review of Nobia’s financial instrutransition will therefore be negligible. ments and attributable business models to determine the effects of IFRS 9. Nobia plans to implement IFRS 15 retrospectively using what is known Nobia believes that IFRS 9 will only entail an increase regarding expected as the full retrospective method. The aggregate effect of the transition on credit losses on accounts receivable amounting to approximately SEK 5 revenue in the Group for 2017 has been estimated at approximately negamillion. In calculating expected credit losses, Nobia has taken into considtive SEK 5 million, and on closing equity at approximately negative SEK 2 eration historical bad debt losses and analysis of the respective customer million, which is not deemed to be material in relation to the Group’s total segments, and observed the macroeconomic effects on customers’ condirevenue of SEK 12,744 million for 2017. The reason for the reduced sales tions such as the impact of Brexit on the local market. in 2017 is due to the revenue recognised in the first quarter of 2017, which As the transition method, Nobia has chosen to utilise the exception to should have been reported in 2016 according to IFRS 15, being greater not restate comparable information for previous periods regarding classithan the revenue that will be recognised in the first quarter of 2018 but fication and measurement (including impairment). Differences in carrying should have been recognised in 2017. The revenue for the 2017 fiscal year amount attributable to financial assets and liabilities in connection with will not be restated for comparison with 2018, since the true and fair view, the introduction of IFRS 9 will be recognised in profit brought forward at and thus the assessment of our investors, of Nobia’s historical or future 1 January 2018. financial performance is not deemed to be impacted. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 15 is a comprehensive standard for determining the amount of IFRS 16 Leases will replace existing IFRSs related to recognising leases such revenue to be recognised and when this revenue is to be recognised. It as IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains replaces IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and IFRIC 13 a Lease. The Group plans to apply the standard from 1 January 2019. Customer Loyalty Programmes. IFRS 16 primarily affects lessees and the central effect is that all leases The new standard entails a new five-step model for recognising revenue that are currently recognised as operating lease are to be recognised in that is based on when control of a good or service is passed to the cusa manner that resembles the current recognition of finance leases. This tomer. The core principle is that companies recognise revenue to depict means that assets and liabilities also need to be recognised for operating the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that leases, with the associated recognition of expenses for depreciation and reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exinterest – as opposed to today whereby leased assets and the related change for those goods or services. IFRS 15 introduces a five-step mode: liabilities are not recognised and leasing fees are allocated as an expenses • Step 1 Identify the contract(s) with a customer on a straight-line basis. There are exemptions for recognising right-of-use • Step 2 Identify the performance obligations in the contract assets and lease liabilities for leases of a low value or a term of 12 months • Step 3 Determine the transaction price or less. • Step 4 Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in The Group has started to assess the potential effects of the standard the contract but has not yet performed a more detailed analysis. The final effect of the • Step 5 Recognise revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies introduction of IFRS 16 on the financial statements will depend on future a performance obligation financial circumstances, including the composition of the Group’s lease portfolio at that time, the Group’s most recent assessment of whether it IFRS 15 also contains more guidance and extensive disclosure requirewill make use of any options to extend leases and the extent to which the ments. Group will decide to use relaxation rules and exemptions from recognition in the balance sheet/statement of financial position. Transition The most significant effects identified to date are that the Group will Nobia will begin to apply IFRS 15 from 1 January 2018 and apply the introneed to recognise new assets and liabilities for its operating leases regardduction retrospectively. During the current year, it conducted a Grouping stores, plants and warehouse premises. An indication of the scope wide review of Nobia’s revenue streams according to the five-step model under the current circumstances can be obtained from the disclosures described above to assess the effects of IFRS 15. The primary conclusions on operating leases provided in Note 11. There is not expected to be any from this review are described below. material effect on the Group’s financial leases. The choice of transition method has not been made yet. Sale of goods The Group does not expect the introduction of IFRS 16 to impact its Under IAS 18, revenue on the sale of kitchens is currently recognised after ability to meet the loan agreements that the Group has. the goods have been delivered to the customer, which is the date that the customer accepts the goods and the risks and rewards are passed to the Other new or amended IFRSs and interpretations customer. Revenue is recognised at this point given the income and exOther amendments to accounting policies with future application are not penses can be reliably calculated, it is probable that the financial benefits deemed to have any material effect on the consolidated financial statements. associated with the transaction will accrue to the company and that no commitment associated with the goods is retained. Classification, etc. Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at the point in time that control of Fixed assets essentially comprise amounts that are expected to be recovthe goods passes to the customer. Revenue recognition for certain projered more than 12 months after the closing date. Current assets essenect sales that include installations of kitchens will be affected by the new tially comprise amounts that are expected to be recovered within the 12 standard. In a few of Nobia’s units, the revenue for goods was previously months after the closing date. Long-term liabilities comprise amounts that recognised when the installation was completed. From 2018, revenue Nobia intends, and has an unconditional right, to pay later than 12 after the for kitchen products will be recognised under IFRS 15 upon delivery and closing date. Other liabilities comprise current liabilities. Nobia Annual Report 2017 61 :::::::::::::::::: Notes Note 1 continued Consolidation principles and business combinations rate for the year. Translation differences are recognised in other compreSubsidiaries hensive income and are accumulated in a separate reserve in consolidated Subsidiaries are companies subject to the controlling influence of Nobia shareholders’ equity. AB. A controlling influence entails the direct or indirect right to shape a company’s financial or operational strategies in a bid to receive financial Closing-date rate Average benefits. When assessing whether a controlling influence exists, potential Significant 31 Dec 31 Dec voting shares that can be immediately utilised or converted must be taken exchange rates 2016 2017 2016 2017 into account. DKK 1.29 1.32 1.27 1.29 Business combinations are recognised in accordance with the acquisiEUR 9.57 9.85 9.47 9.63 tion method. According to this method, an acquisition of a subsidiary is considered a transaction through which the Group indirectly acquires the GBP 1.18 11.10 11.57 10.99 subsidiary’s assets and assumes its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The NOK 1.05 1.00 1.02 1.03 Group-wise cost is determined by an acquisition analysis in conjunction USD 9.10 8.23 8.56 8.54 with the acquisition. The analysis determines the cost of the participations or business activities, and the fair value of the acquired identifiable assets and assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities on the acquisition date. Segment reporting Goodwill in business combinations is calculated as the total of the conAn operating segment is a part of the Group that conducts business activisideration transferred, any non-controlling interests (previously termed ties from which it can generate income and incur expenses and for which minority interests) and fair value of previously owned participations (for independent financial information is available. Furthermore, the results step acquisitions) less the fair value of the subsidiary’s identifiable assets of an operating segment are monitored by the company’s chief operating and assumed liabilities. When the difference is negative, it is recognised didecision-maker to evaluate them and to allocate resources to the operatrectly in net profit for the year. Transaction costs attributable to business ing segment. Nobia’s operating segments are the Group’s three regions: combinations are expensed. the UK, Nordic and Central Europe regions. The division of the units per Contingent consideration in acquisitions is measured at fair value on region is based on the geographic domicile of the units. Refer to Note 3 on both the acquisition date and continuously thereafter, with changes in page 70 for a more detailed description of this divisions and a presentation value recognised in profit or loss. of the operating segments. For acquisitions of subsidiaries involving non-controlling interests, the Group recognises net assets attributable to non-controlling interests Revenue recognition either at fair value of all of the net assets except goodwill, or at fair value Revenue for sales of goods is recognised in profit or loss when the materiof all net assets including goodwill. The principle is decided individually for als risks and rewards associated with ownership of the goods have been each acquisition. transferred to the buyer, meaning in connection with delivery. In cases Ownership in companies that grow through acquisitions on several where installation services are provided, revenue for goods and instaloccasions are recognised as step acquisitions. For step acquisitions that lation is recognised when the service has been completed. Sales are recoglead to a controlling interest, the previously acquired participations are nised net after VAT, discounts and returns. remeasured according to the most recent acquisition and the arising gains Revenue for various sales channel such as own stores, retailers, franchior losses are recognised in profit or loss. sees, construction companies and prefab home manufacturers is recogWhen controlling interests are achieved, changes in ownership are nised according to the same principles. recognised as a reallocation of shareholders’ equity between the Parent Company’s owners and the non-controlling interest, without any remeaGovernment assistance surement of the subsidiary’s net assets. Government subsidies are recognised in the balance sheet as deferred If ownership is reduced to such an extent that controlling interests are income when there is reasonable assurance that the subsidy will be relost, any remaining holdings are recognised at fair value and the change in ceived and the Group will fulfil the conditions associated with the subsidy. value is recognised in profit or loss. Subsidies are allocated systematically in the income statement in the same When acquisitions of subsidiaries involve acquisitions of net assets that manner and over the same periods as the costs for which the subsidies are are not part of the operations, the acquisition cost is distributed between intended to cover. the individual identifiable assets and liabilities based on their fair value on the acquisition date. Financial income and expenses The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated Financial income and expenses comprise interest income on bank balances financial statements from the date that the controlling interest arises and and receivables, dividend income, interest expense on loans and pension are included in the consolidated financial statements until the date on liabilities, as well as exchange-rate differences on financial items. which the controlling interest ceases. Interest income on receivables and interest expense on liabilities are calculated in accordance with the effective interest rate method. The Transactions that are eliminated through consolidation effective interest rate is the interest rate that results in the present value Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, income or expenses and unrealised of all future receipts and disbursements during the fixed-interest term gains or losses that arise from intra-Group transactions between Group becoming equal to the carrying amount of the receivable or liability. The companies, are eliminated in their entirety in the preparation of the concalculation includes all fees paid or received by contractual parties that are solidated financial statements. part of the effective interest rate, meaning transaction costs and surplus and deficit values. Translation of foreign subsidiaries The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared in the local currency, Tax or the functional currency used in the country in which the company conIncome tax for the year comprises current tax and deferred tax. Income ducts operations. Swedish kronor, SEK, is utilised in the consolidated finantax is recognised in profit or loss except when the underlying transaction cial statements, which is the Parent Company’s functional currency and is recognised in other comprehensive income or in shareholders’ equity, also the Group’s presentation currency. This means that the earnings and whereby the associated tax effects are recognised in other comprehenfinancial position of all Group companies that have a functional currency sive income or in shareholders’ equity. that is different to the presentation currency are translated to the Group’s Current tax is tax that is to be paid or received regarding the current presentation currency of SEK. Foreign subsidiaries’ assets and liabilities are year, by applying the tax rates determined or that have been determined translated at the closing-date rate and all items recognised in profit or loss in principle on the closing date. This item also includes adjustments to curand other comprehensive income are translated at the average exchange rent tax attributable to previous periods. 62 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Notes :::::::::::::::::: Note 1 continued Deferred tax is calculated according to the balance-sheet method on impairment requirement arises. The carrying amount comprises the cost all temporary differences arising between recognised and fiscal values of less any accumulated impairment losses. A description of the method and assets and liabilities. assumptions applied when conducting impairment tests is found under The tax effect attributable to tax loss carryforwards that could be Note 14 Intangible Assets on pages 76-77. utilised against future profits is capitalised as a deferred tax asset. This Other intangible assets are recognised at cost less accumulated amortiapplies to both accumulated loss carryforwards at the acquisition date and sation and any impairment. It also includes capitalised costs for purchases losses arising thereafter. and internal and external costs for the development of software for the Valuations take place at the tax rate applying on the closing date. DeGroup’s IT operations, patents and licences. Amortisation takes place ferred tax is recognised in the balance sheet as a fixed asset or long-term according to the straight-line method based on the estimated useful life of liability. The income tax liability is recognised as a current receivable or the asset (three to six years). liability. If the actual outcome differs from the amounts first recognised, the Research and product development differences will affect current tax and deferred tax in the period in which Costs for product development are expensed immediately as and when these calculations are made. they arise. Product development within the Group is mainly in the form of design Tangible fixed assets development and is conducted continuously to adapt to current style Tangible fixed assets are recognised at cost with deductions for depreciatrends. This development is relatively fast, which is the reason that no portion and any impairment. Cost includes expenses that can be directly tion of the costs for product development is recognised as an intangible attributed to the acquisition. The borrowing costs of the cost of any asasset. The Group does not carry out research and development in the sets established that comprise qualifying assets are expensed. Costs for true sense of such work, or to any significant extent. repairs, maintenance and any interest expenses are recognised as costs in profit or loss in the period in which they arise. Leases In the event that an asset’s carrying amount exceeds its estimated reLeases concerning fixed assets in which the Group essentially carries the coverable amount, the asset is written down to its recoverable amount, same risks and enjoys the same benefits that direct ownership would which is charged to operating profit. entail are classified as financial leases. Financial leases are recognised at the In the income statement, operating profit is charged with straight-line start of the leasing period at the lower of the leasing object’s fair value and depreciation, which is calculated on the original cost and is based on the the present value of minimum leasing fees. Financial leases are recognised estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: in the balance sheet as fixed assets and financial liabilities, respectively. • Kitchen displays 2–4 years Future leasing payments are divided between repayment of the liabilities • Office equipment and vehicles 3–5 years and financial expenses whereby each accounting period is charged with an • Buildings 15–40 years amount of interest corresponding to a fixed-interest rate on the liability • Machinery and other technical equipment 6–12 years recognised during the respective period. Leasing assets are amortised ac• Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 6–12 years cording to the same principles that apply to other assets of the same type. Costs for leases are divided between amortisation and interest in the Land is not depreciated. income statement. Leasing of assets, where the lessor is essentially exposed to the risks and Fixed assets/disposal groups held for sale and discontinued operations rewards of the asset, is classified as operating leases. Leasing fees are recDiscontinued operations comprise important operations that have been ognised on a straight-line basis during the leasing period. Operating leases divested or comprise a disposal group held for sale as well as subsidiaries are recognised in profit or loss as an operating expense. Leasing of cars that are acquired for the purpose of subsequently being sold. Profit after and computers is normally treated as operating leases. The value of these tax from discontinued operations including changes in value is recognised leases is not considered to be significant. on a separate line in profit or loss. The significance of a group of assets and liabilities being classified as held Inventories for sale is that the carrying amounts are recovered primarily by being sold Inventories comprise finished and semi-manufactured products and raw and not by being used. All assets included in the group are presented on materials. Inventories are valued according to the first-in, first-out (FIFO) a separate line among assets and all of the group’s liabilities are presented principle, at the lower of the cost and net sales value on the closing date. on a separate line among liabilities. The group is valued at the lower of the The net sales value comprises the estimated sales value in the ongocarrying amount and fair value, less selling expenses. ing operations less selling expenses. Finished and semi-manufactured In the third quarter of 2017, Nobia reclassified the two stores that were products are valued at manufacturing cost including raw materials, direct previously recognised as Discontinued operations and disposal groups labour, other direct expenses and production-related overheads based on held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5. At that time, Nobia made the asnormal production. sessment that the stores would not be sold within the next 12 months. Deductions are made for inter-Group profits arising in conjunction with Earnings for the January – December 2017 period are included in condeliveries between companies in the Group. tinuing operations and the balance-sheet items were recognised on the respective lines of the balance sheet from 30 September 2017. Financial instruments Since Nobia has assessed the amounts as insignificant from the reader’s Financial instruments recognised in the balance sheet include cash and perspective and given that earnings per share and cash flow were not cash equivalents, loans receivable, accounts receivable and derivative impacted by the reclassification, the operations were not restated for the instruments on the asset side. On the liability side, there are accounts payfirst to fourth quarters of 2016 and for the first to third quarters of 2017. able, loan liabilities and derivative instruments. Restatement would not generate a different understanding of the historical and future performance of the operations. – Recognition in and derecognition from the balance sheet A financial asset or a financial liability is entered in the balance sheet when Intangible assets the company becomes a party in accordance with the contractual terms Goodwill comprises the amount by which the cost of the acquired operaof the instrument. A receivable is recognised when the company has tion exceeds the established fair value of identifiable net assets, as recogperformed a service and a contractual payment obligation arises for the nised in the acquisition analysis. In connection with the acquisition of opcounterparty, even if an invoice has not been sent. Accounts receivable erations, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units. Since goodwill has are recognised in the balance sheet when an invoice has been sent. A lian indeterminable useful life, it is not amortised annually. Instead, goodwill ability is recognised when the counterparty has performed a service and is subject to impairment testing either annually or when an indication of an a contractual payment obligation arises, even if an invoice has not been Nobia Annual Report 2017 63 :::::::::::::::::: Notes Note 1 continued received. Accounts payable are recognised when an invoice has been Impairment received. The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are tested annually for indicaA financial asset is derecognised from the balance sheet when the rights tions of any impairment requirement. IAS 36 is applied for the impairment resulting from the agreement have been realised, expire or the company testing of assets other than financial assets, which are tested according loses control over them. The same applies to a part of a financial asset. A to IAS 39, assets held for resale and disposal groups that are recognised financial liability is derecognised from the balance sheet when the obligaaccording to IFRS 5, inventories, plan assets used for the financing of tion resulting from the agreement has been realised or is extinguished in employee benefits and deferred tax assets. For the exempted assets some other manner. The same applies to a part of a financial liability. mentioned above, the carrying amount is tested in accordance with the A financial asset and a financial liability may only be offset against each relevant standard. other and recognised net in the balance sheet if there is a legal right to offset the amounts and the intention is to settle the items in a net amount – Impairment testing of tangible and intangible assets, or to simultaneously sell the asset and settle the debt. and participations in subsidiaries The acquisition or divestment of financial assets is recognised on the If there is an indication of an impairment requirement, the recoverable date of transaction for on demand transactions, which is the date when amount of the asset is tested in accordance with IAS 36 (see below). For the company undertakes to acquire or sell the asset. goodwill, the recoverable amount is calculated annually. When testing for impairment requirements, if it is not possible to establish essentially – Recognition and measurement independent cash flows for an individual asset, the assets must be grouped Financial instruments that are not derivative instruments are initially recat the lowest level at which it is possible to identify essentially independent ognised at cost corresponding to the instrument’s fair value plus transaccash flows, known as cash-generating units. tion costs. Transaction costs for derivative instruments are immediately Impairment losses are recognised when the carrying amount of an asexpensed. On initial recognition, a financial instrument is classified on the set or a cash-generating unit (group of units) exceeds the recoverable basis of the purpose underlying the acquisition of the instrument. This amount. Impairment losses are charged against profit or loss. Impairment classification determines how the financial instrument is measured after losses related to assets attributable to a cash-generating unit are primarily initial recognition, in the manner described below. For the recognition of allocated to goodwill. Subsequently, a proportional impairment of other derivative instruments, refer to Cash-flow hedges below. assets included in the unit (group of units) is effected. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling expenses – Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies and value in use. When calculating the value in use, future cash flows are Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies are valued at the closingdiscounted using a discounting factor that takes into account the risk-free date rate. Exchange-rate fluctuations pertaining to operating receivables interest rate and the risk associated with the specific asset or cash-generand liabilities are recognised in operating profit, while exchange-rate flucating unit (group of units). tuations pertaining to financial receivables and liabilities are recognised in net financial items. Changes in value of derivatives that are held for hedg– Impairment testing of financial assets ing internal balances are recognised as financial income and expenses. At every reporting occasion, the company evaluates whether there is any objective evidence to suggest that a financial asset or group of assets – Loans and accounts receivable is subject to an impairment requirement. Objective evidence comprises The category of loans and accounts receivable comprises financial assets observable conditions that have occurred and that have had a negative imthat are not derivative instruments, that have fixed or fixable payments pact on the ability to recover the cost. For accounts receivable, objective and that are not listed on an active market. For Nobia, this category inevidence comprises, for example, payment difficulties among customers cludes long-term loans receivable recognised as fixed assets and accounts or imminent corporate reconstructions. Accounts receivable that require receivable and other receivables recognised as current assets. These asimpairment are recognised at the present value of expected future cash sets are valued at amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined based on flows. the effective rate calculated on the acquisition date. Loan and accounts receivable are recognised at the amounts that are expected to be received, – Impairment reversal meaning less any provisions for decreases in value. Receivables with short An impairment loss on assets that come under the scope of IAS 36 is maturities are not discounted. reversed if there is an indication that the impairment requirement is no longer pertinent and that there has been a change in the assump– Cash and cash equivalents tions upon which the calculation of the recoverable amount was based. Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash and bank balances and However, an impairment loss on goodwill is never reversed. A reversal is short-term investments with maturities not exceeding three months from only performed to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset after the acquisition date. the reversal does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been recognised, less depreciation wherever applicable, if no impairment had – Financial liabilities been posted. All transactions pertaining to financial liabilities are recognised on the An impairment loss on loans and accounts receivable recognised at settlement date. Liabilities (except for derivative instruments with negaamortised cost is reversed if the previous reasons for the impairment loss tive values) are measured at amortised cost. no longer exist and full payment can be expected to be received from the customer. – Cash-flow hedges of uncertainty in forecasted sales and material purchases in foreign currency Provisions The currency forward contracts used for hedging highly probable foreProvisions are recognised in the balance sheet among current and casted sales and material purchases in foreign currency are recognised long-term liabilities, when the Group has a legal or informal obligation in the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in their value are recognised in deriving from an occurred event and that it is probable that an outflow of other comprehensive income and the accumulated changes in value in a resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount conseparate component of shareholders’ equity (the hedging reserve) until cerned can be reliably estimated. A provision differs from other liabilities the hedged flow impacts net profit for the year, whereby the accumulated since the date of payment or the amount required to settle the provision changes in value of the hedging instrument are reclassified to operating is uncertain. profit for the year. 64 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Notes :::::::::::::::::: Note 1 continued – Restructuring ices for the company that increase their entitlement to future remuneraA provision for restructuring is recognised once a detailed and formal tion. This calculation is performed annually by independent actuaries. The restructuring plan has been adopted and the restructuring process has company’s obligations are valued at the present value of expected future either commenced or been publicly announced. No provisions are estabcash flows using a discount rate. This discount rate corresponds to the lished for future operating expenses. interest on high-quality corporate bonds, where a market with sufficient depth exists, or government bonds if no such market exists. – Guarantees The rate in Sweden is determined based on mortgage bonds, while in A provision for guarantees is recognised when the underlying products or the UK and Austria, the rate is based on corporate bonds. services are sold. The provision is based on historical data and a total apActuarial gains and losses may arise when the present value of commitpraisal of the potential outcomes in relation to the probabilities associated ments is established and a difference arises when the actual return on plan with the outcomes. assets is established compared with the return calculated at the beginning of the period, based on the discount rate of the commitments. These Contingent liabilities actuarial gains and losses and this different in the return on plan assets A contingent liability is disclosed when the company has a possible obligaare entitled remeasurements. These remeasurement effects arise either tion deriving from an occurred event whose existence will be confirmed because the fair value differs from the previously made assumption or only by one or more uncertain future events, or when there is an obligabecause the assumptions have changed. The remeasurement effects are tion that has not been recognised as a liability or provision because it is recognised in other comprehensive income. not probable that an outflow of resources will be required, or alternaFor funded plans, the Group recognises pension commitments in the tively because it is not possible to sufficiently reliably estimate the amount consolidated balance sheet as a liability comprising the net of the esticoncerned. mated present value of the commitments and the fair value of plan assets. Funded plans with net assets, that is, plans with assets exceeding the penShareholders’ equity sion commitment, are recognised as fixed assets. When shares are bought back, shareholders’ equity is reduced by the The net amount of interest on pension liabilities and the expected entire amount paid. Dividends are recognised as a liability after the Annual return on accompanying plan assets is recognised as part of net financial General Meeting has approved the dividend. items. The special employer’s contribution comprises a portion of the actuarial Earnings per share assumptions and thus is recognised as a portion of the net commitment/ The calculation of earnings per share is based on consolidated net profit asset. The portion of the special employer’s contribution that is calculated attributable to the Parent Company shareholders and on the weighted based on the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act in legal entities is average number of shares outstanding during the year. When calculating recognised, for simplicity, as accrued expenses instead of as a portion of earnings per share after dilution, the average number of shares outstandnet commitment/asset. ing is adjusted to take into account the dilutive effects of potential ordinary Tax on returns is recognised continuously in profit or loss for the period shares. During the recognised periods, potential ordinary shares comprise to which the tax pertains and thus is not included in the liability calculation. share rights (matching and performance share rights). Matching share For funded plans, the tax is charged to the return on plan assets and recrights held by employees on the reporting date are considered dilutive. ognised in other comprehensive income. For unfunded or partly unfunded Performance share rights are dilutive to the extent that profit targets have plans, tax is charged to profit or loss. been fulfilled on the reporting date. The exercise price for the share rights corresponds to the value of future services calculated as remaining cost to – Other long-term remuneration recognise in accordance with IFRS 2. The Group operates schemes for remuneration of employees for long service. Employee benefits Actuarial gains and losses may arise when the present value of com– Pensions mitments and the fair value of plan assets are established, which are recogThe Group has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension nised in operating profit. plans. In Sweden, the UK and Austria, employees are covered by definedThe discount rate is established on the basis of high-quality corporate benefit pension plans. In other countries and companies, employees are bonds issued in the same currency as the remuneration that is to be paid covered by defined-contribution plans. Effective 2010, all new vesting in and with maturities equivalent to the commitments in question. the UK comes under defined-contribution plans. Plans for which the company’s obligations are limited to the fees the – Share-based remuneration schemes company has undertaken to pay are classified as defined-contribution Share-based remuneration pertains to employee benefits, including senior pension plans. The company’s obligations for defined-contribution plans executives in accordance with the Performance Share Plans that were are recognised as a cost in earnings at the rate at which they are vested by initiated between 2012 and 2017. Costs for employee benefits are recogthe employees performing services on behalf of the company for a period nised as the value of services received, allocated over the vesting periods of time. for the plans, calculated as the fair value of the allotted equity instruments The Group’s defined-benefit pension plans state the amount of pension (IFRS 2). The fair value is determined on the allotment date, or the date benefit that an employee, or a former employee, will receive after retireon which Nobia and the employees have agreed on the terms and condiment based upon their salary and the number of years of service. Pension tions of the plans. Since the plans are regulated with equity instruments, liabilities for defined-benefit plans are recognised according to common they are classified as “equity settled” and an amount corresponding to the principles and calculation methods and are calculated by considering furecognised cost for employee benefits is recognised directly in shareholdture salary increases and inflation, among other factors. The Group carries ers’ equity (other contributed capital). the risk that the promised benefit will be paid. The Performance Share Plans 2012–2015 contain two types of rights. There are both funded and unfunded defined-benefit pension plans Matching share rights give entitlement to Nobia shares if the participant within the Group. Funded pension plans are mainly financed on the basis remains in employment and retains the saving share that must initially be of contributions paid to pension funds. purchased. Performance share rights give entitlement to shares under the Regarding defined-benefit plans, the pension commitment is calculated same conditions and if the accumulated earnings per share are sufficiently in accordance with the Projected Unit Credit method. This method allohigh during the vesting period. The recognised cost is initially based on, cates the cost of pension at the rate at which the employees perform serv­ and regularly adjusted in relation to, the number of share rights that are Nobia Annual Report 2017 65 :::::::::::::::::: Notes Note 1 continued expected to be vested by considering how many participants are expect– Subsidiaries ed to remain in service during the vesting period and the expected and Participations in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company in actual fulfilment of the terms and conditions for earnings per share. Such accordance with the cost method. This means that transaction costs are an adjustment is not carried out when participants lose share rights due included in the carrying amount of the holdings in subsidiaries. In the conto selling the saving shares that they were required to purchase and must solidated financial statements, transaction costs are recognised directly in retain. In this case, the entire remaining cost is immediately recognised profit or loss when they arise. instead. No matching share rights were allotted in the Performance Share Contingent consideration is valued based on the probability of the conPlan 2016 and 2017 and saving shares do not need to be purchased and sideration being paid. Any changes to the provisions/receivable are added retained. The vesting conditions are the same as the 2012–2015 Plans and, to/deducted from the cost. In the consolidated financial statements, consequently, recognition takes place as described above. contingent considerations are measured at fair value with changes in value When share rights are vested and shares allotted, social security conrecognised in profit or loss. tributions are paid in certain countries for the value of the employee’s Bargain purchases corresponding to future losses and costs are reversed benefits. An expense and a provision are recognised, allocated over the during the expected periods in which the losses and costs arise. Bargain vesting period, for these social security contributions. The provision for purchases arising for other reasons are recognised as a provision to the social security contributions is based on the number of share rights that extent that the purchase does not exceed the fair value of the acquired, are expected to be vested and the fair value of the share rights on each identifiable non-monetary assets. The portion that exceeds this fair reporting date and finally, for the allotment of shares. value is recognised in profit or loss immediately. The portion that does not exceed the fair value of acquired, identifiable non-monetary assets is – Short-term remuneration recognised in profit or loss systematically over a period calculated as the Short-term remuneration of employees is calculated without discountremaining weighted average useful life of the acquired identifiable assets ing and is recognised as a cost when the related services are obtained. A that are depreciable. In the consolidated financial statements, bargain provision is posted for the anticipated cost of profit shares and bonus paypurchases are recognised directly in profit or loss. ments when the Group has a current legal or informal obligation to make such payments, due to the services being obtained from the employees – Leased assets and it being possible to reliably estimate the obligation. All leases in the Parent Company are recognised in accordance with operating leases regulations. – Payments in connection with employment termination A cost for payments arising in connection with the laying-off of employees – Employee benefits is recognised only if the company is legally obliged to terminate employThe Parent Company applies other principles for the calculation of ment in advance of the normal date. When such payment is made as an defined-benefit plans than those stipulated in IAS 19. The Parent Comoffering to encourage voluntary retirement, it is recognised as a cost if it pany follows the provisions of the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and is probable that the offer will be accepted and the number of employees the Swedish Financial Supervisory authority’s regulations since this is a who will accept the offering can be reliably estimated. condition for eligibility for rights to tax deductions. The significant differences compared with the IAS 19 regulations pertain to how the discount Parent Company accounting policies rate is determined, that the calculation of defined-benefit commitments The Parent Company has prepared its Annual Report in accordance with based on current salary levels with no assumptions regarding future salary the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial increases and that all actuarial gains and losses are recognised in profit or Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. loss when they arise. The Financial Reporting Board’s statements for listed companies were also The Parent Company recognises the fair value of Performance Share applied. RFR 2 entails that the Parent Company applies all IFRSs adopted Plans issued to employees of subsidiaries as shareholders’ contributions by the EU and statements to the Annual Report of the legal entity as far as by recognition in shareholders’ equity and the value of the shares in the possible under the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedsubsidiary. ish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and with respect to the connection between accounting and taxation. The recommendation states the excep– Group contributions tions and additions to IFRS that are to be made. Overall, the recommenThe Parent Company recognises Group contributions received as dation entails differences between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s dividends and Group contributions paid as investments in shares in subaccounting policies in the areas stated below. The accounting policies for sidiaries. Prior to 2011, Group contributions were recognised directly in the Parent Company described below were applied consistently to all shareholders’ equity. periods presented in the Parent Company’s financial statements. – Anticipated dividends – Changed accounting policies Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries are recognised if the Parent Changes to accounting policies applied from 2017 did not have any effect Company has the sole right to decide the amount of the dividend and the on the Parent Company’s financial statements. Parent Company has made a decision on the amount of the dividend prior to the publication of the Parent Company’s financial statements. – Classification and presentation form An income statement and statement of comprehensive income are pre– Financial instruments sented for the Parent Company and the Group. The Parent Company’s Due to the connection between reporting and taxation, the regulations income statement and balance sheet are presented following the format regarding financial instruments and hedge accounting provided in IAS 39 stipulated in the Annual Accounts Act, while the statement of compreare not applied in the Parent Company. hensive income, the statement of changes in shareholders’ equity and cash-flow statement are based on IAS 1 presentation of Financial Statements and IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows. The differences in the Parent Company’s income statement and the balance sheet compared with the presentation of the consolidated financial statements primarily pertain to the recognition of financial income and expenses, fixed assets, shareholders’ equity and the existence of provisions as a separate heading in the balance sheet. 66 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Notes :::::::::::::::::: Note 2 Financial risks Foreign exchange risk Interest-rate risk Nobia’s policy is to hedge approximately 80 per cent of the forecast flows, Interest-rate exposure is managed centrally, meaning that the head office 0-3 months in the future, 60 per cent 4-6 months in the future, 40 per is responsible for identifying and managing interest-rate risks. Nobia norcent 7-9 months in the future and 100 per cent of contracted projects. mally uses short, fixed-interest terms. Following the repayment of the loan The principal currency combinations were the EUR against the GBP, the from SEK Securities (Swedish Export Credit Corporation) of SEK 800 NOK against the DKK and EUR against the SEK. Total exposure in 2017, million, the company no longer has any loan liabilities. expressed in SEK and after offsetting counteracting flows, amounted to SEK 2,497 million (2,637), of which SEK 1,351 million (1,646) was hedged. Refinancing risk At year-end 2017, the hedged volume amounted to SEK 746 million (754). Nobia applies a centralised approach to the Group’s financing, which Unrealised gains and losses recognised as cash-flow hedges in shareholdmeans that all financing takes place in Nobia AB or Nobia Sverige AB. ers’ equity will be transferred to the income statement at various points in The loan of SEK 800 million from AB SEK Securities (Swedish Export time within 12 months. Credit Corporation), repaid when it fell due in May 2017. The company also had a syndicated loan facility of SEK 1,000 million with three banks Translation exposure since 2014. The term is five years. The loan has three covenants: leverage The Group’s policy is not to hedge translation exposure in foreign cur(net debt to EBITDA), gearing (net debt to equity) and interest cover rencies. A 10-per cent strengthening of the SEK compared with other (EBITDA to net interest expenses). Nobia meets all covenants with a currencies on 31 December 2017 would entail a decrease in shareholders’ satisfactory margin. Nobia’s policy is to obtain long-term lines of credit equity of SEK 461 million (decrease: 432) and a decrease in profit of SEK that are compatible with Nobia’s long-term strategy, while simultaneously 87 million (decrease: 48). The sensitivity analysis is based on the assumpbalancing the needs for low credit costs. In addition to these loans, Nobia tion that all other factors (for example, interest) are unchanged. The same has access to local cash advances. conditions were applied to 2016. The table below shows the maturity of all of Nobia’s loans: 2016 2017 Credit risk Year of maturity, SEK m 2017 2019 2019 Nobia is active in many markets and in several distribution channels. Depending on the type of distribution channel, the customer base comprises Loans and lines of credit 800 1,000 1,000 both professional customers and consumers. For these reasons, credit Of which, utilised 800 – – management and payment terms must be adapted to each business unit’s business logic and distribution channels within the framework of the credit Capital management policy established by the Group. The credit policy stipulates that credit The debt/equity ratio is not to exceed 100 per cent. A temporary elevaratings are to be based on at least one credit report from a reputable tion of the debt/equity ratio is acceptable. Dividends are, on average, to credit rating institute. Credit assessments are continuously performed be within the interval of 40-60 per cent of net profit after tax. The debt/ on customers who make regular purchases. Credit insurance is utilised equity ratio at year-end amounted to 2 per cent (14). Nobia considers for certain markets and customer categories. Collateral is often required recognised shareholders’ equity of SEK 4,154 million (3,419) to be capital. when credit is granted to customers with low buying frequencies. Counterparty risk pertaining to banks is deemed to be very minor. The total Liquidity risk credit risk amounted to SEK 1,904 million (2,284). The credit quality of Daily liquidity is tracked with the help of carefully prepared liquidity financial assets that have neither fallen due for payment nor are subject to forecasts. Liquidity is controlled centrally with the aim of using available impairment is high. liquidity effectively, at the same time as necessary reserves are available. Available liquidity including unutilised overdraft facilities comprised SEK Financial exposure 1,772 million (2,399). Group loans are handled by Nobia’s head office. The head office supplies the subsidiaries with funds through an internal bank. These loans are raised Fixed-interest in local currencies, which minimises the effects of exchange-rate fluctuations terms – on profits. As a supplementary measure, currency contracts may be enborrowing 2016 2017 tered into to avoid exposure. Given the current debt/equity ratio and cur0–3 two three 0–3 two three rency distribution of capital employed, approximately 9 per cent of foreign Group, SEK m months years years months years years capital employed must be financed through borrowing in local currencies. In SEK 800 – – – – – combination with this policy, other forms of capitalisation may be utilised in each country to optimise the Group’s tax situation. Nobia’s financial exposure policy does not involve hedging shareholders’ equity. 2016 2017 Capital emInterest-bearCapital emInterest-bearployed per ing loans and ployed per ing loans and SEK m currency lease liabilities currency lease liabilities SEK 195 925 -164 146 EUR 853 115 659 58 GBP 2,870 718 2,826 365 DKK 904 5 1,024 4 USD -32 0 0 0 NOK 366 0 382 0 Other 26 0 0 0 Total 5,182 1,7631) 4,727 573 1) Including interest-bearing liabilities recognised on the row Liabilities attributable to assets held for sale. Nobia Annual Report 2017 67 :::::::::::::::::: Notes Note 2 continued 2016 2017 Commercial exposure USD EUR NOK CHF GBP SEK DKK USD EUR NOK SEK DKK Currency contracts on closing date Local currency 1 50 -167 0 -1 14 26 2 50 -175 20 35 Total, SEK m1) 5 479 -175 0 -7 14 34 13 491 -176 20 46 Fair value, SEK m 0 1 -3 0 0 -1 0 0 4 5 4 0 Net flow calendar year Net flow, local currency -3 -1103) 706 2 7 323 -49 -7 -1384) 392 -16 -142 Net flow, SEK m2) -29 -1,0413) 720 18 80 323 -62 -68 -13314) 405 -16 -184 Hedged volume, SEK m 2) 10 -843 519 11 27 155 – 32 -905 328 -15 -72 1) Flows restated at closing-date rate, SEK. 2) Restated at average rate in 2016, 2017. 3) In addition, EUR 32 million pertains to flows against DKK, corresponding to SEK 307 million. 4) In addition, EUR 48 million pertains to flows against DKK, corresponding to SEK 467 million. Sensitivity analysis 2016 2017 Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on profit before shareholders’ profit before shareholders’ Currencies1) and interest rates2) Change tax, SEK m equity3), SEK m Change tax, SEK m equity3), SEK m EUR/SEK 5% 9.3 7.2 5% 14.2 11.1 SEK/NOK 5% 9.4 7.3 5% 8.9 7.0 EUR/GBP 5% 23.2 18.6 5% 24.5 19.6 NOK/DKK 5% 12.0 9.3 5% 12.0 9.4 SEK/DKK 5% 7.7 6.0 5% 11.3 8.8 Interest-rate level 100 points 2.0 1.6 100 points – – 1) Transaction effects after hedges. 2) After interest-rate hedging. 3) Corresponds to profit after tax. Analysis of maturity for financial liabilities including accounts payable 2016 2017 Nominal Nominal amount, Within 3 5 years amount, Within 3 5 years Curoriginal 1 1–3 months– 1–5 or original 1 1–3 months– 1–5 or Group, SEK m rency currency Total month months 1 year years longer currency Total month months 1 year years longer Bank loans (IB) Bank loans SEK 800 802 0 1 801 – – – – – – – – – Other liabilities Forward agreements1) SEK 1 0 0 1 – – 5 1 1 3 – – Forward agreements1) EUR 4 1 0 3 – – 13 2 4 7 – – Forward agreements1) GBP 0 0 0 0 – – – – – – – – Forward agreements1) NOK 6 1 2 3 – – 7 1 2 4 – – Forward agreements 1) DKK – – – – – – 1 0 0 1 – – Forward agreements1) USD 1 0 0 1 – – 0 0 0 0 – – Currency swaps2) 9 9 – – – – 17 17 – – – – Current account credit (IB) SEK – – – – – – – – – – – – Financial lease liabilities (IB) DKK 4 5 – – 3 2 – 3 4 – – 3 1 – Financial lease liabilities (IB) GBP 0 3 0 0 2 1 – 0 1 0 0 0 1 – Other liabilities (IB) GBP – – – – – – – – 1 – 1 – – – Accounts payable and other liabilities SEK 1,509 1,146 255 82 26 – 1,467 1,089 243 105 30 – Total 2,340 1,157 258 896 29 – 1,516 1,110 251 123 32 – Interest-bearing liabilities (IB) 807 6 1) The value of forward agreements is included in the item “Derivative instruments” in the balance sheet. 2) Recognised under other liabilities. 68 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Notes :::::::::::::::::: Note 2 continued Age analysis, accounts receivable and other receivables Based on historical data, the Group has made the assessment that no impairment of accounts receivable that have not fallen due is necessary 2016 2017 as per the closing date. Credit quality is essentially deemed to be high for Of Of outstanding accounts receivable. There was no significant concentration which, which, of credit exposure on the closing date. The maximum exposure for credit impairimpairSEK m Gross ment Gross ment risk is seen in the carrying amount in the statement of financial position for each financial asset. An impairment loss is recognised when obvious Non-due accounts receivable 1,013 – 1,018 – reasons are deemed to exist that the company will not receive the entire Past due accounts receivable or part of the amount due. Obvious reasons may, in this context, pertain 0–30 days 192 9 129 0 to external information that establishes that a receivable is doubtful. An Past due accounts receivable impairment loss is initially recognised for each individual receivable. Col>30 days–90 days 43 1 146 1 lective impairment losses are recognised for a group of receivables with Past due accounts receivable similar credit properties and characteristics. >90 days–180 days 10 4 32 2 Past due accounts receivable Offsetting of financial instruments >180 days–360 days 7 4 11 5 Nobia has binding framework agreements for derivatives trading, which entails that financial liabilities can be offset – or “netted” – in the event Past due accounts receivable >360 days 8 8 12 10 of insolvency or a similar situation. The tables below show the amounts encompassed by netting agreements at 31 December 2017 and 31 DeTotal receivables 1,273 26 1,348 18 cember 2016. Deposit account for impairment of accounts receivable and Offset agreements other receivables 2017 Financial Financial SEK m 2016 2017 SEK m assets liabilities Opening balance 49 26 Recognised amounts in statement of Reversal of previously recognised impairment losses -19 -7 financial position 50 43 Impairment for the year 7 15 Amounts encompassed by netting -43 -43 Confirmed losses 0 -16 Amounts after netting 7 0 Translation differences 2 0 2016 Financial Financial Acquisition of operations – – SEK m assets liabilities Impairment reclassified to Recognised amounts in statement of assets held for sale -13 – financial position 13 21 Closing balance 26 18 Amounts encompassed by netting -13 -13 Amounts after netting 0 8 Nobia Annual Report 2017 69 :::::::::::::::::: Notes Note 3 Operating segments The Group’s business activities are divided into operating segments resources based on the regions. Accordingly, the Group’s internal reportbased on a management approach, meaning the parts of the operations ing is structured so that Group management can monitor the performonitored by the company’s chief operating decision-maker. The Group’s mance and earnings of all of the regions. The following operating segments operations are organised such that Group management monitors the were identified: Nordic region, UK region and Central Europe region. earnings, returns and cash flow generated by the Group’s regions. These Nobia considers the Group’s income from kitchens, bathrooms and regions comprise the Group’s operating segments since Group managestorage to comprise a single product group since bathrooms and storage ment monitors the operations’ earnings and decides on the allocation of represent such a small percentage of the Group’s total balance sheet, income statement and cash-flow statement. Net sales and profit by region Nordic UK Central Group-wide and region region Europe region eliminations Group SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Net sales from external customers 5,987 6,515 6,122 5,710 539 519 – – 12,648 12,744 Net sales from other regions 1 1 – – 2 2 -3 -3 – – Total net sales 5,988 6,516 6,122 5,710 541 521 -3 -3 12,648 12,744 Depreciation/amortisation -130 -131 -125 -119 -16 -17 -16 -18 -287 -285 Operating profit 856 963 545 454 37 12 -140 -143 1,298 1,286 Financial income 22 9 Financial expenses -73 -45 Profit before tax and discontinued operations 1,247 1,250 Impairment – -2 0 – – – – – 0 -2 Total liabilities and assets per region Nordic UK Central Group-wide and region region Europe region eliminations Group SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Total operating assets 1,857 1,919 2,728 2,769 440 226 1,709 1,7691) 6,734 6,683 Total operating assets include: Investments in fixed assets 116 135 109 116 54 20 11 48 290 319 Total operating liabilities 1,176 1,206 1,105 945 365 109 176 1922) 2,822 2,452 1) Primarily comprises goodwill of SEK 1,480 million (1,480), consolidated surplus values on fixed assets of SEK 74 million (79) and fixed assets in the Parent Company of SEK 75 million (39). Elimination of internal receivables amounted to a negative SEK 21 million (neg: 23). 2) Elimination of internal liabilities amounted to a negative SEK -21 million (neg: 23). Geographic areas, Group Income from external customers1) Fixed assets2) SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 Sweden 1,517 1,678 304 325 Denmark 2,128 2,358 682 688 Norway 1,468 1,600 137 134 Finland 849 851 160 157 UK 6,106 5,714 2,233 2,208 France 9 0 – – Germany 61 51 – – Austria 426 411 353 365 Other countries 84 81 – – Total 12,648 12,744 3,869 3,877 1) Net sales from external customers based on customers’ geographic domicile. 2) Fixed assets that are not financial instruments, deferred tax assets, assets associated with benefits after employment termination or rights under insurance agreements. 70 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Notes :::::::::::::::::: Note 4 Costs for employee benefits and remuneration of senior executives 2016 2017 Salaries and Salaries and other remuSocial other remuSocial SEK m neration security costs Total neration security costs Total Total subsidiaries 2,569 551 3,120 2,345 505 2,850 – of which pension costs 223 223 220 220 Parent Company 69 30 99 54 30 84 – of which pension costs 13 13 13 13 Group1) 2,638 581 3,219 2,399 535 2,934 – of which pension costs 236 236 233 233 1) Excludes costs for share-based remuneration. Total costs for employee benefits SEK m 2016 2017 Salaries and other remuneration for the Parent Company Salaries and other remuneration 2,638 2,399 SEK m 2016 2017 Social security costs 345 302 Senior executives1) 19 18 Pension costs – defined-contribution plans 184 184 Other employees 50 36 Pension costs – defined-benefit plans 42 41 Total Parent Company2) 69 54 Costs for special employer’s contributions and tax on 1) In 2017, the number of individuals was 5 (5). returns from pension 10 8 2) Excludes costs for share-based remuneration. Costs for the Performance Share Plan Salaries and other remuneration for subsidiaries 2013–2016 0 – SEK m 2016 2017 2014–2017 1 1 Presidents of subsidiaries 1) 44 31 2015–2018 3 3 Other employees of subsidiaries 2,525 2,314 2016–2019 2 -2 Total subsidiaries2) 2,569 2,345 2017–2020 – 3 1) In 2017, the number of individuals was 16 (16). Total costs for employees 3,225 2,939 2) Excludes costs for share-based remuneration. Nobia Annual Report 2017 71 :::::::::::::::::: Notes Note 4 continued Remuneration and other benefits, 2017 Basic salary, Variable Share-based Other Directors’ remuneraOther Pension remuneraremuneraPension SEK m fees tion benefits costs tion tion Total commitments Chairman of the Board Tomas Billing 1.10 – – – – – 1.10 – Board members Nora Førisdal Larssen (member of Audit Committee) 0.46 – – – – – 0.46 – Lilian Fossum Biner (Chairman of Audit Committee) 0.51 – – – – – 0.51 – Stefan Jacobsson 0.39 – – – – – 0.39 – Fredrik Palmstierna until 6 April 2017 0.10 – – – – – 0.10 – Thore Ohlsson (member of Audit Committee) until 6 April 2017 0.12 – – – – – 0.12 – Ricard Wennerklint 0.39 – – – – – 0.39 – Christina Ståhl 0.39 – – – – – 0.39 – Jill Little from 6 April 2017 0.29 – – – – – 0.29 – George Adams from 6 April 2017 0.29 – – – – – 0.29 – President Morten Falkenberg 7.77 1.52 0.08 2.40 0.57 – 12.34 – Other members of Group management1) 27.47 2.82 0.97 4.15 2.04 – 38.60 0.37 – of whom, from subsidiaries2) 17.58 2.00 0.79 2.09 1.48 – 24.85 – Total 39.28 4.34 1.05 6.55 2.61 – 54.98 0.37 1) Number of individuals 12. 2) Number of individuals 8. Remuneration and other benefits, 2016 Basic salary, Variable Share-based Other Directors’ remuneraOther Pension remuneraremuneraPension SEK m fees tion benefits costs tion tion Total commitments Chairman of the Board Tomas Billing 1.07 – – – – – 1.07 – Board members Nora Førisdal Larssen 0.39 – – – – – 0.39 – Lilian Fossum Biner (Chairman of Audit Committee) 0.46 – – – – – 0.46 – Stefan Jacobsson 0.39 – – – – – 0.39 – Fredrik Palmstierna 0.39 – – – – – 0.39 – Thore Ohlsson (member of Audit Committee) 0.44 – – – – – 0.44 – Ricard Wennerklint 0.39 – – – – – 0.39 – Christina Ståhl 0.39 – – – – – 0.39 – President Morten Falkenberg 7.77 2.13 0.16 2.34 1.05 – 13.45 – Other members of Group management1) 27.57 4.18 0.99 4.68 2.62 – 40.04 0.30 – of whom, from subsidiaries2) 19.07 2.67 0.80 2.54 1.95 – 27.03 – Total 39.26 6.31 1.15 7.02 3.67 – 57.41 0.30 1) Number of individuals 13. 2) Number of individuals 10. The average number of employees and number of men and women addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee received SEK 125,000 among Board members and senior executives are described in Note 5, and Committee members SEK 100,000. The Board received a total of SEK see page 74. 4,043,750. Employee representatives receive a study and preparation fee of SEK 26,000 per person per year. Remuneration to senior executives – Board and Chairman of the Board – President Remuneration to the Chairman and members of the Board is determined In the 2017 fiscal year, the President received SEK 7,847,731 in salary by resolutions taken at the Annual General Meeting. Board members who and benefits, plus a variable salary portion related to results for 2017 of are employed by Nobia do not receive a separate Directors’ fee. Board SEK 1,519,005. In addition to the normal pension in accordance with the members elected by the Annual General Meeting receive a fixed fee of Swedish National Insurance Act (ATP and AFP), the President has pension SEK 390,000 per member and the Chairman receives SEK 1,100,000. In benefits corresponding to 30 per cent of pensionable salary. Pensionable 72 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Notes :::::::::::::::::: Note 4 continued salary means fixed annual salary. For 2017, the premium cost was SEK free of charge, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled. A participant’s 2,384,040. The age of retirement is 65. The President has the right to 12 entitlement to receive shares in Nobia for matching share rights requires months’ notice if employment is terminated by Nobia. If employment is continued employment in the Nobia Group during the vesting period, terminated by the President, six months’ notice must be given. and that entire investment in Nobia shares has remained during the same period. Matching takes place at a ratio of 1:1. Allotment of shares based on – Other Group management performance share rights also requires fulfilment of a financial perforGroup management, which comprised 11 individuals (13) at the end mance target linked to accumulated earnings per share for current and of 2017, of whom four (four) are employed in the Parent Company, future fiscal years, adjusted for items affecting comparability during the received salaries and benefits during the fiscal year amounting to SEK same period. Participants are not compensated for dividends paid during 28,440,714 plus variable salary portions based on the results for 2017 of the vesting period. SEK 2,815,472. Group management has the right to ITP pensions or an The maximum number of shares that can be allocated under the three equivalent scheme. The age of retirement is 65. In addition, management plans amounts to 1,500,000. in Sweden has the right to an increased occupational pension premium of The President is entitled to a maximum of four performance shares for 20 per cent on salary portions amounting to more than 30 basic amounts, every saving share. Other members of Group management are entitled to following a Board decision. three performance shares. For the 2013-2016 and the 2014-2017 Plans, an additional five to six individuals subordinate to the President are entitled – Variable salary portion to two performance shares. Other plan participants are entitled to one The fundamental principle for the variable salary portion for the unit performance share. Group management received SEK 4,315,707 in bene­ managers and Group management is that such portions may amount to fits during the 2017 fiscal year in connection with the matching of shares a maximum bonus of 40 per cent of fixed annual salary. The exception to under the framework of the Performance Share Plan 2014, of which SEK this principle is the President, whose variable salary portion may amount 1,191,908 was a benefit for the President. to a maximum of 65 per cent of fixed annual salary. Exceptions may also be made for other senior executives following a resolution by the Board. The – Performance Share Plans 2016–2020 variable portion is based on an earning period of one year. The outcome A resolution was made at the 2016 and 2017 Annual General Meetings depends on the extent to which predetermined targets are met. The in accordance with the Board’s proposal to established a remuneration targets for the President are set by the Board of Directors. The President scheme in the form of a Performance Share Plan. The Performance Share sets the targets for other senior managers following recommendations Plans encompass about 100 individuals, consisting of senior executives and from the Board Remuneration Committee. senior managers, as appointed by Nobia senior management. Participation in the Performance Share Plans entail that the maximum short-term – Remuneration Committee variable remuneration for participants in 2016 and 2017 respectively is The Board of Directors appoints a Remuneration Committee from within adjusted downwards by ten percentage points (for the President), five its ranks. The Committee’s tasks include preparing proposals with respect percentage points (Group management) and three percentage points to remuneration for the President, and to reach decisions on remunera(other senior executives and managers). At the end of the vesting period, tion proposals for managers that report directly to the President. For the participants will be allotted shares in Nobia free of charge, provided information about the Committee and its members, see page 98. that certain conditions are fulfilled. Entitlement to allotment of shares requires that the participant remain an employee of the Nobia Group – Group management’s employee contracts during the vesting period. Allotment of shares also requires that a financial The contracts include provisions regarding remuneration and termination performance target linked to accumulated earnings per share for Nobia of employment. Under these agreements, employment may be terminatduring the present and future fiscal years is achieved. Participants are not ed by the employee with a six-month period of notice and by the company compensated for regular dividends paid during the vesting period. with a 12-month period of notice. The maximum number of shares that can be allocated under the plans is 1,500,000. The Board determines an allocation value for each participant – Performance Share Plans 2013–2018 relative to the participant’s annual salary. The allocation value for the At the 2013, 2014 and 2015 Annual General Meetings, resolutions were President amounts to 50 per cent of annual salary and for the other memmade in accordance with the Board’s proposal to introduce remuneration bers of Group management, about 11 individuals, the allocation value is 30 schemes in the form of Performance Share Plans. The Performance Share per cent of annual salary. The allocation value for other managers in senior Plans encompass about 100 individuals, consisting of senior executives and positions amounts to 20 per cent of annual salary. The share price forming senior managers, as appointed by Nobia senior management. Participathe basis of the calculation of the number of share rights corresponds to tion in the plan required an investment in Nobia shares corresponding to an average volume-weighted price paid measured during a specific time 25, 50, 75 or 100 per cent of the employee’s monthly salary (gross). At the period. end of the vesting period, the participants will be allotted shares in Nobia Performance Share Plans Plan 2013–2016 2014–2017 2015–2018 2016–2019 2017–2020 Vesting period May 2013– May 2014– May 2015– May 2016– May 2017– April/May 2016 April/May 2017 April/May 2018 April/May 2019 April/May 2020 Performance targets Accumulated earnings Accumulated earnings Accumulated earnings Accumulated earnings Accumulated earnings per share 2013–2014 per share 2014–2015 per share 2015–2016 per share 2016–2017 per share 2017–2018 Fair value per share right SEK 33.30 SEK 53.50 SEK 82.60 SEK 73.60 SEK 84.60 Accumulated earnings per share are adjusted for items affecting comparability. The fair value is calculated as the share price on the plan’s date of the allotment, in May at the start of the vesting period, reduced by the present value of expected dividends during the vesting period. Nobia Annual Report 2017 73 :::::::::::::::::: Notes Note 4 continued The costs of the share option scheme and the Performance Share Plans are presented in the table below: Accumulated costs 20161) 20172) Social secuSocial secuSocial secuIFRS 23) rity contriTotal IFRS 23) rity contriTotal IFRS 23) rity contriTotal Plan cost butions cost cost butions cost cost butions cost 2013–2016 6 5 11 0 0 0 – – – 2014–2017 6 2 8 1 0 1 1 0 1 2015–2018 8 1 9 3 0 3 3 0 3 2016–2019 0 0 0 2 0 2 -2 0 -2 2017–2020 3 0 3 – – – 3 0 3 23 8 31 6 0 6 5 0 5 1) Price on 31 December 2016 = SEK 84.85 per share 2) Price on 31 December 2017 = SEK 69.40 per share 3) See Note 1 on pages 60–66. Changes in the number of outstanding share rights are as follows: Outstanding share rights at year-end had the following expiry dates: No. of share rights 2016 2017 No. of share rights As per 1 January 515,352 357,905 Expiry date 2016 2017 Allotted 279,170 276,879 April/May 2017 110,419 – Exercised -192,1631) -110,4191) April/May 2018 117,549 110,219 Forfeited -244,454 -212,611 April/May 2019 129,937 – As per 31 December 357,905 311,754 April/May 2020 – 201,535 1) Share price on exercise was SEK 91.65 per share (90.00 per share). 357,905 311,754 Of the outstanding share rights, 42,151 are matching shares and 269,603 are performance shares. Note 5 Average number of employees 2016 2017 2016 2017 Average Average Number Of Number Of number of Of whom, number of Of whom, on closwhom, on closwhom, Subsidiaries in: employees men employees men ing date men, % ing date men, % Sweden 736 520 769 538 Board members 63 84 63 81 Denmark 1,304 932 1,321 944 President and other senior Norway 295 109 291 113 executives 103 86 94 83 Group 166 86 157 82 Finland 379 272 400 293 Germany 337 235 31 22 Austria 357 286 365 287 Several people are members of more than one of the subsidiaries’ Boards UK 3,036 2,257 2,945 2,198 of Directors or management groups. France 5 4 0 0 2016 2017 USA 49 22 5 2 Number Of Number Of Switzerland 29 18 3 2 on closwhom, on closwhom, ing date men, % ing date men, % Netherlands 2 2 0 0 Board members 11 64 11 55 Japan 3 1 0 0 President and other senior Total subsidiaries 6,532 4,658 6,130 4,399 executives 13 85 11 82 Parent Company 41 18 48 18 Parent Company 24 75 22 68 Group 6,573 4,676 6,178 4,417 74 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Notes :::::::::::::::::: Note 6 Remuneration to auditors Note 10 Specification by type of costs Group Parent Company SEK m 2016 2017 SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 Costs for goods and materials -5,273 -5,141 Deloitte AB Costs for remuneration of employees -2,875 -2,878 Audit assignment – 5 – 2 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment (Note 7) -287 -287 Audit activities other than audit Freight costs -562 -604 assignment – 0 – 0 Operating lease costs, primarily stores -535 -490 Tax advice – 0 – 0 Other operating expenses -1,974 -2,187 Other assignments – 0 – 0 Total operating expenses -11,506 -11,587 KPMG Audit assignment 9 2 3 0 Audit activities other than audit Note 11 Operating leases assignment 1 1 1 1 Tax advice 1 1 0 0 The nominal values of contracted future leasing fees where the remaining Other assignments 5 1 5 0 term exceeds one year, are specified as follows (pertains mainly to rental contracts for premises): Audit assignment refers to the statutory audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements and accounting, the administration of the Board Group Parent Company and the President and other examinations performed by agreement or SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 contract. This includes other duties that fall upon the company’s auditor to Expensed during the year 535 490 1 3 perform and providing advisory services or other assistance due to observations made during such an audit or while performing other such duties. Falling due for payment within one year 481 432 0 1 Falling due for payment Note 7 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment by activity between one and five years 1,299 1,313 0 1 Falling due for payment later 610 57 0 0 Depreciation/amorTotal 2,390 1,802 0 2 tisation Impairment Group, SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 The nominal values of rental contracts that are re-let, where the remainCost of goods sold -141 -140 – – ing term exceeds one year, are specified as follows: Selling expenses -108 -102 0 -2 Group Parent Company Administrative expenses -38 -43 – – SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 Total depreciation/ Falling due for payment within amortisation and impairment -287 -285 0 -2 one year 64 49 – – Falling due for payment between one and five years 104 92 – – Note 8 Other operating income Falling due for payment later 2 3 – – Total 170 144 – – Group Parent Company Group, SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 Gains attributable to sale of Note 12 Financial income and expenses fixed assets 3 7 – – Exchange-rate gains from Group Parent Company operating receivables/liabilities 119 103 4 5 SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 Other 34 19 – – Profit from participations in Total other operating income 156 129 4 5 Group companies Dividends – – 500 800 Group contributions received – – 167 178 Note 9 Other operating expenses Impairment of subsidiary shares – – -743 -9 Financial income Group Parent Company Interest income, current 2 3 5 6 SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 Exchange-rate differences 20 6 16 1 Exchange-rate losses from Financial expenses operating receivables/liabilities -102 -104 -4 -9 Interest expense -24 -9 -22 -9 Capital loss attributable to divestment of subsidiaries – – – – Interest expense pertaining to pension liabilities -34 -34 0 0 Loss attributable to sale of fixed assets 0 -1 – – Exchange-rate differences -15 -2 0 0 Other -7 -1 – – Total -51 -36 -77 967 Total other operating expenses -109 -106 -4 -9 Nobia Annual Report 2017 75 :::::::::::::::::: Notes Note 13 Tax on net profit for the year Note 14 Intangible assets Group Parent Company Goodwill, SEK m 2016 2017 SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 Opening carrying amount 2,551 2,359 Current tax expenses Impairment of discontinued operations -58 – for the period -254 -246 -19 -31 Translation differences -134 2 Deferred tax -15 -10 -1 0 Closing carrying amount 2,359 2,361 Tax on net profit for the year -269 -256 -20 -31 Impairment of goodwill for the preceding year attributable to discontinued operations amounted to SEK 58 million and comprised impairment Reconciliation of effective tax to fair value less selling expenses based on the contracted sales price for Poggenpohl. Parent Company, % 2016 2017 Tax rate in the Parent Company 22.0 22.0 Impairment testing of goodwill Taxes attributable to earlier periods – 0.0 At the end of 2017, recognised goodwill amounted to SEK 2,361 million (2,359). The carrying amount of goodwill is specified by cash-generating Non-tax deductible income 0.0 – units as follows: Non-deductible costs -105.6 0.5 SEK m 2016 2017 Non-tax deductible dividend 69.2 -19.1 Nobia UK 1,592 1,581 Utilisation of non-capitalised loss carryforwards 1.8 – Nobia DK 329 339 Other 0.0 – Nobia SweNo 147 143 Recognised effective tax -12.6 3.4 Other 291 298 The difference between the nominal and effective tax rates for the Parent Total 2,359 2,361 Company primarily pertains to dividends. Tax expense on net profit for the year for the Group comprised 20.5 Goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units (CGU) when these per cent of profit before tax for continuing operations. In 2016, tax units were acquired. Nobia has five CGUs, which in organisational terms expense accounted for 21.6 per cent of profit before tax for continuing correspond to the company’s business units. Goodwill is subject to an operations. On 1 January 2018, corporation tax in Norway was lowered annual impairment test by calculating the expected recoverable amount from 24.0 per cent to 23.0 per cent. Nobia’s deferred tax liabilities and of each CGU. The recoverable amount is calculated as the expected cash assets from this country are thus recognised at the new tax rates as per 31 flow discounted by a weighted average cost of capital (WACC) after tax December 2017, with a marginal effect in the income statement and the for each CGU, which forms the basis for deriving the discount rate before balance sheet. The difference between recognised tax (20.5 per cent) and tax. The recoverable amount calculated in conjunction with this is comanticipated tax in consolidated profit before tax calculated using the local pared with the carrying amount, including goodwill, for each CGU. tax rate for Sweden (22.0 per cent) is explained in the table below. The starting point of the calculation is the estimated future cash flows based on the financial budget for the forthcoming fiscal year. A forecast Reconciliation of effective tax for the next four years is prepared based on this budget and expectations regarding market trends in the years ahead, which reflects previous Group, % 2016 2017 experience. Local tax rate in Sweden 22.0 22.0 When calculating the expected cash flow, significant assumptions Different local tax rates -0.3 -0.7 applied include expected sales growth, operating margin and working Taxes attributable to earlier periods -1.0 -1.4 capital requirements. Various economic indicators are used to analyse the business climate, as well as external and internal analyses of these. The asNon-tax deductible income -0.1 -0.2 sumptions are also based on the effects of the Group’s long-term strategic Non-deductible costs 0.4 0.9 initiatives, comprising differentiated brands, a Group-wide range, central Changed tax rate 0.6 -0.1 sourcing and product development. In order to extrapolate the cash flows Recognised effective tax 21.6 20.5 outside the first five years, a growth rate of 2 per cent (2) is applied to all CGUs. Note 26 on pages 84–85 explains the calculation of deferred tax assets The weighted average cost of capital is calculated on the average and liabilities. debt/equity ratio for large companies in similar industries and costs for borrowed and shareholders’ equity. The cost of shareholders’ equity is determined on the basis of the assumption that all investors require at least the same level of return as for risk-free government bonds, with an additional risk premium for the estimated risks assumed when they invest in cash-generating units. The risk premium has been established based on the long-term historical return on the stock market for large companies in similar industries by taking into consideration the risk profile of each business unit. The required return on debt-financed capital is also calculated on the return on risk-free government bonds and by applying a borrowing margin based on an estimated company-specific risk. The required return and tax rate for each CGU is influenced by the interest and tax rates in different countries. In 2017, the Group’s weighted cost of capital before tax amounted to 10.6 per cent (11.3) and after tax to 8.7 per cent (9.2). In total, the utilised cost of capital after tax for 2017 is in the interval 8.1–9.5 per cent (8.5–10.1). Testing of goodwill did not lead to any impairment in 2017. 76 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Notes :::::::::::::::::: Note 14 continued Company management has made the assessment that reasonable changes in important assumptions/key variables will not lead to the calNote 15 Tangible fixed assets culated total recoverable amount of the units being lower than their total carrying amount. Group Buildings, SEK m 2016 2017 Assumptions for calculating recoverable amounts: Opening cost 1,710 1,357 Discount rate before tax, % Investments for the year 26 71 % 2016 2017 Sales and scrapping -2 -76 Nobia UK 12.2 11.4 Reclassification 12 6 Nobia DK 10.4 9.9 Reclassification to assets held for Nobia SweNo 11.4 10.7 sale -375 – Other 10.4–11.1 10.0–10.4 Translation differences -14 11 Closing cost including Other intangible assets written-up amount 1,357 1,369 SEK m 2016 2017 Opening depreciation and impairment 1,085 887 Opening cost 468 339 Sale and scrapping -1 -61 Investments for the year 23 57 Reclassification -5 0 Sales and scrapping -3 0 Reclassification to assets held for Reclassification -82 6 sale -375 – Reclassification to assets held for sale -67 – Depreciation for the year 61 66 Translation differences 0 4 Depreciation for the year, discontinued operations 12 – Closing accumulated cost 339 406 Impairment of discontinued operations 110 – Opening amortisation 322 213 Translation differences 0 8 Closing depreciation and impairment 887 900 Sales and scrapping -2 0 Closing carrying amount 470 469 Amortisation for the year 52 41 Closing accumulated depreciation 882 898 Amortisation for the year, discontinued operations 1 – Reclassification -98 – Group Reclassification to assets held for sale -67 – Land and land improvements, SEK m 2016 2017 Impairment of discontinued operations 2 – Opening cost 182 141 Translation differences 3 3 Investments for the year 3 3 Closing accumulated amortisation 213 257 Sales and scrapping – -9 Closing carrying amount 126 149 Reclassification to assets Of which: held for sale -46 – Software 97 117 Translation differences 2 2 Brands 20 15 Closing cost including written-up amount 141 137 Licences 6 15 Opening depreciation and impairment 28 25 Other 3 2 Sales and scrapping – -6 Closing carrying amount 126 149 Reclassification to assets held for sale -46 – Depreciation for the year 1 1 Impairment of discontinued operations 41 – Translation differences 1 1 Closing depreciation and impairment 25 21 Closing carrying amount 116 116 Closing accumulated depreciation 23 21 Group Investments in progress, SEK m 2016 2017 Opening balance 38 133 Investments initiated during the year 66 14 Investments completed during the year1) 33 -37 Translation differences -4 0 Closing carrying amount 133 110 1) A ssets reclassified as other tangible fixed assets. Nobia Annual Report 2017 77 :::::::::::::::::: Notes Note 15 continued Group Group Machinery and other technical equipment, SEK m 2016 2017 Advance payments for tangible fixed assets, SEK m 2016 2017 Opening cost 1,926 1,821 Opening balance 8 18 Investments for the year 64 61 Expenses during the year 10 4 Sales and scrapping -38 -99 Reclassification – -22 Reclassification 36 36 Closing carrying amount 18 0 Reclassification to assets held for sale -177 – Impairment for the year for tangible fixed assets amounted to SEK 2 million (0) and no reversals of previous impairment took place durTranslation differences 10 18 ing the year (0). Minor reclassifications were made during the year Closing cost including 1,821 1,837 between classes of fixed assets and to other intangible assets. Opening depreciation and impairment 1,361 1,380 Sales and scrapping -35 -96 Reclassification 71 – Note 16 Financial fixed assets Reclassification to assets held for sale -177 – Group Depreciation for the year 107 97 Other long-term receivables, SEK m 2016 2017 Depreciation for the year, discontinued operations 5 – Deposits 27 28 Impairment 0 – Long-term loans to retailers 3 5 Impairment of discontinued operations 28 – Other interest-bearing receivables – – Translation differences 20 16 Other 1 6 Closing depreciation and impairment 1,380 1,397 Total 31 39 Closing carrying amount 441 440 Closing accumulated depreciation 1,371 1390 Parent Company Shares and participations in Group companies, Group SEK m 2016 2017 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings, SEK m 2016 2017 Opening cost 2,084 1,469 Opening cost 1,147 949 Divestment – -93 Investments for the year 98 109 Shareholders’ contributions 123 – Sales and scrapping -45 -54 Impairment of subsidiary shares -743 – Reclassification 68 13 Other changes 5 3 Reclassification to assets held for sale -348 – Closing cost 1,469 1,379 Translation differences 29 8 Closing cost 949 1,025 Opening depreciation and impairment 815 743 Sales and scrapping -31 -39 Reclassification 99 1 Reclassification to assets held for sale -348 – Depreciation for the year 66 80 Depreciation for the year, discontinued operations 20 – Impairment – 2 Impairment of discontinued operations 93 – Translation differences 29 6 Closing depreciation and impairment 743 793 Closing carrying amount 206 232 Closing accumulated depreciation 715 768 78 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Notes :::::::::::::::::: Note 17 Shares and participations in subsidiaries Nobia AB’s holdings of shares and participations in operating Group companies, % Carrying amount Share of eqNo. of Corp. Reg. No. Domicile uity, % shares 2016 2017 Nobia Sverige AB 556060-1006 Stockholm 100 100 1,256 1,256 Nobia Norway AS Trollåsen 100 Nobia Production Sweden AB 556038-0072 Tidaholm 100 Nobia Denmark A/S Ølgod 100 HTH Kök Svenska AB 556187-3190 Helsingborg 100 Nobia Denmark Retail A/S Ølgod 100 Invita Retail A/S Ølgod 100 Novart OY Nastola 100 Nobia Holding (UK) Limited Darlington 100 Nobia UK Trustee’s Ltd Darlington 100 Magnet Ltd Darlington 100 Larkflame Ltd Darlington 100 Magnet (Isle of Man) Limited Isle of Man 100 Aqua Ware Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Group Trustees Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Group Ltd1) Darlington 100 Flint Properties Ltd Darlington 100 Eastham Ltd 1) Darlington 100 Hyphen Fitted Furniture Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Distribution Ltd1) Darlington 100 The Penrith Joinery Company Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet & Southerns Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Furniture Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Joinery Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Manufacturing Ltd 1) Darlington 100 Magnet Retail Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Supplies Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Industries Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Kitchens Ltd1) Darlington 100 Firenzi Kitchens Ltd1) Darlington 100 Gower Group Ltd Halifax 100 Gower Furniture Ltd Halifax 100 Charco Ninety-Nine Ltd Halifax 100 WOR Ltd1) Halifax 100 Gower Windows Ltd1) Halifax 100 Eurostyle Furniture Ltd1) Halifax 100 Beverly Doors Ltd1) Halifax 100 Working Systems Ltd1) Halifax 100 Perfectshot Ltd 1) Halifax 100 Addspace Products Ltd1) Halifax 100 Gower Garden Furniture Ltd1) Halifax 100 Rollfold Holdings Ltd Dewsbury 100 Rollfold Group Ltd Dewsbury 100 Rixonway Kitchens Ltd Dewsbury 100 Commodore Kitchens Ltd Grays 100 CIE UK (Holdings) Ltd Ingatestone 100 CIE PLC Grays 100 Essenza Interiors Ltd1) Grays 100 Nobia Annual Report 2017 79 :::::::::::::::::: Notes Note 17 continued Carrying amount Share of eqNo. of Corp. Reg. No. Domicile uity, % shares 2016 2017 Lovene Dörr AB1) 556038-1724 Stockholm 100 Star Möbelwerk GmbH1) Herford 100 Swedoor Bauelementevertrieb GmbH1) Herford 100 Nobia Svenska Kök AB 556048-3256 Tidaholm 100 30,000 92 92 Poggenpohl Möbelwerke GmbH3) Herford 98.57 93 – Nobia Beteiligungs-GmbH Wels 100 2 2) 22) Nobia Liegenschaftsund Anlagenverwaltungs-GmbH Wels 100 1 2) 12) EWE Küchen GmbH Wels 100 FM Küchen GmbH Linz 100 Other 25 28 Total 1,469 1379 1) The company is dormant. 2) The company is 1 per cent owned by Nobia AB and 99 per cent owned by the subsidiary, Nobia Sverige AB. The details concern the 1 per cent holding. 3) The company was divested in 2017. Note 18 Derivative instruments Note 20 Cash and cash equivalents Group Parent Company Group Parent Company CarCarSEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 rying Fair rying Fair Cash and bank balances 1,005 473 949 334 amount value amount value SEK m 2017 2017 2017 2017 Unutilised overdraft facilities, which are not included in cash and cash Forward agreements, transacequivalents, totalled SEK 299 million (394) in the Group, and SEK 249 miltion exposure – assets 39 39 22 22 lion (344) in the Parent Company at year-end. In addition to the overdraft Forward agreements, transacfacilities, the company has unutilised credit commitments of SEK 1,000 tion exposure – liabilities -26 -26 -22 -22 million (1,000). Total 13 13 0 0 In addition to the forward agreements above, the company also has currency swaps at a carrying amount and fair value for assets of SEK 11 Note 21 Share capital million (4) and liabilities of SEK 17 million (9), which are recognised under other assets and liabilities. Unrealised gains and losses totalling a net gain of SEK 7 million in shareholders’ equity as per 31 December 2017 will be No. of registered No. of shares outrecognised in profit or loss at different times within 12 months of the closshares standing ing date. For information about forward agreements, see Note 2 Financial As per 1 January 2016 175,293,458 168,281,305 risks on pages 67–69. The preceding year’s unrealised gains and losses As per 31 December 2016 175,293,458 168,473,468 totalling a net profit of SEK 4 million were reversed in profit or loss in their As per 31 December 2017 175,293,458 168,583,887 entirety in 2017. Bought-back own shares 2016 2017 Opening balance 7,012,153 6,819,990 Note 19 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Divestments for the year -192,163 -110,419 Closing balance 6,819,990 6,709,571 Group Parent Company SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 Share capital amounted to SEK 58,430,237. The share’s quotient value is SEK 0.33. All of the registered shares are fully paid. All shares are ordinary Prepaid rent 71 66 – – shares of the same type. Nobia owned 6,709,571 treasury shares Bonus from suppliers 91 110 37 39 (6,819,990) on 31 December 2017. Divestments for the year pertained to Accrued customer income 42 73 – – allotment of shares for the Performance Share Plans 2014 (2013). BoughtPrepaid bank charges 1 1 – – back shares are not reserved for issue according to the option agreement or other sale. Insurance policies 13 38 1 1 Other 73 85 9 12 Total 291 373 47 52 80 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Notes :::::::::::::::::: Earnings per share after dilution Note 22 Reserves in shareholders’ equity To calculate earnings per share after dilution, the weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares is adjusted for the dilution effect of all potential ordinary shares. These potential ordinary shares are attributA specification of changes in shareholders’ equity is provided on pages 56 able to the Performance Share Plans that were introduced in 2013, 2014, and 59. 2015, 2016 and 2017. Refer to Notes 4 and 21, on pages 71 and 80. Various Translation Hedging circumstances may entail that the share rights do not lead to any dilution. SEK m reserve reserve Total If net profit for the year from continuing operations is negative, the share Opening balance, 1 January 2016 -81 2 -79 rights are not considered dilutive. Share rights are also not dilutive if the Exchange-rate differences attributable value of remaining future services to report during the vesting period corto translation of foreign operations -172 – -172 respond to an exercise price that exceeds the average share price for the Cash-flow hedges before tax1) – -8 -8 period. Furthermore, the performance share rights do not lead to dilution if the Tax attributable to change in hedging reserve for the year2) – 2 2 achieved earnings per share are insufficient to entitle shares at the end of the vesting period. Closing balance, 31 December 2016 -253 -4 -257 2016 2017 Weighted average number of outstanding Opening balance, 1 January 2017 -253 -4 -257 ordinary shares 168,425,427 168,547,081 Exchange-rate differences attributable Performance Share Plan 20131) 48,040 – to translation of foreign operations -18 – -18 Performance Share Plan 20141) 102,563 36,806 Cash-flow hedges before tax1) – 14 14 Performance Share Plan 2015 65,309 97,906 Tax attributable to change Performance Share Plan 2016 22,957 – in hedging reserve for the year2) – -3 -3 Performance Share Plan 2017 – 20,304 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 -271 7 -264 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares after dilution 168,664,296 168,702,097 1) Reversal recognised in profit or loss of SEK 5 million (neg: 3). New provision amounts Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 2.70 6.02 to SEK 9 million (neg: 5). 2) Reversal recognised in profit or loss of a negative SEK 1 million (pos: 1). New provision Earnings per share after dilution amounts to a negative SEK 2 million (pos: 1). from continuing operations, SEK 5.80 5.89 Loss per share after dilution Translation reserve from discontinued operations, SEK -3.10 0.13 The translation reserve includes all exchange-rate differences arising in 1) Pertains to dilution until redemption. conjunction with the translation of financial statements from foreign operations that have prepared their financial statements in a different currency to the currency in which the consolidated financial statements are prepared. The Parent Company and Group present their financial statements in SEK. Note 24 Appropriation of company’s profit or loss Hedging reserve Proposed appropriation of company’s profit or loss The hedging reserve includes the effective portion of the accumulated net The following profits in the Parent Company are at the disposition of the change in fair value of a cash-flow hedging and interest-rate hedging instruAnnual General Meeting: ment attributable to hedging transactions that have not yet occurred. Share premium reserve 52,225,486 Unappropriated profit brought forward 877,686,872 Note 23 Earnings per share Net profit for the year 889,324,386 Total SEK 1,819,236,744 Earnings per share before dilution The Board of Directors proposes that all profits at the disposition of the Earnings per share before dilution are calculated by dividing profit atAnnual General Meeting be appropriated as follows: tributable to the Parent Company shareholders by the weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares during the period. Standard dividend of SEK 3.50 per share to be paid to shareholders 590,043,604.50 2016 2017 Extra dividend of SEK 3.50 per share Profit attributable to Parent Company shareto be paid to shareholders 590,043,604.50 holders, SEK m 456 1,015 To be carried forward 639,149,535 Profit from continuing operations, SEK m1) 978 994 Total SEK 1,819,236,744 Loss from discontinued operations, SEK m1) -522 21 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares before dilution 168,425,427 168,547,081 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 2.71 6.02 Earnings per share before dilution from continuing operations, SEK 5.81 5.89 Loss per share before dilution from discontinued operations, SEK -3.10 0.13 1) Attributable to Parent Company shareholders Nobia Annual Report 2017 81 :::::::::::::::::: Notes the form of the collective consolidation rate, amounted to 154 per cent Note 25 Provisions for pensions (149 per cent on 31 December 2016). The collective consolidation rate comprises the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurDefined-benefit pension plans, Group ance commitments produced in accordance with Alecta’s actuarial calculation assumptions, which are not in agreement with IAS 19. Group Provisions for pensions, SEK m 2016 2017 The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet have been Defined-benefit pension plans 894 567 calculated as follows: Group There are several defined-benefit pension plans within the Group, SEK m 2016 2017 whereby the employee’s right to remuneration after termination of employment is based upon final salary and period of service. These plans are Present value of funded obligations 3,115 2,894 found in the UK, Sweden and Austria. The plan in the UK has already been Fair value of plan assets -2,400 -2,531 concluded and no new benefits can be earned. These pension plans have 715 363 been replaced by defined-contribution plans. Present value of unfunded obligations 240 204 Commitments for old-age pensions and family pensions for salaried employees in Sweden are secured on the basis of the FPG/PRI system and 955 567 insurance, primarily with Alecta. According to statement UFR 3 from the Reclassification of liabilities attributable to assets Swedish Financial Reporting Board, the insurance with Alecta is a multiheld for sale -61 – employer defined-benefit plan. Since the Group did not have access to Net debt in provisions for pensions 894 567 information in the 2017 fiscal year that would make it possible to recognise this plan as a defined-benefit plan, ITP pension plans secured on the basis The net debt for defined-benefit plans amounting to SEK 567 million (894) of insurance with Alecta have been recognised as defined-contribution is recognised in the “Provisions for pensions” item in the consolidated plans. Fees for pension insurance with Alecta for the year amounted to balance sheet. The net debt at year-end was as follows: UK 64 per cent, SEK 4.2 million (3.8). On 31 December 2017, Alecta’s surplus, which can Sweden 26 per cent and Austria 10 per cent. In the preceding year, SEK 61 be distributed between the policy holder and/or the persons insured in million was recognised on the row “Liabilities attributable to assets held for sale” for Poggenpohl in Germany. Changes in the defined-benefit pension commitments during the year were as follows: Defined-benefit commitments Plan assets Net debt 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 At beginning of the year 3,027 3294 -2,295 -2,400 732 894 Recognised in profit or loss Costs for service during current year 6 7 – – 6 7 Interest expense (+)/income (-) 105 86 -71 -52 34 34 Costs for the year for discontinued operations 2 – – 2 – 113 93 -71 -52 42 41 Recognised in other comprehensive income Remeasurements Actuarial gains/losses due to – demographic assumptions -27 -168 – – -27 -168 – financial assumptions 685 7 – – 685 7 – experience-based adjustments -50 9 – – -50 9 Return on plan assets excluding interest income – – -296 -125 -296 -125 Exchange-rate differences -287 -23 234 14 -53 -9 321 -175 -62 -111 259 -286 Other Employer contributions – – -69 -78 -69 -78 Benefits paid -106 -114 97 110 -9 -4 -106 -114 28 32 -78 -82 Reclassification of liabilities attributable to assets held for sale -61 – – – -61 – At year-end 3,294 3,098 -2,400 -2,531 894 567 82 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Notes :::::::::::::::::: Note 25 continued Costs in the consolidated income statement are divided between Life expectancy the following items: The expected average number of years of life remaining after retirement Group at 65 years of age is as follows: SEK m 2016 2017 Group Cost of goods sold 1 1 2016 2017 Selling expenses 1 1 On closing date Men 20,7–23,0 21,0–23,0 Administrative expenses 4 5 Women 24,3–25,0 23,7–25,0 Net financial items 34 34 Costs for the year for discontinued operations 2 – 20 years after closing date Total pension costs 42 41 Men 23,8–25,3 22,8–24,2 Women 25,0–28,4 25,6–27,3 The actual return on the plan assets of the pension plans amounted to: SEK m 2016 2017 Sensitivity analysis: Interest income 71 52 The table below presents the possible changes in actuarial assumptions at year-end, all other assumptions being unchanged, and how they would Return on pension assets excluding interest income 296 125 affect the defined-benefit commitments. Total actual return on plan assets 367 177 Group Plan assets comprise the following: SEK m Increase Decrease 2016 2017 Discount rate (1% change) -539 673 Listed price Listed price Expected mortality (1-year change) 82 -81 on an active Unlisted on an active Unlisted Future salary increase (1% change) 19 -14 Group, SEK m market price market price Future increase in pension (1% change) 334 -285 Cash and cash equivalents 29 – 33 – Total pension costs recognised in the consolidated income statement High-quality were as follows: corporate bonds 812 – 826 – Group Mutual funds, Pension costs, SEK m 2016 2017 Western Europe 329 – 169 – Total costs for defined-benefit plans 42 41 Mutual funds, growth markets 40 – 34 – Total costs for defined-contribution plans 184 184 Mutual funds, global 286 – 505 – Costs for special employer’s contributions and tax on returns from pension 10 8 Hedge funds 201 – 203 – Total pension costs 236 233 Fixed-income funds, term 7–20 years 703 – 761 – Defined-benefit pension plans, Parent Company: Total 2,400 – 2,531 – Parent Company Contributions to post-employment remuneration plans are expected to Provisions for pensions, SEK m 2016 2017 amount to SEK 70 million (76) for the 2018 fiscal year. Provisions in accordance with Pension Obligations Vesting Act, FPG/PRI pensions1) 28 33 Principal actuarial assumptions: 1) According to IAS 19. Group % 2016 2017 The costs are recognised in the Parent Company’s income statement as follows: Discount rate: Parent Company UK 2.7 2.6 Defined-benefit plans, SEK m 2016 2017 Austria 1.6 1.6 Administrative expenses 2 2 Germany 1.8 – Sweden 3.2 2.6 The total pension cost recognised in the Parent Company’s income Future annual salary increases: statement is as follows: UK – – Parent Company Austria 2.3 2.3 Pension costs, SEK m 2016 2017 Germany – – Total costs for defined-benefit plans 2 2 Sweden 2.5 2.5 Total costs for defined-contribution plans 9 9 Future annual pension increases: Costs for special employer’s contributions and tax on returns from pension 2 2 UK 3.1 2.9 Total pension costs 13 13 Austria – – Germany 1 – Parent Company pension liabilities are calculated at a discount rate of Sweden 2.5 2.5 2.6 per cent (3.2). The assumptions are calculated on the basis of the salary levels applicable on the closing date. SEK 328,000, pertaining to defined-benefit pension plans in the Parent Company, is expected to be paid in 2018. Nobia Annual Report 2017 83 :::::::::::::::::: Notes Note 26 Deferred tax The change in deferred tax assets/tax liabilities for the year, Group 2016 2017 Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax SEK m assets liabilities Net assets liabilities Net Opening balance 241 133 108 176 84 92 Recognised in profit or loss -22 -7 -15 -7 3 -10 Recognised in discontinued operations -77 -35 -42 – – – Remeasurements of defined-benefit pension plans 49 – 49 -46 – -46 Changes in forward agreements 0 -2 2 1 4 -3 Recognised directly against shareholders’ equity -2 – -2 -1 – -1 Offset/Reclassification 0 0 0 -4 -4 0 Reclassification of assets/liabilities held for sale -8 -6 -2 – – – Translation differences -5 1 -6 -1 2 -3 Closing balance 176 84 92 118 89 29 The change in deferred tax assets/tax liabilities for the year Defined-benefit Other temporary Loss carryDeferred tax assets pension plans differences forwards, etc. Total As per 1 January 2016 118 49 74 241 Recognised in profit or loss -16 -3 -3 -22 Recognised in discontinued operations 0 -1 -76 -77 Recognised in other comprehensive income 49 0 – 49 Recognised directly against shareholders’ equity – -2 – -2 Reclassification of assets/liabilities held for sale -5 -3 – -8 Translation differences -10 0 5 -5 As per 31 December 2016 136 40 0 176 As per 1 January 2017 136 40 0 176 Recognised in profit or loss -8 1 – -7 Recognised in other comprehensive income -46 1 – -45 Recognised directly against shareholders’ equity – -1 – -1 Reclassification 1 -1 – 0 Offset – -4 – -4 Translation differences -1 0 – -1 As per 31 December 2017 82 36 0 118 Temporary differences Deferred tax liabilities in fixed assets Other Total As per 1 January 2016 100 33 133 Recognised in profit or loss -7 0 -7 Recognised in discontinued operations -35 0 -35 Recognised in other comprehensive income – -2 -2 Reclassification of assets/liabilities held for sale -1 -5 -6 Translation differences 1 0 1 As per 31 December 2016 58 26 84 As per 1 January 2017 58 26 84 Recognised in profit or loss -3 6 3 Recognised in other comprehensive income – 4 4 Offset -4 – -4 Translation differences 1 1 2 As per 31 December 2017 52 37 89 84 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Notes :::::::::::::::::: Note 26 continued On 1 January 2018, corporation tax in Norway was lowered from 24.0 per deferred tax attributable to temporary differences relating to investments cent to 23.0 per cent. Nobia’s deferred taxes pertaining to Norway are in subsidiaries or associated companies. Any future effects (withholding recognised at the new tax rates as per 31 December 2017, with a marginal tax and other deferred tax for profit taking within the Group) are recogeffect in the income statement and the balance sheet. nised when Nobia is no longer able to govern the reversal of such differDeferred tax assets on loss carryforwards at year-end of SEK 0 million ences or when, for other reasons, it is no longer improbable that reversals were attributable to Sweden. will be made in the foreseeable future. These possible future effects are The value of the loss carryforwards for which deferred tax assets have not deemed to have any relation to the overall amount of the temporary not been recognised does not arise (173) . Nobia does not recognise any differences. Note 27 Other provisions Other longItems Unutilised tenterm employee affecting SEK m ancy rights Dilapidations benefits comparability1) Other Total As per 1 January 2017 12 23 4 2 29 70 Expensed in consolidated income statement – Additional provisions 3 3 0 – 4 10 – Reversed unutilised amounts -2 – – -1 0 -3 Utilised during the year -7 -10 0 0 -27 -44 Translation differences 0 0 0 0 -1 -1 As per 31 December 2017 6 16 4 1 5 32 1) Closing provisions for items affecting comparability comprise expenses for lease of premises. Note 28 Liabilities to credit institutions Note 29 Accrued expenses and deferred income Group Parent Company Group Parent Company Maturity structure, SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 Within 1 year 801 1 800 – Bonus to customers 105 134 – – Between 1 and 5 years – – – – Accrued salary-related costs 225 198 42 17 Longer than 5 years – – – – Accrued interest 1 – 1 – Total 801 1 800 – Insurance policies 17 21 – – Rents 18 4 – – Other 199 216 1 3 Total 565 573 44 20 Note 30 Financial assets and liabilities Derivatives Non-hedgeFinancial used in accounting instruments Accounts Total hedge acderivative initially identified and loans reInterim Other carrying Group 2017, SEK m counting instruments at fair value ceivable items liabilities amount1) Long-term interest-bearing receivables – – – 5 – – 5 Other long-term receivables – – – 34 – – 34 Accounts receivable – – – 1,282 – – 1,282 Current interest-bearing receivables – – – 18 – – 18 Other receivables 39 11 – 37 183 – 270 Total 39 11 – 1,376 183 – 1,609 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities – – – – 5 5 Current interest-bearing liabilities – – – – 1 1 Accounts payable – – – – 1,106 1,106 Other liabilities 26 17 – – 353 361 757 Total 26 17 – – 353 1,473 1,869 1) The carrying amount is considered to essentially correspond to the fair value. Nobia Annual Report 2017 85 :::::::::::::::::: Notes Note 30 continued Derivatives Non-hedgeFinancial used in accounting instruments Accounts and Total hedge acderivative initially identified loans Interim Other carrying Group 2016, SEK m counting instruments at fair value receivable items liabilities amount1) Long-term interest-bearing receivables – – – 3 – – 3 Other long-term receivables – – – 28 – – 28 Accounts receivable – – – 1,240 – – 1,240 Current interest-bearing receivables – – – 1 – – 1 Other receivables 9 4 – 3 133 – 149 Total 9 4 – 1,275 133 – 1,421 Additional purchase consideration (other provisions) – – 22 – – – 22 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – 6 6 Current interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – 801 801 Accounts payable – – – – – 1,162 1,162 Other liabilities 12 9 – – 348 347 716 Total 12 9 22 – 348 2,316 2,707 1) The carrying amount is considered to essentially correspond to the fair value. Financial exchange-rate gains and losses were recognised in net financial Exchange-rate gains and losses pertaining to the operations were recitems in the amount of SEK 4 million (5). ognised in other operating income and operating expenses in the net amount of negative SEK 1 million (pos: 17). Non-hedgeDerivatives used in accounting derivative Accounts and Other Interim Total Parent Company 2017, SEK m hedge accounting instruments loans receivable liabilities items carrying amount1) Accounts receivable – – 1 – – 1 Other receivables 22 – 2,861 – 39 2,922 Total 22 – 2,862 – 39 2,923 Current interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – – Current liabilities to Group companies – – – 956 – 956 Accounts payable – – – 23 – 23 Other liabilities 22 17 – 47 20 106 Total 22 17 – 1,026 20 1,085 Non-hedgeAccounts and accounting derivative Total Parent Company 2016, SEK m loans receivable instruments Other liabilities Interim items carrying amount1) Accounts receivable 1 – – – 1 Other receivables 2,871 – – 37 2,908 Total 2,872 – – 37 2,909 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities – – 800 – 800 Current liabilities to Group companies – – 1,276 – 1,276 Accounts payable – – 15 – 15 Other liabilities – 9 18 44 71 Total – 9 2,109 44 2,162 1) T he carrying amount is considered to essentially correspond to the fair value. Determination of fair value of financial instruments The measurement of derivative instruments is included in Level 2 and Level 1 according to prices listed in an active market for the same based on market listings or the counterparty’s measurement. Derivative  instrument. instruments amounted to SEK 39 million (9) in assets and SEK 26 million Level 2 based directly or indirectly on observable market information not (12) in liabilities. For disclosures regarding liabilities for additional purchase included in Level 1. considerations for business combinations, which are measured under Level 3 based on input that is not observable in the market. Level 3, refer to Note 34 on page 88. In an estimate of fair value, the company’s long-term loans are not deemed to significantly deviate from their carrying amounts. 86 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Notes :::::::::::::::::: Group Note 31 Pledged assets, contingent liabilities and commitments SEK m 2016 2017 Profit/loss in conjunction with divestment of The Group has contingent liabilities pertaining to sub-contractor guarandiscontinued operations tees, pension liabilities, bank guarantees for loans and other guarantees and other considerations that arise in normal commercial operations. No Capital gain/loss attributable to divestment of significant liabilities are expected to arise through these contingent liabilidiscontinued operations 0 54 ties. Based on the company’s assessment, no provision has been posted Tax attributable to aforementioned capital gains/ for ongoing tax cases. The amounts involved are not considered to have losses 0 0 any material effect on the company’s results or financial position. Profit from divestment after tax 0 54 Group Parent Company Total profit/loss from discontinued operations after SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 tax -523 21 Floating charges – – – – Endowment insurance – – – – Earnings/loss per share from discontinued operations Property mortgage – – – – before dilution (SEK) -3.10 0.13 Other assets 1 – – – after dilution (SEK) -3.10 0.13 Total pledged assets 1 – – – The gain from discontinued operations of SEK 21 million (loss: 523) was attributable to the Parent Company’s owners. In their normal business activities, the Group and the Parent Company Of the profit of SEK 994 million (978) from continuing operations, SEK pledged the following guarantees and contingent liabilities. 994 million (978) was attributable to the Parent Company’s owners. Group Parent Company SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 Net cash flow from discontinued operations 2016 2017 Securities for pension Cash flow from operating activities 93 -18 commitments 2 2 20 21 Cash flow from investing activities -13 -90 Other contingent liabilities 166 182 163 164 Cash flow from financing activities 1) -24 0 Total 168 184 183 185 Net cash flow from discontinued operations 56 -108 1) Cash flow from financing activities primarily pertains to intra-Group transactions. Note 32 Discontinued operations Note 33 Assets held for sale Poggenpohl’s operations that were reported as discontinued operations in accordance with IFRS 5 from the fourth quarter of 2016 were sold in the On 19 December 2016, Nobia signed an agreement for the sale of first quarter of 2017. Poggenpohl to the German group Adcuram. In connection with this, At the start of 2017, Nobia held two stores that were acquired from the net assets for Poggenpohl were recognised as Assets held for sale in franchisees, with the intention of subsequently selling them on, one store in accord­ance with IFRS 5. The sale took place during the first quarter of 2017. Denmark and one store in Sweden. In the third quarter 2017, these stores Assets and liabilities for the two stores acquired by Nobia with the were reclassified and are now recognised in continuing operations since intention of selling on were previously recognised as Assets held for sale. Nobia deems they will not be sold within the next 12 months. The entire In the third quarter of 2017, these stores were reclassified as continuing amount of net profit for the year is recognised in continuing operations, operations, refer also to Note 32 on page 87. meaning that no profit for 2017 is recognised as discontinued operations for these two stores. Figures for 2016 have not been restated since the stores’ Group sales and earnings have been deemed to be immaterial from the reader’s SEK m 2016 2017 perspective. Restatement would not generate a different understanding of Assets held for sale the historical and future performance of the operations. For further inforDisposal group for sale: mation, refer to Note 1 on pages 60–66. Tangible fixed assets 1 – Profit/loss from discontinued operations Inventories 68 – Group Accounts receivable and other receivables 168 – SEK m 2016 2017 Deferred tax assets 8 – Profit/loss from business activities of discontinued Interest-bearing assets 261 – operations Total 506 – Income 1,158 47 Expenses -1,625 -81 Liabilities attributable to assets held for sale Loss before tax -467 -34 Disposal group for sale: Tax -56 1 Accounts payable and other liabilities 261 – Loss after tax -523 -33 Deferred tax liabilities 6 – Interest-bearing liabilities 62 – Profit/loss from remeasurement to fair value after Total 329 – deductions for selling expenses Profit/loss from remeasurement to fair value after deductions for selling expenses attributable to discontinued operations before tax 0 – Tax attributable to aforementioned remeasurement – – Loss from remeasurement after tax 0 – Nobia Annual Report 2017 87 :::::::::::::::::: Notes Note 34 Company acquisitions On 12 November 2015, Nobia acquired 100 per cent of the share capital of the UK kitchen companies Commodore and CIE via Nobia Holding UK. The acquisition of Commodore and CIE strengthens Nobia’s position in the UK private developer market and enables synergy effects, primarily in sourcing and production. The purchase consideration was adjusted by SEK 0.4 million in the first quarter of 2016. The additional purchase consideration of a maximum of SEK 53 million (GBP 4 million) is conditional on the performance of the operations over the next two years and is measured according to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. In the fourth quarter of 2016, SEK 22 million (GBP 2 million) was paid. In the fourth quarter of 2017, SEK 22 million (GBP 2 million) was paid. The additional purchase consideration has been fully settled and no outstanding provisions remain. Acquired net assets and goodwill, SEK m 2016 2017 Purchase consideration including acquisition costs 0 – Additional purchase consideration – – Fair value of acquired net assets – – Goodwill 0 – Goodwill is attributable to synergies that are expected to be achieved through additional co-ordination of sourcing, production, distribution and administration. SEK m 2016 2017 Purchase consideration paid in cash 0 – Cash and cash equivalents in acquired subsidiaries – – Reduction in the Group’s cash and cash equivalents in conjunction with acquisition 0 – Note 35 Related-party transactions No sales of goods were made to and no purchases of goods were made A specification of subsidiaries is presented in Note 17 on pages 79–80. from the Parent Company to other Group companies during the year. Remuneration was paid to senior executives during the year, refer to Group-wide services are invoiced to subsidiaries. Note 4 on pages 71–74. Summary of related-party transactions Purchase of Other Receivables Sale of goods/ goods/services Invoicing (such as interfrom Liabilities to services from from related Group-wide est, related parties related parties Parent Company, SEK m Year related parties parties services dividends) per 31 Dec per 31 Dec Related parties Subsidiaries 2017 – 51 216 978 2,839 956 Subsidiaries 2016 – 76 217 667 2,868 1,276 88 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Notes :::::::::::::::::: Note 36 Specifications for statement of cash flows Cash and cash equivalents Divestment of subsidiaries and other business units Group Parent Company Group Parent Company SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 Cash and bank balances 1,005 473 949 334 Divested assets and liabilities Balance of Group account with Intangible fixed assets – – – – the Parent Company – – – – Tangible fixed assets – – – – Short-term investments, Financial fixed assets – – – -172 equivalent to cash and cash equivalents – – – – Inventories – -71 – – Total according to balance Operating receivables – -167 – – sheet 1,005 473 949 334 Cash and cash equivalents – -251 – – Total assets – -489 – -172 Less liabilities for overdraft facilities that can be immediately cancelled – – – – Long-term provisions – -61 – – Cash and bank balances inLong-term interest-bearing cluded in assets held for sale 261 – – – liabilities – -2 – – Total according to statement Deferred tax liabilities – 2 – – of cash flows 1,266 473 949 334 Short-term provisions – -1 – – Short-term operating liabilities Short-term investments have been classified as cash and cash equivalents including tax liabilities – -282 – – based on the following: Total, provisions • They have an insignificant risk of fluctuations in value. and liabilities – -344 – – • They can be easily converted to cash funds. • They have a term of a maximum of three months from the acquisition date. Sales price: – Interest paid and dividends received Purchase consideration received – 165 165 Group Parent Company Other transaction costs – -7 -7 SEK m 2016 2017 2016 2017 Less: Cash and cash equivalents Dividends received – – 667 978 in divested operations – -251 – – Interest received 1 3 21 7 Impact on cash and cash Interest paid -21 -10 -22 -9 equivalents – -93 – 158 Reconciliation of liabilities deriving from financing activities Closing balance Closing balance Group, SEK m 2016 Cash flows Changes that do not impact cash flow 2017 Acquisition of Divestment of New Exchange-rate operations operations leases differences Overdraft facilities – – – – – – – Interest-bearing liabilities 807 -802 – – – 1 6 Lease liabilities – – – – – – – Total liabilities deriving from financing activities 807 -802 – – – 1 6 Reconciliation of liabilities deriving from financing activities Closing balance Closing balance Parent Company, SEK m 2016 Cash flows Changes that do not impact cash flow 2017 Acquisition of Divestment of New Exchange-rate operations operations leases differences Overdraft facilities – – – – – – – Interest-bearing liabilities 800 -800 – – – – – Lease liabilities – – – – – – – Total liabilities deriving from financing activities 800 -800 – – – – – Note 37 Events after the closing date In January 2018, Nobia’s Nomination Committee announced that the In February 2018, Nobia announced that Erkka Lumme, Executive Vice Chairman of the Board, Tomas Billing, had declined re-election. The President and Head of Commercial Finland, would leave Nobia in May Nomination Committee proposes that Hans Eckerström be elected the 2018, and that Ralph Kobsik would take office as Executive Vice President new Chairman of the Board. His current Board memberships include and Head of Central Europe Region by June 2018 at the latest. Nord­s tjernan and Thule Group. Nobia Annual Report 2017 89 :::::::::::::::::: Reconciliation of alternative performance measures Reconciliation of alternative performance measures Nobia presents certain financial perfortion to investors and the company’s manthose measures used by other companies mance measures in the Annual Report agement since they facilitate assessments Consequently, the performance measures that are not defined according to IFRS, of trends and the company’s performance. are not to be seen as replacements for known as alternative performance meaBecause not all companies calculate measures defined according to IFRS For sures. Nobia believes that these measures performance measures in the same way, definitions of the performance measures provide valuable complementary informathese are not always comparable with that Nobia uses, see pages 109–110. Jan–Dec Analysis of net sales Nordic region % SEK m 2016 5,987 Organic growth 8 451 Currency effect 1 77 2017 9 6,515 Jan–Dec Analysis of net sales UK region % SEK m 2016 6,122 Organic growth -2 -115 Currency effect -5 -288 Sales to Hygena 0 -9 2017 -6 5,710 Analysis of net sales Jan–Dec Central Europe region % SEK m 2016 539 Organic growth -5 -28 Currency effect 2 8 2017 -4 519 Jan–Dec Operating profit before depreciation and impairment, SEK m 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Operating profit 654 878 1,189 1,298 1,286 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment 390 326 297 287 287 Operating profit before depreciation/amortisation and impairment 1,044 1,204 1,486 1,585 1,573 Net sales 11,773 11,411 12,266 12,648 12,744 % of net sales 8.9% 10.6% 12.1% 12.5% 12.3% Jan–Dec Operating profit excluding items affecting comparability, SEK m 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Operating profit 654 878 1,189 1,298 1,286 Items affecting comparability 36 97 – – – Operating profit excluding items affecting comparability 690 975 1,189 1,298 1,286 Net sales 11,773 11,411 12,266 12,648 12,744 % of net sales 5.9% 8.5% 9.7% 10.3% 10.1% Jan–Dec Profit after tax excluding items affecting comparability 2015 2016 2017 Loss after tax 828 455 1,015 Items affecting comparability net after tax 751) 4482) – Profit after tax excluding items affecting comparability 903 903 1,015 1) Recognised on the row “Loss from discontinued operations, net after tax” and pertained to impairment of Poggenpohl in the US. 2) Recognised on the row “Loss from discontinued operations, net after tax” and pertained to impairment of Poggenpohl. 90 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Reconciliation of alternative performance measures :::::::::::::::::: 31 Dec Net debt, SEK m 2016 2017 Provisions for pensions (IB) 894 567 Other long-term liabilities, interest-bearing (IB) 6 5 Current liabilities, interest-bearing (IB) 801 1 Interest-bearing liabilities recognised as liabilities attributable to assets held for sale (IB) 62 – Interest-bearing liabilities 1,763 573 Long-term receivables, interest-bearing (IB) -3 -5 Current receivables, interest-bearing (IB) -1 -18 Interest-bearing assets recognised as assets held for sale (IB) -261 – Cash and cash equivalents (IB) -1005 -473 Interest-bearing assets -1270 -496 Net debt 493 77 31 Dec Operating capital, SEK m 2016 2017 Total assets 8,005 7,180 Other provisions -79 -40 Deferred tax liabilities -84 -89 Current liabilities, non-interest-bearing -2,393 -2,324 Liabilities attributable to assets held for sale, non-interest-bearing -267 – Non-interest-bearing liabilities -2,823 -2,453 Capital employed 5,182 4,727 Interest-bearing assets -1,009 -496 Interest-bearing assets recognised as assets held for sale (IB) -261 – Operating capital 3,912 4,231 31 Dec Average operating capital, SEK m 2016 2017 OB Operating capital 4,596 3,912 OB Net operating assets discontinued operations -535 22 CB Operating capital 3,912 4,231 CB Net operating assets discontinued operations 22 – Average operating capital before adjustments of acquisitions and divestments 3,998 4,083 Adjustment for acquisitions and divestments not occurred in the middle of the period 0 – Average operating capital 3,998 4,083 31 Dec Average shareholders’ equity SEK m 2016 2017 OB Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders 3,818 3,415 CB Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders 3,415 4,154 Average equity before adjustment of increases and decreases in capital 3,617 3,785 Adjustment for acquisitions and divestments not occurred in the middle of the period -106 -127 Average shareholders’ equity 3,511 3,658 Nobia Annual Report 2017 91 :::::::::::::::::: Board of Directors’ assurance Board of Directors’ assurance The Board of Directors and the President declare that the Annual Report position and earnings of the Parent Company and the Group. The Board was prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in of Directors’ Report for the Parent Company and the Group gives a true Sweden and that the consolidated financial statements have been prepared and fair view of the developments of operations, position and earnings and in accordance with accounting standards referred to in Regulation (EC) No describes significant risks and uncertainties facing the Parent Company and 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 companies included in the Group. The consolidated accounts and balance on the application of international accounting standards. The Annual Report sheet and the Parent Company income statement and balance sheet will be and the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the presented to the Annual General Meeting for adoption on 10 April 2018. Stockholm, 20 March 2018 Tomas Billing Chairman Nora Førisdal Larssen Lilian Fossum Biner Jill Little Christina Ståhl Stefan Jacobsson Ricard Wennerklint George Adams Morten Falkenberg Per Bergström Marie Ströberg President Employee representative Employee representative Our audit report was submitted on 20 March 2018 Deloitte AB Daniel de Paula Authorised Public Accountant 92 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Auditor’s report :::::::::::::::::: Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the share­ company and the group in accordance We have identified this as a key audit holders of Nobia AB (publ) corporate with professional ethics for accountants in matter since revenue has a significant imidentity number 556528-2752 Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our pact on the financial reporting and consists ethical responsibilities in accordance with of a large amount of transactions as well as Report on the annual accounts and these requirements. This includes that, are dependent on customer specific consolidated accounts based on the best of our knowledge and agreements, delivery terms and installabelief, no prohibited services referred to tion which affect the completeness and Opinions in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article timing of recognized revenue. We have audited the annual accounts and 5.1 have been provided to the audited For the groups principles on revenue reconsolidated accounts of Nobia AB (publ) company or, where applicable, its parent cognition, refer to note 1 and note 3 regarfor the financial year 2017-01-01–2017-12-31. company or its controlled companies ding accounting of operating segments. The annual accounts and consolidated within the EU. accounts of the company are included on We believe that the audit evidence we Our Audit Procedures pages 40–92 in this document. have obtained is sufficient and appropriate Our audit procedures included but where In our opinion, the annual accounts have to provide a basis for our opinions. not limited to: been prepared in accordance with the • evaluation of the company’s accounting Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in Other Disclosures principles regarding revenue all material respects, the financial position The audit of the report for the financial • gained an understanding of the comof the parent company as of 31 December year 2016-01-01–2016-12-31 has been pany’s routines and evaluating internal 2017 and its financial performance and cash performed by another auditor, who has controls regarding revenue recognition flow for the year then ended in accordanissued an auditor´s report dated 16 March including IT-systems used ce with the Annual Accounts Act. The 2017, with unqualified opinions in the “Re• review of a selection of transactions to consolidated accounts have been prepared port of annual accounts and consolidated ensure accurate revenue recognition in in accordance with the Annual Accounts accounts”. accordance with agreements and in the Act and present fairly, in all material rescorrect period pects, the financial position of the group Key Audit Matters • review of marginal analysis’ as well as as of 31 December 2017 and their financial Key audit matters of the audit are those analysis of revenue against previous performance and cash flow for the year matters that, in our professional judgment, years and budget then ended in accordance with Internatiowere of most significance in our audit of • review of the adoption of appropriate nal Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the annual accounts and consolidated accounting principles and that the as adopted by the EU, and the Annual accounts of the current period. These required disclosures are included in the Accounts Act. The statutory administration matters were addressed in the context of annual report and consolidated accounts report is consistent with the other parts our audit of, and in forming our opinion of the annual accounts and consolidated thereon, the annual accounts and consoli­ Impairment Tests of Goodwill accounts. dated accounts as a whole, but we do As of 31 December 2017, the group reporWe therefore recommend that the gen­ not provide a separate opinion on these ted goodwill of SEK 2,361 million. On a eral meeting of shareholders adopts the matters. yearly basis, and when there is an indicaincome statement and balance sheet for the tion of impairment, Nobia tests that the parent company and the group. Revenue Recognition carrying value of assets does not exceed Our opinions in this report on the the The group reported revenue of SEK the calculated recoverable amounts for annual accounts and consolidated accounts 12,744 million as of 31 December 2017 these assets. The recoverable amounts are are consistent with the content of the which mainly consists of sales related determined using present value computaadditional report that has been submitted to kitchens and kitchen equipment, and tion of future cash flows per cash generato the parent company's audit committee for some sales also installation serviting unit based on the expected outcome in accordance with the Audit Regulation ces. Within the group revenue related of a number of assumptions based on (537/2014) Article 11. to kitchens and pertaining products is management’s business plan and forecasts. recognized upon delivery of the goods to We have identified this as a key audit Basis for Opinions the customer, which is the point in time matter as the company’s goodwill is a maWe conducted our audit in accordance when the customer accepts the delivery, terial item in the balance sheet and the imwith International Standards on Auditing and risks and benefits are transferred to pairment test have considerable elements (ISA) and generally accepted auditing the customer. When installation services of management judgements which among standards in Sweden. Our responsibiliare included, normally for project sales, others comprise of estimating future cash ties under those standards are further revenue related to goods is on some ocflows and calculate weighted average capidescribed in the Auditor’s Responsibilities casions recognized when the installation is tal cost (“WACC”). section. We are independent of the parent completed. Nobia Annual Report 2017 93 :::::::::::::::::: Auditor’s report For the group´s principles on impairment otherwise obtained in the audit and assess Auditor’s responsibility tests of intangible and tangible fixed assets whether the information otherwise apOur objectives are to obtain reasonable refer to note 1 and for material assumppears to be materially misstated. assurance about whether the annual tions used in this year’s impairment tests If we, based on the work performed accounts and consolidated accounts as a refer to note 14. concerning this information, conclude that whole are free from material misstatethere is a material misstatement of this ment, whether due to fraud or error, and Our Audit Procedures other information, we are required to reto issue an auditor’s report that includes Our audit procedures included but where port that fact. We have nothing to report our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a not limited to: in this regard. high level of assurance, but is not a guaran• evaluation of the group’s processes and tee that an audit conducted in accordance principles for the preparation of impairResponsibilities of the Board of Directors with ISAs and generally accepted auditing ment tests in accordance with IFRS and the Managing Director standards in Sweden will always detect • evaluation of material assumptions as The Board of Directors and the Man­ a material misstatement when it exists. well as the sensitivity to change in these aging Director are responsible for the Misstatements can arise from fraud or assumptions preparation of the annual accounts and error and are considered material if, in• involving internal valuation expert, consolidated accounts and that they give dividually or in the aggregate, they could mostly related to assumptions on a fair presentation in accordance with the reasonably be expected to influence the required return in relation to external Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the economic decisions of users taken on the markets consolidated accounts, in accordance with basis of these annual accounts and consoli• review of the discounted future cash IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of dated accounts. flow model for arithmetic accuracy Directors and the Managing Director are An additional description of our responsi• examination of the completeness of the also responsible for such internal control bility for the audit of the annual accounts and disclosures for impairment tests in the as they determine is necessary to enable the consolidated accounts is on the Swedish annual report and group consolidation. the preparation of annual accounts and Inspectorate of Auditors web page: www. consolidated accounts that are free from revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. Other Information than the annual accounts material misstatement, whether due to This description is a part of the auditor’s and consolidated accounts fraud or error. report. This document also contains other inIn preparing the annual accounts and formation than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of Report on other legal and regulatory consolidated accounts and is found on Directors and the Managing Director are requirements pages 1–39 and 102–113. The Board of responsible for the assessment of the comDirectors and the Managing Director are pany’s and the group’s ability to continue as Opinions responsible for this other information. a going concern. They disclose, as applicaIn addition to our audit of the annual Our opinion on the annual accounts and ble, matters related to going concern and accounts and consolidated accounts, we consolidated accounts does not cover this using the going concern basis of accounhave also audited the administration of other information and we do not express ting. The going concern basis of accounthe Board of Directors and the Managing any form of assurance conclusion regarting is however not applied if the Board Director of Nobia AB (publ) for the finanding this other information. of Directors and the Managing Director cial year 2017-01-01 2017-12-31 and the In connection with our audit of the intends to liquidate the company, to cease proposed appropriations of the company’s annual accounts and consolidated acoperations, or has no realistic alternative profit or loss. counts, our responsibility is to read the but to do so. We recommend to the general meinformation identified above and consiThe Audit Committee shall, without eting of shareholders that the profit to der whether the information is materially prejudice to the Board of Director’s rebe appro­priated in accordance with the inconsistent with the annual accounts and sponsibilities and tasks in general, among proposal in the statutory administration consolidated accounts. In this procedure other things oversee the company’s finan­ report and that the members of the Board we also take into account our knowledge cial reporting process. of Directors and the Managing Director 94 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Auditor’s report :::::::::::::::::: be discharged from liability for the financial The Board of Directors is responsible Our objective concerning the audit of the year. for the company’s organization and the proposed appropriations of the company’s administration of the company’s affairs. profit or loss, and thereby our opinion Basis for Opinions This includes among other things continu­ about this, is to assess with reasonable deWe conducted the audit in accordance ous assessment of the company’s and the gree of assurance whether the proposal is with generally accepted auditing standards group’s financial situation and ensuring that in accordance with the Companies Act. in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those the company's organization is designed Reasonable assurance is a high level of standards are further described in the so that the accounting, management of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are assets and the company’s financial affairs audit conducted in accordance with generindependent of the parent company and otherwise are controlled in a reassuring ally accepted auditing standards in Sweden the group in accordance with professional manner. The Managing Director shall man­ will always detect actions or omissions that ethics for accountants in Sweden and have age the ongoing administration according can give rise to liability to the company, or otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsito the Board of Directors’ guidelines and that the proposed appropriations of the bilities in accordance with these requireinstructions and among other matters take company’s profit or loss are not in accord­ ments. measures that are necessary to fulfill the ance with the Companies Act. We believe that the audit evidence we company’s accounting in accordance with An additional description of our responsihave obtained is sufficient and appropriate law and handle the management of assets bility for the audit of the annual accounts and to provide a basis for our opinions. in a reassuring manner. the consolidated accounts is on the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors web page: www. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors Auditor’s responsibility revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. and the Managing Director Our objective concerning the audit of the This description is a part of the auditor’s The Board of Directors is responsible for administration, and thereby our opinion report. the proposal for appropriations of the about discharge from liability is to obtain company’s profit or loss. At the proposal audit evidence to assess with a reasonable Deloitte AB, was appointed auditors of of a dividend, this includes an assessment degree of assurance whether any member Nobia AB by the general meeting of the of whether the dividend is justifiable of the Board of Directors or the Managing shareholders on the 2017-04-06 and considering the requirements which the Director in any material respect: has been the company’s auditor since company's and the group’s type of opera• has undertaken any action or been guilty 2017-04-06. tions, size and risks place on the size of the of any omission which can give rise to parent company's and the group’s equity, liability to the company, or consolidation requirements, liquidity and • in any other way has acted in contravenposition in general. tion of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Stockholm, 20 March 2018 Deloitte AB Daniel de Paula Authorized Public Accountant Nobia Annual Report 2017 95 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Nobia AB is a Swedish public limited liability company domiciled in Stockholm, Sweden. The company is the Parent Company of the Nobia Group. The basis for the control of the Group includes the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, the Articles of Association, the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers. Nobia has applied the Swedish Corpo­ and George Adams were elected new divided between 175,293,458 shares (of rate Governance Code (the Code) since members of the Board. Fredrik Palmstierna which, Nobia held 6,709,571 treasury July 2005 and in 2017, the company and Thore Ohlsson declined re-election. All shares). All of the shares are of the same had no deviations to report. Nobia also other Board members were re-elected. The class. The share’s quotient value is SEK 0.33. applies the Swedish Annual Accounts AGM elected Deloitte AB as the company’s All shares, except for bought-back treasury Act concerning the company’s corporate new auditor, with Daniel de Paula as Audi­ shares, entitle owners to a share of the governance reporting. Nobia monitors tor-in-Charge. KPMG had served as auditor company’s assets and profit. The Nobia developments in the area of corporate for ten years. In accordance with the share and ownership structure are de­ governance and continuously adapts its Board’s proposal, the AGM also resolved scribed in more detail on pages 106–107. corporate-governance principles to create on guidelines and other employment value for its owners and other stakehold­ conditions for the senior executives, the Nomination Committee ers. By way of information, it is noted that adoption of a Performance Share Plan and According to the instruction for Nobia’s there were no breaches of applicable authorisation for the Board of Directors to Nomination Committee adopted at the stock-exchange rules or good practice on make decisions regarding acquisitions and 2015 AGM, the members and Chairman the stock market based on decisions by transfers of treasury shares for the period of the Committee are to be elected at the Nasdaq Stockholm’s Disciplinary Com­ until the 2018 AGM. AGM for the period until the conclusion of mittee or statements by the Swedish The complete minutes from the AGM the following AGM. The Nomination Com­ Securities Council. are available on Nobia’s website. mittee shall comprise at least three mem­ Individual shareholders wishing to have a bers representing the largest shareholders 2017 Annual General Meeting specific matter addressed by the AGM can of the company. The Chairman of the The right of shareholders to make deci­ do so by submitting a request to Nobia’s Nomination Committee shall convene the sions concerning the affairs of Nobia is Board in good time prior to the Meeting, first meeting of the Nomination Commit­ exercised at the Annual General Meeting to the address published on the Group’s tee. The Nomination Committee is entitled (AGM). A notice convening the AGM is website. to appoint an additional two co-opted issued pursuant to the Swedish Compa­ members. Co-opted members shall assist nies Act and the company’s Articles of Articles of Association the Nomination Committee in performing Association. The 2017 AGM was held on 6 Nobia’s Articles of Association regulate its duties but have no voting rights. The April at Lundqvist & Lindqvist Klara Strand such matters as the focus of the oper­ Chairman of the Board may be a member Konferens, Klarabergsviadukten 90 in Stock­ ations, information about share capital of the Nomination Committee only as a holm. 144 shareholders participated at the and how notification of the AGM is to co-opted member. In accordance with the 2017 AGM, representing 67 per cent of the take place. The Articles of Association do Code, the Nomination Committee should capi­tal and votes in Nobia. The Board of not contain any provisions that regulate be chaired by an owner representative. The Directors, members of Group management the appointment or dismissal of Board instruction for the Nomination Commit­ and auditors were present at the Meeting. members, except for a provision regarding tee adopted by the AGM also states that Board Chairman, Tomas Billing, was elected the minimum and maximum number of the Nomination Committee’s tasks are to Chairman of the Meeting. In accordance Board members. There are no provisions submit proposals on the election of the with the Board’s proposal, the AGM re­ in the Articles of Association regarding Board Chairman and other members of solved on a dividend of SEK 3.00 per share amendments to the Articles of Association. the Board of Directors, Directors’ fees and to shareholders. The Meeting also resolved Notices of extraordinary general meetings any remuneration for committee work, that the number of Board members should that address amendments to the Articles election and remuneration of the auditor, be nine without any deputy members of Association are, in accordance with the election of the Chairman of the AGM and until the conclusion of the next AGM, Companies Act, to be issued not earlier election of members of the Nomination and resolved on fees to the Board, Board than six weeks and not later than four Committee. The Codes states that in its Chairman, and the Chairman and members weeks prior to the meeting. The full text of proposals on Board members, the Nom­ of the Audit Committee, and the Meeting the Articles of Association is available on ination Committee is to pay particular also elected Board members, the Nomina­ Nobia’s website. attention to the requirement of diversity tion Committee and auditors. Tomas Billing On 31 December 2017, the share capital and breadth on the Board and the require­ was re-elected Board Chairman. Jill Little in Nobia AB amounted to SEK 58,430,237 ment of an even gender distribution. The 96 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance number of women on the Board amounts Work of the Board of Directors subsidiaries. Furthermore, a majority of the to four of the nine members elected at In accordance with Nobia’s Articles of Board members elected by the AGM are the AGM. In performing its other duties, Association, the Board is, to the extent to be independent in relation to the com­ the Nomination Committee shall fulfil the appointed by the General Meeting, to pany and company management. At least requirements incumbent on the Commit­ comprise not fewer than three and not two of these Board members must also tee in accordance with the Code. more than nine members, with not more to be independent in relation to the com­ In accordance with the resolution than three deputy members. The 2017 pany’s largest shareholders. Nobia’s Board adopted at the 2017 AGM, the Nomina­ AGM resolved that the Board was to of Directors fulfils these requirements. The tion Committee comprised the following comprise nine members with no deputy President is proposed as a member of the members prior to the 2018 AGM: Viveca members. The Board also includes two Board that is proposed to the 2018 AGM. Ax:son Johnson (Chairman) representing members, with two deputy members, who This has been the case in earlier years, Nordstjernan, Torbjörn Magnusson repre­ are appointed by employees’ organisation except for 2010 when the then President senting If Skadeförsäkring, Lars Bergkvist is in accordance with the Swedish Board decided to retire. Other executives in the representing Lannebo funds and Arne Representation (Private Sector Employ­ company participate at Board meetings Lööw representing the Fourth Swedish ees) Act. The Code also contains certain to make presentations and to serve as National Pension Fund. The members of requirements regarding the composition secretary. The Board held eight scheduled the Nomination Committee represent ap­ of the Board of Directors. The Board is meetings during the 2017 fiscal year. proximately 44 per cent of the shares and to have an appropriate composition with The work of the Board of Directors votes in the company. No remuneration is respect to the company’s operations, stage follows a fixed agenda for each Board paid to the Committee members. of development, strategy and other circum­ meeting, including such matters as business The Nomination Committee held three stances, and be characterised by diversity status, investments, budget, interim reports minuted meetings prior to the 2018 AGM. and breadth in terms of the competence, and annual accounts. The Chairman leads Based on the company’s strategy and experience and background of the Board and delegates the work of the Board and priorities, the Nomination Committee’s members elected by the AGM. Efforts are ensures that matters not included in the work included an evaluation of the results made to achieve an even gender distribu­ fixed agenda are addressed. The Board’s of the Board of Directors’ own evaluation, tion. The number of women on the Board work is regulated by the rules of proce­ its size and composition and the election amounts to four of the nine members dure adopted annually by the Board and of an auditor. elected at the AGM, including the Presi­ by the instruction regarding the distribu­ The Nomination Committee’s proposals dent, corresponding to 44 per cent. The tion of duties between the Board and the prior to the 2018 AGM are incorporated gender-distribution requirements of the President. Much of the Board’s work in in the notice of the AGM, which was pub­ Swedish Corporate Governance Code are 2017 was devoted to the new flat-pack lished on Nobia’s website on 9 March. thus deemed to be satisfied. kitchen concept in the Nordic region, Shareholders are welcome to contact No deputies of Board members elected omnichannel and digitisation and range the Nomination Committee and submit by the AGM are appointed. A maximum and supply chain. The focus also remained proposals by post to: Nobia AB, Nomina­ of one Board member elected by the targeted on organisational development, tion Committee, Box 70376, SE-107 24 AGM may work in company management efficiency and growth. In parallel with ag­ Stockholm, Sweden. or in the management of the company’s gressive investments, potential acquisitions Nobia’s organisation President and CEO Finance, IT HR Marketing Nordic Central Europe UK Supply Chain Operation Region Region Region Support functions Business units Nobia Annual Report 2017 97 Corporate Governance for generating profitable growth were election of external auditors and auditor’s The Board’s communication with evaluated during the year. In the summer fees. the company’s auditors of 2017, the Board visited two Magnet The Audit Committee comprises two As described above, the company’s external kitchens stores in London and HTH’s new Board members: Lilian Fossum Biner auditors attend three Audit Committee omnichannel store in Copenhagen. The (Chairman) and Nora Førisdal Larssen. meetings. The Board meets with the audi­ Board members are presented on pages Former member Thore Ohlsson stepped tors three times a year in accordance with 102–103. Attendance at Board meetings is down from the Audit Committee at the its rules of procedure. The Board meets with shown in the table on page 98. 2017 AGM since he declined re-election the auditors at least once a year without any The work and composition of the Board to the Board. The external auditors report member of company management being were evaluated in 2017. One member to the Committee at three scheduled present. of the Board submitted a number of meetings. At least four meetings are held One occasion is primarily devoted to the questions as the basis of an evaluation and per year and additional meetings are held planning of the year’s audit. In the hard-close discussion with the Chairman. The results as necessary. audit (in preparation for the audit of the of the evaluation were presented to the In 2017, the Audit Committee held four annual accounts) at the end of September, Nomination Committee. The Board also meetings and the auditors attended three the company’s processes for internal control evaluates the President on an ongoing of these meetings. Important matters are also addressed. Finally, reporting is basis throughout the year. The Board also during the year included follow-ups of received in conjunction with the adoption of evaluated the Audit Committee. In 2017, targeted internal examinations, regula­ the annual accounts. In addition, the auditors the Group’s CFO served as the Board of tory compliance, evaluations of financial also present an annual account of the other Directors’ secretary. reporting to the market including evalua­ assignments that have been performed by tion of the application of accounting the audit firm. Audit Committee policies and assessments in the accounts, In April 2017, the auditors presented and The main task of the Audit Committee is reporting of suspected breaches of the discussed the focus and scope of the audit, to assist the Board in monitoring processes Code of Conduct, Speak-up (Nobia’s global which also took particular consideration related to Nobia’s financial reporting and whistle-blower system) and procurement of the risk perspective regarding internal internal control to ensure the quality of the of auditors in accordance with the new EU control. At the meeting in October, the external reporting. The Committee is also Regulation. The Audit Committee reports auditors reported on the results of the to inform the Board of the results of the to the Board after every meeting. Minutes audit of internal control, which analysed the external audit and the manner in which the are taken at all Audit Committee meetings results of the self-assessment of the internal audit contributed to the reliability of the and these minutes are made available to control that the Group’s business units financial reporting. The Audit Committee’s all Board members and the auditors. The perform every year, and reported on the IT duties also include studying internal audit attendance of each Board member at audit performed. Also at this meeting, the reports compiled by the Group’s internal meetings is shown in the table below. The auditors presented their observations from audit function. The Audit Committee is also Group’s CFO and the Head of Internal the hard-close audit. The examination of the responsible for supporting the Nomination Control participated in the Audit Commit­ annual accounts for 2017 was presented at Committee in preparing proposals on the tee’s meetings. the Board meeting in February 2018. Board of Directors in 2017 Remuneration Board Board meetings, Audit Committee, Committee, member 8 meetings in total 4 meetings in total 3 meetings in total Born since Nationality Independent Tomas Billing Chairman 7 3 1963 2015 Swedish Not independent1) Morten Falkenberg President and CEO 8 1958 2011 Danish Not independent 2) Lilian Fossum Biner Board member 8 4 1962 2012 Swedish Independent Nora Førisdal Larssen Board member 8 3 1965 2011 Norwegian Not independent1) Stefan Jacobsson Board member 8 1952 2014 Swedish Independent Thore Ohlsson3) Board member 1 1 1943 2007 Swedish Independent Fredrik Palmstierna 3) Board member 1 1946 2006 Swedish Not independent1) Ricard Wennerklint Board member 8 3 1969 2014 Swedish Not independent1) Christina Ståhl Board member 8 1970 2015 Swedish Independent Jill Little 4) Board member 7 1953 2017 British Independent George Adams4) Board member 6 1956 2017 British Independent Per Bergström Employee rep. 7 1960 2000 Swedish Marie Ströberg Employee rep. 7 1973 2007 Swedish Moa Haraldsson5,6) Employee rep. 0 1976 2011 Swedish Terese Asthede5) Employee rep. 8 1971 2013 Swedish Susanna Levinsson5,7) Employee rep. 1 1973 2017 Swedish 1) In relation to major shareholders. 4) New Board member from 6 April 2017. 7) New deputy from 4 October 2017. 2) President. 5) Deputy. 3) Left the Board on 6 April 2017. 6) Left the Board on 4 October 2017. 98 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee salary. The exception to this principle is the Auditors The Board appoints a Remuneration President whose variable salary portion Deloitte AB was elected as the company’s Committee from within its ranks, which may amount to a maximum of 65 per cent auditor at the 2017 AGM for a mandate for the period from the 2017 AGM until of fixed annual salary. Exceptions may also period of one year until the conclusion the 2018 AGM comprised Tomas Billing be made for senior executives following of the 2018 AGM. The Auditor-in-Charge (Board Chairman), and Ricard Wennerklint. decisions by the Board. The variable salary is Authorised Public Accountant Daniel Former member Fredrik Palmstierna portion is normally divided between sev­ de Paula. Deloitte AB took over after stepped down from the Remuneration eral targets, for example, the Group’s earn­ KPMG AB who had served as Nobia’s Committee at the 2017 AGM since he ings, earnings in the business unit for which auditor since 2007. The Nomination declined re-election to the Board. The the manager is responsible and individual/ Committee’s proposals for auditing firm Committee’s task is to prepare proposals quantitative targets. The variable salary and Auditor-in-Charge prior to the 2018 to the Board relating to the remuneration portion is based on an earnings period of AGM were presented in the notice of the and employment terms for the Presi­ one year. The targets for the President are AGM, which was published on Nobia’s dent. The Committee also has the task determined by the Board. The targets for website on 9 March. The interaction of of making decisions on the President’s the other senior executives are established the auditors with the Board is described proposals regarding remuneration and by the President following recommenda­ above. Nobia’s purchases of services from other employment terms for the managers tions by the Board’s Remuneration Com­ Deloitte, in addition to audit assignments, who report to the President. Furthermore, mittee. Nobia has implemented long-term are described in Note 6 on page 75. the Committee submits proposals to share-based remuneration schemes since the AGM regarding principles for remu­ 2005, following decisions by each year’s The Board’s description of internal neration and other employment terms AGM. The Performance Share Plans are de­ control and risk management systems for senior executives and monitors and scribed in more detail in the Financial over­ regarding the financial reporting for evaluates the ongoing schemes for variable view of the Board of Directors’ Report the 2017 fiscal year remuneration to senior executives, and the on pages 43–45. The remuneration and The Board of Directors is responsible for schemes concluded during the year, and benefits of senior executives are described maintaining a high level of internal control the implementation of the AGM’s decision in Note 4 on pages 71–74. at the company in accordance with the on guidelines for remuneration to senior Swedish Companies Act and the Code. executives. The Committee held three Group management This description has been prepared in meetings during the year. The President and Group management, accordance with Chapter 6, Section 6, see pages 104–105, hold regular Group second paragraph, second point of the Remuneration to senior executives management meetings. In addition, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, and is there­ The members of Group management President and the CFO meet the manage­ by limited to the internal control and risk receive both fixed and variable remunera­ ment team of each commercial business management of the financial reporting. The tion. The fundamental principle is that the unit three times per year at local manage­ description of the Group’s internal control variable salary portion may amount to a ment team meetings. and risk management systems also includes maximum of 40 per cent of fixed annual the description of the company’s systems. Key external regulatory frameworks: • Swedish Companies Act Overview of governance at Nobia • IFRS and Swedish Annual Accounts Act • Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule book for Issuers • Swedish Corporate Governance Code, Shareholders Auditors through the AGM Nomination Committee www.corporategovernanceboard.se Key internal regulatory frameworks: Audit Committee Board of Directors Renumeration Committee • Articles of Association • The Board’s rules of procedure and instructions on the distribution of duties Internal Control President and Group Staff functions Mangement between the Board and President, rules of procedure for the Audit Committee, internal policies, guidelines, manuals, Operational and commercial units codes and checklists • Nobia’s Financial & Accounting Manual • Risk Management Process Nobia Annual Report 2017 99 Corporate Governance HTH 100 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Control environments and governing according to established procedures. Risk members and the auditors. documents assessments are described in more detail Nobia does not currently have a The structure of Nobia is organised so that on pages 46–48. dedicated internal audit function. The the first stage of the value chain, purchas­ Board has discussed this matter and found ing, production and logistics have a GroupFinancial information the existing monitoring and assessment wide management function. The main task The Group has established information structure of the Group to be satisfactory. of these operating units is to capitalise and communication channels in order to External services may also be engaged in on opportunities for economies of scale support the completeness and accuracy the context of certain special examina­ within each area. The commercial units are of the financial reporting, for example, tions. This decision is reviewed annually. responsible for developing Nobia’s sales through governing documents in the form channels and brands in line with Nobia’s of internal policies, guidelines, manuals and Auditor’s report on the corporate strategy. codes regarding the financial reporting governance statement to the The basis for the internal control of applied by relevant personnel. annual meeting of shareholders of financial reporting is the control envi­ The Group monitors compliance with Nobia AB, Corp. Reg. No. 556528-2752 ronment that comprises the company’s these governing documents and measures organisation, decision-making procedures, the efficiency of control structures. Assignment and responsibilities authorities and responsibilities, as docu­ In addition, the Group’s information and The Board of Directors is responsible for mented and communicated in governing communication channels are monitored to ensuring that the corporate governance documents such as internal policies, guide­ ensure that these channels are appropriate statement for 2017 on pages 96–101 has lines, manuals and codes. Examples include for the financial reporting. Furthermore, been prepared in accordance with the the division of responsibility between the the Group has developed checklists to Annual Accounts Act. Board on one hand and the President and ensure compliance with the disclosure other bodies established by the Board requirements in the financial statements. Focus and scope of examination on the other, instructions for authorisa­ Our examination of the corporate tion, and instructions for accounting and Framework for financial reporting governance statement is conducted in reporting. The Group’s internal control function, accordance with FAR’s auditing standard Documentation concerning the prin­ which is an integrated part of the central RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of ciples and forms for reporting, internal finance function, monitored viewpoints the corporate governance statement. This governance, control and monitoring is that emerged during the year from the means that our examination of the cor­ compiled in Nobia’s Financial & Account­ internal control self-assessment at some of porate governance statement is different ing Manual, which is available to all relevant the larger units. In addition, targeted audits and substantially less in scope than an audit employees on Nobia’s intranet. of three to five units are carried out every conducted in accordance with Interna­ Each unit manager is responsible for year on behalf of the Audit Committee. tional Standards on Auditing and generally ensuring effective internal control, and the Audits were conducted in Magnet, Gower, accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We financial manager of each unit is responsi­ Rixonway and Commodore/CIE during believe that the examination has provided ble for monitoring and ensuring compli­ 2017. us with a sufficient basis for our opinions. ance with Nobia’s accounting procedures, policies and principles. These are docu­ Monitoring by the Board Opinions mented in the aforementioned manual. All The outcomes of the Group’s risk assess­ A corporate governance statement has financial managers from the various units ment and risk management processes are been prepared. Disclosures in accordance meet at least once every two years to addressed each year by the Board, which with Chapter 6, Section 6, second paragraph, discuss various topics relevant to financial ensures that these processes include all points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and reporting. material areas and provide balanced guide­ Chapter 7, Section 31, second paragraph of lines for the various executives. the same law are consistent with the other Risk management The Board receives periodic financial re­ parts of the annual accounts and consolidat­ The Group has methods for risk assess­ ports and each Board meeting addresses ed accounts and are in accordance with the ment and risk management to ensure that the company’s and Group’s financial po­ Annual Accounts Act. the risks to which the Group is exposed sition. The Board also studies the internal are managed within the established audit reports of the Board’s Audit Com­ Stockholm, 20 March 2018 frameworks. The risks identified con­ mittee compiled by the Group’s internal cerning financial reporting are managed audit function. The internal audit reports Deloitte AB in the Group’s control structure and are include examining internal control and are continuously monitored and assessed. One available to the Board and auditors via the of the tools for this purpose is self-assess­ online Board portal. Minutes are taken at ments, which are conducted annually by all Audit Committee meetings and these Daniel de Paula local management teams and evaluated minutes are made available to all Board Authorised Public Accountant Nobia Annual Report 2017 101 Board of Directors Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 Tomas Billing 2 Morten Falkenberg 3 Lilian Fossum Biner 4 Nora Førisdal Larssen Chairman of the Board Born 1958. B.Sc. Business Adminis­ Born 1962. B.Sc. Business Adminis­ Born 1965. B.Sc in Economics, MBA. Born 1963. B.Sc. Business Admin­ tration. CEO and President of Nobia. tration. Board member since 2012. Senior Investment Manager at Nord­ istration. CEO of Nordstjernan. Board member since 2011. Independent. stjernan. Board member since 2011. Chairman of the Board since 2015. Board assignments: Board member Board assignments: Chairman Dependent in relation to major Dependent in relation to major of Velux Group and Fagerhult. of Cloetta. Board member of shareholder. shareholders. Previous positions: Executive Vice Givaudan, LE-Lundbergföretagen Board assignments: Chairman Board assignments: Chairman of President and Head of floor care and and a-connect. of Etac, Emma S. and Ekornes. NCC. Board member of BiJaKa and small appliances at Electrolux, senior Previous positions: Vice President Previous positions: Product Line Parkinson Research Foundation. positions in TDC Mobile and the and CFO Axel Johnsson, Senior Manager at Electrolux and Partner in Previous positions: President Coca-Cola Company. Vice President and HR Director at McKinsey & Co. of Hufvudstaden and Monark Holding in Nobia: 602,335 shares, Electrolux. Holding in Nobia: 5,000 shares. Bodyguard. private and in occupational pension. Holding in Nobia: 6,000 shares. Holding in Nobia: 185,779 shares. 5 Ricard Wennerklint 6 Stefan Jacobsson 7 Christina Ståhl 8 Jill Little Born 1969. Deputy CEO of IF P&C Born 1952. Board member since Born 1970. B.Sc. Business Admin­ Born 1953. GMP Cranfield Business Insurance, Group Executive Vice 2014. Independent. istration and M.Sc. Business and School and AMP Insead. Board President Sampo Group. Board Board assignments: Chairman of Economics. CEO and President of member since 2017. Independent. member since 2014. Dependent in Thule Group, Greenfood Group and MQ. Board member since 2015. Board assignments: Board member relation to major shareholder. HBG. Board member of Etac. Independent. in Shaftesbury, Joules, National Board assignments: Board member Previous positions: CEO of Puma, Previous positions: CEO of the Trust Enterprises and National Trust of Topdanmark. NFI Corp., ABU/Garcia and Tretorn. Mio furniture chain. Renewable Energy. Previous positions: CFO If Holding in Nobia: 10,000 shares in Holding in Nobia: – Previous positions: Senior positions Skadeförsäkring. endowment insurance. at John Lewis and advisor to El Holding in Nobia: 15,000 shares. Corte Inglés. Holding in Nobia: – 102 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Board of Directors 9 10 11 12 13 9 George Adams 10 Per Bergström 11 Marie Ströberg Born 1956. BA (Hons): Politics, Born 1960. Employee representative Born 1973. Employee representative Philosophy & Economics, Oxford since 2000. Employed at Nobia since 2007. Employed at Nobia University. Director of Stiga. Board Production Sweden since 1976. Svenska Kök since 2007. member since 2017. Independent. Board assignments: Board member Holding in Nobia: – Board assignments: Chairman in of Tidaholms Energi, Elnät, Bredband FFX Tools. Board member in ScS. Östra Skaraborg and Nobia Previous positions: Senior positions Production Sweden. in Kingfisher. President of the Euro­ Holding in Nobia: – pean DIY Retailers Association. Holding in Nobia: – 12 Susanna Levinsson 13 Terese Asthede Auditors Born 1973. Deputy Board member. Born 1971. Deputy Board member. Deloitte AB Employee representative since 2017. Employee representative since 2013. Employed at Nobia Production Employed at Nobia Svenska Kök Auditor-in-charge Sweden since 2004. since 2006. Daniel de Paula Holding in Nobia: – Board assignments: Board member Authorised Public Accountant of Nobia Svenska Kök. Holding in Nobia: – Other audit assignments: Permobil and Poolia Nobia Annual Report 2017 103 Group management Group management 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 Morten Falkenberg 2 Kristoffer Ljungfelt 3 Ola Carlsson 4 Peter Kane President and CEO CFO Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Born 1958. Born 1977. Chief Product Supply Officer UK Region and Head of Magnet B.Sc. Business Administration. Employed at Nobia since 2013. Born 1965. Born 1965. Employed at Nobia since 2010. Previous positions: CFO Nordic Employed at Nobia since 2017. Employed at Magnet since 1984. Previous positions: Executive Vice region in Nobia. Finance Director Previous positions: Group Vice Previous positions: Management President and Head of floor care and in Nobia Norway and Business President Global Operations at positions at Magnet. small appliances at Electrolux, senior area Director in Sigdal Kjøkken. Munters and Chief Operations Of­ Holding in Nobia: 55,718 shares. positions in TDC Mobile and the Experience from senior finance ficer at Electrolux Small Appliances. Coca-Cola Company. positions at Electrolux. Holding in Nobia: 28,300 shares. Holding in Nobia: 602,335 shares, Holding in Nobia: 7,634 shares. private and in occupational pension. 5 Rune Stephansen 6 Annica Hagen 7 Ole Dalsbø 8 Erkka Lumme Executive Vice President and Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President and Executive Vice President and Head of Commercial Denmark Head of Commercial Sweden Head of Commercial Norway Head of Commercial Finland Born 1965. Born 1977. Born 1966. Born 1974. Employed at Nobia since 2009. Employed at Nobia since 2014. Employed at Nobia since 2004. Employed at Nobia since 2012. Previous positions: Leading Previous positions: Senior positions Previous positions: Leading posi­ Previous positions: Senior posi­ positions at Marbodal, Kvik, Sportex, in innovation and marketing at tions in Nobia Norway, Norema and tions in sales and marketing at IDO Rusta, Ikea and Jysk. Electrolux and Pernod Ricard. Sigdal Kjøkken. Bathroom and Pukkila. Holding in Nobia: 18,112 shares. Holding in Nobia: 5,610 shares. Holding in Nobia: 17,442 shares. Holding in Nobia: – 104 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Group management 9 10 11 12 9 Christian Rösler 10 Kim Lindqvist Executive Vice President, Central Executive Vice President, Europe Region and Head of Ewe/FM Chief Marketing Officer Born 1967. Born 1974. Employed at Nobia since 2007. Employed at Nobia since 2012. Previous positions: Management Previous positions: Senior positions positions at Ikea Austria. in marketing and innovation at Holding in Nobia: 1,209 shares. Electrolux. Holding in Nobia: 14,752 shares. 11 Thomas Myringer 12 David Thorne Executive Vice President, CIO HR Director Born 1963. Born 1960. Employed at Nobia since 2015. Employed at Nobia since 2003. Previous positions: Leading IT Previous positions: Senior HR positions at Howdens Joinery, MFI positions in the Skanska Group. Group, Acco Brands, Technicolor, Holding in Nobia: 24,058 shares. Epson and BBC. Holding in Nobia: – Nobia Annual Report 2017 105 The Nobia share and shareholders The Nobia share and shareholders The Nobia share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, is assigned to the Consumer Goods sector and traded on the Large Cap list. In 2017, the share noted a decline of 18 per cent. Market capitalisation at the end of the year amounted to approximately SEK 12 billion. Share data Listing and turnover Dividend policy Listing: Nasdaq Stockholm, The Nobia share has been listed on Nobia’s dividend policy is that the dividend Large Cap Nasdaq Stockholm since 2002, where the should comprise 40-60 per cent of net Ticker: NOBI share is included in the Consumer Goods profit after tax. Investment requirements, Sector: Consumer Goods Sector. The majority of trading in the share acquisition opportunities, liquidity and ISIN code: SE0000949331 occurs on Nasdaq Stockholm, although the the financial position of the company are share is also traded in other market places, taken into consideration when preparing including Cboe CXE and Cboe BXE. dividend proposals. During 2017, a total of 85.9 million (96.6) Nobia shares were traded on Nas­ Proposed dividend daq Stockholm at a value of SEK 7.0 million For 2017, the Board of Directors proposes (7.9). The average turnover per day was an ordinary dividend of SEK 3.50 per approximately 342,000 shares (382,000), share (3.00), and an extra dividend of SEK Analysts that follow Nobia corresponding to a value of SEK 28.0 3.50 per share (–). In total, the proposed million (31.1). The Nobia share’s liquidity, dividend corresponds to 116 per cent of Company Analyst measured as rate of turnover, totalled 48 net profit for the year after tax. The Board’s ABG Sundal Collier Ludvig Kapanen per cent (54). The average rate of turnover proposal entails a total dividend of Carnegie Kenneth Toll Johansson on the Stockholm exchange was also 48 approxi­mately SEK 1,180 million. per cent (69). DNB Markets Mattias Holmberg Treasury shares Handelsbanken Marcela Klang, Share performance In 2017, Nobia transferred 110,419 shares. Rasmus Engberg The share had a weaker performance than The purpose of the transfer was to deliver Nordea Predrag Savinovic the stock exchange as a whole in 2017. shares under a Performance Share Plan SEB Johan Dahl The share price declined 18 per cent, resolved on by the 2014 Annual General compared with the Stockholm exchange Meeting, as described on page 73. At the in total, which rose 6 per cent in the same end of the year, Nobia had 6,709,571 period. During the year, the OMX Stock­ treas­ury shares, corresponding to 3.8 per holm Consumer Goods PI index increased cent of the total number of shares issued. 11 per cent. Closing price for the Nobia share in Proposal to cancel treasury shares 2017 was SEK 69.40, corresponding to The Board proposes that authorisation market capitalisation of approximately SEK is obtained to cancel 5,000,000 treasury 12.2 billion. The highest closing price for shares, corresponding to the number of the Nobia share in 2017 was SEK 99.45 on shares that are not required to fulfil the 28 April. The lowest closing price during 2015-2018 Performance Share Plans. If the the year was SEK 66.05 on 23 November. proposal is approved and implemented, the total number of shares will be reduced to Share capital 170,293,458. On 31 December 2017, Nobia’s share capital amounted to SEK 58,430,237, Ownership structure divided between 175,293,458 shares with At year-end, Nobia had 8,182 shareholders a quotient value of SEK 0.33. Each share, (7,562). At the same time, Swedish legal with the exception of bought-back trea­ entities owned 71 per cent (78) of the sury shares, entitles the holder to one vote, share capital. Swedish ownership was 75 and carries the same entitlement to the per cent (81), while foreign ownership company’s capital and profits. amounted to 25 per cent (19). The largest 106 Nobia Annual Report 2017 The Nobia share and shareholders Share price diagram 2013–2017 Share price diagram 2017 Nobia Nobia Nobia OMX Stockholm Benchmark PI Nobia OMX Stockholm Benchmark PI OMX Stockholm Consumer Goods PI Turnover number of shares, thousands each month OMX Stockholm Consumer Goods PI Turnover number of shares, thousands each week 120 24,000 100 10,000 100 20,000 80 8,000 80 16,000 60 6,000 60 12,000 40 4,000 40 8,000 20 2,000 20 4,000 0 0 0 0 Share 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number Share Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Number price price Source: 2017 Källa: foreign shareholdings were in the US and Ownership structure, 31 December 2017 the UK. Number of Percentage of Percentage of Nobia’s five largest shareholders at shareholders shareholders, % No. of shares capital, % year-end – Nordstjernan, If Skadeförsäkring, 1–500 5,391 65.9 826,715 0.5 the Fourth Swedish National Pension 501–1 000 1,161 14.2 966,524 0.6 Fund, Lannebo funds and Swedbank Robur 1,001–5,000 1,109 13.6 2,547,822 1.4 funds – owned a total of 49.5 per cent 5,001–10,000 176 2.1 1,306,355 0.7 (51.2) of all of the shares. The ten largest 10,001–15,000 51 0.6 653,662 0.4 shareholders owned 61.6 per cent (65.8) 15,001–20,000 44 0.5 760,309 0.4 of the shares. 20,001– 250 3.1 168,232,071 96.0 Total 8,182 100 175,293,458 100 Shareholdings among persons in senior positions Ten largest owners, 31 December 2017 At the time of the publication of this Percentage of Annual Report, Group management Shareholder No. of shares capital, % owned, directly and indirectly, 775,170 Nordstjernan 37,652,843 21.5 shares in Nobia (692,671). On the same If Skadeförsäkring 17,700,000 10.1 date, Nobia’s Board members excluding Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund 11,735,434 6.7 the President, had total direct and indirect Lannebo funds 10,152,431 5.8 holdings of 221,779 shares (662,779). Swedbank Robur funds 9,514,852 5.4 Handelsbanken funds 6,734,591 3.8 Financial information Investmentaktiebolaget Latour 4,649,894 2.6 Nobia’s objective is to facilitate the valua­ Norges Bank 3,989,563 2.3 tion of the company by the stock market AMF Insurance and funds 3,485,227 2.0 through clear information. The provision of Didner & Gerge funds 2,490,000 1.4 information is based mainly on quarterly Source: Euroclear Sweden. financial reporting, press releases, infor­ At year-end, Nobia held 6,709,571 treasury shares, corresponding to 3.8 per cent of the total number of shares issued. mation on the website, company presen­ tations and meetings with shareholders, Data per share analysts and investors. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The contact person for information is No. of shares at year-end (millions) 175.3 175.3 175.3 175.3 175.3 Lena Schattauer, Head of Communication No. of shares at year-end, exclud­ and Investor Relations, ing treasury shares after dilution (millions) 167.3 167.5 168.7 168.7 168.7 telephone +44 8-440 16 07 or Average no. of shares at year-end, ex­ e-mail: lena.schattauer@nobia.com. cluding treasury shares after dilution (millions) 167.3 167.3 168.5 168.7 168.7 Financial calendar 2018 Share price at year-end, SEK 54.50 69.75 106.00 84.85 69.40 10 April Annual General Meeting Earnings/loss per share after dilution, SEK 2.10 -0.17 4.92 2.70 6.02 27 April Interim report Jan – Mar 2018 Shareholders’ equity per share, SEK 19 19 23 20 25 20 July Interim report Jan – Jun 2018 Dividend per share, SEK 1.00 1.75 2.50 3.00 7.001 26 October Interim report Jan – Sep 2018 P/E ratio, multiple 26 – 22 31 12 Direct yield, % 1.8 2.5 2.4 3.5 10.0 Share of dividend, % 48 – 51 111 116 1) Proposed dividend. Nobia Annual Report 2017 107 Five year overview Five year overview MSEK 2013 20141) 20152) 2016 2017 Income statement Net sales 11,773 11,411 12,266 12,648 12,744 Change in per cent -5 7 17 3 1 Gross profit 4,824 4,617 4,906 4,933 5,014 Operating profit/loss 654 878 1,189 1,298 1,286 Financial income 13 12 34 22 9 Financial expenses -107 -90 -91 -73 -45 Profit/loss after financial items 560 800 1,132 1,247 1,250 Tax on net profit for the year -195 -205 -263 -269 -256 Profit/loss for continuing operations 365 595 869 978 994 Profit/loss from discontinued operations, net after tax -15 -622 -41 -523 21 Net profit/loss for the year 350 -27 828 455 1 015 Net profit for the year attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 351 -28 829 456 1 015 Non-controlling interests -1 1 -1 -1 0 Net profit/loss for the year 350 -27 828 455 1 015 Balance sheet Fixed assets 4,670 4,446 4,697 4,076 4,034 Inventories 849 853 934 857 908 Current receivables 1,373 1,494 1,665 1,561 1,765 Cash and cash equivalents 278 470 765 1,005 473 Assets held for sale 15 592 8 506 – Total assets 7,185 7,855 8,069 8,005 7,180 Shareholders’ equity 3,154 3,191 3,818 3,415 4,154 Non-controlling interests 4 5 4 4 – Non-interest-bearing liabilities 2,563 2,615 2,697 2,556 2,453 Interest-bearing liabilities 1,462 1,684 1,547 1,701 573 Liabilities attributable to assets held for sale 2 360 3 329 – Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 7,185 7,855 8,069 8,005 7,180 Net debt including pensions 1,176 1,206 774 493 77 Capital employed 4,620 4,880 5,369 5,182 4,727 Operating capital 4,334 4,402 4,596 3,912 4,231 Performance measures Gross margin, % 41.0 40.5 40.0 39.0 39.3 Operating margin, % 5.6 7.7 9.7 10.3 10.1 Operating profit before depreciation/amortisation and impairment (EBITDA) 1,044 1,204 1,486 1,585 1,573 Operating margin before depreciation/amortisation and impairment, % 8.9 10.6 12.1 12.5 12.3 Profit/loss after financial items as a percentage of net sales 4.8 7.0 9.2 9.9 9.8 Turnover rate of capital employed, multiple 2.5 2.5 3.0 3.2 3.0 Return on capital employed, % 14.6 – – – – Return on operating capital, % 15.1 23.2 32.2 32.5 31.5 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 12.0 -0.9 24.1 13.0 27.8 Debt/equity ratio, % 37 38 20 14 2 Equity/assets ratio, % 44 41 47 43 58 Cash flow from operating activities 831 1,033 1,145 1,281 987 Investments 251 316 410 290 319 Earnings per share after dilution effects 2.10 -0.17 4.92 2.70 6.02 Dividend per share, SEK 1.00 1.75 2.50 3.00 7.003) Personnel Average number of employees 6,690 6,636 6,473 6,573 6,178 Net sales per employee, SEK 000s 1,799 1,829 2,027 2,121 2,094 Personnel expenses 2,822 3,001 3,242 3,225 2,939 1) After reclassification of Hygena to discontinued operations. 2) After reclassification of Poggenpohl to discontinued operations. 3) The Board’s proposal. 108 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Definitioner – Nyckeltal Definitions – Performance measures Performance measures Definition/calculation Use Return on Profit after tax as a percentage of average shareholders’ Return on equity shows the total return on shareholder’s capital in equity equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders accounting terms and reflects the effects on both the operational prof­ based on opening and closing balances for the period. itability and financial gearing. The measure is primarily used to analyse The calculation of average shareholders’ equity has been shareholder profitability over time. adjusted for increases and decreases in capital. Return on Operating profit as a percentage of average operating Return on operating capital shows how well the operation uses the operating capital capital based on opening and closing balances for the net capital that is tied up in the company. It reflects how both cost and period excluding net assets attributable to discontinued capital-efficiency net sales are generated, meaning the combined effect operations. The calculation of average operating capital of the operating margin and the turnover rate of operating capital. The has been adjusted for acquisitions and divestments. measure is used in comparisons of profitability between operations in the Group and to view the Group’s profitability over time. Gross margin Gross profit as a percentage of net sales. This measure reflects efficiency of the part of the operation that is primarily linked to production and logistics. It is used to monitor cost efficiency in this part of the operation. EBITDA Earnings before depreciation/amortisation and To simplify, this measure shows the earnings-generating cash flow in the impairment. operation. It provides a view of the ability of the operation, in absolute terms, to generate resources for investment and payment to financiers and is used for comparisons over time. Items affecting Items affecting comparability refer to items that affect Reporting items affecting comparability separately clearly shows the comparability comparisons in so far as they do not recur with the same performance of the underlying operation. regularity as other items. Net debt Interest-bearing liabilities less interest-bearing assets. Net debt is used to monitor the debt trend and see the level of the Interest-bearing liabilities include pension liabilities. refinancing requirement. The measure is used as a component in the debt/equity ratio. Operating capital Capital employed excluding interest-bearing assets. Operating capital shows the amount of capital required by the oper­ ation to conduct its core operation. This is the capital that generates operating profit. It is mainly used to calculate the return on operating capital. Operating Cash flow from operating activities including cash flow The measure comprises the cash flow generated by the underlying cash flow from investing activities, excluding cash flow from ac­ operation. The measure is used to show the amount of funds at the quisitions/divestments of operations, interest received, Group’s disposal for paying financiers of loans and equity or for use in increase/decrease in interest-bearing assets. growth through acquisitions. Organic growth Change in net sales excluding acquisitions and divest­ Organic growth facilitates a comparison of sales over time by compar­ ments and changes in exchange rates. ing the same operation and excluding currency effects. Region Region corresponds to an operating segment under IFRS 8. Nobia Annual Report 2017 109 Definitioner – Nyckeltal Performance measures Definition/calculation Use Earnings per share Net profit for the period divided by a weighted average number of outstanding shares during the year. Operating margin Operating profit as a percentage of net sales. The measure reflects the operating profitability of the operation. It is used to monitor the profitability and efficiency of the operation, before taking into account capital tied up. The performance measure is used both internally in governance and monitoring of the operation, and for benchmarking with other companies in the industry. Debt/equity ratio Net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ equity includ­ A measure of the ratio between the Group’s two forms of financing. ing non-controlling interests. The measure shows the percentage of the loan capital in relation to capital invested by the owners, and is thus a measure of the financial strength but also the gearing effect of lending. A higher debt/equity ratio means a higher financial risk and higher financial gearing. Equity/assets ratio Shareholders’ equity including non-controlling interests as This measure reflects the company’s financial position and thus its longa percentage of balance-sheet total. term solvency. A healthy equity/assets ratio / strong financial position provides preparedness for managing periods of economic downturns and financial preparedness for growth. It also provides a minor advan­ tage in the form of financial gearing. Capital employed Balance-sheet total less non-interest-bearing provisions The capital that shareholders and lenders have placed at the compa­ and liabilities. ny’s disposal. It shows the net capital invested in the operation, such as operating capital, with additions for financial assets. Currency effects “Translation differences” refers to the currency effects arising when foreign results and balance sheets are trans­ lated to SEK. “Transaction effects” refers to the currency effects aris­ ing when purchases or sales are made in currency other than the currency of the producing country (functional currency). 110 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Summary – sustainability indicators Summary sustainability indicators About the Sustainability Report Nobia has prepared a Sustainability Report in accordance with the • Nobia defined a Production Site Safety measure in 2016, to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) since 2012. The last report was report on work-related serious accidents that led to absence of published in March 2016. This Sustainability Report refers to the 8 or more hours. The Production Site Safety measure will enable 2017 calendar year. Nobia believes that the information included improved the data quality. Poggenpohl is excluded from the in the Annual Report and on the company’s website meets the data for 2016 to enable comparison. This Performance Indicator requirements set by GRI-G4 level, Core. The Sustainability Report enables two years of historical data. All our production sites are has not been subject to review or audit by an external party. included in this Performance Indicator. The GRI index can be found on page 112. • Due to a correction of the reporting of data, the amount of The contents of the Sustainability Report and the sustainability as­ waste excluding wood waste has changed. In previous years, data pects presented summarise the sustainability initiatives of the last few for wood waste for own incineration was included in the report­ years and are based on an internal stakeholder dialogue and material­ ing of waste instead of heating for two production units. This has ity analysis.The environmental data is related to operations in our 13 been corrected in this report. production units and transportation. Calculations on carbon emissions • A deviation has been identified in the data for total wood for from energy and transport are based upon the Greenhouse Gas 2015 and 2016. No retroactive correction of data for total Protocol. Sustainability data from our supply chain/ our supplier’s wood has been made in this report. operation is not included in the report. The following changes in boundaries and definitions have been made since the last report: Contact person regarding the Sustainability Report: Amanda Jackson, • Environmental data and social indicators for Poggenpohl (with Head of Group Sustainability, e-mail: amanda.jackson@nobia.com the production site Herford) that was divested January 31, 2017 is not included in the data for 2017. GRI indicators1) GRI indicators Economic Performance Indicators (SEK m) 2015 2016 2017 G4-EC1 Revenues 12,266 12,648 12,744 G4-EC1 Operating costs 7,923 8,315 8,362 G4-EC1 Employee wages and benefits 2,394 2,381 2,382 G4-EC1 Payments to government 538 528 530 G4-EC1 Community investments 216 230 248 G4-EC1 Payments to lenders 15 17 7 G4-EC1 Payments to providers of capital 294 421 505 G4-EC1 Economic value retained 886 756 710 Environmental Performance Indicators G4-EN1 Materials used: Wood, thousands of tonnes 241 245 256 G4-EN1 Materials used: Packaging materials, kg/ cabinet 1.3 1.3 1.2 G4-EN5 Energy intensity, Electricity consumption, kWh/ cabinet 8.6 8.3 8.2 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Heating, kWh/ cabinet 7.5 7.5 6.9 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1), thousands of tonnes CO2 22.1 22.5 21.4 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2), thousands of tonnes CO2 19.3 14.3 2.9 G4-EN172) Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3), thousands of tonnes CO2 15.0 16.5 17.2 G4-EN183) Greenhouse gas emissions intensity: Transports, kg/ cabinet 3.0 3.0 3.1 G4-EN183) Greenhouse gas emissions intensity: Heating and manufacturing, kg/ cabinet 4.3 3.3 2.0 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions: Volatile organic compounds, G4-EN214) kg VOC/ 100 lacquered details 4.4 3.9 3.4 G4-EN23 Waste (excluding wood waste), kg/ cabinet 1.0 0.9 0.6 G4-EN23 Wood waste, thousands of tonnes 29 29 31 Social Performance Indicators including Society Indicators G4-LA65) Operational site related accidents resulting in at least 8 hours of absence, number 91 75 G4-EN32, LA14, HR10 Supplier audits, number 45 79 48 1) New sustainability indicator 2017. 2) Includes transport emissions from factory to store and air travel emissions. 3) Includes Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. 4) Only VOC is reported. 5) Revised key figure. Data for 2015 is not available. Nobia Annual Report 2017 111 Summary – sustainability indicators GRI index Standard disclosures Specific standard disclosures GRI Description Reference GRI Description Reference G4-1 CEO’s comments p. 4, 25 G4-DMA Economic performance p. 14 G4-3 Name of the organisation p. 40 G4-EC1 Value generated and distributed p. 111 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services p. 19, 21, 23 G4-DMA Materials p. 33-35, 111 G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters p. 42 G4-EN1 Materials used p. 33-35, 111 G4-6 Countries where the organisation operates p. 34, 70 G4-DMA Energy p. 34-35, 111 G4-7 Nature of ownership, and legal form p. 42, 106, G4-EN3 Energy consumption p. 34-35, 111 107 G4-EN5 Energy intensity p. 111 G4-8 Markets served p. 18-23 G4-DMA Emissions p. 34-35, 111 G4-9 Scale of the organisation p. 16-17 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) p. 34-35, 111 G4-10 Number of employees p. 37, 74 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) p. 34-35, 111 Percentage of employees covered by G4-11 p. 37 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions collective bargaining agreements G4-EN17 (Scope 3) p. 35, 111 G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain p. 36 G4-EN18 Greenhouse-gas emissions intensity p. 24, 34, 111 Significant changes during the reporting G4-13 p. 111 G4-EN21 Significant air emissions p. 35, 111 period G4-14 The precautionary approach p. 31, 39 G4-EN23 Waste p. 35, 111 Externally developed initiatives subscribed to G4-DMA Supplier environmental assessments p. 36, 39 G4-15 p. 31 by the organisation G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using p. 36, 111 Memberships of associations held by the environmental criteria G4-16 organisation p. 31-33 DMA Health and safety p. 37 G4-17 Entities included in the report p. 34, 111 G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury p. 37, 111 G4-18 Process for defining the report’s content p. 28-29 G4-DMA Supplier environmental assessment using p. 36, 39 G4-19 Material aspects p. 28 labour practices criteria G4-LA14 Percentage Aspect boundaries for each material aspect of new suppliers screened using G4-20 p. 111 labour practices criteria p. 36, 111 within the organisation Aspect boundaries for each material aspect G4-DMA Supplier human rights assessment p. 36, 39 G4-21 p. 111 outside the organisation Percentage of new suppliers screened using G4-HR10 human rights criteria p. 36, 111 Effects of any restatements of information in G4-22 previous reports p. 111 G4-DMA Anti-corruption p. 39 Significant changes from previous reporting Total number of confirmed incidents of G4-23 periods p. 111 G4-SO5 p. 39 corruption and actions taken Stakeholder groups engaged by the G4-24 organisation p. 28 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders p. 28 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement p. 28 Key topics and concerns raised through G4-27 stakeholder engagement; how organisation p. 28 responded G4-28 Reporting period p. 111 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report p. 111 G4-30 Reporting cycle p. 111 Contact point for questions regarding the G4-31 p. 111 report G4-32 The “in accordance” option and GRI index p. 111 G4-33 External assurance p. 39, 111 Reporting for governance structure of G4-34 organisation p. 96-101 The organisation’s values, principles, G4-56 standards and norms of behaviour p. 31, 39 112 Nobia Annual Report 2017 Annual General Meeting 2018 Annual General Meeting The shareholders of Nobia AB (publ) are Proxy Nominee shares invited to the Annual General Meeting Shareholders represented by proxy shall Shareholders whose shares have been on Tuesday, 10 April 2018 at 4:00 p.m. at issue a written power of attorney for the registered with a nominee, through the Lundqvist & Lindqvist Klara Strand Kon­ proxy. If the power of attorney is issued on bank or securities broker administering ferens, Klarabergsviadukten 90, Stockholm, behalf of a legal entity, a certified copy of the shares, must temporarily re-register Sweden. a registration certificate or corresponding their shares in their own names in order document (“certificate”) for the legal entity to be entitled to participate in the Annual Right to participate at the Annual shall be appended to the notification of General Meeting. Such re-registration must General Meeting attendance. The power of attorney and be completed with Euroclear Sweden AB Shareholders who wish to participate in certificate may not be more than one year not later than Wednesday, 4 April 2018. A the Annual General Meeting must: old. However, the validity of the power of request for re-registration must be made • firstly be included in the shareholders’ attorney may be a maximum of five years well in advance of this date. register maintained by Euroclear Sweden from the date of issue, if specifically stated. AB as of Wednesday, 4 April 2018, and. The power of attorney in original and, Dividend • secondly notify Nobia of their participa­ where applicable, the certificate, should The Board of Directors proposes that a tion in the Annual General Meeting not be sent by post to the company at the dividend of SEK 7.00 per share be paid for later than Wednesday, 4 April 2018. address stated above in good time prior to the 2017 fiscal year. The record date for the Annual General Meeting. Proxy forms the right to receive a dividend is 12 April Notification of attendance are available from Nobia’s website and 2018. The final day for trading in Nobia Notification of attendance at the Annual will also be sent to shareholders who so shares including the right to a dividend is General Meeting may be made: request and inform the company of their 10 April 2018. • by e-mail: bolagsstamma@nobia.com postal address. • by telephone: +46 8 440 16 00 Annual Report • by fax: +46 8 503 826 49 The Nobia Annual Report is published • by post: Nobia AB, Box 70376, in Swedish and English. Printed versions SE-107 24 Stockholm, Sweden of the Annual Report are sent to share­ holders and other individuals who have This notification shall state: requested such a version. • the shareholder’s name • personal identity number/Corporate Registration Number • address and daytime telephone number • shareholding • information about any assistants (not more than two assistants) and informa­ tion on any proxies who may accompany the shareholder to the Meeting When applicable, complete authorisation documents, such as registration certificates or the equivalent, shall be appended. Nobia Annual Report 2017 113 Nobia AB Street address: Klarabergsviadukten 70 A5 Postal address: Box 70376, SE-107 24 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 440 16 00, info@nobia.com nobia.com NARVA Commodore Kitchens Nobia Svenska Kök AB Acom House Mossebogatan 6 Gumley Road Box 603 Grays, Essex SE-522 81 Tidaholm RM20 4XP Sweden UK Tel +46 502 170 00 Tel +44 1375 382 323 marbodal.se commodorekitchens.co.uk Novart Oy EWE Küchen GmbH Kouvolantie 225 Dieselstraße 14 Box 10 A-4600 Wels FI-155 61 Nastola Austria Finland Tel +43 7242 237 0 Tel +358 207 730 730 ewe.at novart.fi intuo-kitchen.com petrakeittiot.fi alacartekeittiot.fi FM Küchen GmbH keittiomaailma.fi Galgenau 30 A-4240 Freistadt Nobia Norway A/S Austria Trollåsveien 6 Tel +43 7942 701 0 Postboks 633 fm-kuechen.at NO-1411 Kolbotn Norway Gower Furniture Ltd Tel +47 66 82 23 00 Holmfield Industrial Estate sigdal.com Halifax, West Yorkshire norema.no HX2 9TN UK Rixonway Kitchens Ltd Tel +44 1422 232 200 Churwell Vale gower-furniture.co.uk Shaw Cross Business Park Dewsbury, West Yorkshire Magnet Ltd WF12 7RD 3 Allington Way UK Yarm Road Business Park Tel +44 1924 431 300 Darlington, Co Durham rixonway.co.uk DL1 4XT UK uno form Tel +44 1325 469 441 Fabriksvej 7 magnet.co.uk DK-9640 Farsø magnettrade.co.uk Denmark Tel +45 98 63 29 44 Nobia Denmark A/S unoform.com Industrivej 6 DK-6870 Ølgod Denmark Tel +45 75 24 47 77 hth.dk hthgo.dk invita.dk  Print: Elanders, Mölnlycke, 2018
